03.08.2019	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) was named co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional FinTech and Payments Caucus (CFTPC) for the 116th Congress and for the third consecutive term. As one of the original founders of the Congressional FinTech and Payments Caucus (CFTPC), Congressman Scott is proud to welcome fellow Georgia Congressman Barry Loudermilk (GA-11) as a new caucus co-chair. “Financial innovation and fintech companies have been the driving force for progress over the past decade, improving services while empowering consumers to take control of their financial futures,” said Congressman Scott. “I am excited to work together with Congressman Loudermilk to ensure FinTech companies around America serve the needs of consumers and remain competitive on the world stage.” Fintech, short for “financial technology,” broadly comprises new financial technologies or the innovative use of existing technologies that impacts the provision of financial services. The use of new or innovative technologies has enabled consumers to send and receive funds with ease, allowed small businesses to access needed growth capital through the use of cutting-edge analytics, and empowered consumers to take control of their financial futures through improved security and financial education. Since its inception, the bipartisan Congressional Fintech and Payments Caucus has served an important role in Congress, providing a valuable space for Members to engage in thoughtful dialogue on advances in financial innovation. Congressman Scott’s home state of Georgia has long been at the forefront of this movement, boasting a strong fintech presence that employs nearly 40,000 professionals in the state and more than 130,000 around the world.
03.04.2019	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and Co-Chairman of the bipartisan Fintech and Payments Caucus, and Congressman Barry Loudermilk (GA-11) introduced H.R. 1491, the FINTECH Act of 2019. Congressman Scott said, “My home state of Georgia is a dynamic, fast-growing national leader of fintech and payment companies, and it is very important for us in Congress to be proactive and help our fintechs get prepared to safely and successfully navigate our complex, multi-faceted federal financial regulatory structure.” Congressman Barry Loudermilk, also a member of the House Financial Services Committee and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Fintech and Payments Caucus, agreed with Congressman Scott saying, “As startup companies develop new technologies that help consumers take more control of their finances, they risk an onslaught of government agencies rushing in with new regulations. The mad dash for regulatory control often results in conflicting regulations from multiple agencies, which stifles innovation, ultimately harming consumers. Georgia is a leader in fintech and payments processing, and our bill will help these job creators grow and thrive by streamlining and clarifying the regulatory process for startup fintech companies. I appreciate my friend, Congressman David Scott, for his leadership on this important legislation.” Our FINTECH Act of 2019 does the following two important and essential things: 1. mandates federal financial regulatory harmonization: Meaning that each federal financial regulator that regulates fintechs must harmonize, coordinate, and eliminate any duplication and any conflicting regulations with any other federal regulator who would regulate fintechs. 2. establishes a Point of Entry for fintechs into the federal regulatory structure: Meaning that within the United States Treasury Department, the FINTECH Act of 2019 creates a Fintech Council to serve as a single point of entry into the federal financial regulatory system; allowing fintechs who meet certain requirements to be assigned one or more designated regulator(s) through which regulatory action is funneled.
02.25.2019	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) introduced H. Res. 146 to recognize the seriousness of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) and designate the month of September 2019 as "PCOS Awareness Month." 55 Members of the House have co-sponsored the bipartisan resolution, which represents a continued commitment to making PCOS, the most common endocrine disorder, a central focus in the 116th Congress. "It is an honor to sponsor this historic resolution and be a champion for women and girls with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome," said Congressman Scott. "PCOS is a serious issue that affects hundreds of thousands of women in Georgia and millions more across the country. I commend the original 55 cosponsors for their leadership and hope that others in the House will join us to advance this bipartisan effort by cosponsoring and supporting this important resolution. There must be an increased focus on PCOS, which is the most common endocrine disorder. Women and families impacted by PCOS need help. This is our opportunity to make a difference, so we should act now." Background Researchers estimate that 5 to 10 million adolescent girls and women of reproductive age in the U.S. are affected by PCOS. As the most common cause of female infertility, PCOS currently has no cure and may also cause additional lifelong complications like diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and endometrial cancer. H.Res. 146 calls for increased PCOS awareness and education among women, girls, healthcare providers, and the public; improving treatment options for women and girls with PCOS; and furthering biomedical and public health research to find a cure for PCOS. Original cosponsors include: Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-OH-3); Rep. Brendan Boyle (D-PA-2); Rep. Anthony G. Brown (D-MD-4); Rep. Julia Brownley (D-CA-26); Rep. Gil R. Cisneros, Jr. (D-CA-39); Rep. Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY-9); Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN-9); Rep. Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA-11); Rep. Susan Davis (D-CA-53); Rep. Eliot L. Engel (D-NY-16); Rep. Dwight Evans (D-PA-3); Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA-1); Rep. Bill Foster (D-IL-11); Rep. Mike Gallagher (R-WI-8); Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ-7); Rep. Jenniffer González Colón (R-PR-At Large); Rep. Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ-3); Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC-At Large); Rep. Jared Huffman (D-CA-2); Rep. Will Hurd (R-TX-3); Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX-18); Rep. Henry C. Johnson, Jr. (D-GA-4); Rep. Robin Kelly (D-IL-2); Rep. Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL-8); Rep. Ann Kuster (D-NH-2); Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-CO-5); Rep. John Lewis (D-GA-5); Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA-33); Rep. Daniel Lipinski (D-IL-3); Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19); Rep. Patrick Maloney (D-NY-18); Rep. Roger Marshall (R-KS-1); Rep. Lucy McBath (D-GA-6); Rep. James P. McGovern (D-MA-2); Rep. David McKinley (R-WV-1); Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI-4); Rep. Seth Moulton (D-MA-6); Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY-14); Rep. Donald Payne, Jr. (D-10-NJ); Rep. Scott Peters (D-CA-52); Rep. Colin Peterson (D-MN-7); Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME-1); Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI-2); Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD-8); Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH-13); Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL-9); Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA-28); Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA-14); Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21); Rep. Tom Suozzi (D-NY-3); Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS-2); Rep. Jeff Van Drew (D-NJ-2); Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL-23); Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ-12); and Rep. John Yarmuth (D-KY-3). Leading organizations also supporting H.Res. 146 include: PCOS Challenge; American Electrology Association; Androgen Excess and PCOS Society; Endocrine Society; Hormone Health Network; National Eating Disorders Association; RESOLVE: The National Infertility Association; Society for Women's Health Research; Tinina Q. Cade Foundation; and The White Dress Project. For more information, please click here.
02.14.2019	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) introduced legislation to better address the needs of “under-banked, un-banked, and underserved” communities in America. The Improving Access to Traditional Banking Act of 2019 will direct the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to thoroughly investigate and report to Congress recommendations on how to lessen Americans’ reliance on non-traditional banking products like payday loans. “Far too often, both in the 13th District of Georgia and across America, people are using financial services from outside the traditional banking system,” said Congressman Scott. “This means that those who already have lower incomes often pay more in fees and penalties, even for simple services like cashing a check. This simply is not workable, especially for the African-American families who are disproportionately affected.” Scott added, “This bill, the Improving Access to Traditional Banking Act, moves us toward greater economic inclusion. The CFPB, as the agency devoted to helping consumers safely use the financial system, is the perfect place for this new office. Their research will help ensure everyone can access our banking system and get the services they need.” “Fully-banked,” as defined by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), means an individual has both a traditional banking account, like a checking account, and has not relied on “alternative financial services” within the past 12 months. “Alternative financial services” include payday loans, pawn shop loans, and auto title loans, among others. Based on a 2017 survey conducted by the FDIC, African American communities continue to be the least “banked” in the country. Data from the FDIC found that only 45.8% of African American families are “fully-banked.” Of all the groups in this FDIC survey – African Americans, Hispanics, Whites, and Asians – African Americans ranked last. The Improving Access to Traditional Banking Act would require the CFPB to establish an “Office for Under-Banked, Un-Banked, and Underserved Consumers.” This office would be tasked with: · Conducting research identifying hurdles under- and un-banked consumers face when maintaining a sustainable relationship with depository institutions; · Identifying best practices depository institutions should follow to increase participation of under- and un-banked consumers; · Develop strategies to improve financial education for underserved consumers; and · Submitting a report to Congress within two years, and biannually thereafter, highlighting legislative and regulatory recommendations to promote participation in the traditional banking system.
02.12.2019	Representatives David Scott (D-GA-13) and Dr. Roger Marshall (R-KS-01) recently led a bipartisan group of 14 House Members to introduce H. Res. 118. This resolution expresses support for the designation of March 2019 as Endometriosis Awareness Month. Endometriosis impacts 1 in 10 women of reproductive age in the United States and an estimated 200 million women worldwide. “It is an honor to work with my colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives and the Endocrine Society to establish Endometriosis Awareness Month, bring attention to this important women’s health issue, and shed light on this debilitating disease,” Rep. Scott said. “We must continue our efforts to ensure women receive quality treatment and eliminate the burden of this disease on women’s lives.” The National Institutes of Health (NIH) reports that up to 50 percent of women with endometriosis are infertile. Despite its prevalence, endometriosis has not received the federal attention or funding that a disease of this severity deserves. H. Res. 118. acknowledges both the risks of endometriosis and the shortcomings of current awareness, funding, research, and treatment. “Throughout my career as an OB-GYN physician for 25 years, I treated hundreds of patients with endometriosis,” Rep. Marshall said. “Women with this disease experience chronic pain, fertility issues, colorectal health issues, fatigue and much more. While we have advanced our treatment procedures, through surgery, medication, and nutrition, we are still working hard to fully understand this disease.” Establishing Endometriosis Awareness Month is an important step towards highlighting the experiences of women fighting this chronic disorder every day and finding a cure. Given the wide variety of symptoms and its impact on women of all ages, endometriosis can go undiagnosed for years and only present itself once the symptoms are severe. Other original cosponsors of H. Res. 118 include Representatives Debbie Dingell (D-MI-12), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL-23), Gilbert Cisneros (D-CA-39), Jim Hagedorn (R-MN-1), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA-7), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC-At Large), Yvette Clarke (D-NY-9), Hank Johnson (D-GA-4), Steven Watkins (R-KS-2), Steve Cohen (D-TN-9), Nydia Velázquez (D-NY-7), Grace Meng (D-NY-6) and Alcee Hastings (D-FL-20). For more information, please click here.
02.08.2019	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced his 17th Annual Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery, is open for Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District. High school students who reside in or attend a public, private or home school in Georgia’s 13th Congressional District are invited to submit artwork for the competition. The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. To date, Congressman David Scott has awarded over $392,000 in scholarships to local student winners of his annual art competition. The first place entry from Congressman Scott’s district will join other first place winners from around the country and be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Scholarships will be presented to the top winners as follows: $12,000 – First Place, $7,500 – Second Place, and $3,500 – Third Place, all by the Art Institute of Atlanta; as well as $3,000/ year to the first-place winner by the Savannah College of Art and Design. Entries must be received in either Congressman David Scott's Smyrna or Jonesboro District Office by March 29, 2019. Students may obtain entry forms and official guidelines from Congressman David Scott’s Office and their high school art teachers. There is no mandatory theme for the competition. Participants must be present at the awards ceremony in order to win. Congressman Scott will host the awards ceremony announcing this year’s top winners and scholarship recipients on Saturday, April 20, 2019, at the Douglas County Courthouse, located at 8700 Hospital Drive, Douglasville, GA 30134. For more information and competition entry forms and guidelines, please call 770-432-5405 or visit https://davidscott.house.gov/constituent-services/artcontest.htm.
01.29.2019	On Saturday, February 2, 2019, Congressman David Scott will host a special ceremony to honor 23 exceptional students from Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District with nominations to attend one of our national military service academies. WHAT: Congressman Scott will formally present congressional nominations to 23 students seeking appointments to attend to the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Naval Academy in Annapolis, Military Academy at West Point or Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point. Additionally, the program will feature a special presentation of the Purple Heart Medal by Congressman David Scott and Ft. Gillem Medical Command Colonel Craig Parsons to Vietnam Veteran Lee I. Pickering. WHO: Congressman David Scott; World War II Tuskegee Airmen Hillard Pouncy, Jr. and Val Archer; Representatives from the U.S. Air Force and Naval academies; Langston Hughes High School Color Guard; Musical guest Moses White; and community members. WHEN: Saturday, February 2, 2019, 10:00 a.m. WHERE: Brawner Hall, 3180 Atlanta Road S.E., Smyrna, GA 30080 Nominees: U.S. Air Force Academy Faruq Akande, Jonesboro, Mundy's Mill High School Abdulmalik Ariyo, Jonesboro, Lovejoy High School James Benedict, II, Douglasville, Douglas County High School Wedgide Bourdeau, Jonesboro, Mundy's Mill High School graduate Devin Broxton, Stockbridge, U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School Trenton Griffin, Douglasville, Douglas County High School Aerial Jessie, Jonesboro, Mundy's Mill High School Daniel Kilpatrick, McDonough, Kennesaw State University Kwabena Kumi-Ansu, Jonesboro, U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School Haley McMurrain, Palmetto, Georgia State University U.S. Merchant Marine Academy John Buckley, Jr., McDonough, Eagles Landing Christian Academy U.S. Military Academy at West Point Louis Burts, Jr., Atlanta, Our Lady of Mercy Catholic High School Jacob Gurley, Douglasville, Breman High School Antonio Prioleau, Atlanta, North Atlanta High School Hajj-Malik Williams, Hampton, U.S. Military Academy at West Point Preparatory School Kayla Williams, Riverdale, U.S. Military Academy at West Point Preparatory School U.S. Naval Academy Kiera Kinsey, Atlanta, Langston Hughes High School Brandon Middleton, Jonesboro, Mundy's Mill High School Joshua Moses, Douglasville, Douglas County High School Olubusola Oke, McDonough, Eagles Landing High School Logan Sewell, Douglasville, Chapel Hill High School Ayana Sirmans-Fellows, Jonesboro, Jonesboro High School James Willis, McDonough, Union Grove High School
01.25.2019	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) was elected to chair the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Commodity Exchanges, Energy and Credit. “I am proud to be named Chairman once again of such an influential subcommittee within the Agriculture Committee,” said Scott. “The Commodity Exchanges, Energy and Credit Subcommittee provides oversight of commodity markets and their regulator, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, as well as agricultural credit and loans, rural development, rural energy, and bioenergy. As commodity markets have grown to over an $8 trillion part of the American economy and agriculture contributes $73 billion to Georgia’s economy, it is paramount now more than ever that we ensure that our farmers have access to the credit they need so they can continue to feed the world.” In addition to chairing the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Commodity Exchanges, Energy and Credit, Congressman David Scott will also return to his senior position on the House Financial Services Committee.
01.15.2019	Today Congressman David Scott announced that he will host his 16th Annual Jobs Fair on Friday, April 12, 2019, from 10:00 am to 3:00 pm, at the Georgia International Convention Center. 102 of Georgia’s top employers will be recruiting to fill 8,812 open positions in technology, banking, law enforcement, manufacturing, healthcare and more. Register here now! Special opportunities include: U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Atlanta Regional Benefits Office and Atlanta VA Health Care System - employment, healthcare and service-connected benefit resources for veterans. HomeSafe Georgia - on-site counseling and review of delinquent homeowners for mortgage catch-up or principal reduction assistance up to $50,000. Event details: Congressman David Scott’s 16th Annual Jobs Fair Friday, April 12, 2019, 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. Georgia International Convention Center | 2000 Convention Center Concourse | College Park, GA 30337 Admission and parking are free! Attendees are strongly encouraged to take MARTA to the Airport station and board the free ATL SkyTrain to the Convention Center or take MARTA to the College Park station and board a special MARTA bus shuttle to the event. Confirmed employers include: ABM AFLAC- Ware Region ALL - N- ONE Security Allconnect (Red Ventures) American Medical Response AT&T Atlanta Area Council Boy Scouts of America Atlanta Fire Rescue Atlanta Police Department Atlanta VA Healthcare System Aviation Institute of Maintenance Blount Construction Co, Inc. Brightmoor Hospice CAMureen & Sons co. Cana Communications CCME Training Service CEFGA/Construction Ready Chick Fil- A Midtown Chime Solutions Citizen Trust Bank Clayton County Board of Commissioners - Human Resources Clayton County CSA Clayton County Police Clayton County Public Schools Clayton County Public Schools Transportation Department Cobb County Police Cobb County School District Transportation Coco-Cola Bottling Company United Crystal Springs/DS Services D& E DeKalb County E-911 DeKalb County Fire Rescue DeKalb County Police DeKalb County Sheriff's Office Department of Juvenile Justice Department of Veterans Affairs Atlanta Regional Office Diaz Foods EQUIS Financial Expeditors International FBI FedEx Ground First Service Residential Forest Park Police Fort Valley University Frank's Detail Inc. Fresh Express Fulton County Schools Police Department Fulton County Sheriff's Office Gate Gourmet Gemalto Georgia Bureau Investigation Georgia Community Support & Solution Georgia Department of Community Affairs Georgia Department of Public Safety Georgia Department of Transportation Georgia Power Georgia World Congress Center Glock, Inc. Goodwill of North Georgia Gordon Food Service Grady Health System Henry County Schools Homeland Security Investigations Jewish Family & Career Services JP Morgan Chase KIA Motors Manufacturing Georgia Lanier Parking Solutions Lowe's MACK II Inc. MARTA MARTA Transit Police Material In Motion Medline Industries Norred & Associates Nutriline/Freshsense Foods Primerica Financial Services RaceTrac Regions Bank Royal Food Service Social Security Administration SodexoMagic-Delta Sky Club South Carolina Department of Corrections Southwire Company LLC Staff WRX dba Team WRX TGT Global Staffing Top Job Hospitality Transportation Security Administration U. S. Department of Labor- Employee Benefits Security Administration U.S. Census Bureau U.S. Customs U.S. General Services Administration United Youth of America UPS Urban League of Greater Atlanta USCIS District 8 Office Waffle House Inc. WIPRO Worksource Atlanta Worksource Atlanta Regional-Clayton WSB-TV and CMG Radio Atlanta
01.15.2019	Congressman David Scott will host the 15th Annual Thirteenth Congressional District Health Fair on Saturday, August 10, 2019, 9am - 2pm, at Mundy’s Mill High School, located at 9652 Fayetteville Rd., Jonesboro, GA 30238. The Health Fair will provide vital health screenings and information at no cost from our region’s best healthcare providers and advocacy organizations. Free health screenings include: Clinical breast cancer exams; Prostate cancer (PSA); HIV/ AIDS; Diabetes (glucose); Blood pressure; Asthma; Cholesterol; Mental health; Sickle cell; Vision; Dental; Orthopaedic; and more! Pre-register here now. Additionally, the Atlanta VA Health Care System and Atlanta VA Regional Office will provide veterans services, including vision exams, counseling for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD); mental health services; and health eligibility benefits consultations. And the Georgia Department of Community Affairs will share information about the HomeSafe Georgia Mortgage Assistance Programs, which provide up to $50,000 to reinstate delinquent mortgages or pay down underwater mortgage principal balances.
12.12.2018	U.S. Representative David Scott (D-GA-13) and U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), both members of the Bipartisan Congressional Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Caucus, have secured funding in the 2018 Farm Bill for agriculture-focused scholarships at Historically Black Land-Grant Colleges and Universities across the country. “This is Historic. A glorious example of bipartisanship, Democrats and Republicans, working together,” said Congressman Scott, member of the House Agriculture Committee. “I am especially proud of the $80M we have secured in funding for new scholarships for students attending the 19 African American 1890’s land-grant colleges and universities across the nation. These scholarships will play a critical role in providing greater assistance for beginning farmers, and providing financial scholarships to bring more young people of all races who attend these outstanding universities for careers in the wonderful, and exciting, and growing world of agriculture businesses. I thank Senator David Perdue for his help getting the scholarships in the Senate bill. This is a great blessing from God and we are thankful.” “As a member of the HBCU Caucus, one of my top priorities is increasing opportunities for all students to pursue the skills they need to succeed,” said Senator Perdue, member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “Agriculture is Georgia’s number one industry and a major reason why our state continues to be the best state in the country in which to do business. In order to secure the future of farming in Georgia and across the country, we have to find ways to encourage diverse and qualified leadership and ownership in our agricultural community. These scholarships will help young farmers become the nation’s next agriculture leaders. I am very grateful for Congressman Scott’s commitment and perseverance in supporting our HBCUs in Georgia.” Background on the amendment secured by Congressman Scott and Senator Perdue: In the Second Morrill Act of 1890, the 1890s Land grant institutions must receive funding through the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) every 5 years. Currently, these funds can be used for three purposes: research, education, and extension as authorized by the Farm Bill. Senator Perdue and Congressman Scott’s amendment will add a fourth purpose – student scholarships – and will provide an additional $19 million dollars of funding annually for the 19 Historically Black Land-Grant colleges and universities. The additional funds will be distributed by USDA and will apply to students with agriculture-focused studies, such as agribusiness, food production, distribution and retailing, clothing industries, and farming in marketing, finance, and distribution. ###
10.12.2018	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) joined Georgia Democratic Representatives John Lewis, Sanford Bishop and Hank Johnson to deliver a strong letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions condemning Georgia’s “Exact Match” law and urging him to immediately enforce voting rights laws and protect the constitutional right to vote for 53,000 Georgians whose registrations have been placed on hold. "This blatant voter suppression cannot stand,” said Congressman Scott. “Georgia is better than this. Georgians of all stripes should stand up and reject this wholeheartedly. The eyes of the world are on Georgia because of this potentially historic election. And we cannot allow such naked discrimination. Furthermore we need to investigate the notion of running for governor and controlling an election at the same time. No one running for elected office should get to hand pick who is allowed to vote. It's fundamentally un-American." The full text of the letter follows. A pdf version can be found here: October 11, 2018 The Honorable Jefferson Beauregard Sessions, III Attorney General The U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Mr. Attorney General, We write to request that you immediately use the remaining authority outlined in the Voting Rights Act to ensure that Georgian citizens –especially minority voters – are able to exercise their constitutional right to cast a ballot and for that vote to count on Election Day 2018. As you know, there are recent reports that the Secretary of State’s implementation of Georgia’s “exact-match” law is blocking at least 53,000 registered voters from being certified to cast their ballot in a few weeks. According to multiple press reports, 70 percent of the registrants on hold are people of color even though minorities constitute only 32 percent of Georgia’s total population. Last year, Georgia removed nearly 670,000 voter registrations; this is more than the total population in states like Vermont and Wyoming. We also received reports that additional voters experienced system delays and challenges when they attempted to register to vote online earlier this week. Despite multiple warnings by independent and Federal authorities regarding the security, quality, and vulnerability of Georgia’s online voter registration system, the current Secretary of State refuses to adopt contingency plans to safeguard and ensure Georgian citizens’ ballots. Finally, we would be remiss if we failed to highlight the alarming conflict of interest in Georgia’s election management. Regardless of party, region, capacity, or ideology, Secretaries of State should recuse themselves from administering any election in which they are a candidate. This reinforces a key intent guiding Congress’ designing the Voting Rights Act as a proactive law; the statute provides the tools, guidance, and mandate for the Department of Justice to protect citizens’ voting rights before those who seek to dilute and deter minority voter participation reap the rewards. For these reasons, we believe that the Department of Justice must immediately fulfill its historic, neutral role to protect the integrity and security of our home state’s elections. The time is now for your office and staff to uphold its promises and pledges to champion, protect, and preserve voting rights. We appreciate your prompt attention to this grave matter and look forward to your response. Sincerely, Members of Congress cc: The Honorable Thomas Hicks, Election Administration Commission The Honorable Christy McCormick, the Election Administration Commission
10.04.2018	Today Congressman David Scott announced that his office is currently accepting applications from Thirteenth District students interested in attending a service academy. A congressional nomination is required for students to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point or U.S. Naval Academy. “Each year I am honored to recognize the best and brightest Thirteenth District students with nominations to attend our nation’s prestigious military service academies,” said Congressman Scott. “Service academies provide students an exceptional and rigorous college education valued at over $400,000 and lead to rewarding careers in military service. Any student interested in obtaining a congressional nomination or more information about service academies should contact my office. “ To be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant must be nominated from an authorized person, including a Member of the U.S. House of Representatives or Senate. Applicants must also meet the following requirements as of July 1 of the year of admission to a service academy: be at least 17 years old and not older than 23; a U.S. citizen; a legal resident of Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District; unmarried; not pregnant; and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. The deadline to apply for an academy nomination from Congressman David Scott is Friday, October 26, 2018. Students may obtain an application and more information on the nomination process by visiting https://davidscott.house.gov/constituentservices/serviceacademynominations.htm or calling Congressman Scott’s office at 770-210-5073.
09.12.2018	Based on the latest forecast for Hurricane Florence to track southward after making landfall, an emergency declaration has been issued for all 159 counties in Georgia. Potential threats include powerful winds, heavy rainfall, flooding, and tornadoes. I encourage you to take precautions now for the inland effects of the storm. Here are a few resources to help you prepare: Be Informed Stay ahead of the storm with weather alerts from Ready Georgia. Make a Plan & Ready Kit Create an emergency plan and survival kit in case of an evacuation, loss of power or other storm related emergency. Local Emergency Departments Information Clayton County Emergency Management Phone: (770) 473 – 7833 Website: http://www.ccfes.org/ready-clayton/ Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ClaytonCountyOfficeOfEMA/ Cobb County Emergency Management Phone: 770-499-4567 Website: https://cobbcounty.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=category&layout=blog&id=650&Itemid=2230 Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/cobbfire/ Douglas County Emergency Management Phone: 770.949.3007 Website: https://www.celebratedouglascounty.com/view/departments/view_dept/&cdept=306&department=Emergency%20Management Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/pages/Douglas-County-Emergency-Management/475917612580226 Alanta-Fulton County Emergency Management Phone: 404-612-5660 (Emergencies for power outages, downed trees, etc. 888-891-0938) Website: http://www.fultoncountyga.gov/afcema Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/AFCEMA Fayette County Emergency Management Phone: 770-305-5169 Website: http://www.fayettecountyga.gov/fire_ems/emergency_management_agency.htm Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/fcema911/ Henry County Emergency Management Phone: 770-957-9121 Website: http://www.co.henry.ga.us/Departments/Public-Safety-Emergency-Services/E-911 Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/HCE911/ If you are in immediate danger call 911, but please reserve 911 for emergencies only. For additional tips to prepare for Hurricane Florence, please visit https://www.ready.gov/hurricanes or http://ready.ga.gov/. Please do not hesitate to contact my offices in Smyrna, 770-432-5405, or Jonesboro, 770-210-5073, if you need assistance. -------- Bank of America customers impacted by the storm and needing financial assistance may call their priority assistance line at 855.729.1764. Customers may use the financial center and ATM locator to find out which of local Bank of America financial centers are open during and after the storm.
09.06.2018	Congressman David Scott (GA-13) delivered the following statement at the first public meeting of the 2018 Farm Bill Conference Committee: Click here to watch video of Congressman Scott’s opening remarks. “Thank you very much Mr. Chairman. We’re here at a very historic time. As we grapple with our Farm Bill, we are also faced with devastating trade situations and our farmers are experiencing a high suicide rate. “It’s very important that we understand what has happened over the past week for our nation. With the passing our great friend Senator John McCain, we all saw and heard the great cry in this nation for bipartisanship. “Well, ladies and gentlemen, contained in this bill is a glorious example of bipartisanship of Democrats and Republicans working together. “Ms. Stabenow, thank you for mentioning the needs of our beginning farmers as well as the need to understand that we must respond to this national crisis with the average age of our farmers now being 60 years of age. They’re faced with many obstacles, and we’ve got to do more to bring the newer generation into farming, agriculture, and food production. “With the help of many of my friends on both sides of the aisle, we have included in this Farm Bill a pioneering historic effort to bring $95 million dollars to the Land Grant 1890 African American Colleges and Universities. “I want to thank my colleagues for stepping up to the plate. Thank you so much Kevin Cramer from North Dakota for your work as my lead Republican cosponsor. I also want to thank Senator David Perdue, my Senate Republican cosponsor. Both have joined with myself and Representatives Fudge, Adams, Cleaver and so many of us to make sure we get this measure passed. “I appreciate now that the language is included in the Farm Bill and says this: that for each of the five years, these nineteen 1890 African American Land Grant Colleges and Universities will each receive $1 million dollars per year. That means $5 million times nineteen colleges, which is $95 million dollars in total. I just know that the American people will say that this could not happen without Democrats and Republicans working together. “I now want to thank Chairman Roberts, Ranking Member Peterson and the leadership of the House and Senate. Let’s make sure that nothing happens during this discussion, during these Farm Bill negotiations, that in any way would jeopardize the $95 million dollars. We’re almost to the finish line. “And may I say Mr. Chairman, for those who may not know, while these are traditional African American colleges and universities, everybody, White, Black, Hispanic, the whole nation, regardless of race, creed, or color, will be going to these schools. “This is the way we help farmers, to give them this powerful shot in the arm. To let them know we are preparing the next generation. And I think we all can say that that the spirit of John McCain is resting with this wonderful collaboration.”
07.30.2018	Congressman David Scott will host the 14th Annual Thirteenth Congressional District Health Fair on Saturday, August 11, 2018, 9am - 2pm, at Mundy’s Mill High School, located at 9652 Fayetteville Rd., Jonesboro, GA 30238. The Health Fair will provide vital health screenings and information at no cost from our region’s best healthcare providers and advocacy organizations. Free health screenings include: Clinical breast cancer exams; Prostate cancer (PSA); HIV/ AIDS; Diabetes (glucose); Blood pressure; Asthma; Cholesterol; Mental health; Sickle cell; Vision; Dental; Orthopaedic; and more! Pre-register here now. The Atlanta VA Health Care System and Atlanta VA Regional Office will provide veterans services, including vision exams, counseling for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD); mental health services; and health eligibility benefits consultations. The Georgia Department of Community Affairs will share information about the HomeSafe Georgia Mortgage Assistance Programs, which provide up to $50,000 to reinstate delinquent mortgages or pay down underwater mortgage principal balances. Participants include: 2Helix Health AARP Georgia AID Atlanta & Georgia AIDS & STD Info Line Alliant Quality Allwell Medicare Alzheimer's Association Alzheimer's Services Center American Cancer Society American Cancer Society American Foundation for Suicide Prevention American Heart Association American Kidney Fund Amerigroup Community Care Atlanta Black Nurses Association Atlanta Fibroid Center - Dr. John Lipman Atlanta Gastroenterology Associates Atlanta VA Health Care System Black Nurses Rock Greater Atlanta Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals Bruce's New World Fitness CareSource Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC) Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Children's Healthcare of Atlanta Clayton Center Community Service Board Clayton County Board of Health Clayton County Board of Health Healthier Generations Projects Clayton County Community Services Authority Clayton County Division of Family & Children's Services Clayton County Fire & Emergency Services Clayton County Head Start Clayton County Library Services Clayton County Senior Services Department Clayton County Senior Services Dept., RSVP Program at Frank Bailey Senior Center Clayton County Sheriff Office Clayton State University Department of Dental Hygiene Community Outreach In Action, Inc. D&E Housing & Economic Empowerment Center Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities Department of Veteran Affairs, Atlanta VA Regional Benefits Office Emory Eye Center/ Georgia Lions Lighthouse/ Prevent Blindness Georgia Emory Neuroscience Patient Family Education Committee Fight Colorectal Cancer Food Addicts in Recovery Anonymous Fresenius Kidney Care Fulton County Breast & Cervical Cancer Program Georgia Center of the Deaf and Hard of Hearing Georgia Department of Community Affairs Georgia Department of Veterans Services Georgia Ovarian Cancer Alliance Georgia Power Company Georgia Prostate Cancer Coalition Georgia Society of Respiratory Care Georgia STAND-UP Georgia Vet-Fest Giggles & Smiles Face Painting Grady Health System Great Expressions Dental Centers Healthy Mothers Healthy Babies Coalition of Georgia Home Helpers Atlanta Hosea Feed the Hungry I Will Survive, Inc. Ideal Therapy Inspire Network Insure Georgia Jen Care Jerusalem House, Inc. Juvenile Diabetes Research Kindred At Home LifeSouth Community Blood Centers Lupus Foundations of America, GA Chapter Medicas Medical Clinic, LLC Minimally Invasive Center of Atlanta Morehouse School of Medicine - Clinical Research Center Morehouse School of Medicine CVRI - Epilepsy Awareness NAMI Georgia National Hook-Up of Black Women Neu Life Chiropractic Wellness Center NeuroStudies.Net, LLC Northside Hospital Radiology PCOS Challenge, Inc. Planned Parenthood Southeast Primerica Financial Services PT Solutions Physical Therapy Radiotherapy Clinics of Georgia Resurgens Orthopaedics Right from the Start Medical Assistance Group See Your Kid, Inc. Sickle Cell Foundation of Georgia, Inc. Sisters By Choice Social Security Administration Southern Regional Medical Center Susan G. Komen Greater Atlanta Taxpayer Advocate Service The Family Health Centers of Georgia, Inc. The Partnership of Greater Atlanta, LLC UGA Clayton County Extension Urban League of Greater Atlanta U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Atlanta District Office U.S. Food & Drug Administration Victory Wellness Pharmacy Walgreens WellCare Health Plans WellStar Health System
07.24.2018	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) delivered the following statement during the House Financial Services Committee Full Markup hearing. Click here to watch video of Congressman David Scott’s remarks. Transcript of Congressman Scott's Remarks “You know this amazing, even the American people who are perhaps watching this know that when you increase your family with more children you’re obviously going to have to increase your budget to take care of those children. “How in the world, and let me just say Mr. Striver is a tremendous friend, I certainly support the thesis of what he is trying to do, I have worked with him before. But he is completely wrong, and Mrs. Waters is absolutely right. Nobody can question Mrs. Waters’s dedication and devotion to fighting homelessness. “But let’s get real, and my good friend Mr. Duffy said we want to get a bipartisan bill and I do to, but we can’t put a bill forward and think you’re very serious when you say you’re expanding your category to add to the definition children and youth and you put no money there. That is absolutely wrong. “We want a bipartisan bill, but I think we have to realize what the situation is. There are hundreds of thousands of Americans sleeping in the street in every one of our districts we see them. They’re sleeping under the viaducts. They’re sleeping in abandoned cars. Many are just sleeping there, victims of crime or victim of drugs. It is wrong for the American people to see this picture. Homelessness is a huge issue for the people of Georgia. In Atlanta alone, there are 3,000 people suffering from homelessness. “And you know what breaks my heart so is that thousands of these people are veterans. Homelessness is growing at a faster rate of our veterans than any other group. “Ladies and gentlemen let’s get serious with this. I want us to take the first step of bipartisanship, join with Mrs. Waters and support this bill. Now all of us were here a couple of weeks or days ago when my good friend Mr. Ben Carson came before this committee and basically said we are going to take a bulldozer to HUD’s budget, by zeroing the budget of the CBDG program – the one instrument that we have to help the poor, to help with the homelessness. “Let’s not throw this smoke and mirrors. I urge us to get serious, very serious about homelessness, and realize that we all have passion on both the Republican and the Democratic side. But passion without money and resources to make that passion real it is just smoke and mirrors. “Mr. Chairman, I urge you to take seriously Mrs. Waters’s amendment, which adds more money to addressing this problem. Furthermore, in addition to Ms. Waters’s amendment, we should make real reforms to our HUD programs that address homelessness and move to markup the Ranking Member’s bill, which is H.R. 2076, the End Homelessness Act. “This is a great country. Let’s step forward and show our greatness by putting our money where our mouth is and seriously reforming these programs. I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
07.18.2018	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13), a member of the House Agriculture Committee, has been selected to serve on the conference committee on the 2018 Farm Bill. The conference committee will be tasked with reconciling the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. “I am honored to serve on the conference committee for the 2018 Farm Bill,” said Congressman David Scott. “This historic legislation will reauthorize U.S. Department of Agriculture policies and programs through 2023. That is why I will use this critical opportunity to fight to protect the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), expand scholarships for students of the nineteen 1890s Land Grant Colleges and Universities, and strengthen resources for Georgia’s farmers and producers who make agriculture our state’s leading industry.” The full list of conferees is as follows: 2018 Farm Bill House Conferees General Conferees - Agriculture Committee 1. Chairman Mike Conaway (R-TX) 1. Ranking Member Collin Peterson (D-MN) 2. Glenn Thompson (R-PA) 2. David Scott (D-GA) 3. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) 3. Jim Costa (D-CA) 4. Frank Lucas (R-OK) 4. Tim Walz (D-MN) 5. Mike Rogers (R-AL) 5. Marcia Fudge (D-OH) 6. Austin Scott (R-GA) 6. Jim McGovern (D-MA) 7. Rick Crawford (R-AR) 7. Filemon Vela (D-TX) 8. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO) 8. Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM) 9. Rodney Davis (R-IL) 9. Ann Kuster (D-NH) 10. Ted Yoho (R-FL) 10. Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ) 11. David Rouzer (R-NC) 12. Roger Marshall (R-KS) 13. Jodey Arrington (R-TX) House Education and the Workforce Committee 1. Chairwoman Virginia Foxx (R-NC) 1. Alma Adams (D-NC) 2. Rick Allen (R-GA) House Energy and Commerce Committee 1. John Shimkus (R-IL) 1. Paul Tonko (D-NY) 2. Kevin Cramer (R-ND) House Financial Services Committee 1. Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) 1. Maxine Waters (D-CA) 2. Sean Duffy (R-WI) House Foreign Affairs Committee 1. Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) 1. Eliot Engel (D-NY) 2. Steve Chabot (R-OH) House Oversight and Government Reform Committee 1. Mark Walker (R-NC) 1. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ) 2. James Comer (R-KY) House Natural Resources Committee 1. ChairmanRob Bishop (R-UT) 1. Stacey Plaskett (D-VI) 2. Bruce Westerman (R-AR) House Science, Space, and Technology Committee 1. Ralph Abraham (R-LA) 1. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) 2. Neal Dunn (R-FL) House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee 1. Jeff Denham (R-CA) 1. Cheri Bustos (D-IL) 2. Bob Gibbs (R-OH)
07.12.2018	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) delivered the following statement during the House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled “The Annual Testimony of the Secretary of the Treasury on the State of the International Financial System.” Click here to watch video of Congressman David Scott’s remarks. Transcript of Exchange with Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin MR. SCOTT: “Thank you very much. Welcome Mr. Secretary. The people of this nation are very worried and they are very concerned about this trade war. Both Democrats and Republicans are very worried about this trade war. Now I want you to listen very carefully to me because nobody, no state can be more devastatingly impacted by this than my beloved State of Georgia. “Let’s take poultry for example. Georgia is the leading poultry producer in the world, and according to our National Chicken Counsel and leading chicken producers like Tyson’s Food, in 2014, U.S. chicken exports to Mexico, one of our most important markets, alone totaled $800 million dollars. But during the same period, Brazil’s exports went up from $50 million to $200 million. If we continue to put up these trade barriers in Mexico, it is clear as a bell to anyone looking at this that they will take even much more of the market leaving American chicken farmers and producers out in the cold. “Let’s take another one. Let’s look at aluminum for example. In Georgia, we have massive manufacturing users for aluminum. And it’s not just Georgia, but it’s all across the nation. Imagine, go into a grocery store and just look at how much of our food and beverages are contained in aluminum cans. Can you imagine the impact that will have? “I want to go to another point. Did you know that half of the U.S. pecan production is exported to China and that Georgia produces 1/3rd of all pecans produced in the United States? I want you to recognize Georgia. I want you to tell the President how damaging this trade war and tariffs will be to Georgia businesses, Georgia farmers, Georgia manufacturers, and Georgia employees. When the aluminum manufacturing tariffs come in, there will be a 1/18 ratio in loss of jobs. “Now Mr. Secretary, my question for you is this: are you ready to be the one to take full responsibility, as the Treasury Secretary in charge, when Georgia and this nation inevitably enters into this high inflationary rate? Do you know who’s going to pay for this increase? It’s the American consumers that are going to do that. It’s going to be the Georgia residents. It’s going to be the jobs in manufacturing. “You say that the economy is moving on all cylinders. I agree with you, but what I’m curious about is the cavalier attitude that this administration has on the loss of jobs, the side effects, while we’re riding on this sugar high. I just want to ask if you’re ready to take full responsibility for the downsides, when the darkness comes? Are you ready to?” SECRETARY MNUCHIN: “I am, I share your concerns and I have said we are not taking this lightly. We are monitoring all the specific issues carefully and we are concerned about the job losses on the areas that you are concerned about.” MR. SCOTT: “And do you understand the real outside impacts this is going to have on our people in Georgia? I want to make sure because we are going to be paying close attention. Now in the Senate someone mentioned this, the Senate passed resolution 88-11. The resolution was largely symbolic, but it said that there may be and should be an expanded congressional role in overseeing the tariffs decisions and I’m concerned, do you support this?” SECRETARY MNUCHIN: “I do not.”
06.19.2018	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s forced family separation policy: “I strongly condemn and stand against the Trump Administration’s cruel policy of separating children, some as young as 4-months old, from their families at the U.S. border with Mexico. It is immoral and inhumane to use children as leverage and a political bargaining piece. Families belong together. This is why I am co-sponsoring the “Keeping Families Together Act” to establish clear policy prohibiting forced family separations at the U.S.-Mexico border and encouraging family unification. I hope for the future of our great nation, and for the well-being of all of the children who have been separated from their families, that we here in Washington can work together and find a bipartisan solution to this terrible situation.”
05.30.2018	On Friday, June 1, 2018, the Office of Congressman David Scott will cohost the Georgia Congressional Career Expo for Veterans and Reservists, along with other offices in the Georgia delegation, including: Senator Johnny Isakson, Senator David Perdue, Rep. Karen Handel (GA-6), Rep. Rob Woodall (GA-7), and Rep. Barry Loudermilk (GA-11). If you are a veteran or reservist looking for employment: CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP. When: Friday, June 1, 2018 9:00am – 1:00pm ET Where: KSU Convocation Center 590 Cobb Ave Kennesaw, GA 30144 Parking Address: East Deck 305 Hopkins Dr. NW Kennesaw, GA 30144 Event Details: • Over 100 exhibitors • 75+ hiring employers • Free admission • Workshops from 9:00 to 11:00 AM 9:00 AM (Workshops) • Transitioning Workshop - Resume writing, Interview skills, and LinkedIn networking • How to Start Your Own Business 10:00 AM (Workshops) • Transitioning Workshop - Resume writing, Interview skills, and LinkedIn networking • How to Finance Your Own Business
05.12.2018	Today Congressman David Scott hosted his 16th Annual Congressional Art Competition and Awards Ceremony at the Douglas County Courthouse. With community leaders and members in attendance, Congressman Scott recognized all participating students in the 2018 competition and announced the top winners. Mahagoni Bracey, from McEachern High School, won first place for her work “Focus.” As the top winner, Mahagoni’s work will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year along with the first place artwork from other congressional districts around the U.S. She also won a $12,000 scholarship from the Savannah College of Art and Design (SCAD); $12,000 scholarship from the Art Institute of Atlanta; a $1,000 prize; and round-trip airfare for two from Southwest Airlines to attend the ribbon-cutting ceremony for the Capitol exhibit in Washington, D.C “Congratulations to our talented winner Mahagoni Bracey,” said Congressman Scott. “Mahagoni’s winning piece is a striking and remarkable mixed media painting. I cannot wait to see her artwork on display in the U.S. Capitol for the next year. I am so very proud of all of the students from the Thirteenth District who participated in my 16th Annual competition. This year we had such an impressive array of talent displayed by our students. I am truly honored to celebrate the artistic talents of our young people, as well as their supportive families and teachers.” The Art Institute of Atlanta awarded a $7,500 scholarship for Second Place winner Bryce Landingham, of McEachern H.S., and a $3,500 scholarship for Third Place winner DeVonte Few, of Langston Hughes H.S. The Savannah College of Art and Design also awarded a full summer seminar scholarship of $1,200 to Second Place winner Bryce Landingham and $600 summer seminar scholarship to Third Place winner DeVonte Few. To date, Congressman David Scott has awarded over $550,000 in scholarships to student artists. This year AT&T, Georgia Power and GreyStone Power provided scholarships for the top winners, including $1,000-first place, $750-second place, $500-third place and $250-fourth place. The High Museum of Art provided Fourth Place winner Kiara Daniel with a one-year family membership pass and Fifth Place winner Joseph Sasser with one pair of admission tickets. Six Flags Over Georgia also provided a pair of admission tickets to Honorable Mention winner Jocelyn Granados. The second place artwork will hang in Congressman Scott’s Washington Office for one year; third place will hang in the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport’s Youth Art Gallery for one year; and fourth and fifth places will hang respectively in Congressman Scott’s Jonesboro and Smyrna Offices. The 2018 winners include: 1st Place: "Focus" by Mahagoni Bracey, McEachern High School 2nd Place: "Untitled" by Bryce Landingham, McEachern High School 3rd Place: "Celebration of Red Skull" by DeVonte Few, Langston Hughes High School 4th Place: "Madame Butterfly" by Kiara Daniel, McEachern High School 5th Place: "Bonne Nuit A Paris" by Joseph Sasser, New Manchester High School Honorable Mention: "Dolores" by Jocelyn Granados, Mundy's Mill High School ###
05.02.2018	On Saturday, May 12, 2018, Congressman David Scott will honor student participants and the top winner of his 16th Annual Congressional Art Competition. WHO: Congressman David Scott; Douglas County Board of Commissioners; Cultural Arts Council of Douglasville; community members; and High School students from Arlington Christian, Creekside, Dutchtown, Eagles Landing, Jonesboro, Kennesaw Mountain, Langston Hughes, McEachern, Mundy’s Mill, New Manchester, Riverdale, Stillwell School of the Arts and Union Grove. WHAT: Ceremony recognizing Thirteenth Congressional District student artists and announcing the first place winner of Congressman David Scott’s 2018 competition. The first place winner’s artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for 1 year along with other first place winners from around the country. WHEN: Saturday, May 12, 2018, 10:00 a.m. WHERE: Douglas County Courthouse, 8700 Hospital Drive, Douglasville, GA 30134 WHY: The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. To date, Congressman David Scott has awarded over $430,000 in scholarships to Thirteenth District students through his annual Congressional Art Competition. This year the Art Institute of Atlanta will award the following scholarships at the ceremony on Saturday: $12,000-first place; $7,500-second place; and $3,500-third place. The Savannah College of Art & Design will award scholarships for $3,000/ year for first place (renewable for 4 years), as well as 2018 Summer Seminar scholarships of $1,200 for second place and $600 for third place. Additional scholarships and awards will be presented to the top winners by AT&T, Georgia Power, Greystone Power, High Museum of Atlanta and Six Flags Over Georgia.
04.26.2018	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) delivered the following statement during the House Financial Services Committee “Oversight of the SEC’s Division of Corporation Finance” hearing. Click here to watch video of Congressman David Scott’s remarks. Transcript of Exchange with William Hinman, Director, Division of Corporation Finance, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission MR. SCOTT “Thank you, Chairman Huizenga. I’m very, very pleased to have Mr. Hinman here because you are in the crucible of what we really refer to as wealth building in this country. You are the SEC Director of the Division of Corporation Finance, Capital Formation and Public Offerings. “There’s basically three ways we build wealth, meaning financial security and stability. That is either through a job, your business, or most acutely, through investments. So, I want to talk to you about the fact that we have some alarming news. “My excellent staff has done some research that I want to bring to your attention - important research. They’ve informed me that in the past twenty years the number of new companies deciding not to go public has increased dramatically. As a matter of fact, they’ve informed me that in 1997, we had 474 companies that went public, while only 108 went public in 2017. That is astounding. “With this in mind, I want to ask you about this expanding use of non-registered offering exemptions, because I truly believe that it makes sense to expand our security laws to make it easier for our businesses, especially our start-ups that we rely on – small businesses. Start-ups are still the driving force, and from that comes the necessary sources to make those investments through the public and private offering. “One other thing I want to tell you is that I agree with you when you said this in your testimony. You said this: ‘It is far more efficient for retail investors to invest in companies through our public markets rather than our private markets.’ Now, that to me is very profound. As a matter of fact, I think it gives us the nobility of purpose for why you’re here. You went further by saying the SEC is conducting a look-back review of the impact regulation crowdfunding and Regulation A on capital formation and investment protection. “So, my question is this. I’m very interested to know, first of all, what you think about the points I’ve made and also how this look-back is going with you. I’m curious to know if the SEC is including its look-back measure whether our capital markets are operating efficiently from the standpoint of retail investors.” MR. HINMAN “Well, thanks for the question. To comment on your observations around the decline in numbers of public companies or companies deciding to do IPOs, we share that concern. We do think, as you mentioned, I said in my testimony that public companies are terrific vehicles for the smaller investor to invest in. There’s more liquidity, and because of our regulations, there’s more transparencies. “So, we do share concern that those numbers are declining in terms of the number of investment options, particularly for retail investors. In terms of the various ways that our rules are working together to hopefully encourage people to join the public reporting system, you’ve mentioned crowd-funding and Regulation A. Regulation A, at the time it was expanded by Congress, the thought was that is perhaps a bit of a roadmap to becoming public. It’s still very early days in terms of experience of Regulation A. We have seen some Regulation A issuers will get used to the idea providing disclosure and having it reviewed by the SEC and then maturing to the point that they now have a few that have been listed. Not all those are great successes, in the same way not all IPOs are great successes. So, we are monitoring the developments on Regulation A carefully - same with crowdfunding. With crowdfunding, we see a lot of activity on the Coasts. We see less in the middle of the country. We think it would be terrific to have more activity there. We’re looking at ways to stimulate portals interest in folks across the country, not just on the Coasts. MR. SCOTT “Thank you, very much Mr. Chairman, Mr. Hinman.”
04.18.2018	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) delivered the following statement strongly opposing proposed cuts to the SNAP program during today’s full House Agriculture Committee hearing on the 2018 Farm Bill. Click below to watch videos of Congressman Scott’s remarks: Part 1 - Scott Statement on Mean, Un-American Farm Bill. Part 2 - Scott remarks on Farm Bill failing beginning farmers and 1890s African American Land Grant colleges & universities. Part 3 - Scott remarks on SNAP Facts. “Thank you Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman I have served in this committee for 15 years. I have traveled the world with this committee, so my dearest friends are on this committee. But Mr. Chairman, this is absolutely without question the most terrible farm bill that we’ve ever had. “This farm bill is mean, hurtful, deceitful, un-American, and filled with racial vicissitudes. There is absolutely no way that we as a Congress, representing this great nation, of people from all walks of life, can do but one thing as we go through with this. And that is, hold our heads down in shame. “This bill takes 1.6 million needy families off of the SNAP program. Why? A work program that you manifest and walk around and say able-bodied men or able-bodied people should work and not be on food stamps. “You know what you are really saying with that? The image of able-bodied men not working is the image of African American men not working in the minds of people out there who have this mental disposition. “Now many of you on your side of the aisle may not understand that. But, I am an African American man, who has had to survive through my people coming through. And with the audacity that these are lazy people out there who don’t want to work. “Nobody has the heritage of work in this country as African American men, 400 years in bondage and slavery without any compensation, working through it all. “Now why do I speak so heartedly about this? It is because, Mr. Chairman, there’s got to be a reason why you want to put forward such a mean bill that hurts so many people. And the ranking member mentioned it and was kind, perhaps more, generally by saying ideological. “But it is not the African American people that are going to be hurt the most. 36% of all SNAP recipients are white families, who desperately need that and whom I represent as well. Only 16% of the food stamp recipients are in rural areas and only 11% in urban. “But there are people out there that don’t see that Mr. Chairman. And that is why I am also disturbed that when you take the African American colleges, put a 4 year scholarship program there, and snatch away the funding from the CCC, how can you have four year scholarships and you don’t put the money there to do it?”
04.04.2018	Today Congressman David Scott proudly announced that he will host his 15th Annual Jobs Fair on Friday, April 13, 2018, from 10:00am to 3:00pm, at the Georgia International Convention Center. Georgia’s top employers will be recruiting job seekers to fill over 6,000 openings and include the complete list of participants below. Register here now! Special opportunities include: U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Atlanta Regional Benefits Office and Atlanta VA Health Care System - employment, healthcare and service-connected benefit resources for veterans. U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) – “The Job Alternative Seminar” Seminar, 9:00am-11:30am – information on access to capital and state and federal procurement contracts. HomeSafe Georgia - on-site counseling and review of delinquent homeowners for mortgage catch-up or principal reduction assistance up to $50,000. Employment Strategy Workshop, 10:00-11:30am – Urban League of Greater Atlanta will share job search, interviewing and resume writing tips. Small Business Opportunities in Film & Entertainment Panel, 12:00-1:30pm – Behind every film, television, and music “experience” is a host of goods, services, and suppliers that help to make entertainment possible. Most of these business resources are invisible to audiences, but critical to the process of content creation, development, and delivery. You don't want to miss this panel discussion! Career Opportunities in Film & Entertainment Panel, 2:00-3:30pm – learn about crew positions, union membership, training programs, networking, and establishing a sustainable career in the entertainment business. Event details: Congressman David Scott’s 15th Annual Jobs Fair Friday, April 13, 2018, 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. Georgia International Convention Center | 2000 Convention Center Concourse | College Park, GA 30337 Admission and parking are free! Attendees are strongly encouraged to take MARTA to the Airport station and board the free ATL SkyTrain to the Convention Center or take MARTA to the College Park station and board a special MARTA bus shuttle to the event. Confirmed employers include: A Supreme Nursing & Homecare ABM Aviation AFLAC Allconnect ARK Temp Staffing, LLC AT&T Athens-Clarke County Police Department Atlanta Area Council Boy Scouts of America Atlanta Police Department Atlanta VA Health Care System Atlanta VAMC Aviation Institute of Maintenance Bobby Dodd Institute BREED International CCME Training Service Charter/Spectrum Chatham County Police Chick-fil- A Midtown Chime Solutions City of Douglasville City of Powder Springs Clayton County Board of Commissioners Clayton County Police Department Clayton County Public Schools Cobb County 911 Cobb County Dept. of Public Safety Coca-Cola Bottling Co. United COIN Wellness Communiqué USA, Inc. Cox Media Group Radio Atlanta & Athens, WSB-TV, & AJC Crystal Springs (DS Services) CW Atlanta DeKalb County E-911 DeKalb County Fire Rescue DeKalb County Police Delta Air Lines Department of Veterans Affairs ATL Regional Office Diaz Foods Dover Staffing East Point Police Department Expeditors International Express Employment Professionals Fayette County Board of Commissioners Fayette County Fire Department FBI Federal Emergency Management Agency FedEx Express FedEx Ground First Priority Insurance First Service Residential FreshSense Foods, Inc. Forest Park Police Dept. Fresh Express Fulton County Sheriff's Office GCSS - Georgia Community Support Solutions Gemalto Georgia Bureau of Investigation Georgia Dept. of Community Affairs Georgia Dept. Community Supervision Georgia Department of Human Services Georgia Department of Juvenile Justice Georgia Dept. of Public Safety Georgia Department of Transportation Georgia Power Company Georgia Stand Up / Trade Up Georgia Utility Contractors Georgia World Congress Center GIGTU Homecare LLC dba Brightstar Care of NW Atlanta Glock, Inc. Goodwill of North Georgia Gordon Food Service Grady Health System G4S Secure Solutions Gwinnett Co. Police Department Heavy Equipment College of Georgia Home Depot Home Depot - Jonesboro, GA Homeland Security Investigations Honidu's Caring Foundation HUD I. U. O. E. Local 926 JF & CS KIA Motors Manufacturing Lanier Parking Solutions Lockheed Martin Lowe's Mack II Inc. MARTA Marta Police Medline Industries Metro Fair Housing & Advanced Realty Concepts Next Level Staffing, LLC Old Navy Overhead Door DHPace Company Pet Smart Distribution Preferred Personnel Solutions Primerica Prudential Public Broadcasting Atlanta Race Trac Regions Bank Royal Food Service Savannah Police Department Silver Line by Andersen Six Flags SJAC Food Groups dba Zaxby's Social Security Administration Southwire Company Strides Horse Park TEMS Sugar Foods Corporation SunTrust Bank Taxpayer Advocate Service TGT Global Staffing The Collective at Cumberland-Build Cobb The D&E Group The NIA The University of GA/ Farm Again Top Job Hospitality Transportation Security Agency (TSA/DHS) United Youth of America UPS Urban League of Greater Atlanta U.S. Customs U.S. Department of Labor U.S. General Services Administration U.S. Small Business Administration Veterans Center Veterans Empowerment Organization Waffle House Waffle House Catering Walmart Fulfillment Center WIPRO Work Source Atlanta Work Source Atlanta Regional - Clayton Branch Work Source Cobb WUPA-TV CW Atlanta
03.23.2018	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) released the following statement: “It is with deep sadness to hear of the passing of my dear friend and partner Zell Miller. “Governor Zell Miller is a legend. His contributions to Georgia are legendary in so many ways, especially higher education as the author and creator of Georgia’s Hope Scholarship Program. “Governor Miller was not only my good friend and partner, but he was my mentor throughout my career in public service as a State Representative for 8 years, State Senator for 20 years and now 15 years as a U.S. Congressman. He appointed me when he was Lieutenant Governor and helped me to become Chairman of the Senate Rules Committee, making me the first African American to hold that powerful position. He also appointed me as Chairman of the Higher Education Committee. “I not only admire Zell Miller, but I truly love Zell Miller because he truly loved and helped David Scott make it all the way up the ladder to serve today as a United States Congressman of Georgia. May we all be inspired to continue Zell Miller’s deeply impactful legacy of service.”
01.31.2018	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) anchored a special order hour on the Supreme Court case Janus v. AFSCME, a case that threatens the freedom of Americans to join together in strong unions. Joined by 16 Members of Congress standing up for working people across the country, Congressman Scott championed the critical role unions have played in building and protecting the middle class in America. A transcript and video clips are included below from the special order. Click here to watch video of Congressman Scott’s opening remarks. To view video of the full hour of the Special Order on Janus v. AFSCME, click here. Member speakers included Representatives David Scott (GA), Bobby Scott (VA), Dwight Evans (PA), Danny Davis (IL), Barbara Lee (CA), Emanuel Cleaver (MO), Yvette Clarke (NY), Keith Ellison (MN), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX), Donald Payne, Jr. (NJ), Hakeem Jeffries (NY), Lisa Blunt Rochester (PA), Val Demings (FL), Denny Heck (WA), Mark Takano (CA), and Jan Schakowsky (IL). Transcript of Congressman David Scott’s Opening Statement “Mr. Speaker, it is with great honor that I stand to anchor this Special Hour because, Mr. Speaker, this nation is faced with a very serious threat. As a matter of fact, it is a devious threat to the labor unions, our great labor unions that have played a most fundamental role in establishing the greatness of the economy of our great nation. “And this evening, first I want to thank the Chairman of the CBC, Mr. Cedric Richmond of Louisiana, for his great leadership. And I appreciate him giving me this opportunity to anchor this Special Hour. Mr. Speaker, I also want to thank the staffs of the CBC, with Ms. Caren Street, who has worked very closely with my staffer, Ms. Seema Ibrahim, who has done a remarkable job. “Our whole team of many Congressmen from every sector of this country, every part of this country, is going to come before this House of Representatives, in these next 60 minutes to explain and expose to the American people two important things. “First of all, we want to illustrate with our deep understanding of the great value of the labor unions to this great country. We also want to expose the great threat that is now being faced by our labor unions. And the first group of our labor unions that’s facing this threat are the public sector unions, most pointedly, because in a matter of a few weeks, the Supreme Court will take up a case, Janus v. AFSCME. This Janus case is designed to remove what has already been established as the constitutionality of public service unions to be able to mandate fees and dues for their membership. This will be a catastrophic threat to the survival of the unions. And so we want to explain that. We want to also share the greatness of this. And so this is where we are. “And I want to ask those who are listening over C-SPAN tonight, all across this country, call a neighbor, call a friend, tell them to tune in and listen to these members of Congress pour out the truth about what’s at stake with this Janus court case that will be coming up before the Supreme Court. The first union that will be dealt with is AFSCME. But it’s far more than just AFSCME. It’s the public sector unions that will be ruled as whether it’s constitutional or not for them to have dues, to be able to pay. This case comes from an individual, Mr. Janus in Illinois, who disagreed with the political endorsements. “Well, what’s important to understand going forward, Mr. Speaker, is that the constitutionality has already been upheld. And on top of that, if there’s any union member who does not agree with those political endorsements, he has a right to get a financial rebate for that part of the dues that would go to political endorsements. “So, if Mr. Janus is concerned – if Mr. Janus’s concerns have been dealt with, then why this case? And that is the Achilles heel that will prove the deviousness of what’s before us.”
01.10.2018	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) introduced legislation to better address the needs of “under-banked” and “un-banked” communities in America. The Improving Access to Traditional Banking Act of 2018 will direct the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to thoroughly investigate and report to Congress recommendations on how to lessen Americans’ reliance on non-traditional banking products like payday loans. “Families in the 13th District of Georgia and all across America, especially African-American families, are relying more and more on financial products that fall outside the purview of traditional banks,” said Congressman Scott. “This, in turn, usually means costlier products with more fees and penalties. This simply is not fair.” Scott added, “With the Improving Access to Traditional Banking Act, we are taking a step towards better understanding the problem and finding a solution. And most importantly, there is no better place for this type of work and research to be done than at the CFPB – the federal agency solely dedicated to being an advocate for consumers.” Based on a 2015 survey conducted by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), African American communities continue to be the least “banked” in the country. Data from the FDIC found that only 45.5% of African American families are “fully-banked.” Of all the groups in this FDIC survey – African Americans, Hispanics, Whites, and Asians – African Americans ranked last. “Fully-banked,” as defined by the FDIC, means an individual has both a traditional banking account, like a checking account, and has not relied on “alternative financial services” within the past 12 months. “Alternative financial services” include payday loans, pawn shop loans, and auto title loans, among others. The Improving Access to Traditional Banking Act would require the CFPB to establish an “Office for Under-Banked and Un-Banked Consumers.” This office would be tasked with: Conducting research identifying hurdles under- and un-banked consumers face when maintaining a sustainable relationship with depository institutions; Identifying best practices depository institutions should follow to increase participation of under- and un-banked consumers; and Submitting a report to Congress within two years, and annually thereafter, highlighting legislative and regulatory recommendations to promote participation in the traditional banking system.
01.02.2018	U.S. Representative David Scott (GA-13) announced today that federal grants totaling over $52 million have been awarded in 2017 to the Thirteenth District by the U.S. Departments of Education (DOED), Energy (DOE), Health and Human Services (HHS), Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Justice (DOJ), Small Business Administration (SBA), and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). “This funding supports critical programs throughout Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District that provide academic enrichment opportunities for students in low-performing schools, funding to end homelessness, small business resources for technological innovation and entrepreneurship, and many others,” said Congressman David Scott. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in Washington and local officials to deliver much-needed federal funding to the Thirteenth District.” Grants awarded include: Grantee Program/Purpose Amount Grantor The Family Health Centers of Georgia, Inc. Title X Family Planning Service Grants Award $8,100,000.00 U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services Fulton County Housing and Community Development Continuum of Care Program $6,913,513.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Cobb County Center for Family Resources Continuum of Care Program $6,842,847.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Cobb County Community Development Block Grant $3,921,216.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Henry County Fire U.S. Dept. Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response Grants $3,722,673.00 U.S. Dept. of Homeland Security Palmetto Health Council, Inc. Health Center Cluster Grant $3,510,663.00 U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services Clayton County Community Development Block Grant $2,354,802.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Douglas County Public Schools 21st Century Community Learning Centers $2,300,000.00 Georgia, U.S. Dept. of Education Fulton County Community Development Block Grant $2,031,813.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development City of Fayetteville Fire U.S. Dept. Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response Grants $1,545,364.00 U.S. Dept. of Homeland Security Phosphortech Corporation Small Business Innovation Research Grant $1,149,671.00 U.S. Dept. of Energy Southeastern States Air Resource Managers, Inc. Surveys-Studies-Investigations-Demonstrations and Special Purpose Activities $1,137,154.00 Environmental Protection Agency Henry County Community Development Block Grant $1,066,118.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Cobb County HOME Program $1,013,643.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Clayton County HOME Program $757,348.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Fulton County HOME Program $685,286.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Cobb County School District Innovation Fund Grant $652,491.00 Governor’s Office of Student Achievement Travelers Aid of Metropolitan Atlanta Continuum of Care Program $386,664.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development MUST Ministries, Inc. Continuum of Care Program $336,208.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Cobb County Emergency Solutions Grant $282,094.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Clayton County Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program Part C Early Intervention Services (EIS) Awards $278,160.00 U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services Clayton County District Attorney Victim Witness Assistance Program $266,251.00 Prosecuting Attorney’s Council of Georgia Community Teen Coalition, Inc. Community Teen Coalition Upward Bound Project $257,500.00 U.S. Dept. of Education Clayton County Public Schools Professional Development for Arts Educators $255,873.00 U.S. Dept. of Education Cobb County Board of Health Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program Part C Early Intervention Services (EIS) Awards $254,233.00 U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services Housing Authority of the City of College Park Resident Opportunity and Self-Sufficiency Program $246,000.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Clayton County Emergency Solutions Grant $207,974.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Douglas County Community Service Board Continuum of Care Program $203,344.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Georgia Center for Youth Excellence, Inc. Basic Centers $185,000.00 U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services Fulton County Emergency Solutions Grant $180,601.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development S.H.A.R.E. House, Inc. Continuum of Care Program $148,241.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Housing Authority of the City of College Park Family Self-Sufficiency Program $133,068.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Chrisitan City Retirement Homes, Inc. Multifamily Housing Service Coordinators $114,683.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Housing Authority of the City of Marietta Family Self-Sufficiency Program $113,764.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Housing Authority of the City of Jonesboro Family Self-Sufficiency Program $84,711.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Clayton County Fire U.S. Dept. Emergency Management Performance Grant $77,827.00 Georgia Emergency Management-Homeland Security Fairburn Housing Authority Public Housing Capital Fund $76,681.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Housing Authority of the City of East Point Family Self-Sufficiency Program $69,000.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development East Point Police U.S. Dept. Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Body‐Worn Camera Awards $53,311.00 U.S. Dept. of Justice Fayette County Dept.of Fire and Emergency Services Assistance to Firefighters Grants - Operations and Safety $47,273.00 U.S. Dept. of Homeland Security John Sparks Manor, Inc. Multifamily Housing Service Coordinators $41,311.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Cobb County U.S. Dept. of Transportation Pedestrian Safety Campaign $37,975.00 Governor’s Office of Highway Safety Christian City Estates, Inc. Multifamily Housing Service Coordinators $36,303.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Douglas County Sheriff’s Office Highway Enforcement of Aggressive Traffic Grant $32,240.59 Governor’s Office of Highway Safety Palmetto Housing Authority Public Housing Capital Fund $24,866.00 U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Douglas County Public Schools Innovation Fund Tiny Grants $24,732.00 Governor’s Office of Student Achievement Grant Total for 2017 $52,160,490.59 Any organization or group that may need help applying for a federal grant should visit www.grants.gov for resources. They can also contact Congressman Scott’s office to talk about the grant process, funding opportunities, and tips for successful grant writing at 770-210-5073.
12.19.2017	Congressman David Scott (GA-13) issued the following statement today after the Republican-led House voted to enact the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “Today Republicans in the House turned their backs on millions of hard-working, middle class American families by passing a cruel and deceitful tax scam. This heartless bill provides so-called tax reform by raising taxes on tens of millions of middle class families and giving 83 percent of the tax cuts to the wealthiest 1 percent. “It is shameful that Republicans rushed to pass this bill and its far-reaching changes without any significant bipartisan input or consideration. “It is shameful that Republicans voted today to add $2.3 trillion to our national deficit. “It is shameful that this disgraceful bill gives a new tax break to corporations shipping American jobs overseas while depleting Medicare and Medicaid with $1.5 trillion in cuts. “And it is shameful that Republicans moved swiftly to check this issue off their Christmas political wish-list rather than buckling down and taking equally swift action to avert a federal government shutdown, reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program that expired months ago, pass the bipartisan DREAM Act, address the VA’s appalling budget shortfall to care for our veterans, or provide critically-needed emergency disaster funding for all hurricane- and wildfire-impacted communities. “Once again, Republicans in the House shamelessly voted against the interests of children, seniors, families, workers at risk of having their jobs shipped overseas, teachers, police officers, firefighters and veterans. The crushing cuts, that will be necessary because of the bill adopted by the House today, will have devastating consequences for years to come all across this country.”
11.14.2017	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) delivered the following remarks on the House Floor in strong opposition to H.R. 2874, the 21st Century Flood Reform Act. Click here to watch video of Congressman Scott’s remarks. Rep. Scott: Thank you ranking member Waters. First, it is very important for us to understand that flooding, Mr. Speaker, is no longer just a coastal lawmaker's problem. Flooding is now running rampant in every part of our country. So I think that every member on the floor today, every member of Congress needs to ask themselves a question and that is, are they really willing to put their name on this bill? Are you really willing to vote for this bill that will drastically raise premiums on their constituents without putting the necessary guardrails in place so those who can't afford the high costs can still buy flood insurance? Now one example I'm talking about is this, Mr. Speaker, and I want to make this clear. I hope there are listeners on C-SPAN, who will tune in. Call your neighbors. Call somebody to listen to this. In this bill, H.R. 2874, it will require policy holders to pay for any assistance they get when their states create affordability programs. Here's an example. My good friend Mr. Duffy's bill allows for the creation of a voluntary state-run affordability program, but here's the catch, Mr. Speaker. There isn't one dime of funding provided in this bill to set up and implement this program. Instead, Mr. Duffy's bill says the cost of any discount given to policy holders will have to be offset by fee increases on other policy holders within the same state. Now, Mr. Speaker, this is the Achilles heel in this flood insurance business. I can guarantee you this would have a gravely negative impact on all of us who are at that low and middle income. Now Mr. Speaker, I made it clear to our distinguished Chairman and Mr. Duffy that we are willing to work across party lines. Speaker Pro Tempore: The gentleman's time has expired. Rep. Waters: I yield to the gentleman an additional 30 seconds. Speaker Pro Tempore: The gentleman is recognized for an additional 30 seconds. Rep. Scott: Thank you so much Madam Ranking Member, but we offered this, as the ranking member said, as an excellent opportunity. This summer we spent week after week on this bill so we could move this bill forward in a way that would address affordability, which was a major concern of mine and the Ranking Member and those of us on our side of the aisle. So there is no affordability in here and it's very important for us to point out that this plan will put an overburden on the states and then they have to pass it on in fees to the others.
10.17.2017	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) called for Congress to take immediate action and implement a 5 year reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which expired September 30. CHIP provides health care for 8.9 million children across the U.S, including over 130,000 kids covered through Georgia’s CHIP program, PeachCare for Kids. “With the House currently in recess for 10 days, no vote on CHIP reauthorization has been scheduled in the House or Senate and 17 days have already passed since Congress let CHIP funding lapse. If Congress continues to fail to do its job and not reauthorize PeachCare funding right away, thousands of children in Georgia will lose access to the vital care they need to grow up and stay healthy. Georgia has the 4th highest number of uninsured children in the country. It is estimated that Georgia will run out of PeachCare funding at the beginning of 2018. Congress should be working to ensure that all children who are eligible for CHIP health care get covered, not squabbling while millions of families wait in fear that the program will end due to Congressional inaction. I call on all of my colleagues in Congress to continue the last two decades of bipartisan support for CHIP and reauthorize it for an additional 5 years. Don’t pull the rug out from under working families! Don’t let partisan squabbling jeopardize the health of millions of children! Let’s do our job, so that the thousands of families in Georgia with PeachCare can rest easy knowing that if their child gets sick, they can get the care they need.” The Children’s Health Insurance Program is a partnership between the federal government and states that has helped ensure access to health care for children and pregnant mothers from low-income working families across the United States. Without reauthorization, states will be unable to maintain the current level of access to health coverage for children in low-income families. Thousands of working families in Georgia will be forced to make difficult decisions, as PeachCare primarily covers families that earn too much to qualify for Medicaid, but still can’t afford to purchase coverage in the private market.
10.13.2017	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) issued the following statement after the Trump Administration announced it will end cost-sharing reduction payments: “This week, President Trump took unprecedented steps to sabotage healthcare affordability for all Americans. And last night, hours after Trump signed an executive order undermining the ACA, he struck another blow that will increase premiums and out-of-pocket costs for millions of Americans by refusing to pay the ACA’s cost-sharing subsidies. In Georgia, more than 380,000 individuals receive these cost-sharing subsidies. Nationwide, insurers have increased premiums for 2018 by an average 20 percent due to President Trump’s constant threats to end them. However, in Georgia, 2018 premiums will be more than 50 percent higher due to President Trump’s sabotage. “While my constituents want us here in Washington to work together to make healthcare more affordable, President Trump has spent the week recklessly rolling back coverage for birth control for millions of women, signing an executive order that will increase costs for sicker, older Americans, and ensuring that Americans will pay significantly more for health insurance next year. “Enough is enough. It is time for the partisan games to end. I call on both my Democratic and Republican colleagues to work together to ensure Americans continue to have access to comprehensive, affordable healthcare. This is not a reality TV show, these are people’s lives.”
10.12.2017	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) urged U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson to stand up and fight to protect the CDBG program from elimination during the full House Financial Services Committee Hearing. Click here to watch video of Congressman Scott’s exchange with Secretary Carson. Transcript of the exchange is included below: Rep. Scott: Secretary Carson, tell me, why do you think President Trump asked you to be Secretary of HUD? Carson: Probably because before I endorsed him we spent a lot of time talking about what was happening, particularly in some of our disadvantaged communities and how we really needed to recognize that if we are going to succeed as a nation all those people have to succeed as well. Rep. Scott: Well, let me tell you, it just seems to me that I believe that the President put you there to give cover to cutting and eliminating the CDBG program. Let me tell you why. First of all, this is the crucible of the whole argument. You should be at the forefront of telling the great story of success of the CDBG program. The fact is that it has created and retained 386,000 jobs for low and moderate income people. The CDBG program has benefited 42 million low and moderate income persons through public improvements, including senior citizens, child care centers, centers for people with disabilities, veterans, and veterans with disabilities. It’s benefited 133 million low moderate income persons through public services like employment training. The funds have been used to assist credit-worthy, working families with down payments and closing cost assistance on their homes. You should be out here shouting the success of this program but rather, I believe, that the President has you there to give cover to cutting this program and eliminating it. Here’s what the New York Times reported, Mr. Carson, when this issue was brought up. In July of this year, you said that “I know that CDBG has been called out for elimination.” You said, “I know that the CDBG program has been called out for elimination.” Was it President Trump that called that out? Who else would? My impression is that what the President is really saying is that there are problems. Oh and you said this, “I think it was someone on his staff who kind of said, well maybe we should just get rid of the whole CDBG program. Well, I’m here to tell you Mr. Secretary, I’m not going to let you do that. And I believe we have enough Democrats and Republicans because this is a bipartisan program that is doing well. And you would do well Mr. Secretary, to stand up and fight back in this administration. It needs help when it comes down to dealing with hurting Americans. And you are in this position, being Secretary, not just because of what you said, “Well, even if we cut their funds, I believe that the American people are a compassionate people.” Well Mr. Secretary, you should know better than anyone that compassion alone won’t do it. It wasn’t compassion alone that got you sitting where you are right now. Somebody had to give you and your family a financial helping hand. We need you to speak up and fight back in this administration.
10.04.2017	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced the availability of applications for students interested in receiving a congressional nomination for admission to the U.S. Air Force, Merchant Marine, Military or Naval Academy. “Having the privilege to nominate Thirteenth District students to attend the U.S. Military Academies is one of my most important and rewarding responsibilities,” said Congressman Scott. “Each year I am more and more inspired by the talent and high character of the students who have received nominations from my office. They truly represent the best and the brightest of our community. And I strongly encourage any young person who wants to become a leader and serve our country to consider attending one of the U.S. military academies. Each academy provides a top-tier education valued at more than $400,000, truly rare experiences, and rewarding careers in military service. ” Interested students should complete a Congressional Nomination Application available on Congressman David Scott’s website here. All completed applications must be submitted by Friday, October 27, 2017 via mail or personal delivery to Congressman Scott’s Jonesboro or Smyrna Office. To be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant must be nominated from an authorized person, including a Member of the U.S. House of Representatives or Senate. Applicants must also meet the following requirements as of July 1 of the year of admission to a service academy: be at least 17 years old and not older than 23; a U.S. citizen; a legal resident of Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District; unmarried; not pregnant; and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. For more information, please contact Congressman Scott’s Military Academy Coordinator Teresa Cooke at 770-210-5073.
09.29.2017	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13), joined by members of the Atlanta Congressional Delegation Reps. Rob Woodall (GA-7), Hank Johnson (GA-4) and Karen Handel (GA-6), urged Amazon to select the Atlanta-metro area as its location for their company’s new headquarters. Led by Congressman Scott, the Atlanta Congressional Delegation authored a bipartisan letter that emphasizes all of the qualifying factors that would make the Atlanta-region a perfect candidate for Amazon’s new headquarters, including its business-friendly environment, highly-educated and diverse workforce, easy access to a major international airport, and highways, a commitment to infrastructure spending, and a superb overall quality of life. Also, in the letter, the Atlanta Congressional delegation emphasize their proven record of working in a bipartisan manner to help grow Georgia’s economy and stand ready to help Governor Nathan Deal and his office’s effort to bring this new headquarters to our region. The full letter can be found here. Background: Amazon, the largest Internet-based retailer in the world, announced earlier this month that it will be creating a second headquarters, in addition to its current Seattle headquarters, and is accepting applications from cities and regional economic development organizations in North America. According to Amazon’s own estimates, the headquarters will amount to $5 billion in construction costs and lead to as many as 50,000 new jobs. Applications are due to Amazon on October 19, 2017, and a final decision on the site will be made sometime in 2018, according to their Request for Proposal document.
09.06.2017	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) released the statement below after the Trump Administration announced its decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program with a six-month delay: "I am very upset by the President’s actions today on DACA, and I plan to meet with him to get him to change his mind on this decision. "It is unconscionable to punish children for the actions of their parents. These are children and young adults who were brought to the U.S. as small kids, and they know no other home but here in America. They attend schools, hold jobs and are valuable members of our communities across the nation. "They are American through and through, and deserve the same respect, dignity and chance to succeed that the rest of us hope for ourselves."
08.19.2017	Congressman David Scott will host the 13th Annual Thirteenth Congressional District Health Fair on Saturday, August 19, 2017, 9am - 2pm, at Mundy’s Mill High School, located at 9652 Fayetteville Rd., Jonesboro, GA 30238. The Health Fair will provide vital health screenings and information at no cost from our region’s best healthcare providers and advocacy organizations. Free health screenings include: Clinical breast cancer exams; Prostate cancer (PSA); HIV/ AIDS; Diabetes (glucose); Blood pressure; Asthma; Cholesterol; Mental health; Sickle cell; Vision; Dental; Orthopaedic; and more! Pre-register here now. The Atlanta VA Medical Center and Atlanta VA Regional Office will provide veterans services, including vision exams, counseling for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD); mental health services; and health eligibility benefits consultations. The Georgia Department of Community Affairs will share information about the Hardest Hit Fund Down Payment Assistance Program, which provides $15,000 in down payment and closing cost assistance to eligible borrowers purchasing an existing home in 10 of Georgia’s hardest hit counties: including Fulton, DeKalb, Clayton, Douglas, Gwinnett, and Henry. Providers include: AARP Georgia AFLAC Cancer & Blood Disorders Center of Children's Healthcare of Atlanta AID Atlanta & Georgia AIDS & STD Info Line Alliant Quality Alzheimer's Association Alzheimer's Services Center American Cancer Society American Foundation for Suicide Prevention American Heart Association American Kidney Fund Amerigroup Atlanta Black Nurses Association Atlanta Diamondback Pharmacy Alumni Council Atlanta Fibroid Center - Dr. John Lipman Black Nurses Rock Greater Atlanta Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Georgia Care & Counseling Center of Georgia CareSource CDC Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Children's Healthcare of Atlanta Children's Healthcare of Atlanta Diabetes Education Clayton Center Community Service Board Clayton County Board of Health Clayton County Division of Family & Children's Services Clayton County Fire & Emergency Services Clayton County Library System Clayton County Police Department Clayton County Senior Services Dept., RSVP Program at Frank Bailey Senior Center Clayton State University Department of Dental Hygiene Community Outreach Information Network (COIN) D&E Housing & Economic Empowerment Center Department of Veteran Affairs, Atlanta VA Medical Center Department of Veteran Affairs, Atlanta VA Regional Benefits Office Discover Chiropractic Divine Faith's Joseph Warehouse Emory Eye Center/ Emory University School of Medicine/ Georgia Lions Lighthouse/ Prevent Blindness Georgia Emory Healthcare Veterans Program Emory Neuroscience Patient Family Education Committee Families First Fight Colorectal Cancer Food Addicts in Recovery Anonymous Fulton County Breast & Cervical Cancer Program Georgia Association for Primary Health Care Georgia Center of the Deaf and Hard of Hearing Georgia Dental Association Georgia Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities Georgia Department of Community Affairs Georgia Ovarian Cancer Alliance Georgia Power Company Georgia Prostate Cancer Coalition Georgia STAND-UP Grady Health System Great Expressions Dental Centers Healthy Mothers Healthy Babies Coalition of Georgia Home Helpers Atlanta Hosea Feed the Hungry I Will Survive, Inc. Ideal Therapy Inspire Network Insure Georgia Jerusalem House, Inc. Leukemia & Lymphoma Society LifeLink of Georgia LifeSouth Community Blood Centers Lupus Foundation of Georgia Mercy Medical Supply, LLC Minimally Invasive Center of Atlanta/ Atlanta Fibroid Center Morehouse School of Medicine - Clinical Research Center Morehouse School of Medicine CVRI - Epilepsy Awareness National Hook-Up of Black Women Neu Life Chiropractic Wellness Center Northside Hospital Radiology Open Hand Atlanta, Cooking Matters PCOS Challenge, Inc. Piedmont Transplant Institute Planned Parenthood Southeast Primerica Financial Services Radiotherapy Clinics of Georgia Resurgens Orthopaedics Right from the Start Medicaid See Your Kid, Inc. Sickle Cell Foundation of Georgia Sisters By Choice Social Security Administration Southwest Primary Care Center Susan G. Komen Greater Atlanta Taxpayer Advocate Service The Family Health Centers of Georgia The Partnership of Greater Atlanta U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Atlanta District Office U.S. Food & Drug Administration Veterans Center of Greater Atlanta Victory Pharmacy Vitiligo Bond, Inc. Voices for Georgia's Children Walgreens WellCare Health Plans WellStar Health System Woodruff Medical Training and Testing Women Veteran Resources Group YourTown Health
08.15.2017	There is no moral equivalence between the KKK, Neo-Nazis, and white supremacists, and those who are standing up to them for the freedom and equality of all. The President must show leadership in understanding and underscoring the threat these groups pose to our nation. Because as they say in their own words and through their actions wreaking havoc on Muslims, Jews, gays and people of color, they feel they are helping President Trump “make America great again” by “taking their country back.” In reality, they are taking us back to the days of lynchings of African Americans by the Klan and the murder of millions of Jews by the Nazis. The President of the United States needs to take strong and aggressive leadership to let the KKK, Neo-Nazis and white supremacists know that they are not speaking for him. He must also initiate an investigation by the Department of Justice into the racist and violent actions by these groups. The racism and violent tendencies of these groups were laid bare, when that young white supremacist, buoyed by a rising tide of hate, felt bold enough to plow his car into a crowd of people. Our country needs the President to seize this moment, to stand up and strongly condemn and prosecute this hate and violence, and to be a leader in healing the racial hatred that has our nation crying out.
07.27.2017	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) called for more than a nebulous answer on when the United States will risk defaulting on its debt obligations during the House Financial Services Committee hearing with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. Scott raised alarms about how such non-answers inject uncertainty in the markets. Additionally, when pressed by Scott, Sec. Mnuchin failed to commit to sending the Committee and Congress regular updates on when the U.S. will default without an increase in the debt ceiling by Congress. Leading up to the 2015 debt limit showdown, Mnuchin’s predecessor, Jack Lew, sent several letters to Congress on July 29, September 10, October 1 and October 15. Click here to watch video of Congressman Scott’s exchange with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. Transcript of the exchange is included below: Rep. Scott: Thank you Mr. Chairman. I want to ask you two questions. Let me get the first one out of the way. First, we’ve had some discussions about the debt limit and I just want to remind you that your predecessors, Jack Lew especially, would send us estimates which would give us a running account of when that possible time would come. But your response to that has been, “Congress should act.” Then you keep providing us with a nebulous deadline of sometime after September. Now Mr. Mnuchin, you and I both know that the markets’ worst enemy is uncertainty; not to mention uncertainty around the debt limit, which also plays a role in what the Fed does. And keeping that sterling credit rating, Triple A, all around the world, is what sustains us. It is the backbone of what keeps our country the number one financial system. So, let me just ask you, can you commit to this committee today that within a week, you could follow the example of your predecessor and send to us your best estimate as to when we will reach the debt limit? Can you do that? Sec. Mnuchin: Again, first of all, thank you for that question, and I’m very familiar with financial markets, which I’ve been involved in for the last 35 years. So I do understand this issue very well. I’ve been very clear on it publicly. I can tell you today the answer to that question. Rep. Scott: What is that? Sec. Mnuchin: I am comfortable that we can fund the government through the end of September, that based upon my information at this time, which is subject to change given big moves, but my best judgement right now is through the end of September. Publicly this is not the first time. Rep. Scott: Thank you, I got your answer, I only have a few minutes and I’ve got to get to this other question. I want you to know that this effort and concern on this committee with President Trump and the Russian connection. There was a movie called ‘The French Connection’ also. But I want you to know that Ms. Waters’s bill and her efforts in this are not a democratic position alone. I work with both Democrats and Republicans. I have friends on both sides of the aisle. And it is a growing consensus among Republican Members of Congress that we owe it to the American people to come clean on this. President Trump is not bigger than America. This isn’t about him. It’s about the American people. I love this country. I was born in the middle of a tobacco field in Aynor, South Carolina. But I made it up to the Wharton School of Finance. And not only that, to serve on the Executive Board of Directors at the University of Pennsylvania, the best school of business and finance in the world. And I did it with helping hands because I come from a poor family. So I want you to know, and I want this nation to know, that we deserve to know what it is that President Trump is hiding. That he’s willing to turn the federal government, the Justice Department upside down and inside out. It’s not about him anymore. It’s about coming to a sense of confidence and truth that we can restore the respect, the power, and authority of our nation. First to the American people, and to the world. Sec. Mnuchin: I hope you don’t mind me using just 5 seconds of your time because I do want to acknowledge Mr. Scott, I too share this great love for this country, and it’s extraordinary, your accomplishments, so thank you.
06.14.2017	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) released the following statement on the shooting at a practice for the annual Congressional Baseball Game: “I was terribly saddened to hear of the shooting that took place at the congressional baseball practice this morning. My thoughts and prayers are with Rep. Steve Scalise, the Capitol Police, congressional staffers and others who were struck during this unspeakable and senseless tragedy. Thank God for the heroic service of the U.S. Capitol Police who prevented this terrible shooting from being much worse. “While our hearts are understandably heavy in the aftermath of this shooting, and our minds struggle to find reason among the madness, let us not grow weary or faint or further apart. Instead let us find strength and unity in our shared values, for America is stronger together. Let us lift up in prayer those who were injured today, and pray for the healing of our nation as well as we try to bridge the gaps that divide us.”
05.29.2017	Congressman David Scott (GA-13) released the following statement today in recognition of Memorial Day: “On this Memorial Day, we honor those who have not only served our country, but laid down their lives in the name of liberty. As citizens of this great nation, we live each and every day through prosperity and freedom. We wake up with the peace-of-mind that we are free to make our own decisions and have our own opinions, and go to bed each night aware of a democracy that enables us to do just that. “These United States were built with the intention that all Americans are endowed with inalienable rights; those rights would not be possible without the sacrifice of our veterans who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom. “As we remember those who have given their lives for freedom, we must also remember the importance of assuring our veterans of the proper care they deserve. Georgia is home to more than 770,000 veterans and it is of the utmost importance that we provide them with resources in getting acclimated back into civilian life after their times of service. Each day, 20 veterans take their lives. It is our moral obligation to do what we can for them, whether that is lending a friendly ear or helping to advance care for those Vets in need. We must step up to the plate and pledge that no man or woman be left behind; on or off the battlefield. And we must remember that we are the land of the free because of the brave.”
05.25.2017	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) issued the following statement in response to the Congressional Budget Office's (CBO) updated score for the Republican healthcare bill passed by House Republicans earlier this month: “The updated CBO score confirms what we already knew, the American Health Care Act (AHCA) is a cruel attack on the American people and it demonstrates the reckless approach Republicans have taken to reforming 1/5 of our economy. “Rather than working with Democrats to improve the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Republicans bulldozed ahead, without waiting to find out what the consequences would be for the American people. Now, it is clear that their bill slashes $834 billion from Medicaid, a program that provides health care to some of our most vulnerable citizens; increases costs for older Americans; and risks coverage for 1.8 million Georgians under 65 who have a pre-existing condition. “After 10 years, 23 million more Americans will be uninsured under the AHCA. And 51 million people under 65 would be uninsured in 10 years, versus 28 million under the ACA. The CBO also estimates that, in some states, people with preexisting conditions might not be able to buy coverage “at all”. Out-of-pocket spending on maternity care, mental health, and substance abuse services could increase by thousands of dollars a year for people who live in states that waive essential health benefits. “The CBO score makes plain that the Republican bill to replace and repeal Obamacare is a dangerous bill for our nation’s health care system. That is why I am dedicated to fighting to protect the ACA; improving it, so that more Americans benefit; and opposing the Republicans’ damaging health care proposal.”
05.25.2017	This week the House of Representatives voted on several bills focused on cracking down on child sex trafficking and child abuse. “In Georgia, the number of human trafficking cases has more than doubled since 2012, from 94 cases in 2012 to 256 cases in 2016,” said Congressman David Scott. “Of those cases, 75% were for sex trafficking, and 30% of those trafficked were children. This is a crisis we cannot ignore. I was proud to vote for H.R. 1862, the Global Child Protection Act of 2017, and H.R. 1842, the Strengthening Children's Safety Act of 2017 this week that would expand the scope of illicit sexual conduct to include illicit conduct with a child younger than 12 in a foreign country, and expand the definition of ‘crime of violence’ to include crimes committed under state law. These changes close loopholes that bring offenders of these horrendous crimes to justice.” Scott added, “I was also proud to vote for H.R. 1973, the “Protecting Young Victims from Sexual Abuse Act of 2017.” This law expands the safety net that protects our young people by increasing the number of people required by law to report suspected abuse. Currently doctors, teachers, and social workers are required to report suspected abuse and, under H.R. 1973, that group will now include coaches and others who interact with child athletes.” “These bills are a small step forward in protecting children from trafficking and abuse. More work remains to be done, however, as we must do all we can to ensure that abuse of children is prevented, reported, and investigated, and that justice is served.”
05.23.2017	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) issued the statement below on President Trump’s 2018 budget proposal: “The President’s budget plan is neither fiscally nor morally responsible. It seeks to balance our nation’s budget on the backs of the poor, disabled, elderly, children, veterans, working families, and farmers of America. “The Trump budget calls for shocking cuts of more than $800 billion from Medicaid; $193 billion from the SNAP food stamp program; $72.5 billion for programs for disabled people, including Social Security Disability Insurance; and $40 billion for earned income and child tax credits. These extreme and irresponsible cuts would devastate Georgians. 1.3 million children and 50,000 veterans in Georgia rely on Medicaid. 66,500 veterans in Georgia are on SNAP right now. “The budget proposal would also eliminate subsidized student loans, end public service student loan forgiveness, gut HUD’s budget for affordable housing, and slash the budgets of the CDC and NIH for HIV/AIDS and cancer research, public health preparedness and chronic disease prevention programs. “We cannot turn our backs on the least of these in our country. And Congress must not let these draconian cuts happen. They are wrong for Georgia and wrong for America.”
05.12.2017	On Saturday, May 13, 2017, Congressman David Scott will honor student participants and the top winner of his 15th Annual Congressional Art Competition. WHO: Congressman David Scott; the Douglas County Board of Commissioners; Cultural Arts Council of Douglasville; community members; and high school students from Alexander, Arlington Christian, Charles Drew, Douglas County, Dutchtown, Eagles Landing, Eagles Landing Christian Academy, His Masters Voice, Jonesboro, Langston Hughes, McEachern, Mundy’s Mill, New Manchester, North Clayton, Our Lady of Mercy and Woodland. WHAT: Ceremony recognizing Thirteenth Congressional District student artists and announcing the first place winner of Congressman David Scott’s 2017 competition. The first place winner’s artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for 1 year along with other first place winners from around the country. WHEN: Saturday, May 13, 2017, 10:00 a.m. WHERE: Douglas County Courthouse, 8700 Hospital Drive, Douglasville, GA 30134 WHY: The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. To date, Congressman David Scott has awarded over $500,000 in scholarships to Thirteenth District students through his annual Congressional Art Competition. This year the Art Institute of Atlanta will award the following scholarships at the ceremony on Saturday: $12,000-first place; $7,500-second place; and $3,500-third place. The Savannah College of Art & Design will award scholarships for $3,000/ year for first place (renewable for 4 years), as well as 2017 Summer Seminar scholarships of $1,050 for second place and $500 for third place. Additional scholarships and awards will be presented to the top winners by AT&T, Chick-fil-A, Greystone Power and the High Museum of Atlanta.
05.01.2017	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced his 15th Annual Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery, for Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District. High school students who reside in or attend a public, private or home school in Georgia’s 13th Congressional District are invited to submit artwork for the competition. The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. To date, Congressman David Scott has awarded over $392,000 in scholarships to local student winners of his annual art competition. The first place entry from Congressman Scott’s district will join other first place winners from around the country and be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Scholarships will be presented to the top winners as follows: $12,000 – First Place, $7,500 – Second Place, and $3,500 – Third Place, all by the Art Institute of Atlanta; as well as $3,000/ year to the first-place winner by the Savannah College of Art and Design. Entries must be received in either Congressman David Scott's Smyrna or Jonesboro District Office by Monday, April 17, 2017. Students may obtain entry forms and official guidelines from Congressman David Scott’s Office and their high school art teachers. There is no mandatory theme for the competition. Participants must be present at the awards ceremony in order to win. Congressman Scott will host the awards ceremony announcing this year’s top winners and scholarship recipients on Saturday, May 13, 2017, at the Douglas County Courthouse, located at 8700 Hospital Drive, Douglasville, GA 30134. For more information and competition entry forms and guidelines, please call 770-210-5073 or visit /constituentservices/artcontest.htm.
04.03.2017	Today Congressman David Scott proudly announced that he will host his 14th Annual Jobs Fair on Friday, April 28, 2017, from 10am to 3pm, at the Georgia International Convention Center. 145 of Georgia’s top employers will be recruiting job seekers to fill over 6,000 openings and include the complete list of participants below. Register here now! Congressman Scott’s Jobs Fair will also include: U.S. Veterans Administration (VA) Atlanta Regional Benefits Office and Atlanta VA Medical Center to provide special employment, health and benefits resources for veterans; U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) to host a Small Business Forum providing information on capital access, state and federal procurement contracts, and film and entertainment opportunities for small businesses; and HomeSafe Georgia to deliver on-site counseling to homeowners facing unemployment or underemployment while they seek new work. What: Congressman David Scott’s 14th Annual Jobs Fair When: Friday, April 28, 2017, 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. Where: Georgia International Convention Center | 2000 Convention Center Concourse | College Park, GA 30337 Attendees are strongly encouraged to take MARTA to the Airport station and board the free ATL SkyTrain to the Convention Center or take MARTA to the College Park station and board a special MARTA bus shuttle to the event. Participating employers include: A Supreme Nursing & Homecare Alfac Allconnect Allied Universal Security AMA Aviation/Airserv Americold/Atlas Logistics AT&T Athens-Clarke County Police Department Atlanta & North Georgia Building Trades Council Atlanta Fire & Rescue Department Atlanta Jobs Corps Center Atlanta Police Department Atlanta Public Schools AT-Tech Inc. Automation Personnel Services Best Bank ( Guaranty Bank) Bobby Dodd Institute C&C Healthcare Services, Inc. Canon Solutions America Caraustar Industries CCME Training Service Charter Communications Chick-fil-A Chime Solutions Citizens Trust Bank City of College Park City of Fairburn Clayton County Board of Commissioners Human Resources Department Clayton County Police Department Clayton County Public Schools Clayton County Sheriff's Office Cobb County Police Department College Park Police Department Columbus Police Department Community Outreach Informairon Network ( COIN) Construction Education Foundation of Georgia CEFGA Country Inn & Suites D&E DeKalb Community Service Board DeKalb County Police Department DeKalb Fire Rescue Delta Air Lines, Inc. Department of Human Services Department of Juvenile Justice Department of Veterans Affairs ATL Regional Office Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center DHL Supply Chain Diaz Foods Dick's Sporting Goods Diverse Staffing DOA Planning & Development Dover Staffing Agency Emory University Express Employment Professionals Fayette County Board of Commissioners FBI Federal Air Marshals Federal Bureau of Prisons SE Region FedEx Ground Forest Park Police Department Fort Valley State University Fresh Express Fulton County Schools Fulton County Sheriff's Office GA National Guard Gate Gourmet GDCP Georgia Department of Community Affairs Georgia Department of Public Safety Georgia Department of Transportation Georgia Power Georgia Stand-Up GLOCK Inc. Goodwill of North Georgia Gordon Food Service Grady Health System GSA Gwinnett County Police Department Hall County Sheriff's Office Head's Plumbing Sales & Services, Inc. Heavy Equipment College of GA High Grove Partners Homeland Security Investigations (HIS) IBEW LU 613 JC Penney Just Us Opportunities Inc. JW Broadcasting K.E.S. Inc. Katlaw Truck Driving School KIA Motors Lanier Parking Legal Shield Lowe's Companies Mack II, Inc. Malone Staffing Solutions MARTA MARTA Police Department Massey Services Inc. McDonald's Medline Industries, Inc. Multi-Care Management Services National Property Solutions Group (NPSG) New York Life Next Level Staffing LLC NID-HCA The ATL Southern Crescent Branch Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Omni Atlanta Hotel @CNN Center Papa John's Parsec Inc. Partnership For Community Action, Inc. Peach State Health Plan Peer Solutions Communication PNC Bank Powder Springs Police Department Primerica Prudential Public Broadcasting Atlanta Savannah Chatham Metropolitan Police Department Six Flags Over Georgia Social Security Adminstration Sonoco Products SunTrust Bank Taxpayer Advocate Service Technical College System of Georgia TGT Global Staffing, LLC. TSA/DHS U.S. Air Force Reserve U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services U.S. Customs and Boarder Protection U.S. Department of Labor- EBSA U.S. Small Business Administration United Distributors, Inc. UPS Wade Ford, Inc. Waffle House Waffle House Catering Walmart Logistics WCLK Jazz 91.9 Wells Fargo Bank West Georgia Technical College Wipro Limited (BPS) Wise Choice Insurance Brokers Work Source Georgia WSB-TV and CMG Radio Atlanta
04.03.2017	Thinking of starting or growing your own business? The U. S. Small Business Administration (SBA) Georgia District Office will host a Small Business Forum, comprised of several entrepreneurial seminars, at Congressman David Scott’s Jobs Fair on Friday, April 28. You Must Register for Each of the Following Sessions Please use the registration links below to register for any SBA module(s) you would like to attend, as seating is limited. You must register for each session separately. 9:00-9:30 Sign-In/Registration 9:30-10:00 General Session with Congressman Scott Track I: Go From Unemployed to Self Employed! 10:05 -11:05 Overview of SBA Programs and Services: This module, presented by SBA staff, will include an overview of the many SBA programs and services that are available to potential and existing entrepreneurs. Click Here to Register for SBA Programs and Services Overview 11:15 – 12:15 Start-Up Basics: In this module, SCORE Atlanta will discuss the advantages and challenges of owning a business; the most logical structure for your business; the fundamentals of formation and organization; critical success factors; business roles and responsibilities; and the importance of a business plan. Click Here to Register for Start-up Basics 12:25 – 1:30 How to Fund Start UP- Access to Capital: This module will focus on the microenterprise, how to access capital for loans under $50,000 and how to fund an expanding business needs. Click Here to Register for How to Fund the Business Track II: Take Your Business From Surviving to Thriving! 10:05 - 11:05 Doing Business with the Federal Government: This module will provide information for small businesses interested in federal procurement. Information will be provided on the service disabled veteran-owned small business and women-owned small business certification programs. The Georgia Department of Transportation will also be present to discuss upcoming contracting opportunities. Click Here to Register for Women and Veterans Federal Contracting Programs 11:15 – 12:15 How to Fund Growth-Access To Capital: This module will focus on the SBA’s flagship lending programs, the 7a and 504 loans, how to access capital for loans $250,000 and above and how to fund an expanding business’s needs. Lender Panel discussion. Click Here to Register for How to Fund Growth-Access To Capital 12:25 – 1:30 Opportunities in Film and Entertainment: This module, presented by the UGA Small Business Development Center at Clayton State, will discuss opportunities for doing business with Georgia's rapidly growing film industry. How your small business can service the film industry. Click Here to Register for Opportunities in the Film and Entertainment Industry 1:30 - 2:00 Networking: Bring your business cards so you can interact with the other participants as well as the resource partners. You may also be interested in reading the SBA guide for Georgia small businesses. For questions on this event, please contact Isaac DoDoo, Office of Congressman David Scott, at 770-432-5405.
03.29.2017	Today Congressman David Scott released the following statement on the recent passing of Kenneth Spearman, the first black Chairman of the Board of the Farm Credit Administration: “On last evening, we all received the unfortunate news of the passing of Mr. Kenneth Spearman, a man who came along at the right time, was in the right place, and was doing the right thing. The great philosopher Aristotle was once asked, “Aristotle what does it take to be a great man?” And Aristotle said, “In order to be a great man, you must first know thyself.” Well Ken Spearman, not only knew who he was, but he also knew whose he was, that he was truly a child of God. “And Ken Spearman became the absolute first African American chairman of the Farm Credit Administration. A history-making achievement of soaring magnitude, but that achievement did not come easy. Ken Spearman was truly a man of great prominence, great intelligence, who showed remarkable endurance over the various challenges in life, the various hardships. Life is not an easy road if you’re a high achiever. He had mountains and valleys, but he overcame whatever obstacles there were to let his light shine to become a world leader in agricultural financing, farming and credit. “And Ken and I became good friends, as he would often stop by the office whenever he was at the Capitol. I looked forward to our visits. He encouraged me in so many ways. He and I shared a very similar commitment in helping the beginning farmer. He was really dedicated to helping beginning farmers. He had a special interest in getting young people into farming, and especially young African Americans into farming. And he was a great source of encouragement to me, like two or three years ago when we began to enlist the help of our 1890s African American colleges, to get scholarships for youngsters to graduate and go into agri-business careers. He was a magnificent story teller. “And Ken Spearman’s name will forever be held in the highest esteem as a history-making pioneer in the world of agriculture, finance, and farm credit. And he was a fighter, strong, with unwavering courage, and yet, he was a humble man. He understood the meaning of implicit love, especially for his wife Maria, his children Michelle, Rochelle and Ken, and of course his untiring love for the United States of America, and his unparalleled love in the trust, and confidence in his almighty God.”
03.13.2017	Today the Board of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta announced its historic appointment of Dr. Raphael W. Bostic to become the 15th President and Chief Executive Officer, effective June 5, 2017. Congressman David Scott (GA-13) released the following statement upon hearing of the announcement: “I could not be more thrilled about today’s announcement regarding Raphael Bostic being named the next Atlanta Regional Bank President,” Said Scott. “This marks an historic event for our Federal Reserve System. In over 100 years of its existence, never has there once been an African American as a Regional President. That all ends today. “I want to commend the Atlanta search committee and Thomas Fanning, Chairman of the Board of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, for their wonderful selection and very transparent process. I also want to thank them for their willingness to meet with me and answer the questions I posed to them in writing. “I also want to thank Fed Chair Janet Yellen and her team for promptly responding to the many questions I asked of her during numerous Financial Services Committee hearings and also in writing. “Finally, I want to again thank former Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart for his service and commitment to helping combat my biggest priority as a Congressman--- African American unemployment. I’ve made the struggle of African American recovery from the financial crisis a key part of the work I do in Congress----especially fighting to bring down stubborn and high unemployment rates for African Americans. Regional Presidents play a key role in helping to shape our country’s economic policy, using a tool called monetary policy. Having an African American like Bostic at the table when these interest rate decisions are made will be a huge help as I continue my fight in Congress.” Background Information on Dr. Raphael Bostic As Regional President, Raphael W. Bostic will bring a wealth of experience and a resume that already includes half a decade’s worth of experience at the Federal Reserve Board of Governors during the 1990s. He currently serves as the Judith and John Bedrosian Chair in Governance and the Public Enterprise at the Sol Price School of Public Policy at the University of Southern California (USC). Before that, under the Obama Administration from 2009 to 2012, Bostic served as the assistant secretary for Policy Development and Research at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Bostic also brings an unmatched educational background. He graduated from Harvard University in 1987 with a combined major in economics and psychology, and earned his doctorate in economics from Stanford University in 1995. As president of the Atlanta Fed, Bostic will lead one of the 12 regional Reserve Banks that, with the Board of Governors, make up the Federal Reserve System, the nation's central bank. The Atlanta Fed covers the Sixth Federal Reserve District, which includes Alabama, Florida and Georgia and portions of Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee.
03.07.2017	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) released the following statement on the Republican healthcare bill to replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “Since the historic passage of the Affordable Care Act, this country has seen tremendous strides in its overall health outcomes. Patients now have access to robust health insurance benefits and we have seen a substantial decrease in the number of citizens without insurance. "3.4 million children and 3.6 million patients with preexisting conditions gained coverage under ACA. Parents can keep their children under 26 on their insurance plans. And insurers cannot place annual or lifetime limits on care. “However, last night the Republicans released a dangerous and damaging bill that threatens to undo those efforts. If signed into law, 21 million Americans currently covered by the Affordable Care Act stand to lose their coverage. And despite claims that the Republican ACA replacement would provide better coverage at a lower cost, the bill revealed yesterday would not fulfill either promise. Instead, it would allow insurers to charge higher premiums, and would cut Medicaid, leaving low-income children, disabled individuals, and the elderly vulnerable. “In my district alone, the uninsured rate had dropped over 7 percent, and over 340,000 people have health insurance that covers preventative services, like cancer screenings and flu shots, without any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. Hospitals, like Grady, that provide high quality medical care for everyone who walks through the door, benefit from the nearly one-third drop in uncompensated care. Georgia stands to lose $100 million worth of public health funding over the next five years. While the ACA is not perfect, we can’t go back. "The Republican bill is nothing more than a tax break disguised as a healthcare plan. Georgians deserve better, and I will fight to defend the progress the Affordable Care Act has made."
02.03.2017	On Saturday, February 4, 2017, Congressman David Scott will host a special ceremony to honor 29 exceptional students from Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District with nominations to attend one of our nation’s esteemed military service academies. WHO: Congressman David Scott; representatives from the U.S. Air Force, Military and Naval academies; Mundy’s Mill High School Color Guard; and community members. WHAT: Congressman Scott will formally present congressional nominations to 29 students seeking admission to the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Naval Academy in Annapolis, Military Academy at West Point or Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point. WHEN: Saturday, February 4, 2017, 10:00 a.m. WHERE: Brawner Hall, 3180 Atlanta Road S.E., Smyrna, GA 30080 Nominees: U.S. Air Force Academy Chiante Arnold, Lovejoy High School Christen Greene, Douglas County High Joy Howard, Woodward Academy Juwan Owens, Harrison High School Robert Sewell, III, Chapel Hill High School Jackson Sims, Northgate High School Aizia Travis, Charles Drew High School Jacob Totten, South Paulding High graduate Madison Tritt, Douglas County High School Jamelah Williams, New Manchester High School graduate Tatyana Wright, Charles Drew High School U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Alec Adams, New Mexico Military Institute Prep School Dawson Hicks, Marietta High School U.S. Military Academy at West Point Monica Davis, Alexander High School Nola Dix, Creekside High School Austin Felth, Creekside High School Sekou Matesso, Langston Hughes High School graduate Janice Poe, West Point Prep School Victorian Smith, Westlake High School U.S. Naval Academy Tristan Capocci, The Heritage School Delphina Djeumeni, Chapel Hill High School Marcell Gleaton, Community Christian School Michael James, McEachern High School Tyreek King-El, Naval Academy Prep School Devin Maxwell, Campbell High School Thomas McMurrain, Landmark Christian High School Isabel Miller, Campbell High School Karina Patel, Eagles Landing High School Oscar Prioleau, III, Grady High School graduate
02.03.2017	Congressman David Scott (GA-13), a member of the House Financial Services Committee, made the following statement on President Trump’s financial executive orders announced today: “While a delay of the fiduciary rule at the Department of Labor is something many will welcome with open arms, including myself, I am very concerned about the path today’s executive orders puts regulators down. As an original co-lead to the Dodd-Frank Act, I understand the importance of proper Wall Street regulation. We cannot go back to the days when Wall Street’s excessive risks threatened the economic stability of Georgians; when banks could sell exotic mortgages to hard-working Americans; or when banks were allowed to take risky bets with their customer’s money. “That said, with any law this large, it is obviously going to need some fixes. I welcome any good faith effort from the Administration or my colleagues from the other side of the aisle that will help businesses gain access to more capital or help families become homeowners.”
02.02.2017	Congressman David Scott (GA-13) was once again selected to serve as the Ranking Democratic member of the Subcommittee on Commodity Exchanges, Energy and Credit by the Democratic Members of the House Agriculture Committee. The subcommittee’s jurisdiction includes oversight of commodity exchanges, including the Cobb County based InterContinental Exchange, one of the largest commodity exchanges in the world; as well as agricultural credit; rural development; energy; and rural electrification. Congressman Scott has also selected to serve on the Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, which conducts oversight of the Risk Management Agency, which provides crop insurance to Georgia’s farmers, and the Farm Service Agency, which administers vital crop support programs. Scott released the following statement on his assignments: “It is an honor to continue to serve as Ranking Member of the Commodity Exchanges, Energy, and Credit subcommittee, as well as on the General Farm Commodities and Risk Management subcommittee. The Commodity Exchanges, Energy and Credit subcommittee has the important task of providing oversight for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, rural development, agricultural lending and credit institutions. And the General Farm Commodities and Risk Management subcommittee has jurisdiction over policies on commodities, including important Georgia crops like peanuts, cotton, cottonseed, corn, and soybeans. Well-functioning and well-regulated commodity markets and effective commodity policies are important to the well-being of the agricultural industry. I look forward to working with all members of the committee ensuring that policies put forward work for my constituents, help promote growth, and allow Georgia farmers to continue to feed the world.”
02.01.2017	Congressman David Scott (GA-13) has selected to serve on the Subcommittees on Capital Markets, Securities, and Investments and Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit on the House Financial Services Committee. Scott released the following statement on his assignments: “It is an honor to again serve as a member of both the Capital Markets and Financial Institutions subcommittees. Both of these subcommittees have wide-ranging jurisdiction over large parts of our banking system, from how banks do business on Wall Street to how community banks can write loans to small businesses. A healthy, properly regulated banking system and mortgage market are critical to making sure families stay in their homes and our economy keeps humming so more and more Georgians can get back to work. My commitment to my constituents is to use my position on these important subcommittees to work with anyone who has a good idea, regardless of political party, in order to create a more prosperous future.”
01.17.2017	The Congressional FinTech and Payments Caucus (CFTPC) announced Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) and Congressman Randy Hultgren (IL-14) will join Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09) and Congressman David Scott (GA-13) as caucus co-chairs for the 115th Congress. “The CFTPC has been successful in bringing members of both parties together to highlight the importance of developing new payment technologies and protecting consumer privacy and security,“ said Congresswoman Sinema. “I look forward to working with my co-chairs and members of the CFTPC to foster innovation, protect consumers, and help small businesses thrive in the payments and fin tech space.” “I am excited to welcome our two new co-chairs, Reps. Patrick McHenry and Randy Hultgren, who will further the bipartisan work of the CFTPC,” said Congressman Scott. “My home state of Georgia already sits at the epicenter of the payments industry with nearly two-thirds of payment card transactions passing through Georgia. And with each passing day, FinTech is transforming how consumers receive financial services. Expanding the mission of the CFTPC presents an exciting opportunity for the caucus to support fin tech innovation and education.” “Fintech has tremendous potential to fundamentally change the way Americans bank, save, and borrow,” said Congressman McHenry. “As a co-chair of the CFTPC, I look forward to working across the aisle to create a regulatory environment that allows fintech to reach its true potential.” “The financial needs of consumers are changing with rapidly advancing technology, and Americans need options in the 21st Century,” said Congressman Hultgren. “I am excited about this opportunity to work with my colleagues on identifying and promoting technology solutions to improve the way consumers make use of financial products and services.” The Congressional FinTech and Payments Caucus is an informal group of Members dedicated to innovation, growth and education in the emerging fin tech space - the moniker given to the rapid technological innovation occurring in any number of financial services, such as payments, insurance, lending, deposits, and raising capital. The Caucus serves as a marketplace of ideas for Members and their staff to learn and better understand how fintech is revolutionizing the way consumers and businesses will receive financial services tomorrow.
12.01.2016	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) and Thurgood Marshall College Fund President & CEO Johnny C. Taylor, Jr. issued the following statements upon the announcement of the House Committee on Agriculture hearing on Scott’s bipartisan bill H.R. 6020, the Funding for Student Scholarships for the 1890 Land-Grant African-American Colleges and Universities Act. “There is a tremendous need to increase the number of young African-Americans seeking careers in agriculture,” said Congressman Scott. “And there is a tremendous crisis in this country given the average age of farmers in the United States is 60 years of age and continues to rise. H.R. 6020 will expand the permitted uses of federal funds awarded to 1890s-universities from research, education and extension to also include scholarship grants. This bill will award $1 million in grant funding to each of the 19 public land-grant universities for scholarships to help African-American students who commit to pursuing careers in agriculture and help tackle the national crisis posed by the aging farmer and producer population in the United States.” “The Thurgood Marshall College Fund (TMCF) is pleased to endorse and advocate for H.R. 6020” said Mr. Johnny C. Taylor, Jr. “TMCF appreciates Congressman David Scott (D-GA) for his leadership and work to secure much needed funding to support 1890s – HBCU Land Grant Institutions as well as students pursuing careers in the agribusiness sector and related sciences. Careers in the agricultural sciences are part of our nation’s overall STEM workforce and are truly needed. We are committed to working with Congressman Scott and other members to move this bill in the 115th Congress and applaud Chairman Mike Conaway (R-TX) for supporting the upcoming hearing on H.R. 6020.” WHAT: Committee on Agriculture Hearing entitled “1890 Land-Grant Institutions: Recruitment Challenges and Scholarship Opportunities.” The Committee hearing will feature two panels. For the first panel, Congressman Scott along with Representatives Kevin Cramer (R-ND) and Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO), both original co-sponsors of H.R. 6020, will address the Committee. The second panel will include statements from the following three 1890s-university presidents: Dr. Cynthia Hammond, Central University; Dr. Paul Jones, Fort Valley State University; and Dr. Juliette Bell, University of Maryland Eastern Shore. The presidents will address the challenges their institutions have faced in recruiting African-American students to agricultural careers. WHEN: Wednesday, December 7, 10:00 a.m. WHERE: 1300 Longworth House Office Building Background: Cosponsors of H.R. 6020 include: Rep. Kevin Cramer [R-ND]; Rep. Marcia Fudge [D-OH]; Rep. Brad Ashford [D-NE]; Rep. Mia Love [R-UT]; Rep. Gwen Graham [D-FL]; Rep. Alma Adams [D-NC]; Rep. Pete Sessions [R-TX and Chair of the House Rules Committee]; Rep. Emanuel Cleaver [D-MO]; Rep. Bobby Scott [D-VA]; Rep. Mark Takano [D-CA]; and Rep. Tim Ryan [D-OH]. The nineteen 1890s Land-Grant universities are: Alabama A&M University; Alcorn State University; Central State University; Delaware State University; Florida A&M University; Fort Valley State University; Kentucky State University; Langston University; Lincoln University; North Carolina A&T State University; Prairie View A&M University; South Carolina State University; Southern University System; Tennessee State University; Tuskegee University; University of Arkansas Pine Bluff; University of Maryland Eastern Shore; Virginia State University; and West Virginia State University.
10.04.2016	On Saturday, October 22, 2016, Congressman David Scott will join the Barney Family, U.S. postal officials, and members of the community for a public ceremony designating the Riverdale Post Office Church Street Station in honor of fallen officer Major Gregory E. Barney. WHO: Congressman David Scott, the Barney Family, Senator Johnny Isakson, Congressman Lynn Westmoreland, U.S. Postal Service officials, Riverdale Mayor Evelyn Wynn-Dixon, Clayton County Commission Chairman Jeff Turner, Riverdale Police Chief Todd Spivey, and community members. WHAT: Ceremony designating the Riverdale Post Office, located at 6691 Church Street in Riverdale, Ga., as the “Major Gregory E. Barney Post Office Building.” WHEN: Saturday, October 22, 2016, 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Riverdale Town Centre, 7210 Church Street, Riverdale, GA 30274 WHY: On February 11, 2016, Major Barney, was shot and killed while giving chase to a suspect during a raid on an illegal drug operation. Major Barney was a 25-year veteran of the Riverdale Police Department. During his career in Riverdale, Major Barney was a school resource officer at Riverdale High School, a sergeant and a captain. In 2004, Barney became the first African-American to serve as Chief of Police when appointed Interim Chief. “I am honored to pay tribute to Major Gregory E. Barney and his legacy with the renaming of the Riverdale Post Office in his honor,” said Congressman Scott. “Major Barney’s commitment to the Riverdale community and beyond makes this post office renaming a worthy salute. And it gives me great pleasure to invite all area residents to join me and the Barney family to celebrate Major Barney’s exceptional record of service.” Congressman Scott authored H.R. 4747, legislation designating the Riverdale Post Office in Major Gregory Barney’s honor. The legislation passed the House of Representatives unanimously on May 24, 2016, and also passed unanimously in the Senate on July 14, 2016. President Barack Obama signed the measure into law on July 29, 2016.
10.04.2016	Reps. David Scott (D-GA), a senior member of the Financial Services Committee; John Lewis (D-GA), a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee; John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Ranking Member on the Judiciary Committee; and Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member on the Financial Services Committee, urged the Federal Reserve to conduct an inclusive, transparent search for the next President of the Reserve Bank of Atlanta, one that engages candidates from many diverse backgrounds. In a letter to Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen and Thomas Fanning, Chairman of the Atlanta Fed, the Members emphasized the need for Federal Reserve policymakers to account for our nation’s grave racial disparities in terms of unemployment, wages, and income in the development of monetary policy, especially since the economic downturn severely damaged the already tenuous financial security of traditionally underserved communities. In the sixth Federal Reserve district, where the new president will serve, unemployment and poverty rates for African Americans, for example, are about double those for white Americans. Presidents of the 11 other reserve banks have all worked for major financial firms or at the Federal Reserve before their appointments. The Members urged the Fed to consider a wider range of backgrounds, including academia, labor, and non-profit institutions, to capture the perspectives of all Americans as they develop economic policy. Since the appointment of Andrew Brimmer to the Federal Reserve Board of Governors by Lyndon Johnson, there have been only a few minority governors, and no African American or Latino bank presidents have ever been appointed. Currently there is one Asian bank president, Neel Kashkari, who heads the Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. This letter is a follow-up to one sent by 127 Democrats in both the House and Senate in May, urging the Federal Reserve to increase diversity in its executive ranks. “The Federal Reserve has an opportunity to do something very significant with the recent retirement announcement of the current President of the Atlanta Federal Bank,” said Rep. David Scott. “We’ve never had an African American Regional Fed president. I’m asking the Federal Reserve to take this opportunity to make history. We have many exceptionally qualified African Americans who can do this.” “With this search, the Federal Reserve has a unique opportunity to restore confidence in our financial system by including the perspectives and experiences of a wider range of Americans,” Rep. John Lewis said. “Metro Atlanta was hit hard by the Great Recession, and many people in the South are still mired in poverty due to that downturn. In light of recent crises, the Federal Reserve should look far and wide to find the best person for this important job, not only within its own network. The Fed has a responsibility to ensure that the financial needs of the most vulnerable are considered within the policymaking process.” “Selecting the first African-American or Latino Regional Bank president would be a historic milestone for the Federal Reserve, and I greatly appreciate Chair Yellen’s focus on increasing diversity. But given the Fed’s long history of prioritizing low inflation over job creation, the candidate also should be truly committed to full employment and possess deep knowledge of labor market disparities that too often leave workers, especially workers of color, behind,” said Rep. John Conyers, Jr., Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Committee and chair of the Congressional Full Employment Caucus. On September 13, Atlanta Federal Reserve President Dennis Lockhart announced his retirement, effective in February 2017. To find a new president, the Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta will identify and consider candidates, who then must be interviewed and approved by the Federal Reserve Board of Governors. The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta is one of 12 regional Reserve Banks and covers Georgia, Florida, Alabama, eastern Tennessee, southern Mississippi, and southern Louisiana.
09.21.2016	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced the availability of applications for students interested in receiving a congressional nomination for admission to the U.S. Air Force, Merchant Marine, Military or Naval Academy. “Having the privilege to nominate Thirteenth District students to attend the U.S. Military Academies is one of my most important and rewarding responsibilities,” said Congressman Scott. “Each year I am more and more inspired by the talent and high character of the students who have received nominations from my office. They truly represent the best and the brightest of our community. And I strongly encourage any young person who wants to become a leader and serve our country to consider attending one of the U.S. military academies. Each academy provides a top-tier education valued at more than $400,000, truly rare experiences, and rewarding careers in military service. ” Interested students should complete a Congressional Nomination Application available on Congressman Scott’s website at www.house.gov/davidscott. All completed applications must be submitted by Friday, October 28, 2016 via mail or personal delivery to Congressman Scott’s Jonesboro or Smyrna Office. To be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant must be nominated from an authorized person, including a Member of the U.S. House of Representatives or Senate. Applicants must also meet the following requirements as of July 1 of the year of admission to a service academy: be at least 17 years old and not older than 23; a U.S. citizen; a legal resident of Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District; unmarried; not pregnant; and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. For more information, please contact Congressman Scott’s Military Academy Coordinator Teresa Cooke at 770-210-5073.
08.01.2016	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) and Senator Johnny Isakson announced that a bill honoring the first Riverdale police officer to die in the line of duty has been signed into law. The bipartisan measure, H.R.4747, designates the U.S. Postal Service office in Riverdale, Ga., as the “Major Greg E. Barney Post Office Building.” On February 11, 2016, Major Barney, was shot and killed while giving chase to a suspect during a raid on an illegal drug operation. Major Barney was a 25-year veteran of the Riverdale Police Department. During his career in Riverdale, Major Barney was a school resource officer at Riverdale High School, a sergeant and a captain. In 2004, Barney became the first African-American to serve as Chief of Police when appointed Interim Chief. “Today is a proud moment for Georgia and our nation as we honor the service of a true hero,” said Rep. Scott. “I am grateful for the Senate and President Obama’s swift action to pass and adopt this bill. Major Gregory Barney was an officer who made the ultimate sacrifice; there is no greater love than to lay down one's life for one's friends. He served the Riverdale community with a high nobility of purpose and enjoyed a distinguished career in law enforcement. One day soon, Major Barney’s family, his fellow officers, and residents of Riverdale and throughout Georgia will look upon the ‘Major Gregory E. Barney Post Office Building’ with great pride, respect and admiration for generations to come. " “I have the utmost appreciation and respect for our law enforcement officers who willingly dedicate their lives for the betterment of our communities, and we especially remember those who have made the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty,” said Sen. Isakson. “Major Greg E. Barney served the Riverdale community with great integrity, and he paid the ultimate price protecting his community. We can never repay the debt owed to Major Barney and his family for his commitment to serving Georgians, but I am so pleased that his heroism and selfless sacrifice will be long remembered in his community through the designation of the ‘Major Gregory E. Barney Post Office Building.’” H.R.4747 designates the U.S. Postal Service facility located at 6691 Church Street in Riverdale, Ga., as the “Major Gregory E. Barney Post Office Building.” Congressman Scott introduced H.R. 4747 in March with bipartisan support from the entire Georgia congressional delegation. The legislation passed the House of Representatives unanimously on May 24, 2016, and also passed unanimously in the Senate on July 14, 2016. President Barack Obama signed the measure into law on July 29, 2016.
07.01.2016	Today Congressman David Scott announced that he will host his 12th Annual Health Fair on Saturday, August 6, 2016 at Mundy’s Mill High School. This event will feature free health screenings and information provided by many of the region’s leading healthcare providers and organizations. Free health screenings include: Clinical breast cancer exams; prostate cancer (PSA); HIV/ AIDS; Diabetes (glucose); Blood pressure; Asthma; Cholesterol; Mental health; Memory (Dementia); Sickle cell; Glaucoma & Routine Vision; Dental; Instant Kidney Function; Blood Donation services; and more. The Atlanta VA Medical Center and Atlanta VA Regional Office will be on site to provide: counseling for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD); mental health services; and health eligibility representatives. Congressman Scott’s Health Fair is also partnering with HomeSafe Georgia to deliver mortgage assistance to homeowners facing unemployment or underemployment. HomeSafe counselors will be available on site to provide direct counseling. WHAT: Congressman David Scott’s 12th Annual Health Fair WHEN: Saturday, August 6, 2016 – 9 am to 2 pm WHERE: Mundy’s Mill High School | 9652 Fayetteville Rd. | Jonesboro, GA 30238 WHO: AARP Georgia Aetna, Inc. AID Atlanta, Inc Alliant Quality Alzheimer's Association Alzheimer's Services Center American Cancer Society American Foundation for Suicide Prevention American Heart Association Ambassador American Kidney Fund Atlanta Black Nurses Association Atlanta VA Medical Center Atlanta VA Regional Benefits Office Care & Counseling Center of Georgia CDC Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Children's Healthcare of Atlanta Clayton Center Community Service Board Clayton County Adult Education Program Clayton County Board of Health Clayton County Fire & Emergency Services Clayton County Library System Clayton County Police Department Clayton County Senior Services Department (RSVP Program) Clayton County Sheriff's Office Clayton State University Department of Dental Hygiene COIN Community Outreach in Action, Inc. D&E Group Emory Eye Center Emory University Hospital Neuroscience Department Family Health Centers of Georgia, Inc. Fight Colorectal Cancer Fulton County Health & Wellness Georgia Breast Cancer Coalition Georgia Dental Association Georgia Department of Community Affairs, HomeSafe Georgia Georgia Telecommunication Equipment Distribution Program Georgia Ovarian Cancer Alliance Georgia Power Company Georgia STAND-UP Georgians for a Healthy Future Grady Health System Great Expressions Dental Centers Hearing Doctors of Georgia Home Helpers Atlanta Humana I Will Survive, Inc. Jerusalem House, Inc. Joseph's Warehouse LifeCord LIfeLink of Georgia LifeSouth Community Blood Centers Lupus Foundation of America, Georgia Chapter McCullough Family Dentistry Mercy Medical Supply, LLC Morehouse School of Medicine National Hook-up of Black Women New York Life PCOS Challenge, Inc. Physical Therapy Association of Georgia Planned Parenthood Southeast Primerica Radiotherapy Clinics of Georgia Right from the Start Medicaid Saladmaster by Eat Smart Solutions Sickle Cell Foundation of Georgia Sisters By Choice Southmetro Chiropractic Center, Inc. Team Echols Foundation, Inc. The Health Initiative U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Atlanta District Office U.S. Food & Drug Administration Visioncheck, LLC Visions Outreach Vitiligo Bond, Inc. Walgreens WellCare Health Plans, Inc. WellStar Atlanta Medical Center Wellstar Health System Young Survival Coalition
06.15.2016	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) led members of the Georgia Congressional delegation in recognizing Jocelyn Dorsey, Director of Editorials & Public Affairs, on her induction into the Georgia Association of Broadcasters Hall of Fame. “Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Today the United States Congress gives great and special recognition to an extraordinary Georgian and a great American, Ms. Jocelyn Dorsey, for her pioneering and trailblazing career at WSB television the flagship organization in Atlanta, Georgia for Cox Enterprises and also for her induction into the prestigious Georgia Association of Broadcasters Hall of Fame and I’m pleased to join my colleagues both Democrats and Republicans as we share with the nation the remarkable contributions of Ms. Dorsey and her high nobility of purpose. “Jocelyn Dorsey was the very first African-American, Mr. Speaker, to anchor a television newscast in the Atlanta market, ushering in a New South. She broke down racial barriers in television and anchoring and reporting in management in producing and Jocelyn Dorsey is a one of a kind Mr. Speaker. Because she was able to put together an award winning public affairs program called People to People and truly through this program, Mr. Speaker, Jocelyn Dorsey has done, and is doing, God’s work, which is helping those that need help the most. Children that need shelter, children with disabilities, and disabled veterans, Mr. Speaker. “And her work in breast cancer and prostate cancer and Sisters By Choice is absolutely legendary. And, Mr. Speaker, every year Jocelyn Dorsey is a major partner in Georgia’s largest job fairs and health fairs bringing badly needed jobs to thousands of Georgians and our military veterans. So what an extraordinary person Ms. Dorsey is. “And she’s also been with this station for 43 years. That’s very significant Mr. Speaker, because WSB television has been in existence for 67 years. 43 years out of the station’s 67 years of existence. And as the famous WSB sportscaster Chuck Dowdle said, “Jocelyn Dorsey is the backbone of WSB television.” “And Mr. Speaker, she loves her motorcycle. And she rode that motorcycle all the way from Alaska to Key West Florida, and raised $250,000 for the Special Olympics. You talk about God’s work, that’s it, 7,680 miles. It took her 21 days. “I’m telling you Mr. Speaker, God gives us his love and kindness and his grace by his divine calling to certain persons. Such a person, Mr. Speaker, is Jocelyn Dorsey and we in the United States Congress today take great pride in having her story, which is a great American story, enshrined into the Congressional Record and the Congressional Library of Congress for all times, for generations to come, and forever. God bless Jocelyn Dorsey with WSB television and God bless the Georgia Association of Broadcasters Hall of Fame and God bless the United States of America. Thank you Mr. Speaker.”
05.24.2016	The House passed Rep. Scott’s bill to rename the Riverdale Post Office building as the ““Major Gregory E. Barney Post Office Building” in honor of the fallen officer. To watch Rep. Scott’s speech, click the video above. On Monday evening, the House passed H.R. 4747, legislation to designate the United States Postal Service facility located at 6691 Church Street in Riverdale, Georgia, as the “Major Gregory E. Barney Post Office Building.” The bill was introduced in March by Congressman Scott and was cosponsored by the entire Georgia congressional delegation. H.R. 4747 passed the House by voice vote. On February 11, 2016, Major Barney, was shot and killed while giving chase to a suspect during a raid on an illegal drug operation. He was the first Riverdale police officer to die in the line of duty. Major Barney was a twenty-five year veteran of the Riverdale Police Department. Over his career in Riverdale, Major Barney was a school resource officer at Riverdale High School, a sergeant and a captain. In 2004, Barney became the first African-American to serve as Chief of Police when he was appointed as interim chief. “I am extremely pleased that the House voted in favor of honoring Major Greg Barney with this post office designation, and I am working with Senators Isakson and Perdue for equally swift passage in the Senate,” said Rep. Scott. “Major Barney made the ultimate sacrifice for the protection of his community, one faced by men and women in law enforcement who put their lives on the line protecting us every day. I hope that Major Barney’s family and the people of Riverdale, Georgia and of our great nation will one day soon look upon the ‘Major Gregory E. Barney Post Office Building’ with great pride and for generations to come, in honor, remembrance, and gratitude for a true Georgia and American hero.” The bill must now be approved by the full Senate. To watch Rep. Scott’s speech, click here.
05.17.2016	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced that the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform passed the bipartisan resolution (H.R. 4747) he introduced to rename the Riverdale, Georgia Post Office in honor of fallen police officer Major Gregory Barney. The bill will now head to the House Floor for a full vote on Monday, May 23, 2016. Congressman Scott and members of the Georgia Congressional delegation are also expected to speak on Monday on the House Floor in support of the bill. “I am pleased the Committee recognized that Major Barney deserves a fitting tribute. And I now urge the full House of Representatives to pass this bill,” said Rep. Scott, who has represented Riverdale in Congress since 2003. “Major Barney made the ultimate sacrifice for the protection of his community. The tremendous outpouring of support from the Riverdale residents and many people outside of Clayton County attest to his place in the hearts of a community. Naming the Riverdale Post Office in his honor is just one way that we can recognize a man who is loved by his family, colleagues, friends and neighbors.” On February 11, 2016, Major Barney, was shot and killed while giving chase to a suspect during a raid on an illegal drug operation. He was the first Riverdale police officer to die in the line of duty. Major Barney was a twenty-five year veteran of the Riverdale Police Department. Over his career in Riverdale, Major Barney was a school resource officer at Riverdale High School, a sergeant and a captain. In 2004, Barney became the first African-American to serve as Chief of Police when he was appointed as interim chief. In March 2016, Congressman Scott introduced H.R. 4747 with the bipartisan support of 10 members of the Georgia Congressional Delegation. The measure will rename the post office located at 6691 Church Street in Riverdale, Georgia, as the ‘‘Major Gregory E. Barney Post Office Building.” The Riverdale Post Office sits directly across Church Street from the city police headquarters where Major Barney reported for duty. The bill was referred to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and passed the Committee during a full committee business meeting today. H.R. 4747 now awaits passage by the full House of Representatives.
05.07.2016	Today Congressman David Scott announced the winners of his 14th Annual Congressional Art Competition during a special presentation at the Douglas County Courthouse. Francisco Vazquez, who attends McEachern High School, was awarded first place for his work “I Love Oranges.” As the winner, Mr. Vazquez’s work will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year along with the first place artwork from other congressional districts around the U.S. He also won a $12,000 scholarship from the Savannah College of Art; a $12,000 scholarship from the Art Institute of Atlanta; a $1,500 scholarship to the college of his choice; and round-trip airfare for two from Southwest Airlines to the ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C. “I am so proud of the amazing talent displayed by our students this year,” said Congressman Scott. “Congratulations to our winners and all of the students who participated in the competition.” 58 high school students from Clayton, Cobb, Douglas, Fayette, South Fulton and Henry counties participated this year. The Art Institute of Atlanta awarded a $7,500 scholarship for Second Place winner Christian Alexander of Langston Hughes H.S. and a $3,500 scholarship for Third Place winner Reanna Maiden, of McEachern High School. The Savannah College of Art and Design also awarded a full summer seminar scholarship to the second place winner and $500 summer seminar scholarship to third place. To date, Congressman Scott has awarded over $430,000 and 50 scholarships to local student artists. Scholarship and award sponsors this year include: the Art Institute of Atlanta; Savannah College of Art and Design; AT&T; Chick-Fil-A; Georgia Pacific Foundation; Georgia Power; GreyStone Power; and Six Flags Over Georgia. These companies provided scholarships for the colleges of the top winners’ choice, including: $1,500 for first place, $1,000 for second place, $750 for third place, $500 for fourth place and $250 for fifth place. The second place artwork will hang in Congressman Scott’s Washington Office for one year; third place will hang in the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport’s Youth Art Gallery for one year; and fourth and fifth places will respectively hang in Congressman Scott’s Jonesboro and Smyrna Offices. The 2016 winners include: · First Place: Francisco Vazquez, McEachern High School, “I Love Oranges” · Second Place: Christian Alexander, Langston Hughes High School, “Black Classical” · Third Place: Reanna Maiden, McEachern High School, “Women in the Mirror” · Fourth Place: Cindy Hernandez-Pacheco, Stockbridge High School, “El Gallo de La Manana” · Fifth Place: Makenzie Hooks, McEachern High School, “The Dancer”
03.30.2016	Today Congressman David Scott proudly announced that he will host his 13th Annual Jobs Fair on Friday, April 1, 2016, from 10am to 3pm, at the Georgia International Convention Center, located at 2000 Convention Center Concourse, College Park, GA 30337 . This year Congressman Scott’s Jobs Fair is teaming up with the following federal and state agencies: U.S. Veterans Administration (VA) and Atlanta VA Medical Center to provide special employment, health and benefits resources for veterans; U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) to host SMALL BUSINESS FORUM, from 9am to 3pm, at the Jobs Fair providing capital access, federal procurement and other resources; Click here for more information & to pre-register. U.S. Office of Personnel and Management to conduct step-by-step training on finding and applying for Federal jobs (Navigating USAJOBS); and HomeSafe Georgia to deliver on-site counseling to homeowners facing unemployment or underemployment while they seek new work. Attendees are strongly encouraged to take MARTA to the Airport station and board the free ATL SkyTrain to the Convention Center or take MARTA to the College Park station and board a special MARTA bus shuttle to the event. For more information, please call 770-432-5405. Participating employers include: AFLAC Allconnect Allied Barton Security Services Alorica Americorps Amerigroup AMS Consulting Services, LLC Application Technology Group A-Supreme Nursing Homecare AT&T Atlanta Job Corps Atlanta Police Department Atlanta Technical College Atlanta VA Medical Center Bridgeway Hospice Caraustar Industries Chime Solutions CHRIS Kids City of College Park Clayton County Police Department Clayton County Public Schools Clayton State University Cobb County Department of Public Safety Dart Container Corporation Delta Airlines Department of Juvenile Justice Drake Staffing Employment Seekers Experience Works, Inc. FBI Federal Air Marshals/Transportation Security Administration Federal Aviation Administration FedEx Ground Floor & Décor Gate Gourmet GEL Financial Services, LLC. General Services Administration Georgia Department of Human Services Georgia State Patrol GLOCK, Inc. Goodwill of North Georgia Gordon Food Services Gwinnett County Police Heavy Equipment College of GA Hire Dynamics Katlaw Driving Schools KIA Motors Manufacturing Lowe’s Companies Mack II, Inc. Manpower MARTA Multi-Care Management Services New York Life Next Step Staffing NID Housing Counseling Agency Peach State Health Plan PNC Bank Powder Springs Police Department Primerica Financial Services Regions Bank Resource MFG Six Flags Social Security Administration SunTrust Bank The Home Depot Universal Forest Products UPS US Air Reserve U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development US Foods U.S. Peace Corps U.S. Postal Service USCIS Veterans Benefits Administration Waffle House WES Health Centers WestRock
03.29.2016	Are you interested in starting or growing your own business? The U. S. Small Business Administration (SBA) Georgia District Office will host small business forums at the upcoming Jobs Fair. Similar forums at the Jobs Fair last year were very popular with attendees. Please use the registration links below to register for any SBA module(s) you would like to attend, as seating is limited. You must register for each session separately Overview of SBA Programs and Services - This module, presented by SBA staff, will include an overview of the many SBA programs and services that are available to potential and existing entrepreneurs. 9:00 - 10:00 Click Here to Register for SBA Programs and Services Overview Start-Up Basics - In this module, SCORE Atlanta will discuss the advantages and challenges of owning a business; the most logical structure for your business; the fundamentals of formation and organization; critical success factors; business rolls and responsibilities; and the importance of a business plan. 10:15-11:15 Click Here to Register for Start-up Basics Women and Veteran’s Federal Contracting Program - This module, presented by SBA staff, will provide information for women and veteran owned small business owners interested in federal procurement. Information will be provided on the service disabled veteran-owned small business and women-owned small business certification programs. The Georgia Department of Transportation will also be present to discuss upcoming contracting opportunities. 11:30 – 12:30 Click Here to Register for Women and Veterans Federal Contracting Programs Opportunities in Film and Entertainment - This module, presented by the UGA Small Business Development Center at Clayton State, will discuss opportunities for doing business with Georgia's rapidly growing film industry. 12:45 – 3:00 Click Here to Register for Opportunities in the Film and Entertainment Industry You may also be interested in reading the SBA guide for Georgia small businesses. For questions on this event, please contact Isaac DoDoo, Office of Congressman David Scott, at 770-432-5405. The Small Business Forum will be held at the Jobs Fair on Friday, April 1, 2016 from 9:00 am – 3:00 pm at the Georgia International Convention Center located at 2000 Convention Center Concourse College Park, GA 30337.
03.07.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced today that he will introduce a resolution to rename the Riverdale, Georgia Post Office at Church Street and Main Street in honor of fallen police officer Major Gregory Barney. He was the first Riverdale police officer to die in the line of duty. On February 11, 2016, Major Barney, was shot and killed while giving chase to a suspect during a raid on an illegal drug operation. Major Barney was a twenty-five year veteran of the Riverdale Police Department. Over his career in Riverdale, Major Barney was a school resource officer at Riverdale High School, a sergeant and a captain. In 2004, Barney became the first African-American to serve as Chief of Police when he was appointed as interim chief. “Major Barney made the ultimate sacrifice and gave his life for the protection of his community,” said Rep. Scott, who has represented Riverdale in Congress since 2003. “Major Barney’s accomplishments in the police department are well recognized, especially when he was appointed interim Chief. But, the measure of a man is not just by his titles or awards. The tremendous outpouring of support from the Riverdale residents and many people outside of Clayton County attest to his place in the hearts of a community. Naming the Riverdale Post Office in his honor is just one way that we can honor a man who is loved by his family, colleagues, friends and neighbors.” The Riverdale Post Office sits across Church Street from the city police headquarters. Congressman Scott will introduce the resolution when the US House reconvenes on March 14. ###
02.24.2016	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced his 14th Annual Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery, for Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District. High school students who reside in or attend a public, private or home school in Georgia’s 13th Congressional District are invited to submit artwork for the competition. The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. To date, Congressman David Scott has awarded over $392,000 in scholarships to local student winners of his annual art competition. The first place entry from Congressman Scott’s district will join other first place winners from around the country and be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Scholarships will be presented to the top winners as follows: $12,000 – First Place, $7,500 – Second Place, and $3,500 – Third Place, all by the Art Institute of Atlanta; as well as $3,000/ year to the first-place winner by the Savannah College of Art and Design. Entries must be received in either Congressman David Scott's Smyrna or Jonesboro District Office by Monday, April 11, 2016. Students may obtain entry forms and official guidelines from Congressman David Scott’s Office and their high school art teachers. There is no mandatory theme for the competition. Participants must be present at the awards ceremony in order to win. Congressman Scott will host the awards ceremony announcing this year’s top winners and scholarship recipients on Saturday, May 7, 2016, at the Douglas County Courthouse, located at 8700 Hospital Drive, Douglasville, GA 30134. For more information and competition entry forms and guidelines, please call 770-210-5073 or visit /constituentservices/artcontest.htm.
01.27.2016	Congressman David Scott (GA-13) will host a special ceremony to honor 22 local students from Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District with nominations to attend one of our nation’s esteemed military service academies, which include the United States Air Force, Merchant Marine, Military (West Point), and Naval academies. Additionally, Congressman Scott and Brigadier General Joseph Jarrard will make a special presentation of medals to U.S. Army Vietnam War Veterans Lanny Howard, of Douglasville, and Thomas Williams, of Ellenwood. Mr. Howard will receive a Purple Heart Medal and Mr. Williams will receive a Bronze Star Medal. WHEN: Saturday, February 6, 2016 from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. WHERE: Brawner Hall, 3180 Atlanta Road S.E., Smyrna, GA 30080 WHO: The ceremony will feature the Douglas County High School Color Guard, soloist Amanda Peterson of Campbell High School, Dobbins Air Reserve Base Commander Colonel Steven Parker, and representatives from the U.S. Military and Naval Academies. Students to be nominated include: U.S. Air Force Academy Asia Ayanyemi, Jonesboro resident, Air Force Academy Prep student Wedgide Bourdeau, Jonesboro resident, Mundy's Mill H.S. student Kyla Martin, Jonesboro resident, Air Force Academy Prep student Stockton McGuire resident, Douglasville, Landmark Christian School student Zurial Tabe, Austell resident, South Cobb H.S. student Jasmine Underwood, Hampton resident, Air Force Academy Prep student U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Austin Grimes, Stockbridge resident, Community Christian School student U.S. Military Academy at West Point Sekou Matesso, Fairburn resident, Langston Hughes H.S. student Jamelah Williams, Douglasville resident, New Manchester H.S. student U.S. Naval Academy Justin Capp, McDonough resident, Eagles Landing Christian Academy student Camden Cusumano, Fairburn resident, Landmark Christian School student Cameron Jones, McDonough resident, Eagles Landing H.S. graduate Tyreek King-El, Smyrna resident, Pebblebrook H.S. student Latesha Locker, Riverdale resident, Mundy's Mill H.S. student Johnnay Martin, Fayetteville resident, Mundy's Mill H.S. student Thomas McMurrain, Palmetto resident, Landmark Christian School graduate Obumneme Okeke, Jonesboro resident, Mundy's Mill H.S. student Oscar Prioleau, Fairburn resident, Grady H.S. graduate John Robbins, Douglasville resident, New Manchester H.S. graduate Austin Salinsky, McDonough resident, Community Christian School graduate Barrett Tallant, Winston resident, Alexander H.S. graduate Cedric Williams, Powder Springs resident, McEachern H.S. student
12.16.2015	Today, Congressman David Scott supported the bipartisan passage of the Hizballah International Financial Prevention Act of 2015 (H.R. 2297). The legislation passed by a vote of 425 to 0 and now is awaiting the president's signature to become law. “I have investigated terrorism financing for years, as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the NATO Parliamentary Assembly,” Rep. Scott said. “With significant funding from Iran and Syria, Hizballah continues to pose a threat to the United States and our allies. I am concerned that the Iranian nuclear agreement could open billions of dollars that could flow to Hizballah and other terrorists to fight in Syria or against Israel. This legislation is a major step to curtailing their operations.” H.R. 2297 imposes additional sanctions on Hizballah’s fundraising channels and restricts the organization’s ability to use its funds to support global terrorist activities. The legislation also targets Hizballah’s media arm, al-Manar, and forces other critical reports to highlight the terrorist organization’s illicit activities. A section-by-section summary of the legislation is available at on the Foreign Affairs Committee website. During the debate on H.R. 2297, Congressman Scott was recognized as a leader on terrorist financing by the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Congressman Scott also spoke at length about his concerns with terrorism in the Middle East and the Iranian influence in the region. ###
12.03.2015	Today, Rep. David Scott voted to approve a major bi-partisan transportation bill. The Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act) reauthorizes highway, bridge, transportation safety, and public transit projects for the next five years. The FAST Act (H.R. 22) passed by a vote of 359-65. “I have a message to fed-up commuters in metro Atlanta – help is on the way,” Congressman Scott said. “Metro Atlanta has some of the most dangerous intersections and some of the worst traffic congestion in America. After years of inaction on long-term transportation funding, Congress has finally agreed to a plan that will fund transportation work for five years. The FAST Act will create jobs for engineers and contractors and help get Georgia moving ahead.” The FAST Act (H.R. 22) includes a number of key provisions: Dedicated funding specifically for freight projects, including freight rail, for the first time Authorizing $10.2 billion for intercity passenger rail investment, including Amtrak Increasing American manufacturing jobs by strengthening Buy America requirements Expands funding available for bridges off the National Highway System Streamlines the environmental review and permitting process without sacrificing environmental protections Eliminates or consolidates at least six separate offices within the Department of Transportation Promotes private investment in our surface transportation system Promotes congestion management technology Increases bus funding Encourages states to increase safety awareness of commercial motor vehicles Improves the auto safety recall process to better inform and protect consumers Prevents the rental of cars with safety defects Strengthens passenger and commuter rail safety, and track and bridge safety For a detailed summary of the FAST Act, click here for a summary from the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. A final version is expected to soon be approved by the Senate and signed into law by the President. ###
12.02.2015	Congressman David Scott praised the bi-partisan agreement to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) and replace the No Child Left Behind law. The Every Student Succeeds Act (S. 1177) was approved by the House with a vote of 359-64. “I am proud to support a new direction in K-12 education for America’s students, educators and families,” Congressman Scott said. “The Every Student Succeeds Act will end the era of the No Child Left Behind Act by restoring local control of education from Washington. The bill ends high-stakes testing, repeals the burdensome Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) system and helps at-risk students.” The Every Student Succeeds Act (S. 1177): Aims to reduce over-testing Gives states the autonomy to set academic standards and success measures Does not require states to implement or maintain Common Core Ends federal mandates on teacher evaluations Increases state and local reporting requirements to provide families and communities with more information about student and school performance. Provides formula funding for high need districts Provides more flexible use of federal funding for rural districts Incentivizes charter school accountability Uses multiple measures, beyond testing, to measure student learning and school success to determine school rating Provides dedicated funds for early learning. Will not alter or affect collective bargaining agreements. The measure is expected to be approved by the Senate and signed into law by the President. For a detailed summary of S. 1177 from the House Committee on Education and Workforce, click here. ###
10.26.2015	Today, Congressman David Scott issued the following statement in recognition of National Breast Cancer Awareness Month: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss a disease that is important to my family, breast cancer. This devastating disease strikes 1 in 8 women, affecting our mothers, wives, daughters, sisters, and loved ones. In Georgia, breast cancer is a particularly serious problem as it is the most common type of cancer and the second most deadly type of cancer among women in the state. According to the nonprofit Sisters by Choice, 6000 women will be diagnosed with breast cancer, and 1000 will die from breast cancer in Georgia each year. This epidemic is made worse by the fact that 19 percent of Georgians do not have health insurance, 33 percent of Georgia counties do not have mammography machines, and 75 percent of Georgia counties are medically underserved. Due to slow detection caused by these facts, 30 percent of breast cancers will have metastasized and be present in other places throughout the body by the time they are found. Despite the disheartening statistics about cancer, I know that there is still hope. Detection and treatment advances found in the past few years will help to both lessen the risk of cancer and win the fight to eradicate cancer. I am pleased that Georgia is a hub for medical innovation in the fight against cancer, utilizing public and private partnerships to research the disease. Moreover, the CDC and the internationally regarded cancer centers at Emory University, Georgia Regents University, the University of Georgia, Northside Hospital, and other centers throughout the state have pioneered effective, yet minimally invasive ways to treat this disease. Additionally, the CDC has contributed to this effort through public outreach programs aimed at improving surveillance so that cancers can be caught early. In addition, the internationally-renowned Winship Cancer Institute at Emory University has tested 75 percent of FDA-approved new cancer treatments in the past seven years. At another renowned institution, researchers at the University of Georgia have discovered a vaccine that attacks a previously unassailable protein. This vaccine is vitally important because this protein is found in the majority of killing cancers and in the “triple-negative” tumors common in a particularly dangerous variant of breast cancer. In addition to the work done by the professional research institutions in Georgia, I am proud that the Georgia community has come together to support those who are suffering from not just breast cancer, but cancers of all types. For instance, Sisters by Choice, a nonprofit organization centered around helping underinsured and underserved women to find and treat breast cancer, is working on creating a mobile clinic that will provide screenings, diagnostic services, access to clinical trials, and other resources to these disadvantaged populations. In addition, wonderful nonprofit organizations working with cancer centers, such as the Cancer Support Community Atlanta and the Treehouse Gang, an organization based around supporting children with a parent suffering from cancer, provide vital assistance and hope to cancer sufferers and their families. Finally, the Atlanta 2-Day Walk has raised $11 million in just 13 years to help find new ways to treat and prevent breast cancer. Through these initiatives, and the hard work of the cancer centers in Georgia, I know that definite progress has been and will continue to be made to treat and eradicate this deadly disease.
06.10.2015	Today Congressman David Scott announced that he will host his 11th Annual Health Fair on Saturday, August 15, 2015 at Mundy’s Mill High School. This event will feature free health screenings and information provided by many of the region’s leading healthcare providers and organizations. Free health screenings include: Clinical breast cancer exams; prostate cancer (PSA); HIV/ AIDS; Diabetes (glucose); Blood pressure; Asthma; Cholesterol; Mental health; Memory (Dementia); Sickle cell; Glaucoma & Routine Vision; Dental; Instant Kidney Function; Blood Donation services; and more. The Atlanta VA Medical Center and Atlanta VA Regional Office will be on site to provide: counseling for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD); mental health services; and health eligibility representatives. Congressman Scott’s Health Fair is also partnering with HomeSafe Georgia to deliver mortgage assistance to homeowners facing unemployment or underemployment. HomeSafe counselors will be available on site to provide direct counseling. WHAT: Congressman David Scott’s 11th Annual Health Fair WHEN: Saturday, August 15, 2015 – 9 am to 2 pm WHERE: Mundy’s Mill High School | 9652 Fayetteville Rd. | Jonesboro, GA 30238 WHO: A Family Dental Place Abbvie AFLAC AID Atlanta, Inc AID Social Services, LLC All About Developmental Diseases (AADD) Alliant Quality Alzheimer's Association, Georgia Chapter Alzheimer's Services Center Ambulatory Surgery Center Association American Cancer Society American Diabetes Association American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, Metro Atlanta Chapter American Heart Association American Kidney Fund Amerigroup Atlanta Black Nurses Association Atlanta Medical Center Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) CDC Foundation Children's Health Care of Atlanta Christian City Rehab Center Clayton Center Behavioral Health Services Clayton County Board of Health Clayton County Board of Health (Breast and Cervical Cancer Program) Clayton County Fire & Emergency Services Clayton County Sheriff's Office Clayton Senior Services Department (RSVP Program) Clayton State University Department of Dental Hygiene D&E Power Group Emory Eye Center Emory University Hospital Enroll America Eye Specialists of Georgia Fight Colorectal Cancer Food and Drug Administration Fulton County Breast and Cervical Cancer Program Georgia Lions Lighthouse Georgia Power Georgia Prostate Cancer Coalition Georgians for a Healthy Future Grady Health System Great Expressions Dental Centers HomeSafe Georgia JenCare Medical Center Jerusalem House Kaiser Permanente Kunkes Ear, Nose & Throat LifeLink of Georgia LifeCord LifeSouth Community Blood Centers Lymphedema Advocacy Group MARTA Mercy Medical Supply Morehouse School of Medicine National Diamondback Pharmacy Alumni Council National Hook-Up of Black Women, Inc. New York Life Not One More Life Novo Nordisk, Inc. Pain 2 Wellness Center Peach State Health Plan Planned Parenthood Southeast, Inc. Prevent Blindness Georgia Radiotherapy Clinics of Georgia Regions Bank Right from the Start Medicaid Riverdale Foot, Ankle & Leg Clinic Saladmaster Sickle Cell Foundation of Georgia SimpleC, LLC Sisters By Choice Social Security Administration South Atlanta Association of Health Underwriters Southern Crescent Sexual Assault & Advocacy Center Southmetro Chiropractic Center Sparlin Healthcare The White Dress Project VA Medical Center VA Regional Office Wellstar Health System Young Survival Coalition
05.15.2015	Representatives David Scott and Donna F. Edwards (MD-4) introduced a resolution (HRES 268) that designates July 2015 as Uterine Fibroids Awareness Month. “After meeting with my constituent, Tanika Gray Valbrun, I learned that uterine fibroids are a serious health problem affecting many American women,” Congressman Scott said. “I also learned that African American women are disproportionately affected by uterine fibroid tumors. Tanika’s efforts through The White Dress Project have raised awareness of this condition. Yet, it has not received the attention, nor the funding, it deserves. I am promoting Uterine Fibroid Awareness Month to educate more women about their treatment options.” “I thank Congressman Scott for joining me during National Women’s Health Week to introduce this important resolution recognizing the most prevalent medical condition affecting women, as an estimated 80 percent of women develop an uterine fibroid by age 50,” Edwards said. “We need to recognize the need for greater uterine fibroid research and the disparity rates of African-American and Hispanic uterine fibroid patients.” Uterine fibroids are a major public health problem that affect a majority of American women, and representing one of the most prevalent benign gynecologic problems in our nation. HRES 268 encourages the President to issue a proclamation calling on the United States to observe the month with appropriate awareness and educational activities. ###
05.09.2015	Today Congressman David Scott announced the winning student entries for his 13th Annual Congressional Art Competition. The announcement was made during a special presentation at the Douglas County Courthouse. Heather Middleton, a senior at Union Grove High School, earned “First Place” in the competition. Her winning piece will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. She received a $12,000 scholarship from the Savannah College of Art; a $10,000 scholarship from the Art Institute of Atlanta; and a $1,500 scholarship to the college of her choice. Additionally, the Art Institute of Atlanta provided a $5,000 scholarship for Second Place winner Bryce Landingham of McEachern High School and a $2,500 scholarship for Third Place winner Rylee Stephens of Douglas County High School. The Savannah College of Art and Design also provided a full summer seminar scholarship to the 2nd place winner; partial summer seminar of $750 to the 3rd place winner; and special awards for the 4th and 5th place winners. The second place winner’s art will hang in Congressman Scott’s Washington Office for 1 year and third place winner’s artwork will hang in Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport for 1 year. “I am so proud of the artistic talent and level of participation in this year’s competition,” said Congressman Scott. “The arts have played a major role in our schools by helping young people focus and hone their talents. While everyone may not become a professional artist, the skills that come from disciplining yourself and connecting with your inner self to create art are invaluable, as I can personally attest.” To date, Congressman Scott has awarded over $403,000 and more than 45 scholarships to local student artists. Special partners for the scholarships awarded this year include the Art Institute of Atlanta; Savannah College of Art and Design; AT&T; Southern Company; Chick-Fil-A; Georgia Pacific Foundation; and Six Flags Over Georgia. The complete list of winners includes: 1st Place: Hannah Middlebrook, Union Grove High School 2nd Place: Bryce Landingham, McEachern High School 3rd Place: Rylee Stephens, Douglas County High School 4th Place: Samantha Peacock, Union Grove High School 5th Place: Alyson Smith, Union Grove High School Honorable Mentions: Laura Davis and Amina Smarr, both of Union Grove High School Congressman David Scott extended deep appreciation to the Douglas County Government and Courthouse for hosting and curating the exhibit of art submissions from 90 students of the Thirteenth Congressional District.
04.27.2015	Congressman David Scott will host a special presentation to honor all participating students of his 13th Annual Congressional High School Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. To date, Congressman Scott has awarded over $300,000 in scholarships to local student artists. During the ceremony, the top winners of the competition will be announced. The first place entry from Congressman Scott’s district will join other first place winners from around the country and be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Scholarships will be presented as follows: $10,000 – first place, $5,000 – second place, and $2,500 – third place, all by the Art Institute of Atlanta; and $3,000/ year to the first-place winner by the Savannah College of Art and Design. Additional awards ranging from $250 to $1,500 will be presented to the top winners by AT&T, Chick-fil-A, Georgia Pacific, Georgia Power, Greystone Power and Six Flags Over Georgia. WHEN: Saturday, May 9, 2015 from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. WHERE: Douglas County Courthouse Art Gallery, located on the third floor of the Douglas County Courthouse at 8700 Hospital Drive, Douglasville, GA 30134. WHO: Participating high schools include: Arlington Christian; Campbell; Chapel Hill; Douglas County; Dutchtown; Heirway Christian Academy; His Master’s Voice; Jonesboro; Landmark Christian; Langston Hughes; Lithia Springs; Lovejoy; Martha Stillwell School of the Arts; McEachern; Mundy’s Mill; New Manchester; Pebblebrook; Riverdale; Stockbridge; Union Grove; and Whitefield Academy. This year’s competition includes a special partnership with Douglas County Government and the Cultural Arts Council of Douglasville and Douglas County.
03.05.2015	Today Congressman David Scott proudly announced that he will host the 12th Annual Thirteenth Congressional District Jobs Fair on Friday, April 24, 2015, 10:00 am to 3:00 pm, at the Georgia International Convention Center. Some of this year’s confirmed employers include: Allconnect, Allied Barton Security, AMS Consulting Services, AT&T,Chime Solutions, CHRIS Kids, Inc., U.S. General Services Administration, GLOCK, Inc., Goodwill of North Georgia, Gwinnett County Police, Keurig, Manpower, Regions Bank, RockTenn, U.S. Social Security Administration, Worldpay, and more! Both the Atlanta VA Medical Center and VA Regional Office will have team leaders join Congressman Scott's Jobs Fair to provide employment, health and benefits resources for area veterans. Congressman Scott’s Jobs Fair is partnering again with HomeSafe Georgia to deliver mortgage aid and foreclosure prevention resources to homeowners facing unemployment or underemployment while they seek new work. HomeSafe counselors and bank representatives will be available on site to provide direct counseling. The U.S. Small Business Administration will conduct workshops for emerging and existing small business owners on federal procurement, access to capital and business development programs. Attendees are encouraged to take MARTA to the Airport station and board the free ATL SkyTrain to the Convention Center or take MARTA to the College Park station and board a special MARTA bus shuttle to the event. What: Congressman David Scott’s 12th Annual Jobs Fair When: Friday, April 24, 2015, 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. Where: Georgia International Convention Center, 2000 Convention Center Concourse | College Park, GA 30337 Who: Company Website A-Supreme Nursing and Home Care, LLC http://asncare.com/ Aflac http://www.aflac.com/ Allconnect http://www.allconnect.com/ Allied Barton Security Services http://alliedbarton.jobs/ AMS Consulting Services, LLC http://ams-consultingservices.com/ Amerigroup http://www.amerigroup.com/ AT&T http://att.jobs/ Atlanta Job Corps Center http://atlanta.jobcorps.gov/home.aspx Atlanta Technical College http://www.atlantatech.edu/resources/jobs.php Bank of America http://bankofamerica.com Chime Solutions http://chimesolutions.com/ CHRIS Kids, Inc. http://www.chriskids.org/home-page Citizens Trust Bank http://ctbconnect.com/ City of College Park http://www.collegeparkga.com/ City of Douglasville http://www.ci.douglasville.ga.us/ City of Smyrna http://www.smyrnacity.com/ Clayton County Government http://www.claytoncountyga.gov/default.aspx Clayton County Public Schools http://www.clayton.ga.us Cobb County Police Department http://cobbcounty.org/ Comcast http://www.comcast.com/ Columbus Police Department http://www.columbusga.org/police/ Cox Enterprises http://www.coxenterprises.com/ Dart Container Corporation https://dartcontainer.com/home/ Drake Staffing http://drakestaffing.net/ EMCOR Services Air Conditioning www.aircond.com Emory Healthcare http://www.emoryhealthcare.org/ Employment Seeker http://employmentseeker.net/ Experience Works http://www.experienceworks.org/site/PageServer Experis Manpower Group http://experis.com/ Federal Air Marshals http://www.tsa.gov/about-tsa/federal-air-marshals Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) http://www.fbi.gov/ FedEx SmartPost www.fedex.com/careers Floor and Décor Outlets of America http://www.flooranddecor.com/ First Data Corp. http://firstdata.com/salutes Fulton County Schools Police http://www.fultonschoolspolice.com/ Fulton County Sheriff's Office http://www.fultonsheriff.org/ Gainesville Police Department http://www.gainesville.org/recruitment Gate Gourment http://www.gategourmet.com/careers GEL Financial Services, LLC http://gelfinance.com/ Georgia Department of Human Services http://dhs.georgia.gov/ Georgia Department of Public Safety www.dep.ga.gov Georgia Power Company http://georgiapower.com/ Georgia Vocational Rehabilitation Agency http://gvra.georgia.gov GLOCK, Inc. http://us.glock.com/ Goodwill of North Georgia http://goodwillng.org/ Greenwood Global Inc. http://greenwoodglobal.com Gwinnett County Police Department http://www.gwinnettcounty.com/ Hartsfield-Jackson Development Program http://www.atlanta-airport.com/ Hire Dynamics http://hiredynamics.com/ Hyundai Capital America http://hyundaicapitalamerica.com Jibe Staffing http://jibestaffing.com/ Katlaw Truck Driving School KIA Motors USA http://www.katlaw.com/ Kroger https://www.kroger.com/topic/careers Lowe's http://www.lowes.com/ Mack II, Inc. http://www.mackii.com/ Manpower http://www.manpower.com/ MARTA http://www.itsmarta.com/careers.aspx Morehouse School of Medicine http://www.msm.edu/ New York Life http://www.greateratlanta.nyloffices.com/ PNC https://www.pnc.com/ Porsche Cars North America http://www.porsche.com/usa/ Primerica Financial Services http://www.primerica.com/public/ Regions Financial Corporation https://www.regions.com/ Resource MFG http://www.resourcemfg.com/ RockTenn http://rocktenn.com/careers/index.htm SafeLink Wireless https://www.safelinkwireless.com/ Sage Hospitality http://sagehospitality.jobs/ Six Flags Over Georgia http://www.sixflagsjobs.com/ Social Security Administration http://www.ssa.gov/ Southeast Mortgage http://southeastmortgage.com Suntrust https://jobs.suntrust.com/ The Family Health Centers of Georgia Inc. www.fhcga.org The Home Depot http://careers.homedepot.com/ Tyco http://www.tyco.com/ United Parcel Service (UPS) http://www.ups.com/ United States Citizenship and Immigration Services http://www.uscis.gov/ United States Foods http://usfoods.com/index.html United States General Services Administration http://www.gsa.gov/portal/category/100000 United States Peace Corps http://www.peacecorps.gov/ Visions Outreach http://visionsoutreach.org/ Waffle House Inc. www.whcareers.com Wells Fargo https://www.wellsfargo.com/ Wellstar Health System http://www.wellstarcareers.org/index.asp WorldPay http://www.worldpay.com/us
02.03.2015	Today, Congressman David Scott applauded the unanimous approval of H.R. 203, the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act. This bipartisan legislation will address the epidemic of suicide among our nation’s veterans. H.R. 203 also includes legislation introduced by Congressman Scott to expand tuition assistance for VA mental health professionals. “Ever since the scandals at the Atlanta VA have been exposed, I have been fighting to improve service at the VA,” Congressman Scott said. “Veterans mental health treatment is a serious problem in need of full bi-partisan commitment to change the culture at the VA. H.R. 203 is a major step toward these goals. But, our work is not over. I will keep working on this issue until I hear from Georgia veterans that they are receiving first class care in a timely manner.” Twenty-two veterans commit suicide daily – over 8,000 every year – more than twice the rate of civilians. Of the more than 2 million Americans who have served in combat in Afghanistan and Iraq, it is estimated that one-third, roughly 600,000 women and men, have traumatic brain injury, PTSD or depression. To ease access to services, the bill will require the VA to create a one-stop, interactive website to serve as a centralized source of information regarding all mental health services for veterans. A student loan repayment pilot program aimed at recruiting and retaining psychiatrists included in the legislation will help address the shortage of mental health care professionals. To improve care, the legislation will require an annual, third-party evaluation of all mental health care and suicide prevention practices and programs at the VA to find out what’s working and what’s not. The student loan repayment portion of the legislation is similar to an idea introduced last year by Congressman David Scott and his colleague, Congressman Larry Bucshon. They authored H.R. 4234, the Ensuring Veterans Resiliency Act, to improve psychiatric care in military and veteran communities. Their language was also included in H.R. 3230, The Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act of 2014 (P.L. 113-146). The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act (H.R. 203) is named in honor of late Iraq and Afghanistan War veteran and noted suicide prevention advocate. H.R. 203 passed the House and the Senate by unanimous approval and now awaits the President’s signature into law. ###
01.27.2015	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced the availability of applications for the 2015 Congressional Black Caucus Foundation (CBCF) General Mills Health and Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Spouses scholarships. High school seniors or full-time undergraduate, graduate or professional school students from the Thirteenth District can apply for the scholarships online at:http://www.cbcfinc.org/what-we-do/leadership-institute/scholarships.html. The CBC Scholarships were established in 1988 in response to federal cuts in spending for education programs and scholarships. These programs provide tuition assistance to enable students to fulfill their higher education goals. The 2015 scholarships include: CBCF General Mills Health Scholarship - program for students pursuing degrees in the fields of medicine, engineering, technology, nutrition and other health-related professions. Deadline: February 28, 2015. CBC Spouses Heineken USA Performing Arts Scholarship - program was developed in honor of the late Curtis Mayfield to ensure that students pursuing a career in the performing arts receive financial assistance to achieve their goals. Deadline: May 1, 2015. CBC Spouses Visual Arts Scholarship - established for students pursuing a career in the visual arts. Deadline: May 1, 2015. CBC Spouses Education Scholarship - national program that awards scholarships to academically talented and highly motivated students who intend to pursue full-time undergraduate, graduate or doctoral degrees. Deadline: May 22, 2015. Applications are only available online at http://www.cbcfinc.org/what-we-do/leadership-institute/scholarships.html. For more information, please contact Sheila Davis in Congressman Scott’s Office at 770/432-5405.
01.22.2015	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced his 13th Annual Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery, is open for submissions from throughout Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District. High school students who reside in or attend a public, private or home school in Georgia’s 13th District are invited to submit artwork for the competition. The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. To date, Congressman David Scott has awarded over $300,000 in scholarships to local student winners of his annual art competition. The first place entry from Congressman Scott’s district will join other first place winners from around the country and be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Scholarships will be presented to the top winners as follows: $10,000 – first place, $5,000 – second place, and $2,500 – third place, all by the Art Institute of Atlanta; as well as $3,000/ year to the first-place winner by the Savannah College of Art and Design. Entries must be received in either Congressman David Scott's Smyrna or Jonesboro District Office by Monday, April 27, 2015. Students may obtain entry forms and official guidelines from Congressman David Scott’s Office and their high school art teachers. There is no mandatory theme for the competition and participants must be present at the awards ceremony in order to win. Congressman Scott will host an awards ceremony naming this year’s top winners on Saturday, May 9, 2015, at the Douglas County Courthouse Art Gallery, located on the third floor of the Douglas County Courthouse at 8700 Hospital Drive, Douglasville, GA 30134. 2015 Official Guidelines 2015 Student Release Form 2015 School Commitment Form For more information, please contact Angie Storey at 770/432-5405.
01.16.2015	U.S. Congressman David Scott announced today that he will nominate 27 local students from 7 counties to the U.S. service academies, which include the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point. The students are from the following counties: Clayton, Cobb, Douglas, Fayette, Fulton, Henry and Lamar. Congressman Scott will recognize each student during a special presentation on Saturday, February 7, 2015, at 10:00am, at the Brawner Hall in Smyrna. Congressman Scott is recommending the following students to the service academies. Final admission is determined by the respective academy. U.S. Air Force Academy Asia Ayanyemi, Hampton resident and Lovejoy High School student Marcus Bennett, Marietta resident and U.S. Air Force Academy Prep School student Kyla Martin, Jonesboro resident and Mundy's Mill High School student Delfayeo Matthews, Morrow resident and U.S. Air Force Academy Prep School student Sarah Nixon, Douglasville resident and Douglas County High School student Carter Oldknow, Winston resident and Alexander High School student Gabrielle Pinson, Smyrna resident and Whitefield Academy student Jasmine Underwood, Hampton resident and Lovejoy High School student Kenadee Walker, Fayetteville resident and U.S. Air Force Academy Prep School student U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Emily Dunn, Hampton resident and Stilwell High School of the Arts student Khalil Henry, Stockbridge resident and Stockbridge High School student Amani McDowell, Barnesville resident and Griffin High School student Sholonda Snell, McDonough resident and Henry County High School student U.S. Military Academy at West Point Horato Brown, from Hampton & Lovejoy High School graduate Emily Dunn, from Hampton & Stilwell High School of the Arts student Aaron Morrison, Douglasville resident and Alexander High School student Nolan Olson, McDonough resident and Eagles Landing High School student Charles Wagner, Villa Rica resident and Greystone Prep School student (Graduate of Douglas County High School) U.S. Naval Academy Jamel Brown, Douglasville resident and U.S. Naval Academy Prep School student Caleb Cook, Lithia Springs resident and Chapel Hill High School student Shara Hunte, Morrow resident and U.S. Navy Reservist (2013 Mt. Zion High School graduate) Cameron Jones, McDonough resident and Eagles Landing High School student Davel Locker, Jonesboro resident and Mundy's Mill High School student Thomas McMurrain, Palmetto resident and Landmark Christian School student Caleb Peppers, Douglasville resident and Lithia Springs High School Oscar Prioleau, Fairburn resident and Grady High School student Austin Salinsky, McDonough resident and Community Christian School student Barrett Tallant, Winston resident and Alexander High School student Charles Wagner, Villa Rica resident and Greystone Prep School student
01.12.2015	Today, President Obama signed the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (H.R. 26) into law. Included in this new law is the National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers Reform Act (NARAB), which was originally authored by Congressman David Scott in 2008. “I introduced NARAB in 2008 to help reform and modernize a very important part of state insurance regulation, agent and broker licensing”, said Congressman Scott. “This legislation benefits consumers through increased competition among agents and brokers, thus leading to greater consumer choice.” NARAB will provide streamlined non-residential insurance agent and broker licensing, while preserving the market conduct rights of states and their authority to supervise agents and brokers. This measure will also create reciprocity in producer licensing and assist policyholders by generating greater competition. NARAB only relates to marketplace entry and would not impact the day-to-day state regulation of insurance. In 2008, Congressman Scott introduced H.R.5611 – the National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers Reform Act. His bill was approved by the House, but not the Senate. Since then, Congressman Scott has introduced and co-sponsored several versions of NARAB. In 2015, NARAB was successfully amended to a bill reauthorizing the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program (H.R. 26). That measure, with the NARAB language, was the first bill to be been signed into law in this session of Congress (P.L. 114-1). ###
10.01.2014	Recognizing that October is Domestic Violence Awareness Month, Congressman David Scott urges his constituents to take this month to educate themselves and others on the facts about these serious crimes. “It is important to recognize Domestic Violence Awareness Month to mark the gravity and severity of the role that domestic violence plays in our society,” stated Rep. David Scott. “We should take this time to remember the victims and to rededicate ourselves to providing the resources, education, and support needed to end domestic violence.” This year also marks the 20th anniversary of the Violence Against Women’s Act (VAWA), which empowered the fight against domestic violence. The law provides state and local law enforcement agencies with the resources they need to address violent crimes like domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking. Congressman Scott continued voted in favor of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act in 2013 to ensure the continuation of these vital programs. “The safety and wellbeing of my constituents is of the utmost concern to me,” said Rep. Scott. “The only way we can hope to end these tragedies is through awareness and education. Domestic Violence Awareness Month allows us to brings this dark subject into the light and rededicate ourselves to eradicating it” Anyone seeking more information about domestic violence can visit the National Network to End domestic Violence at www.nnedv.org . If you or a loved one is suffering from domestic violence you can call the U.S. National Domestic Violence hotline at 1-800-799-7233. ###
09.04.2014	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced that applications are available for students interested in receiving a congressional nomination to one of the U.S. Military Academies. “The privilege of nominating qualified students to the United States Air Force, Military, Merchant Marine, and Naval Academies is one of my most important and rewarding responsibilities,” said Congressman Scott. “The education provided at our nation’s prestigious service academies is of the highest quality and offers challenges that develop our young people into future leaders.” To be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant must be nominated from an authorized person, including a Member of the U.S. House of Representatives or Senate. Applicants must also meet the following requirements as of July 1 of the year of admission to a service academy: be at least 17 years old and not older than 23; a U.S. citizen; a legal resident of Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District; unmarried; not pregnant; and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. Interested students should complete a Congressional Nomination Application available on Congressman Scott’s website at www.house.gov/davidscott. All completed applications must be received no later than Friday, October 31, 2014 in Congressman Scott’s Jonesboro Office. For more information or to obtain the nomination application by mail, please call Teresa Cooke in Scott’s Jonesboro Office at 770-210-5073.
08.07.2014	Today Congressman David Scott proudly announced that he will host his 10th Annual Health Fair on Saturday, August 16, 2014 at Mundy’s Mill High School. This event will feature free health screenings and information provided by the region’s leading healthcare providers and organizations. Free health screenings include: Prostate cancer PSA; Clinical breast cancer exams; HIV/ AIDS; Diabetes (glucose); Blood pressure; Asthma; Cholesterol; Mental health; Memory (Dementia); Sickle cell; Vision; Dental; and many others! Special veterans services include: Health eligibility and primary care representatives will be on site for enrollment information and scheduling for appointments for those currently on waiting lists. The VA Mobile Vet Center will provide counseling for PTSD and mental health services. This year Congressman Scott’s Health Fair is partnering with HomeSafe Georgia to deliver mortgage assistance to homeowners facing unemployment or underemployment. HomeSafe counselors will be available on site to provide direct counseling. What: Congressman David Scott’s 10th Annual Health Fair When: Saturday, August 16, 2014 – 10am to 2pm Where: Mundy’s Mill High School | 9652 Fayetteville Rd. | Jonesboro, GA 30238 This year's participants include: A Family Dental Place Aalegna Health AARP Georgia Abbvie Advance Therapeutic Concepts, Inc. Advanced Family Eye Care of Hampton AFLAC AID Atlanta, Inc AID Social Services, LLC Alliant GMCF Alzheimer's Association, Georgia Chapter Alzheimer's Services Center American Cancer Society American Diabetes Association American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, Metro Atlanta Chapter American Heart Association American Kidney Fund America's Best Contacts and Eyeglasses Amerigroup Angels of Life Healthcare Consulting Atlanta Black Nurses Atlanta Gastroenterology Associates Center for Image Guided Medicine at Emory Adventist Hospital Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Children's Health Care of Atlanta Clayton Center, Child and Adolescent Center Clayton Center Community Service Board Clayton County Board of Health Clayton County Library System Clayton County Public School, Adult Education Program Clayton County Senior Services Department (RSVP Program) Clayton State University Student American Dental Hygienists Association Cobb County Community Services Board D&E Group DaVita Kidney Smart Decatur Cooperative Ministry Divine Hospice Emory University Alzheimer's Disease Research Center Emory University Hospital Emory University Project Giving ACTS Fight Colorectal Cancer Fulton County Department of Health Services, Breast and Cervical Cancer Program Fulton County Department of Health, Communicable Disease Prevention Georgia Academy of General Dentistry Georgia Cares Georgia Organics Georgia Ovarian Cancer Alliance Georgia Power Georgia Prostate Cancer Coalition Georgia Relay Georgia State University, Department of Biology, Center for Inflammation, Infection and Immunity Georgia Telecommunications Equipment Distribution Program (GACHI) Get Covered America Grady Health System Great Expressions Dental Center Healthways SilverSneakers Fitness Program HomeSafe Georgia Program Jonesboro Lions Club Kaiser Permanente LifeLink of Georgia Lupus Foundation of America, Georgia Chapter Morehouse School of Medicine National Hook-Up of Black Women New Life Chiropractic New York Life Not One More Life Novo Nordisk, Inc. Pain 2 Wellness Center Peach State Health Plan Planned Parenthood Southeast, Inc. Radiotherapy Clinics of Georgia Right from the Start Medicaid SBZ Services Unlimited, Inc. Shepherd Center, SHARE Military Initiative SimpleC, LLC Sisters By Choice Social Security Administration Southern Regional Medical Center United States Department of Veterans Affairs, Atlanta Regional Office United States Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center United States Department of Veterans Affairs, Mobile Vet Center United Way of Greater Atlanta, Supportive Services for Veterans Families Visioncheck Walgreens WellCare WellStar Young Survival Coalition Youth Villages
08.07.2014	By David A. Scott Published by the Atlanta Journal-Constitution Ever since the Inspector General and The Atlanta Journal-Constitution exposed the scandalous care at the Atlanta VA, I have been fighting to improve services for our veterans. Last year, I toured the Atlanta VA with the Republican chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee, Jeff Miller, to see the situation firsthand. But I did not need an IG report to tell me something was amiss. My district offices have experienced a spike in veterans’ cases. Many of these cases were related to bureaucratic problems at the VA. After receiving incomplete and misleading reports from the VA leadership in Washington, I was the first to call for the resignation of VA Secretary Eric Shinseki. I saw management and culture problems that would become a political problem if it were not addressed in a Truman-like manner. The buck had to stop somewhere. This is a serious problem in need of full bipartisan commitment to change the culture at the VA. Fortunately, this is one of the few examples of Congress working together to solve a problem. The House and Senate passed House Resolution 3230, the Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act of 2014, by a large bipartisan vote. President Barack Obama is expected to sign the bill into law. A veteran should not have to wait months for a medical appointment. The bill would allow a veteran enrolled in the VA health care system to receive care outside the VA system if the veteran is unable to secure an appointment at a VA medical facility within 30 days, or if the veteran resides more than 40 miles from the nearest VA medical facility. A Veterans Choice Card to eligible veterans will facilitate care by non-VA providers. The bill would fund additional physicians and medical staff, and authorize 27 major medical facility leases, including $6.4 million to expand the outpatient clinic in Austell. This additional capacity will help cut wait times. To bring real accountability for incompetent or corrupt senior managers, the bill would authorize the VA to fire or demote Senior Executive Service employees for poor performance or misconduct. I have been working to recruit more psychiatrists to the VA and am glad legislation I sponsored is included in HR 3230. It expands student loan repayment programs to recruit specialty doctors, including psychiatrists, to the VA. Further, this bill allows veterans to receive in-state tuition. I have introduced bills in past years to create similar opportunities for active-duty state residents. I am bringing the VA out to the community. The director of the Atlanta Regional Benefit Office, Al Bocchicchio, and the director of the Atlanta VA Medical Center, Leslie Wiggins, will attend my health fair Aug. 16 at Mundy’s Mill High School in Jonesboro. I encourage all metro area veterans with pending issues to attend. Our work is not over. I will keep working on this issue until I hear from Georgia veterans that they are receiving first-class care in a timely manner. David A. Scott, a Democrat, is U.S. representative for Georgia’s 13th Congressional District.
08.04.2014	Congressman David Scott (GA-13) and Mrs. Alfredia Scott presented nine area students scholarship awards totaling $10,700 and through the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Spouses and Foundation scholarship programs. Since 2003, Congressman Scott and his wife, Mrs. Alfredia Scott, have awarded $151,200 in scholarships to 90 students. “I am so proud to celebrate these outstanding young people who have already achieved so much by excelling academically and serving the community in a number of special ways. This group includes a valedictorian, two International Baccalaureate program graduates, a former Miss Georgia USA, and aspiring physicians, dancers, science majors, and more,” said Congressman Scott. Mrs. Scott, wife of Congressman Scott, was very instrumental in securing the scholarships for the students as an active member of the CBC Spouses program. “Today my husband and I are honored to recognize these bright students for their exceptional achievements and ambitious goals,” said Mrs. Scott. “We also commend their parents and teachers who encouraged them to stay the course." Congressman and Mrs. Scott were joined at the presentation by Katrina Finch, of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, and Debra Johnson, of Scholarship America. This year’s honorees include: 2014 Congressional Black Caucus Spouses Education Scholarship - $1,025 · Isaiah Borne, Marietta H.S. graduate, Massachusetts Institute of Technology · Sydney-Alyce Bourget, Elite Scholars Academy H.S. graduate, University of Georgia · Camille Dent, South Cobb H.S. graduate, University of Georgia · Taylor Edwards-Moody, Dutchtown H.S. graduate, Barnard College of Columbia University · Nikaule Norwood, Tri Cities H.S. graduate, Valdosta State University · Monica Ogunsusi, Mundy’s Mill H.S. graduate, University of Georgia · Monique Ogunsusi, Mundy’s Mill H.S. graduate, University of Georgia · Tiffany Willis, Duquesne University graduate, Pursuing MBA: Emory University 2014 Congressional Black Caucus Foundation General Mills Health Scholarship - $2,500 · CeLexus Cambric, Campbell H.S. graduate, University of Georgia The CBC Scholarship Fund was established in 1988 in response to federal cuts in spending for education programs and scholarships. This program provides tuition assistance to enable students to fulfill their higher education goals. For more information, students should contact Congressman Scott’s Office at 770-432-5405.
07.31.2014	Last night, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3230, the The Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act of 2014 by a vote of 420-5. This wide-ranging bill expands a VA facility in Cobb County and includes legislation championed by Congressman Scott to recruit more mental health professionals and to allow for in-state tuition. “Ever since the scandals at the Atlanta VA have been exposed, I have been fighting to improve service at the VA,” Congressman Scott said. “Last year, I toured the Atlanta VA with the Republican Chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee and I was the first to call for the resignation of Secretary Shinseki. But, this was not politics for me. This is a serious problem in need of full bi-partisan commitment to change the culture at the VA. H.R. 3230 is a major step toward these goals. But, our work is not over. I will keep working on this issue until I hear from Georgia veterans that they are receiving first class care in a timely manner.” To improve access to and quality of care for veterans, the bill would allow a veteran who is enrolled in the VA health care system to receive care outside of the VA system if the veteran is unable to secure an appointment at a VA medical facility within 30 days or if the veteran resides more than 40 miles from the nearest VA medical facility. To expand the VA’s internal capacity to provide timely care to veterans, the bill would authorize 27 major medical facility leases, including $6.4 million to expand the outpatient clinic in Austell. To provide real accountability for incompetent or corrupt senior managers, the bill would authorize the VA to fire or demote Senior Executive Service (SES) employees for poor performance or misconduct. “I am glad that legislation that I have sponsored is included in H.R. 3230,” Congressman Scott said. “First, this measure will include expanded student loan repayment programs to recruit specialty doctors, including psychiatrists, to the VA. Second, this bill allows for veterans to receive in-state tuition.” H.R. 3230 includes improved student loan repayment incentives to recruit more specialty doctors at the VA. Earlier this year, Congressman Scott introduced H.R. 4234, the Ensuring Veterans Resiliency Act, with Rep. Larry Buschon. Their bill would help recruit more psychiatric physicians through a loan repayment program. To improve education benefits for veterans and dependents, the bill would require public colleges to provide in-state tuition to veterans and eligible dependents in order for the school to remain eligible to receive G.I. Bill education payments. This is an issue that Congressman Scott has long championed. In 2003, he introduced H.R.1991, the Military In-State Tuition Act of 2003 and in 2005 he introduced H.R.197, the Military In-State Tuition Act of 2005. For more information, visit the Veterans Affairs Committee website. ###
05.01.2014	Yesterday, the U.S. House overwhelmingly approved the fiscal year 2015 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill (H.R. 4486) by a vote of 416-1. In total, this bill increases funding for veterans programs by $1.5 billion. Congressmen David Scott and Larry Bucshon added report language to the bill in regards to the recruitment of psychiatric physicians to the VA. The report language reads as follows: Physician recruitment- The Committee remains concerned by the high rates of PTSD in returning veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan. The Committee believes there is a continuing need to recruit highly trained physicians to address this problem. The Committee encourages the Secretary to establish an action plan to address this shortage, including the possibility of strengthening the current loan repayment program to recruit psychiatric physicians for full-time employment in the VHA. The report language can be found on page 34 of the bill report, which can be found online at this link: http://beta.congress.gov/113/crpt/hrpt416/CRPT-113hrpt416.pdf. Earlier this year, Reps. Scott and Buschon introduced H.R. 4234, the Ensuring Veterans Resiliency Act, which is a bipartisan bill to improve psychiatric care in military and veteran communities. The bill was introduced in response to several disturbing reports of VA patient suicides, including at the Atlanta, VA hospital. H.R. 4234 is pending in the Veteran’s Affairs Committee.
04.13.2014	Congressman David Scott joined his colleague, Congressman Larry Bucshon, M.D. (R-IN), to introduce H.R. 4234, the Ensuring Veterans Resiliency Act, a bipartisan bill to improve psychiatric care in military and veteran communities. “Too many of American’s veterans are experiencing a mental health crisis without adequate assistance from the VA. In Georgia, several disturbing incidents of veteran suicide have been exposed,” Congressman Scott said. “Testimony from the VA and Inspector General reports have pointed out that not enough psychiatrists are employed by the system to meet these needs. We can certainly improve on these hiring trends and I hope that this pilot project will bring new emphasis on attracting and maintaining psychiatrists in the system.” “Many of the brave men and women who have served our country are returning home without proper attention to their mental health needs,” said Congressman Bucshon, M.D. “During my career as a physician and my time working at the VA, I’ve seen first-hand the need for new dedicated methods that encourage more psychiatrists to choose a career helping veterans. Our veterans have made tremendous sacrifices for this country and I firmly believe we should do everything in our power to support them. This legislation is a good first step that will help hire many qualified psychiatrists across the country to provide our veterans the assistance they need and deserve.” The American Psychiatric Association (APA) provided their support and endorsement of H.R. 4234. “This legislation will help ensure that our nation’s veterans, who often face significant mental health challenges, have access to much needed high quality mental health care,” said APA President Jeffrey Lieberman, MD. APA CEO and Medical Director Saul Levin, MD, MPA, added, “Given that the acute mental health needs of our veterans will be ongoing for years to come, APA strongly supports this legislation. APA commends Representatives Bucshon and Scott for their leadership on this issue and their commitment to ensuring the resiliency of all of our nation’s veterans.” BACKGROUND: The Challenges we face: 40% of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans experience Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Anxiety, depression, and substance use are widely experienced by veterans of all ages Approximately 6,000 veterans commit suicide each year The Office of Inspector General (OIG) in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) reports that the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) lacks “a reliable and accurate method of determining whether they are providing patients timely access to mental health services” OIG reports that VHA’s “greatest challenge has been to hire and retain psychiatrists” Congressional testimony given by current and former psychiatric physicians in the VHA highlights low pay, inadequate training, and long hiring processes as key barriers to developing and maintaining a robust psychiatric workforce Current policy makes it extremely difficult for the VHA to compete with other Federal agencies and private entities in offering employment incentives, such as medical school loan repayment, to new hires According to USAjobs.gov on September 17, 2013, there were 142 federal job vacancies for psychiatrists listed on the website. Of those, 138 were for the VHA and 128 were for permanent VA hires. Of the 128 permanent VHA positions, only 33 (25%) were eligible for medical school loan repayment The Ensuring Veterans Resiliency Act, increases access to mental healthcare to veterans by: Establishes a three-year demonstration program under the VA modeled on the Department of Defense Health Professions Loan Repayment Program, which offers physicians up to $60,000 in medical school loan repayment for each year of service. Authorizes the VA to recruit at least five psychiatric physicians into the loan repayment program each year. The VA would hire these physicians permanently to fill full-time vacant positions. Requires the program participants to demonstrate a long-term commitment to the VA Requires a report to Congress on the program’s impact on psychiatric vacancies and recruitment. Authorizes a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study on pay disparities between psychiatric physicians at the VA. Full text of H.R. 4234 can be accessed here. ###
03.12.2014	Today Congressman David Scott proudly announced that he will host the 11th Annual 13th Congressional District Jobs Fair on Friday, March 28, 2014, 10am to 3pm, at the Georgia International Convention Center. This year’s employers are looking to fill 4,207 positions and include: AFLAC; Atlanta Fire & Rescue; Albany Police Department; Bradley-Morris, Inc.; Clayton County; Federal Air Marshals; Georgia Power; GLOCK; Home Depot; Hyatt Regency Atlanta; Kaiser Permanente; Kroger; Lowe’s; MARTA; New York Life; Randstad; SunTrust; Tyco Fire Protection; UPS; Regions Bank; United Distributors; Waffle House; Wal-Mart; Wells Fargo; and more! Additionally, Congressman Scott’s Jobs Fair is partnering withHomeSafe Georgia and key banks to deliver mortgage aid and foreclosure prevention resources to homeowners facing unemployment or underemployment while they seek new work. HomeSafe counselors and bank representatives will be available on site to provide direct counseling. Participating banks and counselors include: Bank of America; BB&T; Citi Mortgage; D&E Group; Fannie Mae; Federal Housing Administration; Georgia Department of Community Affairs; HSBC; HUD; M&T Bank; NID; Ocwen; Regions; State Home Mortgage; SunTrust; U.S. Bank; VA; Wells Fargo; and others. Attendees are encouraged to take MARTA to Airport station and board the free ATL SkyTrain to the Convention Center or take MARTA to College Park station and board a special MARTA bus shuttle to the event. What: Congressman David Scott’s 11th Annual 13th Congressional District Jobs Fair When: Friday, March 28, 2014, 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. Where: Georgia International Convention Center 2000 Convention Center Concourse | College Park, GA 30337 Confirmed employers include: A-Supreme Nursing and Home Care, LLC Aflac Atlanta AID Social Services, LLC AirServ Corporation Albany Police Department Allied Barton Security Services All(n)1 Security Alorica Amerigroup Community Care AT&T Atlanta Fire Rescue Atlanta Job Corps Center Atlanta Police Department Atlanta Technical College Bank of America BoardActive Bradley-Morris, Inc. Celine's Family Services, Inc. CHRIS Kids, Inc. City of Atlanta City of Douglasville Clayton County Board of Commissioners Cobb County Department of Public Safety Comcast Corporation Columbus Police Department Cox Atlanta, WSB-Radio Cox Atlanta, WSB-TV Dart Container Corporation DaVita Healthcare Partners, Inc. DeKalb County Police Department Douglas County Fire/EMS Dept. Employment Seeker Enroll America Federal Air Marshals Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Floor and Décor Outlets of America Fulton County Schools Police Fulton County Sheriff's Office Gainesville Police Department Gate Gourmet GEL Financial Services, LLC GenAgain Technologies Georgia Department of Community Affairs, HomeSafe Georgia Program Georgia Department of Human Services Georgia Power Company Georgia Southern University Global Media Empire GLOCK, Inc. Goodwill of North Georgia Grady Health System Granite Telecommunications Gwinnett County Police Department Hartsfield-Jackson Development Program Hyatt Regency Atlanta InComm Infisys, Inc. JB Hunt Transport Services, Inc. Kaiser Permanente Katlaw Truck Driving School KISS FM 104.1/98.5 Kroger Lincoln Heritage Life Insurance Co. Lowe's Mack II, Inc. Manpower MARTA New York Life Next Step Staffing Service Peach State Health Plan Primerica Financial Services Randstad Regions Financial Corporation Social Security Administration Suntrust The Art Institute of Atlanta The Home Depot Thomas and Williams, LLC TriBridge Residential Tyco Fire Protection United Distributors, Inc. United Parcel Service (UPS) United States Air Force Reserve United States Department of Veterans Affairs - Atlanta Vet Center United States Department of Veterans Affairs, Atlanta Medical Center United States Foods United States Peace Corps United States Penitentiary, Atlanta University of Georgia Health Navigators Urban League of Greater Atlanta WABE-FM Public Broadcasting Atlanta Waffle House, Inc. WAGA-TV Wal-Mart Stores Wells Fargo WorldPay For more information, please call 770-432-5405.
03.04.2014	On Saturday, March 1, 2014, Congressman David Scott announced the ten local high students whose artwork was selected as the winning entries in the Thirteenth District’s 12th Annual Congressional Art Competition. The announcement was made during a special presentation at the Douglas County Museum of History and Art, which featured welcome remarks by Douglas County Commission Chairman Tom Worthan and Douglasville Mayor Harvey Persons. Thaleena Chhoeurm, a student at North Clayton High School, earned “First Place” in the competition. Her winning pieceLook Into My Culture will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Art Malloy from the Savannah College of Art and Design and Dr. Melissa Manuel from the Art Institute of Atlanta awarded Thaleena scholarships of $12,000 and $10,000 respectively. The Art Institute of Atlanta also provided a $5,000 scholarship for Second Place winner Mohammed Azeez of Pebblebrook High’sSelfie and a $2,500 scholarship for Third Place winner Natalie Dishmon-Caraballo of Stockbridge High’s Long Neck. Mohammed’s art will hang in Congressman Scott’s Washington Office for 1 year and Natalie’s artwork will hang in the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta Airport for 1 year. “I am so proud of the artistic talent displayed by our young people,” said Congressman Scott. “The arts have played a major role in our schools by helping young people focus and hone their talents. While everyone may not become a professional artist, the skills that come from disciplining yourself and connecting with your inner self are invaluable.” To date, Congressman Scott has awarded over $370,000 and more than 40 scholarships to local student artists. This year’s independent panel of judges included a number of prominent figures in the arts community. Additional winners include: 4th Place: Dairys Escoto, Solace at Dawn, McEachern High 5th Place: Christian Germany, The Working Mind, Langston Hughes High Honorable Mention: Gabrielle Boswell, Hush, Whitefield Academy High Jazryne Hendrix, Blooming, Mundys Mill High Jana Benton, Realm of Indifference, Mundys Mill High Abby Ellerbe, Kaleidscope, McEachern High Caroline Wallis, In the end it doesn’t matter how you reach someone, but whether or not you are able to reach them at all, Campbell High Special Thanks: Congressman Scott thanked the Management, Board of Directors and Staff of the Cultural Arts Council of Douglasville/ Douglas County for exhibiting the 2014 Thirteenth Congressional District Art Competition. Since 1986, the Cultural Arts Council has offered cultural services to nurture, guide and stimulate the enjoyment of and participation in the arts among residents of and visitors to Douglasville and Douglas County.
01.10.2014	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced his 12th Annual Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery, for Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District. High school students who reside in or attend a public, private or home school in Georgia’s 13th District are invited to submit artwork for the competition. The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. To date, Congressman David Scott has awarded over $300,000 in scholarships to local student winners of his annual art competition. The first place entry from Congressman Scott’s district will join other first place winners from around the country and be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Scholarships will be presented to the top winners as follows: $10,000 – first place, $5,000 – second place, and $2,500 – third place, all by the Art Institute of Atlanta; as well as $3,000/ year to the first-place winner by the Savannah College of Art and Design. Entries must be received in either Congressman David Scott's Smyrna or Jonesboro District Office by Wednesday, February 12, 2014. Students may obtain entry forms and official guidelines from Congressman David Scott’s Office and their high school art teachers. There is no mandatory theme for the competition and participants must be present at the awards ceremony in order to win. Congressman Scott will host an awards ceremony naming this year’s top winners on Saturday, March 1, 2014, at the Douglas County Museum of History and Art, located at 6754 Broad Street, Douglasville, Georgia 30134. For more information and competition entry forms and guidelines, please contact Angie Storey at 770/432-5405 or visit /constituentservices/artcontest.htm. ###
01.09.2014	Congressmen Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and David Scott (D-GA) released the following statement after sending a letter to leaders of the Farm Bill Conference Committee reminding them of the House of Representatives’ overwhelming rejection of supply management provisions: “The House of Representatives’ resounding rejection of supply management provisions in the dairy title of the Farm Bill speaks loud and clear,” said Rep. Bob Goodlatte. “More than 140 diverse groups have joined with 291 House Members, including 95 Democrats, in voicing their opposition to supply management. A supply control program that will directly intervene in markets and increase milk prices will ultimately hurt dairy producers and consumers. As the Conferees continue their work, I urge them to remember the House vote and adopt the House-passed Goodlatte-Scott amendment as part of the final Farm Bill.” “Unfortunately the media is portraying the current dairy policy debate as a struggle solely between Speaker Boehner and Ranking Member Peterson,” said Rep. David Scott. “Nothing could be further from the truth. The overwhelming bipartisan vote count on the Goodlatte-Scott amendment, which passed 291-135 with 95 Democratic votes, was a clear and strong statement of the will of the entire House on this issue. To that end, Farm Bill conferees should honor the House vote and insist on inclusion of the Goodlatte-Scott amendment in the final conference report on the Farm Bill. The Goodlatte-Scott amendment as embodied in the House dairy title of the Farm Bill represents bipartisan compromise that protects dairy farmers as well as restaurants, food processors, grocery stores and most importantly consumers.” Click here for a PDF version of the letter to leaders of the Farm Bill Conference Committee. ###
10.23.2013	Today, the House passed H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA), which authorizes the development and maintenance of the nation’s waterway infrastructure. H.R. 3080 includes a key provision that authorizes the funding necessary for the Savannah Harbor expansion project to move forward. This provision will end a 14 year delay of the project to deepen the harbor from 42 to 47 feet in order to accommodate new supertankers that will soon be coming from the Panama Canal. The expansion of the harbor will ensure it remains a vital piece of the national infrastructure and have a major economic impact on Georgia and the nation. “The House has finally passed major legislation with bipartisan agreement, including the entire Georgia delegation," Congressman Scott said. "The expansion of the Savannah Harbor is critically important to Georgia's economy. The deepening of the Panama Canal allows for larger cargo ships to move up the Atlantic coast. Once WRRDA is enacted into law, the Savannah Port will move to modernize to compete for more global business. I also call on the House leadership to bring up the transportation appropriations bill for passage in a similar bipartisan manner.” President Obama and the Army Corps of Engineers have deemed the Port of Savannah a “nationally and regionally significant infrastructure project.” Studies by the Corps of Engineers show a 5.5-to-1 benefit to cost ratio, meaning that for every dollar spent on the deepening, the nation will reap $5.50 in benefits. According to the Georgia Ports Authority, Georgia’s deep water ports and inland barge terminals support more than 352,000 jobs throughout the state annually and contribute $18.5 billion in income, $66.9 billion in revenue and $2.5 billion in state and local taxes to Georgia’s economy. The House voted 417-3 to pass H.R. 3080 and on May 15, the U.S. Senate passed its version of WRRDA by a vote of 83-14. The House and Senate must reconcile their differences before sending a final bill to the president to sign into law. ###
10.05.2013	Congressman David Scott joined 200 Democrats to send a letter to House Speaker Boehner demanding a vote on a clean budget to end the shutdown and fund the government. A vote on the legislation would open the entire federal government immediately. “After shutting down the government for a week, House Republicans refuse to allow an up or down vote on a clean budget,” said Congressman Scott. “Americans want to move forward and rebuild the economy. These reckless actions threaten to derail the economic recovery.” Since the shutdown, House Democrats have tried seven times to bring up a vote on a clean continuing resolution, which would fund government at levels agreed to by both chambers of Congress and end the shutdown immediately. However, House Republicans blocked a vote on each of the Democrats’ measures. “This is no way to govern and no way to run the largest economy in the world,” Congressman Scott said. “It’s time for House Republicans to allow for a bipartisan vote to end the shutdown and get our government working again for the American people.” Every day the shutdown continues, it damages our economy. It halts loans to small businesses; stops government backed home mortgages; disrupts work at federal contractors; and furloughs 800,000 federal employees. ###
10.02.2013	Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway, Chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, and Ranking Member David Scott, held a fourth hearing on the future of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) in advance of writing legislation to reauthorize the agency. The purpose of this hearing was to explore ways to improve customer protections and understand how best to avoid or prevent the collapse of another futures commission merchant (FCM) that disproportionately impacts farmers and ranchers in light of the failures at MF Global and PFG Best. "Improving customer protections in futures markets is a topic that members on both sides of the aisle have been eager to explore for some time. For many of our constituents, the failure of MF Global and PFG Best added a new worry to their already overcrowded plate of concerns. An essential part of our job as lawmakers is to figure out the best way to restore confidence that an investor’s funds will always be safe, no matter what happens to other market participants. Our challenge is to put in place systems and processes that ensure mistakes are caught swiftly and wrongdoing is made exceptionally difficult. As we do so, we must examine whether the costs of new regulations outweigh the benefits to the marketplace," said Chairman K. Michael Conaway (R-TX). "We must ensure that whatever regulatory regime the CFTC moves to put into place to protect our farmers, ranchers and co-ops in the future works well for all involved in the market by reducing risk and protecting customer funds without significantly raising the price of doing business. But, as we continue to place burdens upon the CFTC to do more and to do better, we must also ensure they have adequate fiscal support to do the tasks they’re charged with," said Ranking Member David Scott (D-GA). This is expected to be the final hearing in the series on the future of the CFTC. The first one was a full committee hearing to gain perspectives from the market. The last two were subcommittee proceedings to hear from the CFTC Commissioners and end-users directly. ###
10.01.2013	Congressman David Scott announced that, beginning today, thousands of Georgians will have access to affordable, quality health insurance as new online Health Insurance Marketplaces open. “Starting today, my constituents can purchase affordable, quality health insurance through the new online Marketplace,” Rep. Scott said. “It’s your health choices, made simple. This new online Marketplace provides a very simple way to get health insurance: insurance that will meet your needs, your lifestyle, and your budget at any income level.” In the new online Marketplace, Georgians who are looking for coverage will be able to shop among affordable choices. It is estimated that most of those shopping in the new Marketplace will qualify for discounts on their monthly premium, based on their income, which will make the premiums more affordable. There is no denial for pre-existing conditions, no annual or lifetime limits on coverage, and no higher rates for women compared to men.The open enrollment period for the first year of the Marketplaces runs from October 1, 2013 through March 31, 2014. Georgians looking for health coverage should go to www.healthcare.gov and by putting in their state and zip code, they will be able to see and compare plans and premiums in our part of the state. If constituents have questions about the Marketplace, they can call 1-800-318-2596, a toll-free hotline open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Because of the Affordable Care Act, 105 million Americans have already received access to free preventive services, 6.6 million seniors have saved more than $7 billion on their prescription drugs, and more than 100 million Americans have benefited from no longer having a lifetime limit on their coverage. ###
09.25.2013	A new report released by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) finds that in Georgia, consumers will see increased competition in the Health Insurance Marketplace, leading to new and affordable choices for consumers. According to the report, Georgians will be able to choose from an average of 50 health plans in the Marketplace. Premiums nationwide will also be around 16 percent lower than originally expected before taking financial assistance into account. “I am pleased to hear that the Georgia Marketplace will offer lower premiums than originally projected,” said Congressman David Scott. “Consumers have often been denied or priced-out of quality health insurance options, but thanks to the Affordable Care Act, new affordable coverage options are affordable.” Starting October 1, the new Marketplace will be open for millions of Americans to purchase health insurance coverage in one place. Consumers will be able to find out whether they qualify for premium assistance and compare plans side-by-side based on pricing, quality and benefit levels. No one can be denied coverage because of a preexisting condition. The new insurance coverage begins as early as January 1, 2014. Georgians will have an average of 50 qualified health plan choices. Plans in the Marketplace will be categorized as either “gold,” “silver,” or “bronze.” Young adults will also have the added option of purchasing a “catastrophic” plan. In Georgia, the average premium for the lowest-cost silver plan will be $304 and for the lowest cost bronze plan it will be $265. Premium and plan options are broken down by state where information is available. For example, the report shows that a 27-year old living in Georgia who makes $25,000 per year will pay $103 per month for the lowest cost bronze plan and $145 per month for the second lowest cost silver plan, taking tax credits into account. For a family of four in Georgia with an income of $50,000 per year, the lowest bronze plan would cost only $132 per month. In metro Atlanta, a 27-year old who makes $25,000 per year will pay $105 per month for the lowest cost bronze plan and $145 per month for the second lowest cost silver plan, taking into account tax credits. For a family of four in metro Atlanta with an income of $50,000 per year, the lowest bronze plan would cost only $138 per month. And Atlanta-area consumers will be able to choose from among 68 qualified health plans. Consumers can get help finding Marketplace coverage through a number of different resources. They can get more information through www.HealthCare.gov or they can call 1-800-318-2596 toll free (TTY: 1-855-889-4325) to speak with a trained customer service representative. ###
09.23.2013	Congressman David Scott announced that less than 10 days remain until the start of enrollment for the new Health Insurance Marketplaces on October 1, 2013. A new consumer-focused www.HealthCare.gov website and a 24-hours-a-day toll-free call center have been launched to help Georgians looking for health coverage prepare for open enrollment and sign up for private health insurance. “The website and toll-free call center are designed to make sure every American who needs health coverage has the information they need to begin preparing for the new coverage opportunities coming in October,” Congressman Scott said. “The Marketplaces will provide consumer choices for Georgians among private health plans and provide sliding-scale premium tax credits to make the coverage affordable.” The Marketplace call center will provide educational information and, beginning October 1, will assist consumers with application completion and plan selection. Customer service representatives are available for assistance via a toll-free number at 1-800-318-2596 and hearing impaired callers using TTY/TDD technology can dial 1-855-889-4325 for assistance. Professionals helping people apply for insurance can access resources at: Marktplace.CMS.gov ###
08.29.2013	Congressman David Scott called for President Obama to consult with Congress before taking military action in Syria. Congressman Scott sent a letter to the President expressing his concerns about the matter. A copy of the letter is attached. “Congress must be consulted before military action is taken against Syria,” Congressman Scott said. “More answers are needed before U.S. resources, both personnel and funding, are spent on another Middle Eastern conflict. Americans want clarity in understanding the reasons that action would need to be taken. They also want to hear the overall strategy and goals of a military campaign so that they can have confidence that the wise decisions have been made and that our allies have been fully engaged.” Congressman Scott is a long-term member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and a former member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs.
08.07.2013	Today Congressman David Scott announced his upcoming 9th Annual 13th Congressional District Health Fair on Saturday, August 17, 2013. This event will feature vital health screenings and information provided at no cost and by the region’s leading healthcare providers and organizations. Free health screenings include: Prostate cancer PSA screenings; Clinical breast cancer exams; HIV/ AIDS screenings; Diabetes screenings (glucose); Blood pressure screenings; Asthma screenings; Cholesterol screenings; Mental health screenings; Sickle cell screenings; stroke; Vision and dental screenings; flu shots; and many, many more. Join Congressman David Scott at the health fair to hear from renowned healthcare leaders and speak directly with healthcare professionals about Medicare, Medicaid, PeachCare, prescription drug assistance, and others for the uninsured. Additionnally, Congressman Scott is proud to partner this year with the Atlanta VA Medical Center to provide local veterans with benefits information and housing and employment assistance. WHEN: Saturday, August 17, 2013 - 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. WHERE: Mundy’s Mill High School 9652 Fayetteville Road (Hwy. 54), Jonesboro, GA 30238 For more information, including a complete list of free screenings, speakers and healthcare providers, please call 770/210-5073. Participants include: Aalegna Health AbbVie US AFLAC AID Atlanta, Inc Alliant GMCF Alzheimer's Association, Georgia Chapter Alzheimer's Services Center American Cancer Society American Cancer Society, South Atlantic Division American Diabetes Association American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, Metro Atlanta Chapter American Heart Association Amerigroup Angels of Life Healthcare Arthritis Foundation, Southeast Region Atlanta Black Nurses Atlanta Legal Aid Society B.B.C. Fitness Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Children's Health Care of Atlanta Christian City Clayton Center/Paula Crane Life Enrichment Center Clayton County Board of Health Clayton County Department of Family and Children Services Clayton County Senior Services Department Clayton County Senior Services Department (RSVP Program) Clayton County Sheriff's Office Clayton State University Dental Hygiene Department Colgate Bright Smiles Bright Futures DeKalb Medical Center Mobile Unit Douglasville Deaf Social Group Emory Stroke Center Emory University School of Public Health - Project Giving ACTS Eye Consultants of Atlanta Eye Specialists of Georgia FAB Face and Body Skin Boutique FEHE Healthcare Services/Divine Hospice Georgia Campaign for Adolescent Power and Potential (GCAPP) Georgia Cares-Atlanta Regional Commission Georgia Department of Public Health, Georgia SHAPE Initiative Georgia Ovarian Cancer Alliance Georgia Power Georgia Prostate Cancer Coalition GNLD Wellness Center Grady Health System Great Expressions Dental Centers Helping Hands Community Development Center, LLC Hemophilia of Georgia In Shape MD Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, Georgia Chapter Kaiser Permanente LifeLink of Georgia Lincoln Heritage Lupus Foundation of Georgia McIntosh Trail Morehouse School of Medicine National Hook-Up of Black Women, Inc. New Life Chiropractic Not One More Life Pancreatic Cancer Action Network Partnership Against Domestic Violence Peach State Health Plan Piedmont Heart Planned Parenthood Southeast, Inc. Prevent Blindness Georgia Radiotherapy Clinics of Georgia Rawsome Foods, Inc. Research 1 Clinical Research Network, Inc. Right from the Start Medicaid Riverdale Foot, Ankle & Leg Clinic Riverdale Youth Council Sickle Cell Foundation of Georgia Sisters By Choice Social Security Administration Southern Regional Medical Center Southside Medical Center St. Joseph's Mobile Unit Susan G. Komen for the Cure, Greater Atlanta Affiliate Truly Living Well Center for Natural Urban Agriculture United States Department of Health and Human Services United States Food and Drug Administration VA Regional Office, Atlanta VA Medical Center, Atlanta Walgreens WellCare WellStar West End Medical Centers Young Survival Coalition Youth Villages
08.06.2013	Congressman David Scott (GA-13) and Mrs. Alfredia Scott honored 10 area students who received a total of $11,500 in scholarship awards through the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Spouses and Foundation scholarship programs. Since 2003, Congressman Scott and his wife, Mrs. Alfredia Scott, have awarded $140,500 in scholarships to 81 students. “The students honored with these scholarships are the best of the best and have all demonstrated academic excellence and a commitment to community service. I applaud their achievements,” said Congressman Scott. Mrs. Scott, wife of Congressman Scott, was very instrumental in securing the scholarships for the students as an active member of the CBC Spouses program. “My husband and I are overjoyed and so proud to recognize these bright young people for their exceptional academic achievements and ambitious goals,” said Mrs. Scott. This year’s honorees and their awards include: 2013 Congressional Black Caucus Spouses Education Scholarship - $1,000 · Aaron Coleman, Stockbridge H.S. graduate & Ellenwood resident, Ft. Valley State University · Mylong Craig, Jonesboro H.S. graduate & Jonesboro resident, Georgia Institute of Technology · Dwayne Daniel, Douglas County H.S. graduate & Douglasville resident, Florida A&M University · Aspen Evans, Mt. Zion H.S. graduate & Jonesboro resident, Savannah College of Art & Design · Andrea Lewis, North Atlanta H.S. and Emory University graduate, Powders Springs resident, Howard University Law School · Amir Mills, New School at Carver H.S. graduate & College Park resident, Stillman College · Sharlee Taylor, North Atlanta H.S. graduate & Jonesboro resident, University of California at Berkeley · Evan Wood, Alexander H.S. graduate & Douglasville resident, Carnegie Mellon University · Kamari Wright, Westlake H.S. graduate & Palmetto resident, Ohio State University 2013 Congressional Black Caucus Foundation General Mills Health Scholarship - $2,500 · Ridwan Hassen, South Cobb H.S. graduate & Marietta resident, Dartmouth College The CBC Scholarship Fund was established in 1988 in response to federal cuts in spending for education programs and scholarships. This program provides tuition assistance to enable students to fulfill their higher education goals. For more information, students should contact Congressman Scott’s Office at 770-432-5405.
07.24.2013	Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway, Chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, and Rep. David Scott, Ranking Democrat, held a hearing to examine the impact of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's (CFTC) actions on end-users. These are businesses that provide our daily goods and services, and rely upon derivatives contracts to manage the risks associated with their operations. Since the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, end-users have shared consistent concerns that the CFTC is overreaching in its rulemaking and cautioned it would ultimately lead to higher costs for consumers. "Well-functioning markets are essential to help grow the economy, and one needs to look no further than our witnesses here today to understand how important it is for the CFTC to get its regulations right. The past two years have been a regulatory roller coaster for end-users. I am concerned about the impact that delays and last minute no-action letters are having on how market participants manage their businesses. The lack of certainty has no doubt cost many companies valuable capital and changed their strategic thinking. Regulations should be created and exist to protect markets, not destroy them," said Chairman K. Michael Conaway (R-TX). "Today’s hearing was especially important as it reminds us why our financial markets exist in the first place, which is to serve companies both large and small, as well as individuals like farmers and their co-ops, in managing their business risks. The insight of the end-users represented today will prove essential moving forward as we seek to ensure the implementation of Dodd-Frank proceeds properly at the CFTC, so as not to throw up regulatory roadblocks to the legitimate hedging activities of American companies," said Ranking Member David Scott (D-GA). This is the third in a series of hearings on the future of the CFTC. The first one was a full committee hearing on May 21 to gain perspectives from the market. Yesterday, the subcommittee heard from the CFTC directly.
05.15.2013	Congressmen Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and David Scott (D-Ga.) released a statement after the Goodlatte-Scott Dairy Amendment failed today in the House Committee on Agriculture’s markup of the FARRM Act, commonly referred to as the Farm Bill. The amendment would have struck the dairy market stabilization program that is included in the base text of the FARRM Act and replaced it with a stand-alone margin insurance program for dairy producers. “The outcome of today’s vote in the Agriculture Committee on this amendment was disappointing. Supply management is antithetical to the future growth of the dairy industry. Government bureaucracy should not control the size of your herd. A supply control program that will directly intervene in markets and increase milk prices will ultimately hurt dairy producers and consumers as well as dairy food manufacturers by stifling industry growth. This program is contrary to the reforms already in the Farm Bill. “There is no farm district Member who disagrees on the need for fundamental reform of our dairy programs. The reforms in our amendment give farmers the necessary tools to manage their risk without requiring them to participate in yet another government program. It also clearly accounts for, and allows for, growth in dairy farms. We will continue our efforts to include this bipartisan alternative in the Farm Bill and reform dairy policy when the legislation is addressed on the House floor.” Summary of the Goodlatte-Scott Amendment The Amendment would have removed Subtitle D PART I—"DAIRY PRODUCER MARGIN PROTECTION AND DAIRY MARKET STABILIZATION PROGRAMS" and replaces it with a new "Dairy Producer Margin Insurance Program". The amendment provides dairy producers with the option to annually enroll in a new margin insurance program at levels of $4.00 and up to $8.00 in increments of 50 cents. Based on the highest annual of three previous calendar years of their milk marketings, dairy producers are allowed to elect their coverage level and the percentage of coverage up to 80 percent at the start of the program and annually thereafter. Dairy producers are also allowed to update their production history annually. The Secretary is required to make payments to dairy producers enrolled in the program whenever the actual dairy producer margin drops below $4.00 (or below a higher level of coverage up to $8.00). The amendment leaves the rest of the underlying dairy title intact, including the removal of the Dairy Product Price Support Program, the MILC Program, and the Dairy Export Assistance Program and the reauthorization of the 1996 FMMO additional order provision.
05.01.2013	UPDATE - on May 17, Congressman Scott met with the new director of the VA Medical Center in his office. You can watch a news report about it here. Congressman Scott hopes that the new leadership will bring better care to the facility, yet he will still keep reviewing the progress. ............ In response to an investigation into recent deaths at the Atlanta Veterans Affairs (VA) medical center, Congressman David Scott joined a bipartisan effort from Georgia to ask for a top-level inquiry from the VA. Georgia Congressmen David Scott, Phil Gingrey and Tom Price sent a letter demanding answers from the VA Under Secretary of Health. "Veterans sacrificed a lot in service to our country. We must live up to the promise of providing them with the highest quality of care," Scott said. "The conditions uncovered at the Atlanta VA are insulting to Georgia’s veterans and their families. They should be treated with dignity. I join with my colleagues in asking that the VA fully remedy these problems. Also, I ask that the VA commit resources to reducing backlogs of veteran’s claims.” A report released by the Inspector General found “that there was inadequate coordination, monitoring, and staffing for oversight” for patients with mental health concerns. The Georgia Congressmen sent a letter to the Undersecretary for Health asking for a fully inquiry into problems at the Decatur facility. ###
04.16.2013	Representatives Larry Bucshon (R-IN) and David Scott (D-GA) introduced H.R. 1427, the “Truth in Healthcare Marketing Act,” a bipartisan bill to protect healthcare consumers. H.R. 1427 provides more information to consumers so they are able to make wise and informed decisions about their personal healthcare needs. This legislation would make it unlawful for any healthcare professional to make deceptive statements or engage in behavior that misleads patients in advertisements and marketing efforts. It also directs the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to pay particular attention to false and misleading advertising among all healthcare professionals. Bucshon and Scott’s bill will provide much needed clarification at addressing patient confusion in the healthcare marketplace and ensure wiser expenditure of all healthcare dollars. Rep. Bucshon (R-IN): “As a physician, I understand that healthcare providers are vitally important to our nation’s healthcare system,” said Rep. Bucshon. “That being said, we need to take every step possible to ensure patients are protected. It is imperative that healthcare consumers have adequate information, including the education and training level of the healthcare professionals treating them, so that they are able to make wise healthcare choices. Ultimately, this bill will protect patient autonomy and decision-making and improve our healthcare system.” Rep. David Scott (D-GA): “Health consumers should be empowered to make decisions based on accurate information about their service provider. That is why I continue to be the chief Democratic co-sponsor of, the Truth in Healthcare Marketing Act,” Rep. Scott said. “Patients today are confused about the healthcare system, especially when it comes to differentiating among the qualifications of the many types of healthcare providers. Our bill would make it unlawful for any healthcare professional to make deceptive statements or engage in behavior that misleads patients in advertisements and marketing efforts about their level of training.”
03.27.2013	Today Congressman David Scott announced that he will host his 10th Annual Jobs Fair on Friday, April 19, 2013, at the Georgia International Convention Center (GICC) in College Park. The event will run from 10am to 3pm. Job seekers who attend may obtain information and be considered for more than 1,992 positions with this year’s participating employers. The employers at Congressman Scott’s Jobs Fair represent a diverse group of Georgia’s top corporations, small businesses, and local and federal government agencies, offering a rich variety of job opportunities. Congressman David Scott is also pleased to partner this year with the Georgia Department of Community Affairs’ HomeSafe program. Funded by the U.S. Treasury's Hardest Hit Fund, HomeSafe Georgia is a statewide unemployment mortgage payment assistance program to prevent foreclosures. The program may help homeowners by providing "bridge" mortgage assistance for up to 18 months to many Georgians who are unemployed or have seen a dramatic decrease in their income through no fault of their own. Attendees are encouraged to take MARTA to Airport station and board the free ATL SkyTrain to the Convention Center or take MARTA to College Park station and board a special MARTA bus shuttle to the event. For more information, including how an employer may participate, please call 770-432-5405. What: Congressman David Scott’s 10th Annual 13th Congressional District Jobs Fair When: Friday, April 19, 2013, 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. Where: Georgia International Convention Center 2000 Convention Center Concourse, College Park, GA 30337 This year's participants include: A-Supreme Healthcare Services Aflac Atlanta AirServ Corporation Albany Police Department Alorica American General Life and Accident Ins. Co. Amerigroup Community Care Atlanta Gas Light (AGL) Resources Atlanta Job Corps Atlanta Metropolitan Black Chamber of Commerce Atlanta Police Department Atlanta Technical College Atlanta Workforce Development Agency Avon - Melton Bank of America Bobby Dodd Institute Brickman Group - Commercial Landscape Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC) Check 90 CHRIS Kids City of Atlanta City of Douglasville Police Clayton County Water Authority Cobb County Government Cobb Works, Inc. Colonial Life Columbus Police Department Comcast Corporation CredAbility, Nonprofit Credit Counseling Agency CSX Transportation D&E, The Power Group DeVry University Douglas County Fire/EMS Dept. Drake Staffing Employment Seeker Federal Air Marshals Federal Bureau of Investigation Floor and Décor Outlets of America Fulton County Housing and Human Services - Office of Workforce Development Fulton County Schools Police Gate Gourmet GEL Financial Services, LLC Georgia Tech Gentiva Health Services Georgia Power Company Global Media Empire Grady Health System Gwinnett County Police Department Hartsfield-Jackson Development Program International Marketing Associates (Stinson Associates) James Brown Youth Empowerment Organization Katlaw Truck Driving School Kroger Lincoln Heritage Life Insurance Co. Lowe's MARTA MSC Industrial Supply Company Porsche Cars North America Primerica Financial Services Project Real Life Y.O.T.C., Inc. Regions Financial Corporation Rollins, Inc./Orkin Pest Control Schneider National The Home Depot The Homeowners Employment Corporation Thomas and Williams, LLC Troops to Teachers United Parcel Service (UPS) United States Air Force Reserve United States Customs and Border Protection United States Department of Defense Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve United States Department of Veterans Affairs United States Foods United States General Services Administration (GSA) United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), Homeland Security Investigations United States Peace Corps United States Small Business Administration (SBA) United States Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Urban League of Greater Atlanta Veterans Upward Bound and Education Opportunity Center WAGA-TV Waffle House, Inc. Wells Fargo West Georgia Technical College WVFJ-FMRadio Training Network WSB-AM, WSBB-FM, WSRVFM, WALR-FM WSB-TV What challenges are you facing in trying to find a job? Comment on the Congressman's blog. If you are an employer, what challenges are you facing in trying to hire qualified employees? We would like to hear your thoughts as well.
03.16.2013	Today Congressman David Scott joined nearly 200 students, parents, and teachers to celebrate the 2013 Thirteenth Congressional District Art Competition held at the Arts Clayton Gallery. An expert panel of professional artists evaluated pieces submitted by 76 high school students from across the District and selected the top five winners. Shrooq Afifi, a student at Fayette County High School, earned “First Place” in the competition. Her winning piece, “The Painted Sky,” will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Renee Holdo of the Savannah College of Art and Design and Rob Albertson from the Art Institute of Atlanta were on hand to present Shrooq with $12,000 and $10, 000 scholarships respectively. “I am so proud of the talent displayed by the students here today,” said Congressman Scott. “I value the contributions the arts have made to communities across our country and have been inspired by today’s extraordinary exhibit to continue to support federal funding for the arts and humanities. And I am especially proud to host the Thirteenth Congressional District Art Competition each year that I have been in Congress to promote creativity, social development, and a strong sense of self-worth in our youth.” This year’s top winners include: First Place – “The Painted Sky” by Shrooq Afifi, Fayette County High School Second Place – “The Things” by Tam Huynh, Charles Drew High School Third Place – “Moment of Clarity” by Daira Lopez, Pebblebrook High School Fourth Place – “Do Tell” by Andrew Ferris, Mt. Zion Magnet High School Fifth Place – “Stepping Out” by Montavious Whiters, Mundy’s Mill High School To date, Congressman Scott has awarded over $350,000 and 40 scholarships to local student artists. This year’s top five winners will receive the following awards: First Place - $10,000 or $3,000/ year scholarship, artwork will hang in the U.S. Capitol for 1 year and roundtrip airfare to attend a June opening ceremony honoring 1st place winners from across the country; Second Place - $5,000 scholarship and artwork will hang in Congressman David Scott’s Washington Office for 1 year; Third Place - $2,500 scholarship and artwork will hang in prominent public gallery; Fourth Place - $500 scholarship and artwork will hang in Congressman David Scott’s Jonesboro Office for 1 year; and Fifth Place – artwork will hang in Congressman David Scott’s Smyrna Office for 1 year. Participating high schools this year include: Chapel Hill High School, Charles Drew High School, Clayton County Magnet High School, Creekside High School, Douglas County High School, Fayette County High School, Jonesboro High School, Landmark Christian Academy, Langston Hughes High School, Lithia Springs High School, Lovejoy High School, Mt. Zion High School, Mundy's Mill High School, North Clayton High School, Our Lady of Mercy Catholic High School, Pebblebrook High School, Riverdale High School, Stockbridge High School, and Trinity Chapel Academy. Special Thanks: Congressman Scott thanked the Management, Board of Directors and Staff of the Arts Clayton Gallery for exhibiting the 2013 Thirteenth Congressional District Art Competition. The Arts Clayton Gallery, a program of Arts Clayton, Inc., is a non-profit community arts gallery dedicated to enriching lives through art. The gallery, with its prominent 4-panel street mural, exhibits both professional and emerging artists. The 12 month schedule includes 30 themed and featured exhibits, including two juried competitions and the Thirteenth Congressional District Art Competition.
03.12.2013	Congressman Randy Neugebauer (R-TX) joined Congressman David Scott (D-GA) to introduce the National Association of Registered Agents & Brokers Act of 2013 (NARAB II), which would streamline the insurance agent licensing process. “The NARAB Reform Act will create a more efficient, modern, and workable system of insurance agent licensing,” Congressman Neugebauer said. “That allows for more competition between insurance agents and brokers, which ultimately means more choices and better prices for consumers purchasing insurance policies.” “Many of my colleagues in the House already know the significance of this legislation and how it will expand consumer choice and industry competition,” Congressman Scott said. “Similar legislation previously passed the House under suspension in the 111th Congress. The NARAB Reform Act will protect consumers, while also allowing for greater relief for those in the insurance industry who have struggled under burdensome regulations. I urge my House colleagues to support this legislation in order to modernize the system currently in place.” The current state regulatory system has worked effectively to maintain insurer solvency and protect consumers. However, the state-based system needs agent licensing reform. Neugebauer and Scott drafted H.R. 1064 to maintain the successful state-based system of insurance regulation while improving consistency and streamlining procedures from state to state. The NARAB Reform Act provides for non-resident insurance agent and broker licensing while preserving the rights of states to supervise and discipline agents and brokers. Reforming the current policy provides much-needed reciprocity in producer licensing through a board of state commissioners and industry representatives. The NARAB Reform Act only relates to marketplace entry and would not impact the day-to-day state regulation of insurance. Additionally, NARAB would not be part of, or report to, any federal agency and would not have any federal regulatory power. The legislation also would provide higher and more consistent national consumer protections for those agents utilizing NARAB. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) has formally endorsed the legislation and it is a top priority for the insurance industry, including the Independent Insurance Agents & Brokers of America. ###
02.28.2013	Today, Congressman David Scott voted for passage of S. 47, the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013. The bill passed the House by a large, bi-partisan margin of 286-138, and will renew and expand the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), which had expired in September 2011. “Today, the House voted to protect all victims of domestic violence across America,” Congressman Scott said. “Full reauthorization of VAWA is needed to ensure that law enforcement receives the resources they need to address crimes such as domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.” The updated version of VAWA addresses a number of concerns for LGBT, Native American and immigrant victims of sexual assault and domestic violence. The measure includes language to ensure the availability of services to all victims of domestic and dating violence, no matter their sexual orientation or gender identity. The measure also provides authority to Native American tribes to prosecute non-Indian perpetrators for a narrow set of crimes related to domestic, dating violence and violations of protecting orders. The measure also adds stalking to the list of crimes for which victims can receive protection through the U-Visa program. Finally, S. 47 also includes authorizations for programs preventing human trafficking, sexual assault on college campuses, as well as additional resources to address rape kit backlogs. Since the first VAWA bill passed in 1994, domestic violence has decreased by 53 percent. VAWA was reauthorized in 2000 and 2005 with bipartisan support, but for the first time, the law was not reauthorized during the previous session of Congress. The Senate passed S. 47 by a margin of 78-22 and the bill will now be sent to the President for his signature into law. ###
02.16.2013	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) proudly announced his nominations for 22 area students to attend our nation’s prestigious military academies. Congressman Scott honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special ceremony at the National Archives Center in Morrow, Georgia. The ceremony featured the Stockbridge High Color Guard, soloist Jill Shedd, and guest speakers from the U.S. Air Force and Military at West Point academies. “I am very proud to honor these young men and women and along with their families, school administrators, and local leaders today,” said Congressman Scott. “Our military academies require the utmost of its students in terms of character and academics in order to prepare future leaders for our armed forces. Without question, each student who received a nomination today possesses these qualities and more. I salute these outstanding young Americans who proudly reflect the Thirteenth Congressional District’s commitment to education and service.” Today Congressman Scott announced the following nominations: Clayton County students: · Akiiki Brown – U.S. Military Academy at West Point; Hampton resident and active duty member of the U.S. Army. · Adolfo DeGracia – U.S. Air Force; Riverdale resident and N. Clayton Comprehensive High School student. · De'Nasia Grayson – U.S. Air Force; Jonesboro resident and Mundy's Mill High School student. · Shara Hunte – U.S. Naval Academy; Morrow resident and Mt. Zion High School student. · Vivian McDougald – U.S. Air Force Academy; Forest Park resident and Mt. Zion High School student. · Charles Swinney, III – U.S. Air Force Academy; Jonesboro resident and Mundy's Mill High School student. · Andrew Terrell – U.S. Air Force Academy; Jonesboro resident and Charles R. Drew High School student. · Javon Walton – U.S. Air Force Academy; Ellenwood resident and Morrow HS student. Cobb County students: · Montreal Johnson – U.S. Air Force Academy; Smyrna resident and Pebblebrook High School student. · Trager Kviten – U.S. Air Force Academy; Marietta resident and Marietta High School student. · Daniel LeMay - U.S. Naval Academy; Powder Springs resident and Cumberland Christian Academy student. · Devin Putmon - U.S. Naval Academy; Powder Springs resident and Kennesaw Mountain High School student. · Evan Roback – U.S. Air Force Academy; Smyrna resident and Westminster Schools student. · Christopher Washington – U.S. Naval Academy; Mableton resident and Whitefield Academy student. DeKalb County student: · Breemond Holmes - U.S. Naval Academy; Decatur resident and Chapel Hill High School student. Douglas County students: · Reed McGuire – U.S. Air Force Academy; Douglasville resident and Landmark Christian School student. · Jennifer Nguyen – U.S. Naval Academy; Douglasville resident and U.S. Naval Academy Prep School student. · Yasmine Weddle – U.S. Naval Academy; Douglasville resident and Ernest J. King High School student. Fulton County student: · Monica Prioleau – U.S. Naval Academy; Fairburn resident and U.S. Naval Academy Prep School student. Henry County students: · Estrella Curry – U.S. Military Academy at West Point; Stockbridge resident and Jonesboro High School student. · Devon Encinias - U.S. Naval Academy; Stockbridge resident and Auburn University student. · Brandon Guyton – U.S. Air Force Academy; Stockbridge resident and Woodland High School student. To be considered for an academy appointment, an applicant must first be nominated. U.S. Senators and Members of the U.S. House of Representatives may nominate applicants who meet the following eligibility requirements: 17 to 23 years old; U.S. citizen, and unmarried without any legal obligation to support children or other dependents. Students entering the academies this fall will graduate in 2016. Students interested in applying for the Class of 2018 should contact Congressman Scott's Military Academy Coordinator Teresa Cooke at 770-210-5073.
02.05.2013	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced his 11th Annual Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery, for Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District. High school students from throughout Georgia’s 13th District are invited to submit artwork for the competition. The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity to showcase the artistic talents of high school students in the 13th District. Students may obtain entry forms and guidelines from their High School Art Teachers and Congressman Scott’s Office. Entries must be received in Congressman Scott's Jonesboro or Smyrna District Office by Friday, February 15, 2013. Congressman David Scott will host an awards ceremony naming this year’s top winners on Saturday, March 16, 2013 at the Arts Clayton Gallery. The first place entry from Congressman Scott’s district will join other first place winners from around the country and be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Scholarships will be presented to the top winners as follows: $10,000 or $3,000/ year – first place, $5,000 – second place, $2,500 – third place, and $500 – fourth place. Additionally, artwork submitted to the competition will be on display in a special exhibit hosted by the Arts Clayton Gallery from March 1 -28, 2013. To view Congressman Scott's video invitation for students, click here. For more information, please contact Audra Braswell Bleecker at 770-210-5073.
01.22.2013	Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announces his committee assignments for the 113th Session of Congress. House Committee on Agriculture - http://democrats.agriculture.house.gov/ Ranking Member, Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Areas of jurisdiction: Program and markets related to cotton, cottonseed, wheat, feed grains, soybeans, oilseeds, rice, dry beans, peas, lentils, the Commodity Credit Corporation, risk management, including crop insurance, commodity exchanges, and specialty crops. Member, Subcommittee on Livestock, Rural Development, and Credit Areas of jurisdiction: Livestock, dairy, poultry, meat, seafood and seafood products, inspection, marketing, and promotion of such commodities, aquaculture, animal welfare, and grazing, rural development, farm security and family farming matters, and agricultural credit. House Committee on Financial Services - http://democrats.financialservices.house.gov/ Member, Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Areas of jurisdiction: U.S. capital markets, the securities industry, and government-sponsored enterprises, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. It also oversees the Securities and Exchange Commission and self-regulatory organizations, such as the New York Stock Exchange and the NASD, that police the securities markets. Member, Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Areas of jurisdiction: financial regulators, such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Reserve, all matters pertaining to consumer credit including the Consumer Credit Protection Act and access to financial services, as well as the safety and soundness of the banking system. ###
01.16.2013	Congressman David Scott [GA-13], in partnership with the U.S. Departments of Treasury and Housing and Urban Development (HUD), is pleased to announce the upcoming Making Home Affordable “Help for Homeowners Event” in Atlanta on Friday, January 25, 2013. Homeowners who are struggling to make mortgage payments or refinance should attend to meet in-person with mortgage servicers and HUD-approved housing counselors for assistance at no cost. With Georgia currently ranked fifth in the nation for foreclosures, Congressman Scott is teaming up with the Obama Administration for the third consecutive year to organize Help for Homeowners Events in Atlanta and strengthen the area housing market by helping more struggling homeowners prevent avoidable foreclosures. Mortgage assistance options that will be offered include: · on site preparation of applications for Georgia’s HomeSafe program, which provides up to 18 months of mortgage assistance for the unemployed or underemployed; · initial counseling to apply for a mortgage modification; · document signing and review for modifications; · on-site execution of final modification agreements; · counseling for homeowners who are current but struggling on their mortgages; and · short-sale assistance. For a complete list of documents homeowners should bring, click here. WHEN: Friday, January 25, 2013, 1:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. WHERE: Cobb Galleria Centre – Hall A | 2 Galleria Parkway | Atlanta, GA 30339 Complimentary Self‐Parking at Cobb Galleria Parking Lots WHO: American Home Mortgage Servicing Aurora Loan Services Bank of America BB&T Chase CitiMortgage Everbank/ Everhome Georgia Department of Community Affairs GMAC Mortgage HSBC Mortgage IBM Lender Business Process Servicing Litton Loan Servicing Nationstar Ocwen One West Bank (Indy Mac) PNC Mortgage PHH Mortgage Saxon Select Portfolio Servicing State Home Mortgage SunTrust U.S. Bank U.S. Veterans Administration Wells Fargo/ Wachovia
01.11.2013	Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced that more than $8,000,000 in federal funds have been dispersed to purchase and demolish substantially damaged residential properties in Austell, Georgia. These properties were damaged during the major flooding events in September, 2009. “While the devastating floods of 2009 may seem like a memory to many people, it is still a nightmare to many residents of Austell,” Congressman Scott said. “I am glad that FEMA was able to come through in a large way to help remove these homes from the future flooding and allow families and neighborhoods to rebuild their lives.” A phased funding approach was taken to allow for properties to be acquired more quickly and to help homeowners recover from the damages. In Austell, substantially damaged residential properties will be purchased and demolished. The funding of $5,756,496 federal share is the remaining amount needed for the final 47 residences approved in the FEMA Tier II applications. In 2010, $2,387,502 was initially obligated for a total federal cost of $8,143,998 of a $10,858,664 total project cost. The federal government, through FEMA, provides a 75 percent match for the mitigation. FEMA provides the funding directly to the State, which works with local governments to mitigate the properties. In 2010, FEMA also provided the following funds: $2,125,515 to demolish 16 residences in the cities of Douglasville and Lithia Springs and $1,765,049 to demolish 16 residences in Powder Springs. All structures have been determined to be substantially damaged and located in the 100 year floodplain and the land is to remain as open space in perpetuity. This proposal will eliminate both the risk of flood damage to the structures and the need for future federal disaster assistance. A federal disaster declaration for Cobb and Douglas Counties was made on September 24, 2009. On September 25, 2009, Congressman Scott and Vice President Joe Biden, along with Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, toured the areas stricken by the flood in Cobb County. On August 22, 2012, Congressman Scott joined officials from Cobb County, the City of Austell, U.S. Geological Survey and National Weather Service to unveil a powerful new flood preparedness tool that will help emergency managers protect lives and property in the flood-prone Sweetwater Creek area.
11.11.2012	*This release was sent by the Nato Parliamentary Assembly of which Rep. Scott is a delegate. http://www.nato-pa.int/Default.asp?CAT2=0&CAT1=0&CAT0=0&SHORTCUT=3045 Prague, 11 November, 2012 - Allied lawmakers drafted a strongly worded warning to Iran over its nuclear programme Sunday, urging tougher sanctions if the government in Tehran continues to avoid substantial talks. “We are approaching a D-Day type decision at this moment in history. We cannot allow Iran to become a nuclear weapons capable state, let alone a nuclear armed one,” said US Congressman David Scott. “Iran has a choice to make. It can clear up all the outstanding issues and commit to a purely civilian nuclear programme or it can become a pariah state and be further ostracized from the international community,” Scott said. Scott’s draft resolution condemning Iran’s non-compliance with UN and IAEA resolutions on its nuclear programme was adopted by the Science and Technology Committee of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. The full 257-seat Assembly is expected to approve the resolution in a vote Monday on the final day of its annual session in Prague. The draft urged the governments and parliaments of the North Atlantic Alliance to work together to find a diplomatic outcome to the Iran nuclear dispute and to intensify efforts to offer Iran a package of positive incentives that could convince it to find a viable solution, such as exploring the establishment of a Weapons of Mass Destruction Free Zone in the Middle East. Scott said the resolution should send the Iranian authorities a clear message that the international community will not allow them to develop nuclear weapons and that they should accept a peaceful diplomatic solution before it’s too late. “A peaceful and negotiated solution is the most desirable one. Letting the sanctions run their course lies at the heart of the strategy to get Iran to a place where they will come around the fact that such a solution is in its long-term security interest,” he told the Committee. “However, I also strongly believe that all options need to be in play – at the end of the day, even a military strike.” In the draft resolution, lawmakers noted “with grave concern that Iran is moving ever-closer to a position where it could develop nuclear weapons if it so chooses.” It recognized “such a capacity would present a threat to regional stability, global security and the nuclear non-proliferation regime as well as to the vital interests of certain states” and acknowledged “that a time may come when those states take pre-emptive action.” NATO governments and parliaments should “prepare a new set of sanctions, with the broadest possible participation, and impose them if it becomes clear that Iran continues to avoid engaging in substantial talks,” the draft says.
08.07.2012	Today Congressman David Scott announced that he will host the Eighth Annual 13th Congressional District Health Fair on Saturday, August 18, 2012 from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. This event will feature FREE health screenings and take place at Mundy’s Mill High School in Jonesboro. To watch a video of Congressman Scott inviting the public to attend, visit http://www.youtube.com/user/RepDavidScott Free screenings and offers include: Prostate cancer PSA screenings; Clinical breast cancer exams; HIV/ AIDS screenings; Diabetes screenings (glucose); Free discount prescription drug cards; Blood pressure screenings; Cholesterol screenings; Sickle cell screenings; Vision, hearing and dental screenings; and much more! TO PRE-REGISTER, PLEASE CALL 770-210-5073. Join Congressman David Scott at the health fair to hear from renowned healthcare leaders and speak directly with healthcare professionals about assistance programs like Medicare, Medicaid, PeachCare, prescription drug assistance, and others for the uninsured. WHAT: Congressman David Scott's 8th Annual Health Fair WHEN: SATURDAY, AUGUST 18, 2012 - 10:00 AM to 2:30 PM WHERE: MUNDY'S MILL HIGH SCHOOL 9652 Fayetteville Road Jonesboro, GA 30238 PARTICIPANTS: AFLAC AID Atlanta, Inc Alzheimer's Association, Georgia Chapter Alzheimer's Services Center American Cancer Society American Cancer Society, South Atlantic Division American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, Metro Atlanta Chapter American Kidney Fund American Nephrology Nurses Association, Dogwood Chapter #224 Amerigroup Angels of Life Healthcare Consulting ARIA Consultants Arthritis Foundation, Georgia Chapter Atlanta Legal Aid Society Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Children's Healthcare of Atlanta Christian City Clayton Center Community Service Board Clayton County Board of Health Clayton County Board of Health (Breast and Cervical Cancer Program) Clayton County DCFS Clayton County Senior Services Department Clayton County Senior Services Department (RSVP Program) Clayton County Sheriff's Office Clayton State University Student American Dental Hygienists Association Cobb and Douglas Community Services Boards Coin RX Colgate Bright Smiles Bright Futures Eye Specialists of Georgia Fulton County Department of Health Services Fulton County Department of Health Services Mobile Unit - Breast and Cervical Cancer Program Georgia Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics GeorgiaCares Program Georgia Lions Lighthouse Foundation Georgia Medical Care Foundation Georgia Power Georgia Prostate Cancer Coalition Georgia State University, Byrdine F. Lewis School of Nursing and Health Profession GeoVax Labs, Inc. GNLD Wellness Center Grady Burn Unit Grady Health System, Infectious Disease Program Grady Rape Crisis Center Great Expressions Dental Centers Hands On Chiropractic & Wellness Clinic Healthy Mothers, Healthy Babies Kroger Pharmacy Lung Cancer Alliance Lupus Foundation of Georgia Magellan Health Services Marcus Stroke and Neuroscience Center/Grady Memorial Hospital Medicare Diabetes Screening Project Melaleuca, Inc. Mission on the Move Morehouse School of Medicine Mothers and Others For Clean Air New Life Chiropractic Northwest Chiropractic OMI Diagnostics Oral Health Impact Project Pancreatic Cancer Action Network Parkway Clinical Laboratory Peach State Health Plan Planned Parenthood Southeast, Inc. Primerica Financial Services Radiotherapy Clinics of Georgia Resurgens Orthopaedics Right from the Start Medicaid Riverdale Foot, Ankle & Leg Clinic Sacred Dental & Associates P.C. Sickle Cell Foundation of Georgia Sisters By Choice Social Security Administration Southern Regional Medical Center South Metro Chiropractic Center Susan G. Komen for the Cure, Greater Atlanta Affiliate Truly Living Well Center for Natural Urban Agriculture United Health Care Community Plans United States Food and Drug Administration United States Veteran's Administration Walgreens Pharmacy West End Medical Center Congressman Scott invites the public to attend the Health Fair at: http://www.youtube.com/user/RepDavidScott
08.06.2012	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) and Mrs. Alfredia Scott honored 6 area students who received a total of $10,000 in scholarship awards through the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Spouses and Foundation scholarship programs. “By earning these awards, each student has demonstrated strong work ethics and a high commitment to achieve excellence in their schools and communities,” said Congressman Scott. Mrs. Scott, wife of Congressman Scott, was very instrumental in securing the scholarships for the students as an active member of the CBC Spouses program. “It is with great pleasure that my husband and I commend each of these students for their exceptional academic achievement and we encourage them to continue to set high goals,” said Mrs. Scott. This year’s honorees and their awards include: 2012 Congressional Black Caucus Spouses Education Scholarship - $1,640 Cobb County o Kara Leverette, South Cobb H.S. and Agnes Scott College graduate, Emory University School of Medicine Douglas County o David Mahone, Douglas County H.S. graduate, Savannah State University o George Roberts, Chapel Hill H.S. graduate, University of West Georgia Fulton County o Regina Marshall, Our Lady of Mercy Catholic H.S. graduate, Howard University Henry County o Julia Francis, Dutchtown H.S. graduate, Georgia Southern University 2012 Congressional Black Caucus Foundation General Mills Health Scholarship - $1,800 Clayton County o Keyana Scott, Mundy’s Mill H.S. graduate, Spelman College The CBC Scholarship Fund was established in 1988 in response to federal cuts in spending for education programs and scholarships. This program provides tuition assistance to enable students to fulfill their higher education goals. Since 2003, Congressman Scott and his wife, Mrs. Alfredia Scott, have awarded $129,000 in scholarships to 65 students. For more information, students should contact Congressman Scott’s Office at 770-432-5405.
07.09.2012	The Affordable Care Act was signed into law two years ago and recently upheld by the Supreme Court. Republicans in Congress will soon call for votes on repealing the Affordable Care Act, but have not offered a replacement law to improve health care in America. Republicans choose more confrontation over healthcare rather than focusing on job creation or rebuilding the economy. Congressman Scott would welcome bi-partisan ways to improve the new law instead of re-fighting old debates. The Affordable Care Act has many benefits, which could be repealed, including: Providing Relief to Millions of Americans: o 17 million children with pre-existing conditions now have health insurance; o 54 million Americans are now receiving free preventative care services; o 360,000 small businesses are now taking advantage of the healthcare tax credit to provide insurance to 2 million workers; o 105 million Americans no longer have to deal with lifetime insurance caps; o Allows 2,800 employers to take advantage of the retiree reinsurance program to help cover over 12 million retirees not yet eligible for Medicare Putting Americans – not insurance companies – in charge of their health care by improving insurance plans: o Eliminating pre-existing condition exclusions for kids immediately and for all Americans by 2014; o Eliminating lifetime limits and caps on coverage immediately and phasing out annual limits and caps on coverage by 2014; o Prohibiting insurance companies from canceling or rescinding your policy if you get too sick; o Requiring insurance companies to spend 80-85% of your premium dollars on health benefits – not administrative costs; o Allowing 6.6 million youth up to age 26 to remain on their parents’ insurance policy Strengthening the Medicare program – extending Trust Fund solvency by 8 years – and reducing costs for seniors by: o Providing each senior that entered the donut hole in 2010 with a $250 check to help cover drug costs; o Reducing brand name drug costs in the donut hole by at least 50%, discounting generic drug costs, and closing the donut hole entirely over time; o Eliminating all co-pays and deductibles for preventive services; o Eliminating overpayments to Medicare Advantage plans; o Providing seniors with a free annual wellness exam. ###
07.02.2012	On Friday, the US House passed H.R.4348, which reauthorizes the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) for five years. NFIP is the primary source of reliable, affordable flood insurance coverage for millions of American homes and businesses. The bill includes an amendment by Congressman Scott to allow NFIP premiums to be paid in installments. You can watch a clip of Congressman Scott speaking about the bill at this link. “My amendment addresses the financial barriers that many homeowners encounter when procuring mandatory flood insurance for their property, namely the lump-sum payment of a policy premium,” Congressman Scott said. “After severe flooding in Georgia, several constituents contacted my office to share their concerns about the burden of paying flood insurance premiums. While the deluge may have gone, we must make sure that these hard-working homeowners do not drown in the financial aftermath. My amendment will allow these homeowners to pay their premiums in installments and make insurance more affordable.” For the last few years, NFIP has been operating under short term extensions. This created uncertainty and hardships for homeowners who need flood insurance to secure low-interest SBA loans and other assistance to rebuild. The updated program provides a long-term extension of NFIP in order to provide dependable assistance for homeowners. Several constituents contacted Congressman Scott’s office about the requirement for a lump-sum payment of a policy premium being difficult to fulfill in times of fiscal strain. Congressman Scott’s amendment allows homeowners to submit their premium through monthly installments.You can watch a video of Congressman Scott discussing the need for long-term extension of the NFIP at this link. Congressman Scott's amendment was originally added to an NFIP bill in 2010 and has been included in subsequent versions of NFIP re-authorization. H.R. 4348, referenced above, is primarily a transportation bill that includes the text of an NFIP bill, Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2011 (H.R. 1309). Congressman Scott is a member of the Committee on Financial Services, which has oversight of flood insurance programs. For more information about flood assistance, visit: FEMA website: http://www.fema.gov/ SBA website: http://www.sba.gov/services/disasterassistance/index.html ###
05.04.2012	Congressman David Scott [GA-13], in partnership with the U.S. Departments of Treasury and Housing and Urban Development (HUD), will host the powerful two-day “Help for Homeowners Community Events” on Friday, June 1, 1:00pm-8:00pm and Saturday, June 2, 9am-3pm. These events will take place at the Georgia International Convention Center in College Park. These events are free opportunities for homeowners to meet one-on-one with mortgage lenders and HUD-approved housing counselors for mortgage assistance. To watch a video of Congressman Scott inviting constituents to the event, visit his YouTube page at this link. “The Atlanta region has been hit hard by unprecedented home foreclosure rates, especially homeowners from my District in Cobb, Clayton, Douglas, South Fulton, South DeKalb, and Henry counties. That is why I have been working hard with the U.S. Treasury Department to bring this powerful two day opportunity back to Atlanta,” said Congressman David Scott (GA-13). Please bring the following documents: - Monthly mortgage statement - Information about other mortgages on your home, if applicable - Two most recent pay stubs for all household members contributing toward mortgage - If self-employed, the most recent quarterly or year-to-date profit and loss statement and two years of tax returns - Documentation of income you receive from other sources (alimony, child support, social security, etc.) - Three most recent bank statements - A utility bill showing homeowner name and property address - Unemployment insurance letter WHEN: Friday, June 1, 2012, 1:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. Saturday, June 2, 2012, 9:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m. WHERE: Georgia International Convention Center (GICC) 2000 Convention Center Concourse, College Park, GA 30337 · Complimentary parking. · The GICC is available via the MARTA Airport station. From the Airport station, please board the free ATL SkyTrain located across the street and proceed to the GICC SkyTrain station. Participating servicers: American Home Mortgage Servicing Aurora Loan Services Bank of America BB&T Chase CitiMortgage Everhome Bank Georgia Department of Community Affairs (DCA) GMAC/ Homecomings HSBC Mortgage M&T Bank Nationstar Ocwen One West Bank (Indy Mac) PNC Mortgage Regions Select Portfolio Seterus State Home Mortgage Sun Trust U.S. Bank U.S. Veterans Administration (VA) Wells Fargo/ Wachovia Event Partners and Resources: - Making Home Affordable - U.S. Department of the Treasury - HOPE NOW - NeighborWorks America - U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development - Fannie Mae - Freddie Mac - HUD-FHA - HUD-Approved Housing Counseling Agencies - Veterans Affairs - Hardest Hit Fund – Georgia HomeSafe To pre-register or obtain more information on the HomeSafe Georgia program, which provides mortgage "bridge" assistance for up to 18 months for persons who are unemployed or underemployed, please click here. For more information, visit: www.MakingHomeAffordable.gov or www.HopeNow.com or call 1-888-995-HOPE (4673).
03.19.2012	Congressman David Scott's 9TH ANNUAL JOBS FAIR FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2012, 10AM - 3PM Georgia International Convention Center 2000 Convention Center Concourse - College Park, GA 30337 Located off Camp Creek Parkway on I-85 and I-285, near Hartsfield-Jackson Airport Once again, Congressman David Scott is teaming up with more than 100 of Atlanta's major corporations, small businesses, and government agencies who are offering a rich variety of job opportunities. Employers looking to participate should register by March 23rd. Participation is free. With many of our veterans heading home from Iraq and Afghanistan, this year’s jobs fair will also include job assistance resources for veterans. Attendees may take MARTA to the Airport Station and then take the free ATL SkyTrain to the Convention Center. MARTA will also provide shuttles from the College Park Station beginning at 8:30 a.m. and running every half-hour to the Georgia International Convention Center (GICC); the shuttle will also leave GICC and return to the College Park MARTA station every half-hour until 4:30 p.m. For more information, please call 770-432-5405. Click here for directions. Employers participating this year include: A-Supreme Healthcare Services Adams Plumbing AD Tronic, Account Executives, Sales Advantage Staffing Aflac Atlanta, Account Executives, Sales AirServ Corporation Aloricares, Disabled Veterans working from home American General Life and Accident Insurance Co., Sales American Red Cross Amerigroup, Sales Art Institute of Atlanta AT&T, Veterans, IT, Sales, Retail and Management Atlanta Gas Light (AGL) Resources, Sales, Customer Service Atlanta Job Corps Atlanta Metropolitan Black Chamber of Commerce Atlanta Police Department, veterans Atlanta Technical College Atlanta Workforce Development Agency Avon-Melton Bank of America, Tellers, Personal Bankers, etc. Belhaven University, Professors, Admin Assistants, Recruitment/HR, Gov/Contract Specialist Caterpillar, Inc. City of Douglasville Police Clayton County Family Care Clayton County Government – Human Resources Department Clayton County Sheriff’s Office Clayton County Water Authority, Mechanics, Electricians Cobb Works, Inc. Colonial Life, Sales Agents Columbus Police Department, veterans Corinthian Colleges, Inc. / Everest College CSX Transportation, Veterans, Engineers, Management Trainees, Customer Service, Sales and Marketing D&E, The Power Group Decatur Career Center of Goodwill of North GA DeVry University, Professors, Admissions Reps Divine Force Protection Services Douglas County Fire/EMS Dept. Educate 1 Employment Seeker Epstein, Weinberg and Associates, LLC, Sales, Telemarketing etc Federal Air Marshals, Air Marshall Service, Airport Security, Administrative,Instructors, Law Enforcement, veterans Federal Aviation Administration – Human Resources, veterans Federal Bureau of Investigation, Foreign Languages ie; Arabic, Farsie, Chinese, Spanish, Russian, Hebrew, Hindi, Intelligence, Computer Scientists, Engineers, Accountants, Financial Managers, Law enforcement-investigation Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) FedEx Ground Fulton County Schools Police, veterans Gate Gourmet GEL Financial Services, LLC Gentiva Health Services, nursing, nurse management, sales, sales management or therapy Georgia Dept. of Labor-Vocational Rehabilitation Program Georgia Department of Public Safety Global Media Empire GLOCK, Inc. Green Grease, Inc. Gwinnett County Police Department, veterans Hands on Atlanta Hartsfield-Jackson Development Program, Construction Managers, Planners, Designers, Blue Print Readers, Construction Laborers, Engineers Internal Revenue Service (IRS) International Marketing Associates (Stinson and Associates) Social Workers, Business Mentorship, Trainees Katlaw Truck Driving School Lift Community Development Lincoln Heritage Life Insurance Company Lockheed Martin Corporation, Veterans, Assembly Laborers, Business Developers, Engineers, Finance, Scientists etc Lonza, Lab Technicians, Scientists Lowe’s MARTA, veterans Mary Kay MSC Industrial Supply Company, Warehouse Training Specialist, Facility Maintenance Supervisors, Seasonal Warehouse positions, Part-time Warehouse NAARI Housing Counseling Agency National Motor Club (NMC) Staffing Solutions NID-HCA Housing Counselors Primerica-Johnson Project Real Life Y.O.T.C., Inc. Radio One Atlanta (Praise 102.5/Majic 107.5/97.5 and Hot107.9) Regions Financial Corporation, Tellers, Financial Service Specialists Rollins, Inc. / Orkin Pest Control Rush2compute.com Schneider National, veterans Southwest Airlines and AirTran Airways Southern Company/GA Power Suniva Suntrust Banks, Inc. The Home Depot, veterans The Homeowners Employment Corporation Troops to Teachers, Veterans Tyco Fire Protection Products Management, Supply Managers, Logistics Analysts, Summer Interns United Parcel Service (UPS), veterans United States Air Force Reserves United States Customs and Border Protection, veterans U.S. Department of Labor- Jobs Corps U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, Atlanta Vet Center U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, VA for Vets United States Foods United States General Services Administration (GSA), Architects, Engineers, Construction Specialists, Building Managers, Realty Specialists U.S. Immigration & Customs Enforcement Agency (ICE), veterans United States Peace Corps, Prep for Overseas Assignments United States Small Business Administration (SBA) United States Transportation Security Administration (TSA), Air Marshall Service, Airport Security, Administrative, Instructors, Law Enforcement, veterans Value Village, sales, marketing Veterans Upward Bound and Education Opportunity Center veterans Verizon Wireless Vodaplex, Inc. Waffle House, Inc. West Georgia Technical College WORKTEC WNGC,WGAU,WXKT, WRFC,WGMG, WPUP-COX WVFJ-FM Radio Training Network WCLK-FM Clark Atlanta WABE-FM Public Broadcasting Atlanta WSB-AM, WSBB-FM, WSRVFM, WALR-FM, WSB-TV Career Resources - Find a local career center at this link. - Jobs posted in Georgia at this link - Federal Government job listings -http://www.usajobs.gov/ - Unemployment insurance handbook at this link - Resume Assistance - click here - Georgia Technical Colleges - click here - Find out about HOPE Grants to attend Technical colleges - here - Georgia WorkReady - http://gaworkready.org/pages/view/what-is-georgia-work-ready To watch a video of Congressman Scott inviting his constituents to the Jobs Fair, visit his YouTube page: http://www.youtube.com/user/RepDavidScott
03.19.2012	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced more than $25,000 in scholarships for the top winners of his tenth annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Congressman Scott honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special ceremony Saturday at the Arts Clayton Gallery in Jonesboro. “This year’s exhibit was extraordinary. I am so proud of the students who participated and showcased their stunning artwork,” said Scott. “Our art competition presents an opportunity for our students to have their art professionally displayed and to earn scholarships. I am honored to recognize our top winners for their exceptional artistic achievements, and I encourage all of this year’s participants to continue to set high goals for themselves.” This year’s top winners include: 1st Place– One Half Can Equal Whole by Emmanuel Rivas, Campbell High School 2nd Place – Captain of My Soul by Montavious Whiters, Mundy’s Mill High School 3rd Place – Speak Loud by Morgan Dallas, Strong Rock Christian Academy 4th Place – Self Portrait by Akayla Hill, Pebblebrook High School 5th Place – Divine Intervention by Torian Harris, Clayton County Fine Arts Magnet High School In ten years of hosting the Arts Competition, Congressman David Scott has awarded over $320,000 in scholarships to local students. This year’s top five winners will receive the following awards: First Place Winner - $10,000 Art Institute of Atlanta scholarship; $3,000 from Savannah College of Art and Design; 1-Year Young Patron Membership to the High Museum of Art ($200 value); artwork will hang in the U.S. Capitol for 1 year; & roundtrip airfare by Southwest Airlines to attend ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C. Second Place Winner - $5,000 Art Institute of Atlanta scholarship and artwork will hang in Congressman David Scott’s Washington Office for 1 year Third Place Winner - $2,500 Art Institute of Atlanta scholarship and artwork will hang in Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson Airport Fourth Place Winner - $1,000 Arts Clayton scholarship and artwork will hang in Congressman David Scott’s Jonesboro Office for 1 year Fifth Place Winner – a week of free art classes at the Art Institute of Atlanta and artwork will hang in Congressman David Scott’s Smyrna Office for 1 year Participating high schools this year include: Arlington Christian Academy, Campbell, Cedar Grove, Charles Drew, Clayton County Magnet, Forest Park, Jonesboro, Langston Hughes, Lithia Springs, McEachern, Morrow, Mt. Zion, Mundy’s Mill, New Creation Christian Academy, New Manchester, North Clayton, Pebblebrook, Riverdale, South Atlanta, Stockbridge, Strong Rock Christian Academy, and Woodland. Students interested in participating in next year’s competition should contact Audra Bleecker at 770-210-5073.
02.04.2012	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced his nomination of 23 area students to our nation’s prestigious military academies. Congressman Scott honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special ceremony at the National Archives Center in Morrow, Georgia. The ceremony featured Chapel Hill High Color Guard of Douglasville and guest speakers from the U.S. Air Force and Naval academies. “I am very proud to honor these young men and women and along with their families and teachers today,” said Congressman Scott. “Our military academies require exceptional academic achievement and high character of its students to prepare future leaders of the armed forces. I am certain that each of the students honored today possesses these qualities. I salute these outstanding young Americans who proudly reflect the 13th Congressional District’s commitment to education and service.” Today Congressman Scott announced the following nominations: Clayton County · Jordon Bowen – U.S. Air Force Academy, Jonesboro resident, Jonesboro High School · Ibrahim Fadika – U.S. Air Force Academy, Jonesboro resident, Mundy’s Mill High School · Ricardo Salas – U.S. Air Force Academy, Ellenwood resident, Stockbridge High School · Jordan Sartor-Francis – U.S. Naval Academy, Jonesboro resident, Our Lady of Mercy School · Christian Ward – U.S. Air Force Academy, Riverdale resident, North Clayton High School Cobb County · Aaron Churchill – U.S. Military Academy, Mableton resident, Campbell High School · Keith Cormier – U.S. Military Academy, Smyrna, Duluth High School · Taneisha Jones – U.S. Air Force Academy, Marietta resident, South Cobb High School · Michael Richards, Jr. – U.S. Naval Academy, Mableton resident, Campbell High School · Jordan Robertson – U.S. Military Academy, Marietta, 2011 Graduate of Osborne High School · Luke Voss – U.S. Naval Academy, Mableton resident, Holy Spirit Prep School Douglas County · James Curlee – U.S. Military Academy, Douglasville resident, USMA Prep School · Antoine Harraway – U.S. Naval Academy, Douglasville resident, Chapel Hill High School · Jennifer Nguyen – U.S. Naval Academy, Douglasville resident, Arlington Christian Academy Fulton County · Robert Daniels, Jr. – U.S. Military Academy, College Park resident, Carver Early College High School · Rufus Huffman, III – U.S. Air Force Academy, Fairburn resident, USAFA Prep School · Monica Prioleau – U.S. Military Academy, Fairburn resident, Grady High School Henry County · Torrey Butler – U.S. Naval Academy, Stockbridge resident, Stockbridge High School · Thomas Daniels – U.S. Naval Academy, Stockbridge resident, Stockbridge High School · Devin Encinias – U.S. Military Academy, Stockbridge resident, Woodland High School · Christina Gamble – U.S. Air Force Academy, Stockbridge resident, USAFA Prep School · Anna Poole – U.S. Air Force Academy, Stockbridge resident, Paragon Academy · Mylon Randolph – U.S. Air Force Academy, Stockbridge resident, Stockbridge High School To be considered for an academy appointment, an applicant must first be nominated. U.S. Senators and Members of the U.S. House of Representatives may nominate applicants who meet the following eligibility requirements: 17 to 23 years old; U.S. citizen, and unmarried without any legal obligation to support children or other dependents. Students entering the academies this fall will graduate in 2016. Students interested in applying for the Class of 2017 should contact Congressman Scott's Military Academy Coordinator Teresa Cooke at 770-210-5073. Click here to view photos from the ceremony.
02.01.2012	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced his sponsorship of the 10th Annual Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery, for Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District. High school students from throughout Georgia’s 13th District are invited to submit artwork for the competition. Artwork submitted to the competition will be on display March 1 – 25 at the Arts Clayton Gallery. The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity to showcase the artistic talents of high school students in the 13th District. Students may obtain entry forms and guidelines from their High School Art Teachers and Congressman Scott’s Office. Entries must be received in Congressman Scott's Jonesboro or Smyrna District Office by Friday, February 17, 2012. The winning piece of art from Scott’s district will join winners from Congressional districts around the country and be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. The first place winner will be invited to see their art displayed in the Capitol during an unveiling ceremony in June. Scholarships will also be awarded to the top winners as follows: $10,000 – first place, $5,000 – second place, $2,500 – third place, and $1,000 – fourth place, all by the Art Institute of Atlanta; and $1,500/ year to the first-place winner by the Savannah College of Art and Design. Congressman Scott will host an awards ceremony naming this year’s top winners on Saturday, March 17, 2012 at Arts Clayton Gallery. For more information, interested students should contact Audra Braswell Bleecker at 770-210-5073. GUIDELINES AND FORMS: 2012 Congressional High School Art Competition Guidelines Use this link to read a complete list of rules and guidlines for the 2012 competition. Artwork that does not comply with the rules will not be accepted. 2012 Student Information and Release Form This form must be printed and fully completed. The student, his/her parent/ guardian, and his/her art teacher must sign it. This completed form must be attached to the back of the submitted artwork.
09.28.2011	Congressman David Scott recently joined with members of the Blue Dog Coalition to introduce the Blue Dog Small Business Package. This package consists of three bills that would provide resources that small businesses could use to access capital, grow their operations, and increase employment. “The only way to turn this economy around is for more jobs to be created,” said Rep. Scott. “As an entrepreneur with an MBA from the Wharton School of Finance, I know that small businesses will lead the way in private-sector job growth. That is why Congress must stop the petty fighting and focus on helping small businesses succeed." Specifically, the Blue Dog Small Business Package consists of three bills that promote job growth in America by providing small businesses with increased access to capital through streamlined approval processes, lower interest rates on SBAEXPRESS loans, increased access to government contracts, as well as the opportunity to lock in long-term, stable financing. Click here to learn more about the legislation. ###
09.27.2011	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced that applications are available for students interested in a nomination to our nation’s military service academies. “The privilege of nominating qualified students to the United States Air Force, Military, Merchant Marine, and Naval Academies is one of my most important and rewarding responsibilities,” said Congressman Scott. “The education provided at our nation’s prestigious service academies is of the highest quality and offers challenges that develop our young people into future leaders.” To be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant must meet the eligibility requirements established by law and be nominated from an authorized person including a Member of the United States Senate or the House of Representatives. Applicants must also meet the following eligibility requirements as of July 1 of the year of admission to a service academy. He or she must be at least 17 years old, but not have passed the 23rd birthday, must be a United States citizen, must be a legal resident of Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District, and must be unmarried, not pregnant, and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. Interested students should contact Congressman Scott’s Office and complete applications available online at www.house.gov/davidscott. Applicants will be evaluated on the basis of academic performance, leadership ability, moral character, adequacy of preparation, and commitment to attend a service academy. All completed applications must be received by no later than 5 p.m., Friday, October 28, 2011 in Congressman Scott’s Jonesboro Office located at 173 North Main Street, Jonesboro, GA 30236.
08.09.2011	WHAT: Congressman David Scott brings together area hospitals, government agencies, non-profit organizations, and leaders of the healthcare industry to host his annual health fair for residents of the 13th Congressional District. This year’s event will offer an array of FREE HEALTH SCREENINGS. WHEN: SATURDAY, AUGUST 13, 2011 - 10:00 AM to 2:30 PM WHERE: MUNDY'S MILL HIGH SCHOOL 9652 Fayetteville Road, Jonesboro, GA 30238 ACTIVITIES AT THE HEALTH FAIR: Receive FREE health screenings for women’s and men’s health issues including: Prostate cancer, Breast cancer, Diabetes, HIV/AIDS, vision, dental, blood pressure, cholesterol, bone density, chiropractic & many more! Hear from renowned healthcare leaders, including: Dr. Farah Williams, Dr. Rogsbert Phillips, and Dr. James Benton Speak directly with healthcare professionals about healthcare assistance programs like Medicare, Medicaid, PeachCare, prescription drug assistance, and others for the uninsured. Pre-registration is required to take advantage of FREE PROSTATE CANCER (PSA) screenings at the Health Fair. TO PRE-REGISTER, PLEASE CLICK HERE or CALL 770-210-5073. HEALTHCARE PARTICIPANTS: AID ATLANTA – HIV/ AIDS Screening AFLAC ALZHEIMER’S ASSOCIATION – GEORGIA CHAPTER AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY AMERIGROUP – Blood Pressure/Diabetes AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION – Cooking Demonstration ANA CONSULTANTS – CPR/ First Aid *(First Line Demonstration) ATLANTA LEGAL AID SOCIETY – CLAYTON COUNTY BAXTER HEALTHCARE CORPORATION BRIGHT FROM THE START – GA. DEPT. OF EARLY LEARING CHILDRENS HEALTHCARE OF ATLANTA - Asthma Screenings CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES CLAYTON COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH – Blood Pressure Screenings CLAYTON COUNTY SENIOR SERVICES DEPT. CLAYTON CENTER COMMUNITY SERVICE BOARD COIN RX CUT – Discount Prescription Drug Card COLGATE-BRIGHT SMILES BRIGHT FUTURE Winnebago – Dental Screenings CSS HEALTHCARE SERVICES – Blood Pressure, Blood Sugar (Glucose) EYE SPECIALISTS OF GEORGIA – Vision GEORGIA CARES GEORGIA COMMISSION ON WOMEN – Osteoporosis GEORGIA DIETETIC ASSOCIATION GEORGIA LIONS LIGHTHOUSE FOUNDATION – Vision GEORGIA OVARIAN CANCER ALLIANCE GEORGIA POWER – Power Town GEORGIA PROSTATE CANCER COALITION GRADY HEALTH SYSTEM GRADY RAPE CRISIS CENTER HEALTHY MOTHERS, HEALTHY BABIES COALITION OF GEORGIA HEMOPHILIA OF GEORGIA JONESBORO NR KAREN MACK ENTERPRISES KROGER LA FTINESS LIFELINK OF GEORGIA MCKESSON HEALTH MART HEALTHY LIVING TOUR – Blood Pressure, Cholesterol, Blood Glucose and Hemoglobin A1c Test MEDICARE DIABETES SCREENING PROJECT MELLALEUCA, INC. MISSION ON THE MOVE MOREHOUSE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE – Blood Pressure Testing NANSTON DENTAL GROUP – Dental Screening NATIONAL BLACK ASSOCIATION FOR SPEECH/LANGUAGE & HEARING – Hearing Screening NEW CONCEPT WELLNESS CENTER – Blood Pressure/ Adrenal Gland Function NEW LIFE CHIROPRACTIC – Foot and Spinal Scan NORTHSIDE HOSPTIAL NUTRA EASE – Healthy Cooking Demonstration PEACH STATE HEALTH PLAN PLANNED PARENTHOOD PRIME AMERICA – Mitch Johnson RC CANCER CENTERS – PSA Screening RIGHT FROM THE START MEDICAID SACRED DENTAL – Dental Screening SEEDCO - Screenings for public assistance SHORTER UNIVERSITY SOUTHERN REGIONAL – Cholesterol, Glucose, Blood Pressure Testing SOCIAL SECURITY SOUTH METRO CHIROPRACTIC CENTER – Stress Screening SOUTHSIDE MEDICAL CENTER – Cholesterol, BMI, Vision SICKLE CELL FOUNDATION - Sickle Cell Screening UCB, INC. UPPER RIVERDALE SPECIFIC – Spinal & Posture Screenings U.S. FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION – Healthy Cooking Demo WALGREENS WELLCARE OF GEORGIA WESTEND MEDICAL CENTER – Blood Pressure, Glucose Testing YOUNG SURVIVAL COALITION
08.08.2011	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) and Mrs. Alfredia Scott honored 10 area students who received a total of $14,600 in scholarship awards through the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Spouses Scholarship program. “By earning these awards, each student has demonstrated strong work ethics and a high commitment to achieve excellence in their schools and communities,” said Congressman Scott. Mrs. Scott, wife of Congressman Scott, was very instrumental in securing the scholarships for the students as an active member of the CBC Spouses program. “It is with great pleasure that my husband and I commend each of these students for their exceptional academic achievement and we encourage them to continue to set high goals,” said Mrs. Scott. This year’s honorees and their awards include: Clayton County Davis Nguyen, Lovejoy High School graduate, Yale University - $1,150 Walmart Strive for Excellence Scholarship Chelsea Walker, Jonesboro High School graduate, University of Georgia- $1,640, CBC Spouses Education Scholarship Cobb County Darnell Bunch, II, McEachern High School graduate, Auburn University- $1,640, CBC Spouses Education Scholarship Chassity Hogan, Pebblebrook High School graduate, Agnes Scott College - $1,150 Walmart Strive for Excellence Scholarship Jared Loggins, McEachern High School graduate, Morehouse College - $1,640, CBC Spouses Education Scholarship Douglas County Tyler Daniel, Douglas County High School graduate, Georgia Southern University- $1,640, CBC Spouses Education Scholarship Fulton County Riana Burney, Arlington Christian School graduate, Georgia Institute of Technology - $1,800, CBC Spouses Cheerios Brand Health Initiative Scholarship Rekeyia Sherrell, Holy Innocents Episcopal School graduate, Howard University - $1,640, CBC Spouses Education Scholarship Malik Wilson, Langston Hughes High School graduate, Georgia Gwinnett College- $1,150 Walmart Strive for Excellence Scholarship Henry County Kwardel Lewis, Woodland High School graduate, University of Georgia- $1,150 Walmart Strive for Excellence Scholarship The CBC Spouses Education Scholarship Fund was established in 1988 in response to federal cuts in spending for education programs and scholarships. This program provides tuition assistance to enable students to fulfill their higher education goals. For more information, students should contact Congressman Scott’s Office at 770-432-5405.
05.24.2011	Congressman David Scott [GA-13], in partnership with the U.S. Departments of Treasury and Housing and Urban Development (HUD), will host the powerful two-day “Help for Homeowners Community Events” on Friday, June 17, 11am-7:30pm and Saturday, June 18, 9am-3pm. These events will take place at the Georgia International Convention Center in College Park. These events are free opportunities for homeowners to meet one-on-one with mortgage lenders and HUD-approved housing counselors for mortgage assistance. “The Atlanta region has been bit hard by unprecedented home foreclosure rates, especially homeowners from my District in Cobb, Clayton, Douglas, South Fulton, South DeKalb, and Henry counties. That is why I have been working hard with the U.S. Treasury Department to engage Atlanta-focused banks to participate in this powerful two day opportunity,” said Congressman David Scott (GA-13). I am proud to say that these banks have stepped up after I engaged them. And now, in addition to the banks the U.S. Treasury Dept. typically engages for these events, both large and mid-sized banks like Flagstar, Everhome, Nationstar, PHH Mortgage, and BB&T will be on site meeting with struggling homeowners and considering ways to help them save their homes.” Please bring the following documents: · Monthly mortgage statement · Information about other mortgages on your home, if applicable · Two most recent pay stubs for all household members contributing toward mortgage · If self-employed, the most recent quarterly or year-to-date profit and loss statement and two years of tax returns · Documentation of income you receive from other sources (alimony, child support, social security, etc.) · Three most recent bank statements · A utility bill showing homeowner name and property address · Unemployment insurance letter For more information, visit: www.MakingHomeAffordable.gov or www.HopeNow.com or call 1-888-995-HOPE (4673). WHEN: Friday, June 17, 2011, 11:00 a.m. – 7:30 p.m. Saturday, June 18, 2011, 9:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m. WHERE: Georgia International Convention Center (GICC) 2000 Convention Center Concourse, College Park, GA 30337 · Complimentary parking. · The GICC is available via the MARTA Airport station. From the Airport station, please board the free ATL SkyTrain located across the street and proceed to the GICC SkyTrain station. WHO: · American Home Mortgage Servicing · Aurora Loan Services · Bank of America · BB&T · Chase · CitiMortgage · Everbank/ Everhome · Flagstar · Georgia Department of Community Affairs (DCA) · GMAC Mortgage · HSBC Mortgage · IBM Lender Business Process Servicing · Litton Loan Servicing · Nationstar · Ocwen · One West Bank (Indy Mac) · PNC Mortgage · PHH Mortgage · Regions · Select Portfolio Servicing (SPS) · State Home Mortgage · Sun Trust · U.S. Bank · U.S. Veterans Administration (VA) · Wells Fargo/ Wachovia
04.16.2011	Congressman David Scott's 8TH ANNUAL 13TH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT JOBS FAIR FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 2011, 10AM - 3PM Georgia International Convention Center 2000 Convention Center Concourse - College Park, GA 30337 Located off Camp Creek Parkway on I-85 and I-285, near Hartsfield-Jackson Airport MARTA will provide free shuttles from the College Park station beginning at 8:30 a.m. and running every half-hour to the Georgia International Convention Center (GICC); the shuttle will also leave GICC and return to the College Park MARTA station every half-hour until 4:30 p.m. Attendees may also take MARTA to the Airport station and then take the free ATL SkyTrain to the Convention Center. For more information, please call 770-432-5405. Click here for directions. More than 100 employers are participating this year, including ... ABC Record Expungement Service, LLC A-Supreme Healthcare Services Ad Ventures International AFLAC AirTran Airways AloriCares American General Life and Accident Ins. Co. Arch Chemicals Art Institute of Atlanta Assured and Associates AT&T Atlanta Job Corps Atlanta Police Department Atlanta Technical College Atlanta Workforce Development Agency Avon Avon - Walthall Baskets by Consuela Chase Bank BizGov Solutions, LLC City of Douglasville Police Clayton County Family Care Clayton County Government - HR Dept Clayton County Water Authority CLEAR (Dynasty Marketing Firm) Cobb Works, Inc. Colonial Life Columbus Police Department Comcast Cable CSX D&E, The Power Group Decatur Career Center of Goodwill of North Georgia DeKalb Workforce Development Dendreon Corporation Douglas County Fire/ EMS Dept. Edward Jones Investments Employment Seeker Federal Air Marshals, Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) FedEx Ground Fulton Atlanta Community Action Authority Georgia Air National Guard Georgia Department of Human Services Georgia Department of Human Services - Medicaid Georgia Power GEO Group: Robert A. Deyton Detention Facility Global Recruiters of Atlanta East, Inc. Global Rhema Corporation GLOCK Goodwill of North Georgia grex, Inc. Gwinnett County Police Department Hartsfield-Jackson Development Program Healthport IBM Jetaire Group, Inc. JR Crickets Sandtown Crossing Katlaw Truck Driving Kroger Lift Community Development Lincoln Heritage Life Insurance Co. Lockheed Martin Corporation Lowe's Mack II, Inc. MARTA Mary Kay Cosmetics Money Resource Connection MSC Industrial Supply Company Mustard Seed Group National Motor Club (NMC) Staffing Solutions New Horizon Computer Learning Center Northwestern Mutual-Goodwin/Wright Peace Corps Permanency Solutions, Inc. Personal Touch Tours Travel Agency PrePaid Legal Services Primerica Financial Services (Burke) Primerica Financial Services (Johnson) Purity Chemicals, Inc. Rainbow House, Inc. Regions Financial Corporation ResCare Home Care Rockdale County Public Schools Ryla, Inc. Schneider National Shorter University Stinson and Associates, Inc. / Business Mentorship Suniva SunTrust Bank Those In Between Jobs Tyco Fire Protection Products United Education Institute United Parcel Service (UPS) U.S. Army Recruiting U.S. Customs and Border Protection U.S. Department of Health & Human Services and Drug Administration U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) U.S. Foodservice U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) Urban League of Greater Atlanta Veterans Upward Bound and Education Opportunity Center WAGA-TV/FOX ATLANTA WGCL-TV CBS 46 WIPRO WORKTEC WCLK-FM Clark Atlanta WPBA-TV WABE-FM WSB-TV/AM,WSBB, WSRV,WALR, Cox WUPA-TV CW69 WVFJ-FM RADIO Career Resources - Find a local career center at this link. - Jobs posted in Georgia at this link - Federal Government job listings -http://www.usajobs.gov/ - Unemployment insurance handbook at this link - Resume Assistance - click here - Georgia Technical Colleges - click here - Find out about HOPE Grants to attend Technical colleges - here - Georgia WorkReady - http://gaworkready.org/pages/view/what-is-georgia-work-ready
04.15.2011	Representative David Scott (GA-13) stated his opposition to plans to balance federal budgets by ending Medicare and Medicaid and giving tax breaks for millionaires. “Everyone agrees that our long-term deficits need to be reduced,” Rep. Scott said. “But, I am outright opposed to the Republican plan to turn Medicare into a limited voucher and turn Medicaid into a limited block grant, while giving big tax breaks for millionaires. If we can afford $1 trillion in new tax benefits for millionaires, then surely we can find a way to keep Medicare solvent.” The Republican Fiscal Year 2012 Budget Resolution would end Medicare and convert it into a private insurance voucher; turn Medicaid into a block grant; and freeze non-security discretionary spending below current levels. The Republican budget also proposes extending over $1 trillion in tax breaks to millionaires. “During past economic crises and times of war, Americans came together in shared sacrifice,” Congressman Scott continued. “We should approach this challenge in a fair way and not target deficit cuts only to seniors, the disabled and those on fixed incomes. That is neither balanced, nor fair.” Under the Republican FY 2012 budget, the value of the Republican senior voucher program would grow with regular inflation, even though health care costs are projected to grow at a faster rate. Costs would shift from the current Medicare program to senior citizens. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that costs for new beneficiaries would nearly triple by 2030 compared with current law. There is no evidence that seniors will be able to keep their costs down without losing important and necessary medical care. The Republican budget will raise the cost of nursing home care for millions of families. It will also undermine efforts to help people with disabilities live independent, productive lives. It does this by cutting about $771 billion from Medicaid over ten years and converting the program into a block grant to states. Currently, Medicaid covers about 43 percent of all U.S. long term care. ###
04.08.2011	Representative David Scott called today for the Republican leadership to abandon its pursuit of a divisive social and political agenda, come to the table, and work with Democrats to prevent a government shutdown. “The American people want us to create jobs and rebuild our neighborhoods - not shut down the government and jeopardize our economic recovery,” Rep. Scott said. “I am committed to responsibly reducing the deficit. But, Republicans are pushing an ideological social agenda against women’s health that is threatening a government shutdown.” Republican negotiators continue to hold up the budget talks by insisting on restrictions to women’s health services. This radical idea was never part of their original budget demands. Despite Democrats agreeing to over $78 billion in tough budget cuts, they continue to say their way or the highway. This may make Teaparty Republicans happy, but it won’t create a single job. “It is really a shame that Republicans want to shut down the federal government over women’s health care rights,” Rep. Scott continued. “It shows that once again, their issues are not really about the budget, but their social agenda. We saw in Wisconsin that the Republican fight was not over the budget, but over curtailing workers’ rights.” Shutting down the government has real consequences for America’s workers, businesses, and communities. The effects will ripple across America: over 800,000 employees may lose a paycheck; FHA loans may not be processed; tax refund checks may be delayed; and small business contractors will lay off employees. ###
03.19.2011	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced more than $25,000 in scholarships for the top winners of the 13th District’s 9th Annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Congressman Scott honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special ceremony at the Arts Clayton Gallery in Jonesboro. To view photos click here. “This year’s competition was just extraordinary. The art and talent that was on display was extraordinary and having families here with each student speaks volumes and makes my heart swell,” said Scott. “Our art competition presents a wonderful opportunity for our community to celebrate the talents of gifted young artists who endeavor to succeed with focus and self-discipline. I am so proud to honor our top winners for their exceptional artistic achievements with scholarships, and I encourage all of this year’s participating student artists of the competition to continue to set high goals for themselves.” This year’s top winners include: 1st Place– “I Watched Her Grow,” by Aeron Billingslea of Langston Hughes High School 2nd Place – “A Lovely Soul,” by Reba Mitchell of Langston Hughes High School 3rd Place –“Portrait of a Boy,” by Lindsey Watters of Clayton County Magnet High School 4th Place – “Graveyard Gazebo,” by Courtney Redwine of Lithia Springs High School 5th Place – “Empty,” by Jake Llaurado of Lithia Springs High School In nine years of hosting the Arts Competition, Congressman Scott has awarded over $300,000 in scholarships to local students. This year’s top winners received the following awards: · First Place Winner - $10,000 Art Institute of Atlanta scholarship; $1,500/ year from Savannah College of Art and Design; 1-Year Young Patron Membership to the High Museum of Art ($200 value); round-trip airfare on Delta Airlines to attend the June ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C.; and artwork will hang in the U.S. Capitol for 1 year; · Second Place Winner - $5,000 Art Institute of Atlanta scholarship and artwork will hang in Congressman David Scott’s Washington Office for 1 year; · Third Place Winner - $2,500 Art Institute of Atlanta scholarship and artwork will hang in Congressman David Scott’s Jonesboro Office for 1 year; · Fourth Place Winner - $1, 000 Art Institute of Atlanta scholarship; $1,000 Arts Clayton scholarship (c/o Chick-Fil-A and Georgia Pacific); and artwork will hang in Congressman David Scott’s Smyrna Office for 1 year; · Fifth Place Winner - free week of art classes from the Art Institute of Atlanta and artwork will hang in Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson Airport for 1 year. Participating high schools represented this year include Cedar Grove, Charles Drew, Clayton County Magnet, Forest Park, Jonesboro, Langston Hughes, Lithia Springs, Morrow, Mt. Zion, Mundy’s Mill, Riverdale, and Stockbridge. Students interested in participating in next year’s competition should contact Audra Bleecker at 770-210-5073.
03.16.2011	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to end the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP). The NSP provides funding to help local communities deal with large numbers of foreclosures and abandoned properties. Congressman Scott opposed this effort to abandon neighborhoods in his district. “Thousands of Georgians are struggling to stay in their homes and keep their neighborhoods intact. But that fact is lost on some ideologues in Washington,” Congressman Scott said. “Neighborhoods are dotted with vacant properties, empty lots and padlocked front doors. These properties are falling into disrepair causing declines in adjacent property values and are not contributing to the local tax base. The FBI and other law enforcement agencies are even investigating dangerous squatters in vacant metro Atlanta homes. Until we can stop the downward spiral of foreclosures and vacant properties, we will not be able to rebuild the economy. The votes to kill foreclosure assistance and neighborhood stabilization programs are short-sighted.” The Neighborhood Stabilization Program provides funding for local governments to purchase and redevelop foreclosed or abandoned properties so they do not further depress housing prices or lead to neighborhood blight. Clayton County, for example, has used the program to rehabilitate 115 homes in eight neighborhoods in just over eight months. Georgia Trend magazine awarded a “County of Excellence Award” for Clayton's NSP program. Every county in the 13th Congressional District has been awarded NSP funding, totaling over $63 million. Now, these funds are at risk of being taken back by the new Congressional leadership. The NSP Termination Act (H.R. 861) is the third of four bills brought to a vote by House Republicans which kill foreclosure avoidance or mitigation programs. Last week, Republicans successfully passed the Emergency Mortgage Relief Program Termination Act (H.R. 836), which ends a program providing bridge loans to unemployed homeowners facing possible foreclosure. Republicans also passed the FHA Refinance Program Termination Act (H.R. 830), which ends a foreclosure avoidance program which helps homeowners refinance. ###
03.09.2011	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced today that applications for the 2011 Congressional Black Caucus Foundation Scholarships are now available. “I am pleased to announce the availability of scholarships for deserving 13th District students,” said Congressman Scott. “These scholarships present a wonderful opportunity to expand educational resources available for a new generation of scholars from our community.” The scholarships are offered to students in the 13th Congressional District, which includes portions of 6 counties: Clayton, Cobb, Fulton, DeKalb, Douglas and Henry. High school seniors or full-time undergraduate, graduate or professional school students with a minimum 2.5 grade point average can apply for the scholarships. All completed applications must be submitted by Monday, March 28, 2011 to either Congressman Scott’s Jonesboro or Smyrna District Office. The CBC Scholarships were established in 1988 in response to federal cuts in spending for education programs and scholarships. These programs provide tuition assistance to enable students to fulfill their higher education goals. The scholarships are awarded in the Congressional Districts of each member of the Congressional Black Caucus. For more information, interested students may contact Sheila Davis or Angie Matthews in Scott’s District Office at 770-432-5405 or click here.
02.03.2011	During the district work week, Congressman David Scott is meeting with local business leaders about rebuilding the economy and promoting job growth. “My top priority is creating jobs - that is why I am spending my district time with local business innovators,” said Congressman Scott. “More than one million private sector jobs were created last year. But there is more work to be done. Every effort that comes before Congress must be measured by whether it creates jobs and promotes American innovation.” During the district work period, Congressman Scott will visit with two chambers of commerce and tour three work sites. Congressman Scott will attend annual membership dinners of the Cobb County Chamber of Commerce and the Douglas County Chamber of Commerce. He will also visit with employees at Tyco Distribution Center in Lithia Springs, IBM offices in Smyrna and the Lockheed-Martin facility in Marietta. Just before the start of the district work period, Congressman Scott participated in a hearing in the Financial Services Committee entitled: “Promoting Economic Recovery and Job Creation: The Road Forward.” Congressman Scott is a member of the Committee. ###
01.06.2011	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced his sponsorship of the 9th Annual High School Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery, for Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District. High school students are invited to submit artwork for the competition. “I am excited to once again launch the annual Congressional Art Competition,” Scott said. “This competition presents a great opportunity for our community to celebrate the talents of gifted young artists as well as the tireless work of parents and teachers who support their creative endeavors.” The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. Students may obtain entry packets from their High School Art Teachers and Congressman Scott’s Office. All entries must be delivered to Congressman Scott's Jonesboro District Office by Friday, February 18, 2011. This year’s first-place winner will be invited to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C. where their artwork will hang in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol for one year. Additionally, scholarships will be awarded to the top winners as follows: $10,000 – first place, $5,000 – second place, $2,500 – third place, and $1,000 – fourth place, all by the Art Institute of Atlanta; and $1,500/ year to the first-place winner by the Savannah College of Art and Design. On Saturday, March 19, 2011, Congressman Scott will host an awards ceremony and announce the top winners at the Arts Clayton Gallery. Participants’ artwork will comprise the Gallery’s featured exhibition during the month of March. Residents of the Thirteenth District are invited to support area students by coming out and viewing the exhibit of all entries. Located at 136 S. Main Street in Jonesboro, Arts Clayton is open to the public, Monday-Friday from 9am-5pm, and will host a reception for the gallery opening Friday, March 4, 2011. For more information about the Congressional Art Competition, please contact Audra Braswell Bleecker at 770-210-5073. Guidelines for Participants: The Competition is open to High School Students in the 13th Congressional District only (grades 9-12). All entries must be received in the District Office, located at 173 N. Main Street in Jonesboro by Friday, February 18, 2011. Art work categories are as follows: o Paintings (oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc.) o Drawings (pastels, colored pencil, charcoal, markers, etc.) o Collage (must be 2 dimensional) o Prints (lithographs, silkscreen, block prints) o Computer generated art o Photography In order to allow an art work to hang in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol, the following restrictions are necessary: o Art work must be two-dimensional only o Each piece can be no larger than 30 inches by 30 inches to the outside dimensions of the frame o Art work just be no more than 4 inches in depth o Art work must arrive in Washington framed to the appropriate framing guidelines
12.21.2010	President Obama has signed the new tax cuts into law (Public Law No: 111-312). Congressman Scott spoke in favor of the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010, which extends unemployment insurance, cuts payroll taxes and extends existing tax rates for two years. You can watch the Congressman’s speech at this link. A summary of some of the larger sections of the law are provided below. For more detailed information about the tax law, speak with a tax advisor or visit the IRS website at: http://www.irs.gov/ UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE The law extends unemployment benefits at their current level through the end of 2011. PAYROLL TAX CUT FOR WORKERS The law creates a new 2% payroll tax cut for over 155 million workers. JOB CREATING TAX CUTS FOR WORKING FAMILIES Child Tax Credit: The current $1,000 child tax credit will be extended for two years. This extension will ensure an ongoing tax cut to 10.5 million lower income families with 18 million children. Reductions in individual income tax rates. The law extends the existing individual income tax brackets for two years. Capital Gains and Dividends. The law extends the current capital gains and dividends rates for all taxpayers for an additional two years. Under current law, the capital gains and dividend rates for taxpayers below the 25% bracket is equal to zero percent. For those in the 25% bracket and above, the capital gains and dividend rates are currently 15%. The law extends the dependent care credit through 2012. The dependent care credit allows a taxpayer a credit for an applicable percentage of child care expenses for children under 13 and disabled dependents. Extends adoption tax credits. Taxpayers that adopt children can receive a tax credit for qualified adoption expenses. A taxpayer may also exclude from income adoption expenses paid by an employer. Extends the credit for employer expenses for child care assistance. Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). The law extends third-child EITC. Under current law, working families with two or more children currently qualify for an earned income tax credit equal to 40% of the family’s first $12,570 of earned income. EDUCATION TAX CREDITS American Opportunity Tax Credit: The law extends a partially refundable tax credit of up to $2,500 to help students and their families cover the cost of college tuition. Extends Coverdell Education Savings Accounts. These plans are tax-exempt savings accounts, up to $2,000, used to pay the higher education expenses of a designated beneficiary. Extends the expanded exclusion for employer-provided educational assistance. An employee may exclude from gross income up to $5,250 for income and employment tax purposes per year of employer-provided education assistance. Extends the student loan interest deduction. Extends the above-the-line deduction for certain expenses of elementary and secondary school teachers. Teachers and other school professionals may deduct expenses paid or incurred for books, supplies, computer equipment and supplementary materials used by the educator in the classroom. BUSINESS TAX CUTS TO INCREASE INVESTMENT AND GROWTH: Extends the R&D tax credit: The law includes a 2-year extension of the R&D tax credit and other tax incentives to support business expansion. Extends the New Markets Tax Credit. Under this program, tax credits encourage significant private investment in businesses in low-income communities. Employer wage credit for activated military reservists. The law extends for two years the provision that provides eligible small business employers with a credit against the taxpayer’s income tax liability for salaries of activated military reservists. Work opportunity tax credit (WOTC). Under current law, businesses are allowed to claim a work opportunity tax credit for new hires in targeted areas. Exclusion of small business capital gains. Generally, non-corporate taxpayers may exclude 50 percent of the gain from the sale of certain small business stock acquired at original issue and held for more than five years. The provision extends the 100 percent exclusion of the gain from the sale of qualifying small business stock that is acquired before January 1, 2012 and held for more than five years. Extension of bonus depreciation. Under current law, businesses are allowed to recover the cost of capital expenditures over time according to a depreciation schedule. For investments placed in service after September 8, 2010 and through December 31, 2011, the law provides for 100 percent bonus depreciation. For investments placed in service after December 31, 2011 and through December 31, 2012, the bill provides for 50 percent bonus depreciation. ###
11.30.2010	Congressman David Scott praised the passage of legislation that would provide funding to settle African American farmers’ and Native Americans’ lawsuits against the federal government. The bill (H.R. 4783) contains funding to implement the settlements of the Pigford class action lawsuit involving past discrimination against black farmers by the Agriculture Department and the Cobell class action lawsuit involving funds for American Indians mismanaged by the Interior Department. “I am pleased that Congress will finally provide funding for settlement of both the Pigford and Cobell class action lawsuits, Congressman Scott said. “This legislation is a major step towards providing justice for thousands of black farmers who were denied the same access to farm support programs as other farmers. The disparate treatment of this class of farmers bankrupted many family farms in Georgia and held back a piece of the American dream for rural families. After decades of lawsuits and appeals, these Americans can finally find some closure.” H.R. 4783, Claims Resolution Act, has passed Congress and will now be sent to the President for signing into law. To ensure that payments are properly awarded, the legislation requires reviews by the Comptroller General and USDA’s Inspector General as well as a requirement that the court approve payments. In 1999, a federal judge approved a settlement agreement in a class action lawsuit (Pigford v. Glickman) filed by African American farmers alleging that the Agriculture Department discriminated against black farmers who applied for loans or other assistance. Under that settlement, black farmers who farmed between 1981 and 1996 and who filed a complaint against the department by July 1, 1997, were eligible to seek monetary compensation from the government. The settlement, however, was widely criticized because tens of thousands of African American farmers who filed claims later than the July 1997 cutoff date were denied inclusion in the class to be eligible for compensation. Congressman Scott is the senior Georgian on the House Agriculture Committee.
10.15.2010	Today Congressman David Scott announced that the deadline for submission of 2010 Military Service Academy Nominaton applications is quickly approaching for students of the 13th Congressional District. "Being selected for nomination to a military service academy by a Member of Congress is an exceptional honor and responsibility. It is my privilege to make these nominations, and you can be assured that it is a responsibility that I take most seriously. Our country’s military service academies provide exceptional opportunities to their graduates: honor through service to the United States; a first-rate education with outstanding technical training; fulfillment of career aspirations; and chances for positions of leadership. I urge you to encourage interested students to take the time to survey each academy and to consider all that each school has to offer." The 2010 Military Service Academy Nomination application packets are available on-line here and at the district offices. On-line application is preferred and strongly encourged. This year’s deadline for receipt of packets at the Jonesboro district office is October 29, 2010 by 5:00 pm. If you have any questions regarding the nomination selection process, please do not hesitate to call Congressman Scott's Military Academy Nomination Coordinator, Teresa Cooke-Cooper, at (770) 210-5073.
09.23.2010	Today, Congressman David Scott continued his support for small businesses by voting for the Small Business Jobs Act (H.R. 5297). The bill passed the House and will be sent to the President to be signed into law. "I am committed to help grow small businesses, which created two-thirds of the new jobs over the last 15 years," Congressman Scott said. "When small businesses grow, America grows. At this time, small businesses continue to face a lack of credit and tight lending standards. This bill will expand access to capital to Main Street businesses across the country." There are several provisions to encourage lending and investing in small businesses as well as proving incentives for small businesses to make business investments. The Small Business Jobs Act will: Expand Small Businesses Access to Capital · The bill creates a $30 billion Small Business Lending Fund to provide community banks with capital to increase small business lending. The fund is limited to the smallest banks with $10 billion or less in assets. · The bill invests $1.5 billion in grants to support $15 billion in new small business lending through successful state programs. · It expands access to, and lowers costs for, small business to access SBA loans and also increases SBA loan limits. · Investment in small businesses will be stimulated by a 100% exclusion from capital gains taxes on small business investments. · Small business taxes will be decreased by allowing them to carry back general business tax credits to offset their taxes from the previous five years. Small businesses will also be able to count the general business credits against the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT), which frees up capital for expansion and job growth. Spur Small Businesses Investments & Growth · The bill soubles small business expensing for immediate write offs of capital investments, such as equipment and machinery, in 2010 and 2011. It also expands purchases qualifying for expensing to include certain types of real property, such as leasehold, retail and restaurant improvements. · The bill extends bonus depreciation, which allows businesses to immediately write off 50 percent of the cost of new equipment investments in 2010. Promote Entrepreneurship and Small Business Exports · Doubles to $10,000 the tax deduction for start-up expenditures for entrepreneurs looking to launch a new venture. · Creates a variety of new tools to help small businesses gain international market access and export goods, including a new State Export Promotion Grant Program (STEP), which will leverage more than $1 billion in exports. Promote Fairness in Competition · Removes onerous requirements that complicate the ability to deduct costs of cell phone use as a regular business expense · Allows self-employed individuals to deduct health insurance costs in paying the self-employment tax in 2010. · Removes the red tape and closes loopholes that too often put government contracts into the hands of multinational corporations, instead of Main Street businesses.
08.10.2010	Congressman Scott returned to Washington this week to vote for the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act (H.R. 1586). This new law provides funding for local education jobs and helps states with Medicaid costs. “These funds are crucial to Georgia teachers who head back to classrooms this week,” Congressman Scott said. “Many states have lost significant tax revenue due to the recession and have been forced to either layoff state workers or furlough jobs in order to save money. This law will save an estimated 5,700 jobs in Georgia.” The law includes provisions to ensure that states use these funds for preservation of jobs serving elementary and secondary education. Amounts from the Education Jobs Fund may not be used for purposes such as equipment, utilities, renovation, or transportation. The law provides $10 billion for additional support to local school districts to prevent imminent layoffs. It is estimated that this fund will help keep nearly 140,000 educators employed in the new school year. The fund will be administered by the Department of Education. After reviewing state applications, the Department will make formula allocations to states based on total population and school age population. States will then distribute the funds to school districts through their respective funding formulas or based on each district’s share of Title I funds. In the case that a Governor does not submit an approvable application for funds to the Department, the law directs the Secretary to make awards directly to local school districts. Information about the program can be found at this link. ###
07.22.2010	WHAT: Congressman David Scott brings together area hospitals, government agencies, non-profit organizations, and leaders of the healthcare industry to host his annual health fair for residents of the 13th Congressional District. This year’s event will focus on Diabetes prevention and will offer an array of FREE health screenings for the over 1,500 constituents from the 13th District who attend the event. WHEN: Saturday, August 14 from 10:00 AM to 2:00 PM WHERE: Mundy’s Mill High School (9652 Fayetteville Road, Jonesboro, GA 30238) http://schools.clayton.k12.ga.us/311/Home/tabid/1339/Default.aspx ACTIVITIES AT THE HEALTH FAIR:  Receive FREE health screenings for women’s and men’s health issues including: Diabetes, HIV/AIDS, vision, dental, blood pressure, cholesterol, bone density, chiropractic & many more!  Speak with professionals about available health assistance programs like Medicare, Medicaid, PeachCare, prescription drug assistance, and other programs for the uninsured.  Give life through donating blood with the American Red Cross. HEALTHCARE PARTICIPANTS  AID Atlanta  American Heart Association  American Red Cross  Department of Veteran’s Affairs  Emory Healthcare  Georgia Cancer Foundation  Grady Health System  Nanston Dental  Resurgens Orthopedics  Sickle Cell Foundation of Georgia  Social Security Administration  Southern Regional Health System  West End Medical Center For more information and a list of available screenings, visit www.house.gov/davidscott or contact Congressman David Scott’s offices at 770 432-5405 or 770 210-5073. ###
07.14.2010	Washington, DC – Today, the US House passed H.R. 5114, the Flood Insurance Reform Priorities Act of 2010. H.R. 5114 will reauthorize and improve the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), which is the primary source of reliable, affordable flood insurance coverage for millions of American homes and businesses. The bill includes an amendment by Congressman Scott to allow NFIP premiums to be paid in installments. You can watch a clip of Congressman Scott speaking about the bill at this link. “My amendment addresses the financial barriers that many homeowners encounter when procuring mandatory flood insurance for their property, namely the lump-sum payment of a policy premium,” Congressman Scott said. “After the flood, several constituents contacted my office to share their concerns about the burden of paying flood insurance premiums. While the deluge may have gone, we must make sure that these hard-working homeowners do not drown in the financial aftermath. My amendment will allow these homeowners to pay their premiums in installments and make insurance more affordable.” Currently, NFIP has been operating under short term extensions. This creates uncertainty and hardships for homeowners who need flood insurance to secure low-interest SBA loans and other assistance to rebuild. H.R. 5114 provides a long-term extension of NFIP in order to provide dependable assistance for homeowners. Several constituents contacted Congressman Scott’s office about the requirement for a lump-sum payment of a policy premium being difficult to fulfill in times of fiscal strain. Congressman Scott’s amendment, which was added in committee, allows homeowners to submit their premium through monthly installments. Congressman Scott has also requested that FEMA and Army Corps of Engineer officials review flood maps in Georgia to ensure that the maps are accurate. In addition, Congressman Scott has voted for additional FEMA funding for buyouts of nearly 110 properties in Cobb and Douglas Counties. That funding is attached to the Supplemental Appropriations bill, which is held up in the Senate. Congressman Scott is a member of the Committee on Financial Services, which has oversight of flood insurance programs. For more information about flood assistance, visit: FEMA website: http://www.fema.gov/ SBA website: http://www.sba.gov/services/disasterassistance/index.html ###
07.08.2010	Congressman David Scott invites you to attend the Help For Homeowners Community Event sponsored by the US Departments of Treasury and HUD. WHO: US Departments of Treasury and HUD; Neighborworks; and private mortgage lenders WHAT: Free homeowners meetings with HUD-approved housing counselors and mortgage lenders for loan assistance WHEN: Friday, July 30, 1:00 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. OR Saturday, July 31, 8:30 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. WHERE: Atlanta Marriott Marquis, 265 Peachtree Center Ave, Atlanta, GA 30303. *Peachtree Center MARTA stop. *Valet parking is $9. Please bring: two recent check stubs and three recent bank statements; estimates of other monthly bills such as utilities, car insurance, car note, student loans; mortgage payment statements; credit card and other debt information; and your 2009 tax filing. For more information, visit: www.MakingHomeAffordable.gov or www.HopeNow.com or call 1-888-995-HOPE (4673). ###
07.01.2010	Today, eligible residents of Georgia will be able to apply for coverage through the state’s Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan program run by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan was created by the Affordable Health Care Act to make health insurance available to those who have had a problem getting insurance due to a pre-existing condition. “Too many Georgians are at risk of falling into bankruptcy due to their medical condition,” Congressman Scott said. “I voted for The Affordable Health Care Act to help folks who have lost insurance due to pre-existing conditions and have no safety net. This new program will help many Georgians manage their disease and offer a lifeline to financial security.” PCIP will cover a broad range of health benefits, including primary and specialty care, hospital care, and prescription drugs. The Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan does not charge a higher premium just because of a medical condition and does not base eligibility on income. To qualify for coverage: • You must be a citizen or national of the United States or lawfully present in the United States. • You must have been uninsured for at least the last six months before you apply. • You must have had a problem getting insurance due to a pre-existing condition. Coverage will begin August 1 if you apply and are approved for enrollment by July 15th. Generally, a completed application received on or before the 15th of the month will go into effect on the first day of the next month. For more information, please visit the Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan website at: http://www.pcip.gov/ or call 1-866-717-5826. ###
06.30.2010	Today, Congressman David Scott voted to reform Wall Street practices that created a financial meltdown and ruined the finances of thousands of Georgians. Congressman Scott voted to protect consumers from predatory lending, confusing fine print, and industry gimmicks while ensuring the end of taxpayer-funded bailouts. To watch a clip of Congressman Scott discussing this bill click here. “Unfortunately, it took a crisis to reign in the wild excesses of Wall Street,” Congressman Scott said. “Tens of thousands of Georgians have either lost their homes, or have negative equity in their homes, due to the meltdown in exotic mortgage investments and predatory lenders. This legislation will protect consumers from unscrupulous lenders and provide financial transparency to shareholders. Most importantly, this legislation will end taxpayer bailouts.” The reform of the financial industry (H.R. 4173) would § Create a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency to ensure that bank loans, mortgages, and credit cards are fair, affordable, understandable, and transparent. § Create tough new rules on the riskiest financial practices like credit default swaps and common sense regulation of derivatives. Requires registration of hedge funds and private equity funds. § Enhance oversight and transparency for credit rating agencies. § Rein in egregious executive compensation and retirement plans by allowing a ‘say on pay’ for shareholders, requiring independent directors on compensation committees. § Audit the Federal Reserve's emergency lending programs from the financial crisis and limits the Fed's emergency lending authority. A more detailed summary of the bill can be found at this link. The legislation must now be approved by the Senate. Congressman Scott is a member of the House Committees on Financial Services and Agriculture, which drafted most parts of H.R. 4173. ###
06.25.2010	Last night, Congressman Scott voted for the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act (H.R. 2194). He was appointed to the conference committee to reconcile the different House and Senate versions of H.R. 2194 and write the final bill. To watch a video clip of the Congressman's speech on the bill click here. “Iran’s nuclear ambitions threaten stability in a volatile region, which would have world-wide implications,” Congressman Scott said. The United States must not allow an authoritarian government to use nuclear threats to overpower their neighbors and spread their radicalism. Being a member of the conference committee on H.R. 2194 gave me a greater insight into the need for sanctions on this regime, and a greater hand in stopping Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons and securing our nation and the world.” In addition to adding sanctions on refined petroleum, the legislation vastly broadens the categories of sanctionable activities. For example, it imposes sanctions on foreign entities that sell Iran technology, services that help Iran develop its energy sector. The bill also sanctions foreign banks that deal with the IRGC or with other blacklisted Iranian institutions, including Iranian banks involved with WMD or terrorism. Foreign banks involved in such activities would be shut out of the US financial system; US banks would not be allowed to deal with them. Congressman Scott is a member of the House Committees on Foreign Affairs and Financial Services, which both have jurisdiction over H.R. 2194. He is also a member of the US delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. ###
06.16.2010	Congressman Scott voted for two bills this week that will help grow American small businesses. He voted for the Small Business Lending Fund Act (H.R. 5297) and the Small Business Jobs Tax Relief Act (H.R. 5486). These measures will expand much needed lending to small businesses and offer tax incentives to help small businesses grow, hire, and fuel our economy. “Small businesses are the engine of our economy. Yet, they continue to face a lack of credit and tight lending standards,” Congressman Scott said. “It is necessary to expand credit to community banks and credit unions in order to open up lending to small businesses. Further, investment in new businesses needs to be encouraged with tax breaks.” The Small Business Lending Fund Act creates three separate programs designed to increase small business lending and increase jobs: • Creates a small business loan fund. Establish a $30 billion fund to boost lending to small businesses looking to hire and expand their operations by providing additional capital to community banks. • The State Small Business Credit Initiative Program provides $2 billion in funding for new or existing state lending programs. By supporting existing expertise in states around the country and using an easy to replicate model, this program will be able to quickly increase small business lending and create jobs. • Small business financing. Provide $1 billion in financing through the SBA to support early stage small businesses in the form of true equity financing. The Small Business Jobs Tax Relief Act includes the following provisions: • Increases the capital gains tax cut for those who invest in small businesses this year. The bill would exclude 100% of capital gain income for stock in small businesses purchased through January 1, 2011. • Increase in deduction for business start-up expenditures: Increases to $20,000 (from $5,000 in current law) the deduction for start-up expenditures in connection with investigating the creation of a business (but not capital or equipment), and allows more businesses to qualify for the maximum deduction. Several bills that are written to help small businesses have passed the House with Congressman Scott’s support, including Small Business Financing and Investment Act (H.R. 3854) and the Small Business Early Stage Investment Act (H.R. 3738). Many of these bills languished in the Senate. For more information about small business programs, please visit the SBA website. ###
06.16.2010	Congressman Scott voted this week for the Efficiency, Effectiveness, and Performance Improvement Act of 2010. This measure will help Congress conduct more effective oversight, make better-informed authorization and appropriation decisions, identify and eliminate duplicative programs, and help improve the performance of federal programs. “The American taxpayer deserves a government that is transparent, efficient and accountable,” Congressman Scott said. “I cosponsored this important bill to provide transparent data about the performance and efficiency of federal agencies. In this era of tight budgets, we should ensure that every dollar spent is used wisely.” H.R. 2142 will improve the federal government performance management, and increase the availability and transparency of performance information by:  Cross-Cutting Agency Goal Setting: In conjunction with OMB, agencies must identify and set cross cutting, outcome based goals to ensure that government pursues objectives that have direct value to the American people.  Performance Assessments: Federal agency heads must determine progress in meeting established goals and the effectiveness of agency management.  Quarterly Assessment Reports and Agency Progress with critical information on federal program strengths and weaknesses.  Agency Performance Improvement Officers and a Performance Improvement Council to supervise the performance management activities of agencies and assist in the development of performance standards  GAO Oversight – GAO will evaluate whether selected goals are tied to real outcomes, whether agencies are efficiently spending taxpayer dollars and will provide recommendations for improvement. H.R. 2142 passed the House and is now awaiting action in the Senate. In addition, Congressman Scott previously voted for two bills to save an estimated $125 billion in wasteful spending. ###
06.08.2010	As part of the Affordable Care Act, many Medicare recipients across the country will begin receiving assistance to help pay for their prescription drug costs. Beginning June 10, 2010, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) will begin distributing a one-time tax -free $250 rebate check to those seniors who reach the coverage gap. "During these tough economic times I’ve heard from seniors throughout the 13th district about the struggles they have faced. One prominent concern worrying seniors is the rising cost of medication. " Congressman Scott said. "This important benefit is a first step toward closing the Medicare “donut hole” and making coverage more affordable for Seniors. Please be assured, I have and will continue to be a vocal advocate for the Medicare and Medicaid programs and will continue to lend my full support to ensuring these important programs are preserved." If you hit the donut hole after the program has begun, you should expect to receive your check within 45 days. Checks will be mailed monthly throughout the year as beneficiaries enter the coverage gap. You will only receive one check after you reach the coverage gap. Your rebate may be delayed if Medicare does not have information from your Medicare drug plan showing that you reached the coverage gap in time to include you in the next mailing. In order to avoid delays, contact your Medicare drug plan to make sure all of your information has been sent to Medicare. If you don’t get your rebate check, contact Medicare at 1 800 MEDICARE. You can also check to make sure Social Security has your correct home address. Call 1-800-772-1213 or your local Social Security office. TTY users should call 1-800-325-0778. Medicare will automatically send a check made out to you. You do not need to provide any personal information like your Medicare, Social Security, or bank account numbers to get the rebate check. Don’t give your personal information to anyone who calls you about the $250 rebate check. Call 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227) to report anyone who does this. TTY users should call 1-877-486-2048. There is also assistance available for seniors who will not reach the Donut Hole coverage gap. Created under the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the “Extra Help” program is designed to assist seniors with their prescription drug costs. Under the program seniors who qualify will be eligible to pay no more than $2.50 for generic drugs and $6.30 for each brand name drug. To qualify, Medicare beneficiaries’ incomes must be less than $16,245 a year (or $21,855 for married couples) and have resources limited to $12,510 (or $25,010 for married couples). Resources include bank accounts, stocks, and bonds, but do not include houses, cars, or life insurance policies. There is no cost to apply for “Extra Help.” Medicare beneficiaries, family members, trusted counselors or caregivers can apply online at www.socialsecurity.gov/prescriptionhelp or call Social Security at 1-800-772-1213 (TTY users should call 1-800-325-0778) and ask for the Application for Help with Medicare Prescription Drug Plan Costs. To learn more about the $250 rebate check, read this new brochure (pdf), or visit www.Medicare.gov. ###
06.01.2010	Congressman Scott voted for the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act, H.R. 4213. This measure will help create or save more than a million American jobs by restoring credit to small businesses, extending tax incentives for American Research and Development (R&D) and energy, rebuilding American infrastructure, expanding summer jobs for young people, and providing tax relief for middle class American families. This measure passed the House by a vote of 245-171 and must now be approved by the Senate. A summary of some of the provisions of the legislation are detailed below. Small Business Lending H.R. 4213 would restore credit flow to small businesses by extending key Recovery Act provisions to make small business loans more affordable and available through the end of the year. The program eliminates certain fees on Small Business Administration (SBA) loans and encourages banks to lend to small businesses by raising to 90 percent (from 75 percent) the portion of a loan that the SBA will guarantee. Since its creation, this program has supported nearly $26 billion in small business lending. Spurring American Innovation, U.S. Businesses, & Clean Energy H.R. 4213 would extend the R&D Tax Credit to spur innovation at nearly 11,000 American businesses. It also strengthens American-made energy with tax incentives for the production of biodiesel, natural gas, propane, biogas and liquid fuels derived from biomass and electricity produced from biomass. Rebuilding America’s Infrastructure H.R. 4213 would extend Build America Bonds through 2012. These bonds have helped finance more than $97 billion in infrastructure projects and supported 1.7 million jobs nationwide. It also would extend Recovery Zone bonds for economically distressed areas through 2011, which will help local municipalities raise more than $25 billion of capital for infrastructure and economic development projects and support more than 450,000 jobs. Cutting Taxes for Middle-Class Families • Provides up to 30 million homeowners with property tax relief; • Benefits 12 million families through the State and local sales tax deduction; • Helps more than 4 million families better afford college with the tuition deduction; • Saves nearly 4 million teachers money with a deduction for classroom expenses; • Takes steps to make sure that activated military reservists do not suffer a pay cut by providing a tax credit for small businesses that continue to pay their National Guard and Reserve employees when they are called up to serve. Summer Jobs for Young People & Job Creation for High Unemployment Areas • Provides resources to support 350,000 jobs for youth ages 14 to 24 through summer employment programs. • Extends for one year the TANF Emergency Fund to help create jobs -- an emergency fund that 35 States are using or planning to use for a jobs program that subsidizes employers, including small businesses, who hire unemployed people. • Help businesses and individuals to invest in and succeed in certain economically depressed areas with the extension of tax incentives for Empowerment Zones and Renewal Communities, as well as the New Markets Tax Credit. • The bill extends emergency unemployment programs through November 30, 2010. For more information about Small Business loan programs, please visit the SBA's website. ###
05.11.2010	On Friday, the House Agriculture Committee will visit Atlanta to tour the Centers for Disease Control and hold a public hearing. Congressman Scott will play host to the Committee when they hold the hearing in his district at the National Archives Building in Morrow (http://www.archives.gov/southeast/). “I am pleased that the Agriculture Committee has chosen the Atlanta area to host the Georgia stop of the Farm Bill field hearing tour,” Congressman Scott said. “Agriculture means about $12 billion each year to Georgia’s economy. So, it is important that the diverse representatives of Georgia agriculture have their voices heard in writing the next Farm Bill. The visit at the CDC will help the Committee learn more about food safety.” The Committee will meet on Friday, May 14th, at 1:30 p.m. at the National Archives building in Morrow for a public hearing to review U.S. agriculture policy in advance of the 2012 Farm Bill. The public is welcome to attend. For those who cannot attend the hearings, the Committee plans to provide live video coverage of the hearing online at: http://agriculture.house.gov/hearings/audio.html. The Committee will also collect public comments about the Farm Bill on its website: http://agriculture.house.gov/inside/feedbackform.html. All comments received online by June 14, 2010 will be included in the Committee's Farm Bill field hearing record. Congressman Scott will join the Committee’s full itinerary of field hearings May 14-18 in Morrow, Georgia; Troy, Alabama; Lubbock, Texas; and Sioux Falls, South Dakota. For a full list of field hearing locations, visit the Agriculture Committee website: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/agriculture_dem/PR042910.html Congressman Scott is a member of the House Committee on Agriculture and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Livestock, Dairy, and Poultry. ###
05.06.2010	Today, the New Democrat Coalition unveiled a comprehensive agenda aimed at encouraging innovation and boosting small businesses. The Innovation and Entrepreneurship Agenda builds upon the New Democrats' long standing commitment to policies that embrace technology and innovation to drive sustainable economic growth, competitive businesses and a strong workforce. "Small businesses in America are vital to rebuilding our economy and achieving long term economic growth," Congressman Scott said. "As a member of the New Democrat Coalition, I believe this plan would grow our economy by bolstering competitiveness of US companies in the global marketplace and encouraging entrepreneurship." Specifically, the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Agenda would: Invest in People: Providing better access to capital for American small businesses; Working with states to free up small business lending; Improving the SBA Express Loan Program; Recapitalizing community banks and the auto industry; Quadrupling the deduction for small business start-up costs; Creating small business start-up accounts; Providing more opportunities for mid-career education; Creating a Lifelong Learning Account (LiLA) Pilot Program; Investing in the innovators of tomorrow; Investing in Ideas: Establishing more generous tax credits for R&D; Offering a bonus R&D credit for American manufacturers; Reauthorizing existing programs that encourage small business innovation, SBIR & SBTT; Modifying the Advanced Energy Project Credit to include bio-refiners; Eliminating the patent backlog; Helping companies and workers compete and win: Creating a Clean Energy Development Administration; Creating Clean Energy Business Zones; Increasing funding for the International Trade Administration; Recruiting more jobs for America; and Improving export financing. ### Click here to view the full New Democrats' Agenda for Innovation & Entrepreneurship
05.05.2010	Congressman David Scott returned from meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly’s Science and Technology Committee in New York. The meetings, held at the U.N., coincided with a speech to the UN by Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. As the General Rapporteur of the Science and Technology Committee, Congressman Scott will produce annual Committee General Reports on subjects of highest relevance for the Committee at that time. The General Report for the Committee in 2010 will discuss NATO relations with Russia in areas that include nuclear nonproliferation and disarmament, missile defense, energy security and the Arctic. “The discussion of nuclear non-proliferation is about the current security of the United State and its allies,” Congressman Scott said. “Iran is attempting to build nuclear weapons and non-state actors are on the hunt for nuclear materials. We only need to look at the failed bombing in New York this weekend as an example that terrorism does not wait for deliberation.” General Rapporteurs also have a responsibility to draft and present Resolutions - policy recommendations for NATO and governments of member’s states, usually based on the findings of the General report. Resolutions are discussed and adopted first by Committees and then by the Assembly as a whole during the Annual Session of NATO PA. Resolutions are non-binding, but they reflect the official Assembly's position on certain important international issues and identify specific measures that need to be taken by the Alliance's governments. The NATO PA Science and Technology Committee discusses a number of important themes for the Euro-Atlantic community, including nonproliferation of weapons of mass destruction, missile defense, energy security, climate change and security implications of emerging technologies. Congressman Scott was elected at the 55th Session (Edinburgh – November 2009) as General Rapporteur on the NATO PA Science and Technology Committee. Congressman Scott is also a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. ###
05.04.2010	This week, the House passed two bipartisan bills to eliminate approximately $125 billion annually in waste, fraud and abuse in federal spending. The Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act (H.R. 3393) would reduce the estimated $98 billion in improper payments that occur when a federal agency pays too much or pays twice for a product or service. The House also passed H.R. 5013, the IMPROVE Acquisition Act, which cleans up defense acquisition spending. The bill saves taxpayers an estimated $27 billion a year and expedites process to get the necessary equipment to our troops. “I supported these bills to stop wasteful government spending,” said Congressman Scott. “Families in my district expect that their government work efficiently. There is no excuse to waste the taxpayer’s money.” H.R. 3393 will help save taxpayer dollars by reining in wasteful overpayments from the federal government to individuals, organizations and contractors. This bill also puts in place more rigorous thresholds for when programs must be scrutinized for payment errors and expands the authority of Federal agencies to use private sector auditors to find and recapture government overpayments. Further, it dramatically increases transparency and accountability in government spending. H.R. 5013 will clean up waste, fraud and abuse in the defense acquisition system through four key common-sense reforms: building a better accountability system, improving the management of the acquisition workforce, creating an auditable financial management system at DOD, and expanding and strengthening the industrial base to enhance competition and gain access to more technology. It will make sure that the men and women who are risking their lives to protect our country get the proper equipment they need sooner. The President has also cut waste by executive order. Last November, the President issued an Executive Order to curb improper payments by boosting transparency, holding agencies accountable, and creating strong incentives for compliance. And this March he signed an order calling on all federal agencies to launch tough audits to recover some of the money lost to improper payments last year. ###
05.03.2010	Congressman Scott announced that the Department of Veterans Affairs will start taking applications for The Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David Fry Scholarship, which Congress passed and was signed into law last year. The “Fry Scholarship” expands the New GI Bill education benefits to cover the full cost of a college education for all of the children of service members who have died on active duty on or after September 11, 2001. “This scholarship honors the sacrifice of our military families,” Congressman Scott said. “No one is more deserving of our nation’s support than children whose parent gave their life in military service to our nation.” Fry Scholarship eligibility All children of members of the Armed Forces who have died in the line of duty while on active duty on or after September 11, 2001, are eligible for 36 months of tuition and fees up to the maximum in-state tuition and as well as a monthly living stipend, and book allowance. The VA must begin making payments no later than August 1, 2010 with retroactive payments for children enrolled in college from August 1, 2009 through July 31, 2010. Surviving military children have 15 years to use their benefits, beginning on their 18th birthdays. When dependents are also Veterans or service members eligible under the Montgomery GI Bill Active Duty, Montgomery GI Bill for Selected Reserves or the Reserve Educational Assistance Program (REAP), then they must relinquish their eligibility under those programs to receive benefits under a Fry scholarship. An estimated 1,500 military children will be eligible for the Fry scholarship in 2010. The “Fry Scholarship” is named in honor of John David Fry, 28, a Texas native who died in Iraq in 2006 while disarming an explosive. He is survived by three young children. For more information, visit the VA website at http://www.gibill.va.gov or call 1-888-GIBILL-1 (1-88-442-4551) ###
04.28.2010	The House Financial Services Committee passed H.R. 5114, the Flood Insurance Reform Priorities Act of 2010, by voice vote. H.R. 5114 will reauthorize and improve the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), which is the primary source of reliable, affordable flood insurance coverage for millions of American homes and businesses. During the markup, the committee approved an amendment by Congressman Scott to allow low-income homeowners to pay for NFIP premiums in installments. “My amendment will address the financial barriers that low-income homeowners might encounter when procuring mandatory flood insurance for their property, namely the lump-sum payment of a policy premium,” Congressman Scott said. “After the flood, several constituents contacted my office to share their concerns about the burden of paying flood insurance premiums. While the deluge may have gone, we must make sure that these hard-working homeowners do not drown in the financial aftermath. My amendment will allow these homeowners to pay their premiums in installments.” In order to rebuild one’s home on flood prone property, property that in many cases was not considered to be flood prone due to outdated floodplain mapping, one must purchase flood insurance before rebuilding assistance is granted. For individuals who are unemployed or families under constrained budgets, the requirement for a lump-sum payment of a policy premium for coverage that is mandated by law can be quite difficult to fulfill. Congressman Scott’s Amendment allows homeowners below a certain income level (200% of the federal poverty line or below) to submit their premium through monthly installments. In recent years, the U.S. has experienced increased flooding in areas not designated as flood hazard areas so FEMA has been revising and updating flood insurance maps to better reflect the risk of flooding in additional areas. Congresswoman Scott has requested that FEMA and Army Corps of Engineer officials review flood maps in Georgia to ensure that the maps are accurate. Congressman Scott is a member of the Committee on Financial Services, which has oversight of flood insurance programs. ###
04.28.2010	Congressman David Scott was appointed to the conference committee to reconcile the House and Senate versions of Iran sanctions legislation, the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act (H.R. 2194). “I am honored to be appointed to this important conference committee,” Congressman Scott said. “Iran’s nuclear ambitions threaten stability in a volatile region, which would have world-wide implications. The United States must not allow an authoritarian government to use nuclear threats to overpower their neighbors and spread their radicalism. Being a member of this conference committee will give me a greater role in shaping the final version of this sanctions regime, and a greater hand in stopping Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons and securing our nation and the world.” The full list of conference committee members can be found on the Foreign Affairs’ website: http://foreignaffairs.house.gov/press_display.asp?id=727 Congressman Scott is a member of the House Committees on Foreign Affairs and Financial Services, which both have jurisdiction over H.R. 2194. He is also a member of the US delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. ###
04.27.2010	Congressman David Scott has announced that the 2011 Military Service Academy Nominaton applications are now available for students of the 13th Congressional District. The deadline for receipt of packets at the Jonesboro district office is October 29, 2010 by 5:00 pm. "It is my privilege to make these nominations each year. You can be assured that it is a responsibility that I take most seriously, Congressman Scott said. "Our country’s military service academies provide exceptional opportunities to their graduates: honor through service to the United States; a first-rate education with outstanding technical training; fulfillment of career aspirations; and chances for positions of leadership. I urge interested students to take the time to survey each academy and to consider all that each school has to offer." The 2011 Military Service Academy Nomination application packets are available on-line and at the district offices. On-line application is preferred and strongly encourged. After initiating the nomination process with the Congressman's office, students must also register directly with those academies in which they are interested. If you have any questions regarding the nomination selection process, please do not hesitate to call Congressman Scott's Military Academy Nomination Coordinator, David J. Johnson or Teresa Cooke-Cooper, at (770) 210-5073. 2010-2011 Military Academy
04.19.2010	WHAT: 7th Annual 13th Congressional Jobs Fair. Over 85 employers confirmed. Remember to bring your resume. WHEN: This Friday, April 23, 2010 10:00 am – 4:00 pm WHERE: Georgia International Convention Center 2000 Convention Center Concourse, College Park, GA 30337. Take MARTA to the Airport Station and ride the new Sky Train to the convention center for free. http://www.gicc.com/map.asp Employers are encouraged to participate at no cost. Please contact the office to sign up. Other resources. Jobs for teens: http://georgiateenwork.org/ Economic Recovery jobs in Georgia: http://www.jobsforgeorgia.org/
04.19.2010	WASHINGTON, DC -- Georgia small businesses will receive a bit of good news in their mailboxes. Companies eligible for new health reform tax credits will be getting a postcard explaining the credits and encouraging them to take advantage of the tax cut. “This is the biggest health care tax cut in history,” Congressman Scott said. “Georgia small businesses should to know how to start taking advantage of it immediately.” The tax credits are available now. The tax credit is available to small businesses with 25 or fewer employees and an average wage of $50,000 or less that provide health insurance for their employees. Companies with 10 or fewer employees and an average wage of $25,000 or less get the maximum credit—35% of what the employer is paying for employee insurance coverage. The maximum credit rises to 50% in 2014. The tax credit is also available to small non-profits. For non-profits, the tax credit is worth up to 25% of what the employer is paying for employee insurance coverage. The maximum credit for non-profits rises to 35% in 2014. Congressman Scott said the tax credit will help Georgia’s economy. “There are 122,967 companies in Georgia that meet the criteria for the tax credit,” said Congressman Scott. “This is going to make it a little easier for companies already offering insurance to afford it and will allow more small businesses to start providing health care coverage for their workers.” Beginning this week, the IRS is mailing more than 4 million postcards to small businesses around the country to help ensure that they realize they may qualify for the credit immediately. The IRS provides answers to Frequently Asked Questions on the tax credits. ###
03.30.2010	On March 24, Congressman Scott voted for two bills that help small businesses: the Disaster Relief and Summer Jobs Act (H.R. 4899) and the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act of 2010 (H.R. 4849). Both measures passed the House. In addition to these two bills, Congressman Scott has also supported other measures to help small businesses: The HIRE Act (H.R. 2847), the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (H.R. 1) and the Health Care & Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (H.R. 4872). These bills were signed into law. Assistance for small business from these bills are detailed below. Capital Gains Tax Relief · Spur Investment in Small Businesses. Increases the capital gains tax cut for those who invest in small businesses this year. The bill would exclude 100% of capital gain income for stock in small business purchased from March 15, 2010 to January 1, 2011. This will spur new investments in small business with new capital they need to grow and hire more workers. –H.R. 4849 · Small Business Investment: Spurs investments in small businesses by cutting the capital gains tax on investors in small businesses who buy stock (in the next two years) and hold it for more than 5 years. –H.R. 1 · Capital Expenditure Deductions for Small Businesses. The HIRE Act extends a provision that allows small businesses to write off as much as $250,000 of their capital expenditures in 2010. Extending this credit gives companies that are considering buying assets like machinery and vehicles an incentive to make those purchases this year. -H.R. 2847 Incentives to hire new employees Benefits for Small Businesses Who Hire the Unemployed. The bill offers employers two tax breaks for qualifying new workers hired in 2010. Under the measure, companies will be exempt from paying their share of Social Security payroll taxes, normally 6.2% of a worker’s wage, for any new worker who was unemployed for the prior 60 days. Each of those new employees retained for a full year would net the company an additional $1,000 back on its 2011 tax return, or 6.2% of the wages paid the employee in 2011, whichever is less. Businesses may use the incentive to hire an unlimited number of workers. –H.R. 2847 Jobs for Recently Discharged Unemployed Veterans: Creates jobs with business tax credits for hiring recently discharged unemployed veterans who have been out of work or youth who have been out of school for 6 months prior to hire. –H.R. 1 Small Business Lending Incentives for Small Business Administration-backed loans. Allows the SBA to continue two temporary loan guarantee authorities through the end of fiscal year 2010. This support will make loans more attractive to borrowers and lenders and will free up capital –H.R. 2847 Extending the Recovery Act small business lending program for another month. That program eliminated the fees normally charged for loans through the Small Business Administration 7(a) and 504 loan programs and increased the government guarantees on 7(a) loans from 75% to 90%. Since its creation, the program has supported nearly $23 billion in small business lending, which helped to create or retain over 560,000 jobs. –H.R. 4899 Other Tax Benefits · Increase in deduction for business start-up expenditures. Entrepreneurs can deduct up to $20,000 (up from $5,000 in current law) in start-up expenditures in connection with investigating the creation of a business (but not capital or equipment), and more businesses could get the maximum deduction. By allowing entrepreneurs to recover a greater portion of their start-up expenses, the proposal would assist small business owners in overcoming these barriers so they too can focus on hiring new workers and growing their business. – H.R. 4849 · Bonus Depreciation: Helps businesses quickly recover costs of new capital investments by extending the increased bonus depreciation for businesses making investments in new plants and equipment in 2009. - H.R. 1 · Small Business Expensing: Spurs small business investment by extending small business expensing, doubling the amount small businesses can immediately write off their taxes for capital investments and purchases of new equipment made in 2009 ($125,000 to $250,000). This write-off phases out completely for investments over $800,000 (up from $500,000). -H.R. 1 · Buying Back Debt: Provides assistance to companies looking to reduce their debt burdens by delaying the tax on businesses that have discharged indebtedness, which will help these companies strengthen their balance sheets so they can invest in job creation. –H.R. 1 · Small Business Loss Carrybacks: Increases cash flow for small businesses by providing a 5-year carryback of net operating losses (NOLs). This would allow many small businesses to write off losses incurred in 2008 against taxes assessed over the previous 5 years (current law limits NOL carryback to the previous 2 years), thereby reducing their taxes this spring. –H.R. 1 · Small Business Penalty Relief. Fixes a tax shelter disclosure penalty (Section 6707A) that has had a disproportionate effect on small businesses. – H.R. 4849 Assistance for Small Business Health Care Costs – H.R. 4872 Small Business Tax Credits. The bill includes tax credits that take effect immediately to help small businesses afford health coverage. An estimated 3.6 million small businesses will qualify in 2010. The credits (for up to 35 percent of an employer's contribution to health care in 2010-2013 and up to 50 percent in 2014) will provide an estimated $40 billion in assistance to small businesses over 10 years to make coverage affordable. Tax credits will be provided to 15,100 small businesses in Georgia's 13th District alone. Expanded Consumer Choice. The bill will give small businesses better choices by setting up new, simplified marketplaces called insurance exchanges. Small businesses with up to 100 employees will be able to participate in the exchanges and pool together for coverage. Once operational in 2014, the exchanges will maximize small business bargaining power to negotiate better coverage, promote transparency and informed choice, and increase competition to lower rates. Self employed business owners will also be able to participate. Employer Contributions. Businesses with fewer than 50 full-time employees (measured in FTEs) will be exempt from any requirements to contribute toward employees' health coverage. An estimated 96 percent of all firms in America have fewer than 50 employees and would be exempt. Of those businesses with more than 50 employees, another 96 percent already offer health coverage. Bans Health-Related Discrimination. Prohibits insurance companies from denying coverage for pre-existing conditions, ends premium discrimination based on gender and health status, and eliminates lifetime and annual limits on coverage that threaten to bankrupt small business owners and employees. It also strengthens oversight of insurance premium increases, protecting small businesses from arbitrary and unreasonable rate hikes. More resources can be found at the websites below: Business loans and other programs through the SBA: http://sba.gov/ Calculate tax benefits under the Recovery Act: http://www.whitehouse.gov/recovery/tax-saving-tool Small business health insurance assistance: http://docs.house.gov/energycommerce/SMALLBUSINESSES.pdf Contracting opportunities with the Federal Government: https://www.fbo.gov/ Assistance for Veterans who are small business owners: http://www4.va.gov/osdbu/
03.21.2010	Congressman David Scott voted to reduce health care costs, expand the private insurance marketplace for small businesses and the uninsured, and stop insurance companies for denying coverage for pre-existing coverage and shore up Medicare services. "To do nothing is expensive," Congressman Scott said. "Growth in annual health insurance costs is outstripping average wage increases. Employer-sponsored health insurance premiums have more than doubled in the last 9 years - a rate 3 times faster than cumulative wage increases. Health care costs doubled from 1996 to 2006, and are projected to rise to 25% of GDP in 2025. As a result of these crushing health care costs, American businesses are losing their ability to compete in the global marketplace." "I voted to stop discrimination against Georgians who become sick," Congressman Scott said. "I am listening to the families across my district who have struggled to pay for health conditions not covered by insurance. Half of all personal bankruptcies are at least partly the result of medical expenses. These families deserve a chance to live up to their fullest without fear of financial ruin." Among the health insurance improvements are: a new insurance marketplace, called the exchange, to empower individuals and small businesses to have new access private insurance plans a ban on denying insurance coverage from pre-existing medical conditions allow young adults to remain on their parents insurance until age 26 closing the Medicare "doughnut hole" on the drug coverage gap for seniors largest tax cuts for purchasing health insurance in history expanded coverage for 32 million Americans Full text of the health care reform bill can be found at: http://www.rules.house.gov/ ###
03.19.2010	Health insurance reform legislation will make health care affordable for the middle class, provide security for seniors, guarantee access to health insurance for the uninsured and reduce the federal deficit by over $100 billion over the next decade. The text and summary of the bill have been available online: http://rules.house.gov/bills_details.aspx?NewsID=4606 Benefits to the 13th Congressional District include: Improve coverage for 459,000 residents with health insurance. Give tax credits and other assistance to up to 180,000 families and 15,100 small businesses to help them afford coverage. Improve Medicare for 68,000 beneficiaries, including closing the donut hole. Extend coverage to 112,500 uninsured residents. Guarantee that 20,600 residents with pre-existing conditions can obtain coverage. Protect 3,200 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs. Allow 65,000 young adults to obtain coverage on their parents’ insurance plans. Provide millions of dollars in new funding for 3 community health centers. Reduce the cost of uncompensated care for hospitals and other health care providers by $31 million annually. Affordable High-Quality Health Care for the Middle Class Essential health insurance reforms. Approximately 59% of the district (459,000 residents) receives health care coverage from an employer or through policies purchased on the individual market. Under the legislation, individuals with insurance can keep the coverage they have now, and it will get better. The insurance reforms in the bill prohibit annual and lifetime limits, eliminate rescissions for individuals who become ill while insured, ban coverage denials for pre-existing conditions, and reduce the cost of preventive care. To rein in soaring insurance costs, the reforms also limit the amount insurance companies can spend on administrative expenses, profits, and other overhead. Historic health care tax cuts. Those who do not receive health care coverage through their employer will be able to purchase coverage at group rates through the new health insurance exchange. To make this insurance affordable, the legislation contains the largest middle-class tax cut for health care in history, providing middle class families with incomes up to $88,000 for a family of four with tax credits to help pay for coverage in the exchange. For a family of four making $50,000, the average tax credit will be approximately $5,800. There are 180,000 households in the district that could qualify for these credits if they purchase health insurance through the exchange or, in the case of households with incomes below 133% of poverty, receive coverage through Medicaid. Coverage for individuals with pre-existing conditions. There are 20,600 uninsured individuals in the district who have pre-existing medical conditions like cancer, heart disease, and diabetes. Under the bill’s insurance reforms, they cannot be denied affordable coverage. Financial security for families. There were 3,200 health care-related bankruptcies in the district in 2008, caused primarily by the health care costs not covered by insurance. The bill caps annual out-of-pocket costs at $6,200 for individuals and $12,400 for families who purchase insurance through the exchange or who are insured by small businesses. It also eliminates annual and lifetime limits on all insurance coverage. These reforms ensure that no family will have to face financial ruin because of high health care costs. Security for Seniors Improving Medicare. There are 68,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the district. The legislation improves their benefits by providing free preventive and wellness care, improving primary and coordinated care, and enhancing nursing home care. The bill also strengthens the Medicare Trust Fund, extending its solvency from 2017 to 2026. Closing the Part D donut hole. Each year, 5,300 Medicare beneficiaries in the district enter the Part D donut hole and are forced to pay the full cost of their prescription drugs. Under the bill, these beneficiaries will receive a $250 rebate in 2010, 50% discounts on brand name drugs beginning in 2011, and complete closure of the donut hole within a decade. A typical beneficiary who enters the donut hole will see savings of over $700 in 2011 and over $3,000 by 2020. New Coverage Options for Young Adults The legislation will allow young adults to remain on their parents’ policies until they turn 26. There are 65,000 young adults in the district who could benefit from this option. For individuals under age 30, the bill creates new, inexpensive policies that allow them to obtain protection from catastrophic health care costs. Helping Small Businesses Helping small businesses obtain health insurance. Under the legislation, small businesses with 100 employees or less will be able to join the health insurance exchange, benefiting from group rates and a greater choice of insurers. There are 16,900 small businesses in the district that could benefit from this provision. Tax credits for small businesses. Small businesses with 25 employees or less and average wages of less than $50,000 will qualify for tax credits of up to 50% of the costs of providing health insurance. There are up to 15,100 small businesses in the district that could qualify for these credits. Covering the Uninsured Coverage of the uninsured. The legislation would extend coverage to 95% of all Americans. If this level of coverage is reached in the district, 112,500 residents who currently do not have health insurance will receive coverage. Relieving the burden of uncompensated care. In 2008, health care providers in the district provided uncompensated care to individuals who lacked insurance coverage and were unable to pay their bills. Under the legislation, these costs of uncompensated care will be reduced by $31 million. Supporting community health centers. There are 3 community health centers in the district that provide health care to the poor and medically underserved. Nationwide, the legislation would provide $11 billion in new funding for these centers. If the community health centers in the district receive the average level of support, the 3 centers will receive $3.9 million in new assistance. Deficit Responsibility No deficit spending. The cost of health care reform under the legislation is fully paid for, in large part by eliminating waste, fraud, abuse, and excessive profits for private insurers. The legislation will reduce the deficit by $130 billion over the next ten years, and by about $1.2 trillion over the second decade.
03.04.2010	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, the Government Accountability Office (GAO), released a report to Congress on US exports to Iran. In 2008, Representative Scott and Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Howard Berman called for a GAO investigation into the alarming growth of U.S. exports to Iran. The GAO study was requested in response to an Associated Press (AP) report that year stating that U.S. exports to Iran – including cigarettes, cosmetics, perfume, fur clothing, musical instruments and possibly weapons –grew more than tenfold during the Bush Administration. "While the GAO reports find problems with reporting and tracking export documents, I am somewhat assured that federal agencies have restricted direct trade with Iran. However, the indirect export of US-made dual-use goods to Iran through other countries still raises significant concerns," stated Rep. Scott. "It is necessary that we provide Treasury and other agencies the tools needed monitor and track US goods being sent to Iran through any means. While we continue to assist the Iranian people with humanitarian goods, such as medicine and food, we must be clear that it is in our national security interest that we enforce prohibitions on certain exports to Iran and that we ensure that exemptions to U.S. trade sanctions are not being abused.” The GAO report finds that errors were common in reporting direct exports of goods to Iran to the Census Bureau. Further, the GAO found that the Treasury Department’s paper system of records is difficult to search for compliance accuracy. However, the areas of most concern are the American goods sent to Iran indirectly through other countries. For your convenience, a copy of the GAO report can be found at the following link: http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d10375.pdf Congressman Scott is Vice Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade and a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. ###
01.06.2010	Today Congressman David Scott visited the US Foodservice Distribution Center in Fairburn, Georgia. The Congressman met with employees, toured the facility and discussed food safety and biofuel policy. The US Foodservice facility in Fairburn employs about 700 workers. The company distributes food and related products to over 250,000 customers, including restaurants, healthcare facilities, lodging establishments, schools, cafeterias and colleges. Congressman Scott serves as Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock, Dairy, and Poultry.
11.06.2009	Today, the Atlanta Urban League announced that Congressman David Scott will receive the “Distinguished Community Service Award” for 2009. The League presents the award to a deserving individual or organization who has dedicated their time, talent and resources to addressing an important community need in an impactful way. “I am humbled to be recognized by the Atlanta Urban League for my years of public service,” Congressman Scott said. “The Community Service Award is an honor that I do not take lightly. I will accept the award as a challenge to fight in Congress on behalf of communities that have been hit hard by job losses, home foreclosures and predatory lending practices. In addition, I will work with President Obama to ensure that affordable, quality healthcare is available to all Americans.” Congressman Scott is serving in his fourth term in Congress. He is a member of the House Committees on Financial Services, Foreign Affairs and Agriculture. In addition, he is a member of the Congressional Black Caucus. The Community Service Award will be presented at their annual Equal Opportunity Day dinner to be held on November 14. More information about the Atlanta Urban League and their Equal Opportunity Day dinner can be found at their web address: http://atlul.org/ ###
11.05.2009	Today, Congressman David Scott voted to stimulate the local economy and provide stability to Georgia families hit hardest by the recession by extending unemployment benefits, the homebuyers' tax credit, and tax relief for military families. The Emergency Unemployment Compensation Extension Act will provide immediate assistance to millions of families. "This is another crucial step to provide immediate relief to struggling Georgians who have lost, or are on the verge of losing, their unemployment benefits and get our economy moving in the right direction," Congressman Scott said. "The families who receive these benefits will be putting money right back into our local economy - buying groceries, filling their cars with gas, and making their mortgage payments on time." The legislation will provide families with 14 weeks of additional benefits, and six more weeks to the 27 states with the highest unemployment rates. Georgia is one of the high unemployment states with over 58,000 residents exhausting their current unemployment benefits and a state unemployment rate around 10 percent. The bill includes an extension of the $8,000 first-time homebuyer tax credit through April 30, 2010 and provides a $6,500 credit to new purchasers who have lived in their current residence for five years or more. Approximately 55,840 Georgians claimed the tax credit during the past year. The bill also helps military families struggling to make mortgage payments by making those payments tax-exempt. ###
11.03.2009	Survivors of the Georgia floods have three weeks remaining to register for state and federal assistance. Monday, Nov. 23, is the final day to apply for assistance online or by phone. People in 17 disaster-affected counties can register by visiting www.disasterassistance.gov or by calling 800-621-FEMA (3362), or TTY 800-462-7585. Phone lines are open every day from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. ET. Nov. 23 also is the last day to return applications for low-interest loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). In-person help with SBA loans or FEMA Individual Assistance programs is available this week at the following Disaster Loan Outreach Centers: Cobb County The Threadmill Suite 120 5000 Austell/Powder Springs Rd. Austell, GA 30106 Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m Douglas County Old Douglas County Courthouse 6754 Broad Street Douglasville, GA 30134 Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Fulton County Government Center 141 Pryor Street SW Atlanta, GA 30303 Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. . Flood survivors eligible for FEMA grants may get help for uninsured or underinsured home repairs, temporary housing, personal property and other serious disaster-related needs. People in the following counties may apply: Bartow, Carroll, Catoosa, Chattooga, Cherokee, Cobb, Coweta, DeKalb, Douglas, Fulton, Gwinnett, Heard, Newton, Paulding, Rockdale, Stephens and Walker. For more information on Georgia’s disaster recovery, visit www.fema.gov or www.gema.ga.gov or www.ready.ga.gov/ or http://twitter.com/GeorgiaEMA ###
10.27.2009	This morning, President Obama announced a $3.4 billion investment in Smart Grid technology. Included in the announcement is a major award for Cobb EMC - $16,893,836. "This is a major win for Cobb County and metro Atlanta," Congressman Scott said. "I congratulate Cobb EMC for their hard work and encourage them to become a green energy model for the country. This announcement means good jobs and clean energy for the region." This is the largest single Smart Grid modernization investment in U.S. history, funding a broad range of projects that will ease the nation’s transition to a smarter, stronger, more efficient and reliable electric system. The $3.4 billion are part of the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act, and will be matched by industry funding for a total public-private investment worth over $8 billion. This investment includes the following: HQ State HQ City Name of Awardee Project Description Recovery Act Funding GA Marietta Cobb Electric Membership Corporation Deploy 190,000 smart meters, covering 100 percent of the utility's customer base. Implement communication infrastructure and load control switches, using state-of-the-art interoperable systems, servers, and data management technologies. $16,893,836 ###
08.01.2009	Congressman David Scott will host his Fifth Annual 13th Congressional District Health Fair on Saturday, August 15, 2009 from 10:00 am to 2:00 pm. This event is free and open to the public and will take place at Mundy’s Mill High School in Jonesboro, located at 9652 Fayetteville Road. This year’s event will focus on Diabetes as its theme and feature an array of FREE health screenings. In addition, participants can receive information on important health issues, participate in a blood drive, hear from special guest speakers, and enroll on-site in health assistance programs like Medicare, Medicaid, PeachCare, prescription drug assistance and others for the uninsured. WHAT: Congressman David Scott’s Fifth Annual 13th Congressional District Health Fair WHEN: Saturday, August 15, 2009 10:00 am to 2:00 pm WHERE: Mundy’s Mill High School 9652 Fayetteville Road (Hwy. 54) Jonesboro, GA 30238 Click here to get a list of confirmed participants & screenings
08.01.2009	Today, veterans will start receiving college education benefits under the new GI Bill for the 21st Century (the “Post-9/11 GI Bill”). An estimated 2.1 million members of the military who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, including activated reservists and members of the National Guard, will be eligible for up to four years of education benefits, including stipends for housing and books. On May 1st, veterans were able to start applying for a certificate of eligibility for the new college benefits at the VA website https://www.gibill.va.gov/. And this year, Congress extended those college benefits to all children of fallen soldiers (with no minimum military service needed to qualify). Generally, the measure provides up to four years of education benefits at a college or university for individuals with at least 90 days of active duty service on or after September 11, 2001 who have been honorably discharged from service. The benefits are correlated on a sliding scale to the total months served and to receive full benefits, you must have served on active duty for three years. All of the children of service members who have died on active duty since 9-11-01 qualify for the full education benefit, regardless of the length of military service of their parent; these benefits expire 15 years after the 18th birthday of surviving military children. “This is such an important bill that needed to be passed in order to help those soldiers who have proudly served this country,” stated Rep. Scott. This full college education benefit for recent veterans will expand job opportunities for them, and strengthen our economy. This year, we were able to extend these benefits to all children of fallen services members after 9/11; who could be more deserving of our support than children whose moms or dads have died in military service to our nation? ”
07.14.2009	Congressman David Scott congratulates Rachel Aguirre for being chosen to represent the 13th District of Georgia as a Summer 2009 Congressional Page. As a Congressional Page, Miss Aguirre will serve the United States Congress in Washington, DC. Some of her Page duties will include preparing the House floor for sessions, distributing the Congressional Record and other correspondence, and assisting in the cloakrooms and chambers. “I am so proud to have Rachel Aguirre represent the intelligent and motivated young people that we have in the 13th District. She clearly has a very bright future ahead of her and I know that this opportunity will only continue to nurture and develop her leadership skills,” said Congressman Scott. Miss Aguirre is a rising junior at Campbell High School, who has excelled in both academics and extracurricular activities. She maintains a 3.7 grade point average while being an active member of Campbell High School’s Varsity Riffle Club, Advanced Orchestra (Cello), and Gospel Choir. In addition, Rachel was named among the Top 25 Scholar Athletes at Campbell High School. Since 1839, the United States Congress has employed young people as pages who serve as messengers and perform administrative tasks. Pages are high-school juniors from around the country with a minimum grade point average of 3.0. Students interested in applying to be a Congressional Page should contact their district Representative or Senator to obtain an application. ###
07.14.2009	Today, the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock, Dairy, and Poultry held a hearing to review the economic conditions facing the dairy industry. Representative David Scott of Georgia is Chairman of the Subcommittee. “This hearing was the first of several in the coming weeks on the economic situation facing the dairy industry, and there will be ample opportunities to hear additional perspectives as we continue this process,” said Chairman Scott. “We were able to develop a timely snap shot of the problems that are facing our domestic dairy industry and some of the solutions available. But it has also raised some very good questions for further consideration. I do think there is consensus however that we must act both in the short term and the long term to provide some relief to our beleaguered dairy industry. So we will continue to examine the economic struggles of this industry and I look forward to our continued discussions with our subcommittee, producers and processors.” “Our dairy farmers are important and growing contributors to the local economy, and I appreciate Brad Bouma taking time away from his farm and bringing a West Texas perspective to the Subcommittee,” said Ranking Member Randy Neugebauer of Texas. “In these tough economic times, it is important that we hear from our local dairy farmers so that we may better understand the challenges and opportunities currently affecting the dairy industry. I look forward to continuing work with the Subcommittee to address these issues.” The monthly all-milk price has been steadily declining since the summer of 2007, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) projects the price will decline later this year to its lowest annual average since 1979. USDA Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services (FFAS) Under Secretary James Miller appeared on the second witness panel to discuss the Department’s market forecast for the short- and long-term as well as policies in place to assist dairy producers. The Subcommittee also heard testimony from Representatives Joe Courtney of Connecticut and Peter Welch of Vermont testified about the impacts of low dairy prices on producers in their districts. The final witness panel was comprised of producer and processor groups. The Subcommittee will continue public hearings examining the economic conditions of the dairy industry later this month. Written testimony provided by the witnesses is available on the Committee website: http://agriculture.house.gov/hearings/index.html. A full transcript of the hearing will be posted on the Committee website at a later date. Witness List: Panel I The Honorable Joe Courtney, Member of Congress, 2nd District of Connecticut The Honorable Peter Welch, Member of Congress, Vermont at Large Panel II The Honorable James Miller, Under Secretary of Agriculture, Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services, USDA, Washington, D.C. Panel III Mr. Paul Kruse, CEO and President of Blue Bell Creameries, L.P. on behalf of International Dairy Foods Association, Brenham, Texas Mr. Tom Wakefield, National Milk Producers Federation, Bedford, Pennsylvania. Mr. Brad Bouma, President, Select Milk Producers, Inc., Plainview, Texas Mr. Ray Souza, President, Western United Dairyman, Turlock, California ###
07.10.2009	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced more than $2.1 million in Homeless Prevention and Rapid Re-housing Program (HPRP) funding for Clayton and Cobb Counties through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. The program will provide individuals and families facing sudden financial crisis with short and medium-term rental assistance, security and utility deposits, utility payments, moving cost assistance and hotel vouchers. Additionally, the funding may be used to provide assistance to rapidly re-house persons who are homeless and likely to remain stably housed, whether subsidized or unsubsidized, once the HPRP assistance concludes. Grants provided under the program are not intended to provide long-term support nor assistance to homeowners facing foreclosure. Clayton County - $856,410 Cobb County - $1,377,048 “During these tough economic times many families are experiencing hardship with sudden job loss, and some families are finding it difficult to pay their rent and utility bills after scraping up enough money to buy groceries and fill up on gas to make it back and forth to work,” stated Rep. Scott. “This program will help these families get that little bit of help that they need to pay their bills and maintain their household until they can get back on their feet.” ###
06.12.2009	Recently, the University System of Georgia’s Board of Regents voted to grant Clayton State University approval to establish a master’s degree program in archival studies. U.S. Representative David Scott made the following statement to congratulate the University. “This is very exciting news for Georgia and Clayton County,” exclaimed Rep. Scott. “I applaud Clayton State University for their steadfast dedication to bringing this program to Georgia and for their continued efforts to raise the bar in Georgia’s higher education system. I am proud to have helped to secure $600,000 in federal funding for this groundbreaking program and I wish the students and faculty of Clayton State University much success with this new program.” The archival studies master’s degree program will expand an existing partnership between three institutions – Clayton State University, the Georgia Archives and the Regional National Archives – which are all located in Morrow, Georgia. The geographic relationship between the institutions brings about opportunities for educational and community service programs that are unique to the nation. According to the executive summary of Clayton State’s archival studies degree, the 45-semester hour program will focus on archival studies theory and methodology, as well as practice in the administrative, legal, economic, historical, managerial, and information studies areas. The new program will being during the Fall 2009 semester. ###
06.09.2009	Today, U.S. Representative David Scott made the following statement in support of President Obama’s announcement to enact tough budget rules and restore statutory Pay-As-You-Go (PAYGO) requirements. “Since taking office, President Obama has not only talked about returning this country to an era of responsible government spending, but now he is making good on that promise,” stated Rep. Scott. “The President’s call for a return to statutory PAYGO requirements will complement and strengthen Congressional rules and help to bring the government back to a more sustainable balanced budget. I commend the President for this bold move toward fiscal responsibility and reform.” In 2007, both houses of Congress took important steps toward restoring fiscal discipline by using Congressional rules to restore enforcement of the PAYGO principle. The PAYGO statute is meant to provide an enforcement mechanism, sequestration, that is unavailable without statutory PAYGO. ###
05.29.2009	Congressman David Scott is proud to host the 13th Congressional District Economic Recovery Exposition on Friday, May 29, 2009 from 10:00 am - 4:00 pm. The exposition will bring together a diverse group of corporations, small businesses, non-profit organizations and government agencies to assist constituents survive in tough economic times. The event will take place at the Georgia International Convention Center in College Park. At the Economic Recovery Exposition, participants can talk one-on-one with HUD-approved housing counselors; learn more about transiting careers, short-term training opportunities and starting a small business; receive information on extended unemployment and health benefits through the Economic Stimulus Package; and explore available job opportunities from over 100 companies, non-profit organizations and government agencies. Participants seeking employment are encouraged to dress professionally and bring copies of their resume for interviews and networking opportunities with a variety of employers, such as the Internal Revenue Service, Colonial Life, U.S. Census Bureau, Six Flags Over Georgia, Social Security Administration, CSX Transportation, MARTA and many others. Residents from throughout the district who have sustained loss of income due to unemployment and/or are at-risk of home foreclosure are encouraged to attend. Representatives from various government agencies will be on-site to assist eligible constituents enroll in assistance programs and provide one-on-one counseling. Event: Congressman David Scott’s 13th Congressional District Economic Recovery Exposition Date/Time: Friday, May 29, 2009 10:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. Location: Georgia International Convention Center 2000 Convention Center Concourse College Park, GA 30337 We encourage constituents to use public transportation and will have shuttles running from the MARTA College Park train station. Participating Employers & Organizations *this is a partial list and may be subject to change* Career Transition & Small Business Guidance: A-Supreme Healthcare Service Art Institute of Atlanta Atlanta Job Corps Atlanta Technical College Career Resource Center CED Solutions, LLC Center of Industry and Technology, Inc. Clayton State University Clayton State University - SBDC Corporation for National and Community Service Dekalb Workforce Development DeVry University Greater Atlanta Economic Alliance Interactive College of Technology Javelin Technical Training School Katlaw Truck Driving Kennesaw State University - SBDC Le Cordon Bleu College of Culinary Arts Atlanta Lincoln College of Technology Oglethorpe University Technical College System of Georgia U.S. Air Force U.S. Army U.S. Marine Corps U.S. Navy U.S. Peace Corps U.S. Small Business Administration University of Phoenix Throughout the day a multi-part small business seminar will be held by Clayton State University and Kennesaw State University Small Business Development Centers (SBCD). Home Foreclosure Prevention & Assistance: Atlanta Legal Aid Cobb Housing, Inc. Consumer Credit Counseling Service Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta Housing Authority of Clayton County Internal Revenue Service - SBSE Internal Revenue Service - W&I NeighborWorks Resources for Residents and Communities U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Several local, state and federal organizations will conduct Home Foreclosure Prevention Seminars and one-on-one counseling throughout the day. Extended Unemployment and Health Benefits Information: Clayton County DFACS Georgia Department of Labor Social Security Administration U.S. Department of Labor Hiring Employers: AFLAC AirTran American General Life and Accident Assured & Associates Avon - Daniely Avon - Walthall City of College Park City of Douglasville Clayton County Government College Park Police Department Colonial Life Columbus Fire and EMS Department Columbus Police Department Corporate Environmental Risk Management CSX Transportation DeKalb County Police Department Dignitary Protection Service Drug Enforcement Administration Employment Seeker Fastenal Federal Aviation Administration Gate Gourmet Geo Group Inc., The Georgia Department of Driver Services Georgia Public Broadcasting Georgia State Personnel Administration Gwinnett County Police Department Hands On Atlanta Hartsfield-Jackson Development Program Healthport Home Depot Internal Revenue Service - HR Lowe's Mack II Inc. MARTA Mother's Helpers Nanny Service, LLC Mrs. Winner's National Motor Club Personal Touch Tours Primerica Financial Services - Byrd Primerica Financial Services - Irvin Primerica Financial Services - Johnson Primerica Financial Services - Moore Primerica Financial Services - Story Pro Staff Scholars Academy Charter School Six Flags Over Georgia Social Security Administration Spherion Staffing Toto USA U.S. Parcel Service U.S. Border Patrol U.S. Census Bureau U.S. Customs and Border Protection U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission U.S. Food and Drug Administration Waffle House, Inc. WAGA-TV/Fox Atlanta WATL/WXIA-TV WCNN-AM Dickey Broadcasting Co. Wendy's International WGCL-TV CBS 46 WMAZ-TV - Gannett WVFJ-FM Provident Broadcasting WXRS/WEDB/WRJS/WJAT-Radio Jones
05.22.2009	Today, Rep. David Scott and Rep. Randy Neugebauer introduced H.R. 2554, commonly referred to as the National Association of Registered Agents & Brokers Reform Act (NARAB). The NARAB bill will reform the current system of insurance agent licensing and provide streamlined non-residential insurance agent and broker licensing, while preserving the market conduct rights of states and their authority to supervise agents and brokers. The measure will also create reciprocity in producer licensing and assist policyholders by generating greater competition. “I, along with my colleague Rep. Randy Neugebauer, introduced NARAB to help reform and modernize a very important part of state insurance regulation, agent and broker licensing,” said Scott. “This legislation is straight-forward and will most definitely benefit consumers through increased competition among agents and brokers, thus leading to greater consumer choice.” This measure passed the House with strong bipartisan support last Congress and has gained the endorsement of the state insurance commissioners. ###
05.20.2009	Rep. David Scott (D-GA) released the following statement today in support of the Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights Act, which passed the House today with bipartisan support and will now go to the President for his signature. “In recent months every American, from homeowners to bankers, have felt the effects of a down economy and a strained credit industry,” stated Rep. Scott. “And while the credit industry plays an essential role in our consumer economy, it is unjust for credit card companies to exploit consumers and arbitrarily increase credit card rates on responsible consumers.” “Most American families are budgeting their finances, using credit cards responsibly and paying their bills every month; yet one-fifth of Americans carrying credit card debt pay an interest rate above 20 percent. The practices that many credit card companies have adopted – making profits at the expense of responsible credit cardholders – are incomprehensible and go against our economic values that reward hard work and responsibility.” “The Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure Act takes important steps to mandate greater transparency, ban unfair rate increases and forbid abusive fees and penalties. It will also more closely monitor the industry and hold companies responsible for their deceptive practices and penalties and violations of the law.” Summary of Credit Cardholder's Bill of Rights Act
05.01.2009	Today, Rep. Scott announced that Iraq and Afghanistan veterans can now begin signing up for benefits under the New GI Bill. The “Post-9/11 GI Bill” was enacted last year to restore the promise of a full, four-year college education for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and will take effect on August 1, 2009. As of May 1, 2009, veterans may begin applying for a certificate of eligibility for the new college benefits. “I am proud to salute the brave men and women who have served this country in Iraq and Afghanistan by fulfilling this nations’ promise to provide access to education assistance in return of their service,” stated Scott. “While in Congress I have remained a champion for our troops, supporting measures for equipment and resources and praying for their success and safe return home. As the Obama administration puts forth a plan to bring our soldiers home safely, I cannot think of a better way to support and thank our soldiers than to provide the educational tools that will help improve their lives and support their families.” Generally, the GI Bill provides up to four years of education benefits at a college or university for individuals with at least 90 days of active duty service on or after September 11, 2001 and who have been honorably discharged from service. The benefits are correlated on a sliding scale to years served and to receive full benefits, you must have served on active duty for three years. Additionally, benefits are usually payable for up to 15 years following release from active duty. The GI program pays for the following: Tuition and fees of up to the maximum in-state tuition or fees at a public institution in your state; A monthly housing allowance at the location of the school, based on the Basic Allowance for Housing for an E-5 with dependents; and An annual books and supplies stipend of up to $1,000. For more information on the Post 9/11 GI Bill and/or to apply for a certificate of eligibility, visit www.gibill.va.gov. ###
04.29.2009	Today, U.S. Representative David Scott and other fiscally conservative Blue Dog Democrats introduced the “Fiscal Honesty and Accountability Act of 2009” The legislation seek to re-instate the binding pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) rules that helped lead to balanced budgets in the 1990s. “Throughout the last decade, our expenditures have steadily increased, while our revenues have continued to decrease,” stated Rep. Scott. “We have fallen into a system of perpetual borrowing and it is time that we put an end to these unsustainable practices. Just as families and small businesses across this nation have to live on a balanced budget, so should we [federal government].” President Obama recently urged Congress to pass legislation similar to the Blue Dogs’ bill. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Majority Leader Steny Hoyer also wrote in support of statutory PAYGO rules in an April 28th letter to the Blue Dogs. “When we commit to fiscal responsibility and institute mid- and long-term fiscal reform, we will begin to balance the national debt and lesson the financial burden that we have created for the next generation.” ###
04.23.2009	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) completed a week-long Congressional visit to volatile regions in Africa, including Burkina Faso, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Kenya and Yemen. During the trip, Congressman Scott and four other members of the U.S. House meet with world leaders to discuss counter-terrorism cooperation. Throughout the trip, the delegation was escorted by a NAVY Seal team through local neighborhoods. They also had to travel through the region by military aircraft in order to navigate impassable roads. While in the Congo, Congressman Scott met with UNICEF officials and visited a local health clinic to witness the facilities and humanitarian aid first hand. “Many of the people living in these areas are suffering through abject poverty and deprivation,” stated Rep. Scott. “Their living conditions are awful, there’s a scarcity of jobs, and many people see little hope for surviving their circumstances. With a growing presence of Al-Qaeda in areas like Yemen, we must ensure that the humanitarian aid is reaching the ‘people’ if we are to have any hope of stabilize the region.” Congressman Scott is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Vice-Chair of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. Also, Congressman Scott has been a Co-Chair of the Democratic Study Group on National Security since his first term. Read More: USA Today: U.S. Foreign Aid Needs Overhaul
04.21.2009	Congressman David Scott made the following statement in observance of the 39th Annual Earth Day, which will be observed tomorrow, Wednesday, April 22: “Almost four decades ago, a group of visionary Americans energized the environmental movement by dedicating a day to the ideal that we must preserve God’s creation, our planet, for future generations to come,” stated Rep. Scott. “Today, we are making the tough decisions necessary to move our country forward by introducing legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, create green jobs and invest in researching new clean energy technologies.” “Building a clean energy economy requires the help and participation of every American. Everyone can save money and help grow a clean energy economy by weatherizing their home, purchasing energy efficient appliances, and investing in more fuel efficient vehicles. By working together, on this Earth Day and everyday, we can leave behind a healthier, cleaner planet for our children.” ###
04.21.2009	The Clayton County Board of Education will receive more than $25 million in additional funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) over the next two years. ARRA funding will go to three main programs: low-income student services (Title I), individuals with disability education (IDEA) and construction. Department of Education Title I-A funding This program authorizes aid to local educational agencies (LEA) – school districts – for the education of disadvantaged children. Title I-A grants are used to provide supplementary educational and related services to schools with relatively high concentrations of pupils from low-income families. Title I-A funding increase provided to Clayton County: Clayton County School District - $7,246,000 Department of Education Construction Funding This program appropriates funding for construction grants. Constructing funding increase provided to Clayton County: Clayton County School District - $16,535,700 Department of Education Individuals with Disabilities Act (IDEA) funding This program provides federal funding for the education of children with disabilities. The stimulus provides increased funding to assist states and school districts with paying for the rising costs of special education. Amounts presented here show the estimated increase in allocation to LEAs above the existing FY2009 allocation amount as a result of the stimulus. Individuals with Disabilities Act (IDEA) funding increase provided to Clayton County School District: 2009 2010 IDEA Increase $5,605,400 IDEA increase $6,796,000 Total for 2009 $29,387,000 Total for 2010 $14,041,900 WATCH: 11Alive News - $24 Million Stimulus to Clayton County Schools
04.01.2009	Americans are facing the most severe economic and financial hardships that this country has seen in generations. Tragically, much of the damage has fallen on hardworking middle class workers. To help Main Street families get back on their feet, President Obama signed the Making Work Pay tax credit into law in February. As a result, many families across the country are seeing more money in their paychecks. Additionally, IRS guidance requests that by April 1st all employers must have instituted the lower withholdings for their employees. “The Making Work Pay tax credit is yet another piece of our commitment to helping Americans face the current economic crisis,” said Rep. Scott. “This legislation will help to keep much needed money in the paychecks of workers who are struggling to pay their bills each week. We have already seen significant results from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act with saved jobs; however, as workers begin to see more money in their checks they will immediately notice the impact of the Recovery Act.” The Making Work Pay tax credit is the tax reduction centerpiece of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. The credit provides over 110 million working families – about 95% - with tax relief from rising costs and stagnate wages and gives up to $400 for adults and $800 for families over the course of a year. To learn more about the new withholding tables issued by the IRS, visit www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/n1036.pdf. ###
03.26.2009	Today, Representative David Scott announced that federal grants totaling over $16 million will be awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to local governments in the 13th District. The Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant program (EECBG), funded by President Obama’s American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, provides formula grants used to assist states and local governments in implementing strategies to reduce total energy use and fossil fuel emissions, and improve energy efficiency. Grant funds awarded to local governments in the 13th District include: • Clayton County $2,545,900 • Cobb County $5,288,500 • Dekalb County $6,511,600 • Fulton County $814,300 • Henry County $751,000 • City of Marietta $785,500 • City of Smyrna $208,000 Activities eligible to receive funding include: conducting residential and commercial building energy audits; establishing financial incentive programs for energy efficiency improvements; grants to non-profit organizations to perform energy efficiency retrofits; developing/implementing programs to conserve energy used in transportation; developing and implementing building codes and inspection services to promote building energy efficiency; installing light emitting diodes (LEDs); and developing, implementing, and installing on or in any government building onsite renewable energy technology that generates electricity from renewable sources. For more details on the EECBG program and funding, please visit www.energy.gov/recovery. To learn more about the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, visit www.recovery.gov. ###
03.26.2009	Representative David Scott announces that the federal government will begin sending one-time $250 economic recovery payments in May 2009 to people receiving Social Security, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), Veterans Affairs (VA), and Railroad Retirement Board (RRB) benefits. The economic recovery payments are funded by President Obama’s American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and provide a one-time payment to adult beneficiaries, except those receiving Medicaid in care facilities. To receive the payment, individuals must have been eligible for these benefits during the months of November 2008, December 2008 or January 2009. There is no action required to get the payment, which will be sent separately from the person’s regular monthly payment. Additionally, if someone receives Social Security and SSI, VA or RRB benefits, he or she will receive only one $250 payment. Individuals should not contact the agencies unless a payment is not received by June 4, 2009. For more information about the one-time economic recovery payment, visit www.socialsecurity.gov/payment. To learn more about the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, go to www.recovery.gov. ###
03.20.2009	Recently, Congressman David Scott was honored for his standing commitment to supporting middle-class Americans through legislation. In recent months Americans have been faced with many challenges, including a slowing economy and climbing education costs. In his fight to stand-up for American families, Congressman Scott has received an “A” scorecard rating for consistently voting in favor of legislation that matters most to America’s middle-class families. The Drum Major Institute for Public Policy (DMI) released TheMiddleClass.org 2008 Congressional Scorecard recognizing Congressman Scott for continually demonstrating a commitment to strengthening and expanding America’s middle-class. Congressman Scott received an “A” voting rating in support of issues related to health care, college affordability, and the impact of free trade agreements. To view Congressman David Scott’s voting record visit www.TheMiddleClass.org. “I truly appreciate being recognized by the Drum Major Institute for Public Policy for my commitment to America’s middle-class families. I believe that being a Member of Congress is about connecting with people in order to represent them and their families on the House floor. I am honored to represent the 13th Congressional District of Georgia and will continue to vote for legislation that will improve the lives of my constituents.” ###
03.16.2009	Recently, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced that he awarded more than $23,000 in scholarships to the top winners of the 13th District’s Seventh Annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Congressman Scott honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special reception on Saturday at the Arts Clayton Gallery in Jonesboro. “Each year I am amazed at the artistic talents of the students in my district. The pieces on display at this year’s competition were extraordinary and it is evident that these students have such bright futures ahead of them. I also want to commend the families for their support, as we had a tremendous outpouring of family members and friends to come out and encourage all of the participants,” said Congressman Scott. “Our annual art competition presents a wonderful opportunity for our community to celebrate the talents of our gifted young artists who endeavor to succeed with focus and self-discipline. I am so proud to honor our top winners for their exceptional artistic achievements with scholarships, and I encourage all of this year’s participating student artists to continue to set high goals for themselves.” The Savannah College of Art and Design awarded a $6,000 scholarship ($1,500/year) to the first place winner. The Art Institute of Atlanta awarded the first place winner with a $10,000 scholarship; second place, a $5,000 scholarship; and third place, a $2,500 scholarship. This year’s top winners include: 1st – “The Closet” by Tawanna Webster, Stockbridge High School 2nd – “When Life Gives You Lemons” by Megan Pitts, Stockbridge High School 3rd – “Bald Eagle” by Erik Abarca, Lithia Springs High School 4th – “Bumble Bee” by Ashley Belen Scheren, Creekside High School Honorable Mention – “Creation” by Nicole Ghraizi, Mt. Zion High School Honorable Mention – “Impossible is Nothing” by Anthony Lee, Hope Christian Academy The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. To date hundreds of thousands of high school students from around the nation have been able to participate at the local level. This year’s first-place winner Tawanna Webster will be invited to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C., where her winning piece “The Closet” will be on display in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building along with other winning entries from around the country. Student artwork from the competition will be on display through the end of the month at Arts Clayton Gallery. Students interested in participating in next year’s competition should contact Audra Braswell Bleecker at 770-210-5073. ###
03.02.2009	Recently, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced the nomination of twenty-two area students to the nation’s military academies. He honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special reception at the National Archives, located at 5780 Jonesboro Road. “I am very proud of these young men and women. Appointment to a military academy demands exceptional academic achievement, character and leadership. Without question, each of these students possesses these qualities,” said Congressman Scott. “Our students are outstanding young Americans who proudly reflect the 13th Congressional District’s commitment to education and service and who will one day honorably serve our nation as leaders in the Armed Forces.” Congressman Scott announced the following primary nominations: United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO: Brandon Banks, College Park, Westlake High School Ashley Davis, Fairburn, Creekside High School Alexander Dirst, Smyrna, Campbell High School Steven Freund, Powder Springs, University of Georgia Enrique Inocencia-Holloway, Ellenwood, Woodland High School Andrew Love, Jonesboro, Jonesboro High School Caleb MacLachlan, Jonesboro, Marion Military Academy Lauren McGuire, Douglasville, Landmark Christian School Blair O’Bryant, Douglasville, Chapel Hill High School Jordan Poole, Stockbridge, Georgia State University United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD: George Bowman III, Hampton, Lovejoy High School Solomon Drake, Jonesboro, Jonesboro High School Michelle Maddox, Smyrna, Naval Academy Preparatory School Darrin McElroy, Smyrna, New Mexico Military Institute Lauren McGuire, Douglasville, Landmark Christian School Enrique Rosa, Mableton, South Cobb High School Jared Toso, Smyrna, Toso Academy United States Military Academy at West Point, NY: George Bowman III, Hampton, Lovejoy High School James LeCraw, Mableton, Whitefield Academy Joshua Meadows, Smyrna, Campbell High School Raymond Northcutt, Atlanta, Arlington Christian School Darrain Stabler, Douglasville, Chapel Hill High School Brian Stoutamire, Jonesboro, Lovejoy High School Elizabeth Young, Fairburn, D.M. Therrell High School To view photos from the reception, click here. To be considered for an academy appointment, an applicant must first be nominated. U.S. Senators and Members of the U.S. House of Representatives may nominate applicants who meet the following eligibility requirements: 17 years of age, but has not passed his or her 23rd birthday, he or she must be a U.S. citizen, and the applicant must be unmarried, not pregnant, and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. Students interested in applying for the Class of 2014 should contact Congressman Scott’s Military Academy Coordinator, David Johnson, at 770-210-5073.
02.13.2009	Today, Congressman David Scott voted to pass H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “The American people are expecting Congress to act with boldness and confidence to help kick-start economic growth. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will stimulate the economy by investing in transportation, schools, health care and other fundamental community needs. It is estimated by the Council of Economic Advisors that over 100,000 jobs will be created in Georgia, and over 9,000 will be created in my district, from these critical investments. I encourage local governments to work with the state to spend these funds quickly and wisely and target them in areas that will provide the most economic benefit,” Congressman Scott said. Once the Senate passes the Economic Recovery Act, President Obama will quickly sign it into law. ###
02.11.2009	United States Representatives David Scott (D-GA) and Dr. Phil Gingrey (R-GA) today announce that some 43,700 Americans have already weighed in with the White House in support of the F-22 Raptor program. This support is documented on a virtual petition that will be delivered by these members to the President of the United States. The petition, which is housed on the website www.preserveraptorjobs.com, urges Congress and the new Administration to continue production of the world’s most advanced fighter aircraft, the F-22 Raptor. “Doing so,” states the petition, “will support tens of thousands of well-paying, specialized American jobs, preserving more than $12 billion in annual economic activity, and help maintain America’s air superiority as the threats to our national security become more numerous and complex.” This petition comes on the heels of bi-partisan letters signed by 238 Members of Congress urging the president to certify that it is in the national interest to continue production of the aircraft. In addition to the more than 31,600 e-mailed letters, and another 2,000 plus handwritten letters sent by mail to the White House from employees at suppliers and contractor locations. David Scott (D-GA) and Dr. Phil Gingrey (R-GA) will also send a representative sample of the more than 31,600 personal letters that have been emailed to the President, urging him to “certify” continued production of the Raptor. The letter reminds President Obama that in his inaugural address, he advocated moving forward with government programs that work. “The F-22 program fits this bill,” states the Letter. “It is on budget and ahead of schedule, and we are now reaping the tremendous benefits of our nation’s investment in design and development.” “I agree with these thousands of people who want this program to continue; shutting down F-22 production would have drastic consequences for our economy and national security. A large number of us in Congress, and thousands of Americans as reflected in these letters and on the petition, agree that the continuation of the Raptor program will protect a vital national asset, save U.S. jobs and economic activity, and ensure that our men and women in uniform have the resources they need to protect our liberty,” said Representative Scott. “Even a temporary delay would drive up costs significantly, and my concern is that a prolonged disruption to the production line will result in the loss of highly skilled workers and make it too expensive to restart the production line at a future date. If this production line, the only operational fifth generation production line for fighter aircraft is terminated, we will lose a national asset,” said Representative Gingrey. Both the petition and the letters point out that keeping the production line open currently requires no additional taxpayer dollars in FY09, and is not a rescue or bailout. The FY09 National Defense Authorization and Appropriations Acts added money for long lead items to keep the program going until March 1, 2009, by which time, President Obama must certify that either additional procurement of F-22s or termination of the production line is in the national interest of the United States.
02.10.2009	Congressman Scott joins the Blue Dog Coalition in a White House meeting with President Obama this evening. Congressman Scott will join the discussion on the economic recovery package and will again raise the issue of continuing production of the F-22 Raptor with President Obama. Last week Congressman Scott was able to bring concerns of Lockheed Martin, Marietta to President Obama at the Democratic Caucus issues retreat: http://briefingroom.thehill.com/2009/02/06/obama-seeks-to-lower-expectations-on-f-22-raptor/ “I look forward to having another opportunity to speak with President Obama about continuing to fund the production of the F-22 Raptor Fighter Jets,” commented Rep. Scott. “This is an immense opportunity to help secure jobs for the almost 100,000 Lockheed Martin employees and others that work on this aircraft and an essential component of our national security. Congressman Scott’s 13th Congressional District includes Marietta, home to the F-22 plant.
02.04.2009	Rep. Scott today joined a majority in the House of Representatives in support of the final version of the bipartisan State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization bill, better known in Georgia as PeachCare. The SCHIP Reauthorization bill is an updated version of the legislation vetoed twice by President Bush (H.R. 976). The legislation reauthorizes the SCHIP program through fiscal year 2013 and will provide federal funding to enable states to maintain their current programs and extend them to 4 million additional uninsured children in modest-income families. “There is nothing more important that protecting our children,” said Rep. Scott. “This critical program not only helps our children live healthy, productive lives, but it also makes good economic sense for taxpayers. By covering more eligible children we will prevent costlier problems in the future.” “As the need for this legislation has continued to grow everyday, I am proud that this bill will finally be sent to a President who will actually sign it.” The SCHIP legislation improves access to benefits for children by providing quality dental coverage and mental health services. Also, the bill improves the SCHIP financial structure, outreach tools to streamline enrollment of eligible children and access to private coverage options. It is fully offset over the five and ten-year budget window and is consistent with the Democratic commitment to Paygo.
01.26.2009	Rep. David Scott (D-GA) issued the following statement regarding the national salmonella outbreak and recall of peanut butter products: "I am gravely concerned about the ever-widening outbreak of salmonella related to peanut butter and peanut butter products processed by the PCA facility in Blakely. With almost five hundred reported illnesses and several deaths already, it is imperative that our first order of business be to identify any and all contaminated products and remove them from the shelves so that consumers are no longer at risk. Secondly, the FDA, CDC and relevant state agencies must thoroughly investigate the causes of this outbreak so that future occurrences can be prevented. The FDA has received criticism in the past for its handling of such situations. As a Member of Congress serving on the Agriculture Committee, I take these allegations very seriously and will take a hard look at the structure and funding of the FDA and other food safety agencies, to ensure that they may properly do their jobs. Lastly, I would say that the peanut industry remains a vital segment of Georgia's agricultural economy. It is imperative that this investigation conclude as quickly as possible, and any prescribed remedies put into place, so that consumer confidence is restored and permanent damage is not done to the industry. We have already seen lay-offs at the plant in Blakely, and in these tough economic times we desperately need to prevent those lay-offs from worsening."
01.21.2009	Today, Representative Scott voted in support of H.R. 384 – TARP (Troubled Assets Relief Program) Reform and Accountability Act of 2009. This new TARP bill amends the TARP provisions of the Emergency Economic Stimulus Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) to strengthen accountability and oversight, close loopholes, increase transparency, and require the Treasury to take significant steps on foreclosure mitigation. The foreclosure mitigation plan calls for spending $100 billion (with a minimum of $40 billion) of TARP funds to help homeowners. Additionally, the program will guarantee qualifying loan modification programs, decrease the costs of H4H (Hope for Homeowners) loans and provide servicer incentives and assistance. “As we look forward for solutions to the current economic crisis it is critical that we move aggressively with a strategy to restructure troubled mortgages and keep families in their homes,” said Rep. Scott. “This legislation takes significant steps to require the Treasury to take action against foreclosures and provides needed assistance to servicers who are working with families to modify existing loans. I am committed to the homeowners of this country and will continue to work tirelessly to keep hard working families in their homes.”
01.20.2009	Rep. David Scott (D-GA) issued the following statement recognizing the historic inauguration of President Barack Obama: “Today the world witnessed a defining moment in American history; a moment that some of our most courageous and respected leaders have dreamed about and made unparalleled sacrifices for,” said Congressman Scott. “This is an extraordinary moment for this country and I am truly proud to have had the chance to witness this day.” “As we face very challenging times in the days ahead, I have great confidence in the ability of President Obama to bring the people of this nation together and lead with integrity. I look forward to working with him and the members of his administration. Congratulations to President Barack Obama, First Lady Michelle Obama, and the millions of supporters who helped to make this day a reality.” ###
01.16.2009	Yesterday, the Democratic Members of the House Committee on Agriculture met in an organizational meeting and selected Congressman David Scott to serve as chairman of the Subcommittee on Livestock, Dairy, and Poultry. “I want to thank Agriculture Committee Chairman Collin Peterson and my colleagues for selecting me as the new Chairman of the Livestock Subcommittee,” said Representative Scott. “As one of the nations’ top producers of poultry and with thriving pork and cattle industries, Georgia is an important player in the livestock world. I am excited about the opportunity to represent Georgia on this important subcommittee. I look forward to working this session of Congress to keep America’s meat and protein products safe and healthy." Jurisdiction of the subcommittee includes oversight of: livestock; dairy; poultry; meat; seafood and seafood products; inspection, marketing, and promotion of such commodities; aquaculture; animal welfare; and grazing. Poultry production is the largest agriculture industry in Georgia. The Democratic Caucus will vote to approve the subcommittee chairmanships soon. ###
01.14.2009	Today, Members of the House will consider H.R. 2 – State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization bill, better known in Georgia as PeachCare. The SCHIP Reauthorization bill of 2009 is an updated version of the bipartisan reauthorization bill vetoed twice by President Bush (H.R. 976). The bill reauthorizes the SCHIP program through fiscal year 2013 and provides federal funding to enable states to maintain their current programs and extend them to 4 million additional uninsured low-income children. The legislation will also improve access to benefits for children by providing quality dental coverage and mental health services. “During these unsure economic times with rising unemployment rates and unprecedented foreclosures, now more than ever this program is critical,” said Representative Scott. “We must ensure that all of our nation’s children are provided quality health care and the opportunity to live healthy, productive lives. We have another opportunity today to protect and insure the 11 million uninsured children of this nation and I urge my colleagues to support what is right for our children.” The SCHIP Reauthorization bill will prioritize children’s coverage by transitioning any parents previously covered under the SCHIP program to separate block grants. The legislation also improves the SCHIP financial structure, outreach tools to streamline enrollment of eligible children and access to private coverage options. The legislation is fully offset over the five and ten-year budge window and is consistent with the Democratic commitment to Paygo.
11.11.2008	Thank you for your interest in the Presidential Inauguration to be held at the United States Capitol Building on Tuesday, January 20, 2009. Due to the historic nature of this Inauguration, we have received an unprecedented number of ticket requests. My offices in Washington, D.C., Jonesboro and Smyrna, GA have received over 6,000 unique requests, accounting for more than 10,000 tickets. While we would like to accommodate everyone, unfortunately each Member of Congress was only allocated slightly under 200 tickets. At this time, all of the tickets allotted to my office have been distributed and we do not expect any more to be made available. However, in order to accommodate the large number of people traveling to Washington, D.C. to attend the inaugural events, the National Mall will be open to the public and will not require a ticket. To get the latest information and important updates on the Swearing-In Ceremony and other inaugural events, visit the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies website. 12/1/2008: Tips for Attending the 2009 Presidential Inauguration Ceremony 12/4/2008: The Presidential Inaugural Committee (PIC) Annouces that Entire Length of the National Mall Will be Open to Public on Inauguration Day 12/8/2008: The Presidential Inaugural Committee (PIC) Announces Organizations to Perform in the 56th Inaugural
11.11.2008	Congressman David Scott (GA-13) commemorates Veteran’s Day during his travels abroad with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Congressman Scott is among the first members of congress to travel abroad after the historic election of President-Elect Barack Obama. While in Italy Congressman Scott will participate in a wreath/rose laying ceremony at the Sicily-Rome American Cemetery. The Sicily-Rome American Cemetery is the resting place of over 7,000 American WWII soldiers who perished in the battles for Sicily and the beach landings in Salerno and Anzio. He issued the following statement in honor of Veteran’s Day: “Each year on Veteran’s Day, we honor American soldiers who have served this country valiantly and sacrificed their lives on behalf of our country,” stated Congressman Scott “We also proudly salute both veterans of our armed forces and the brave and courageous soldiers currently serving in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world.” “On the battlefield, the Army pledges to leave no soldier behind. Let us, as a nation, pledge to leave no soldier behind when they return home. Georgia is home to more than 757,000 veterans. We must honor their service and sacrifice by welcoming them home with appropriate healthcare and educational assistance. As a member of Congress, I have pledged to support our troops and urge my colleagues to support important legislation for our veterans. I am a cosponsor of H.R. 303 the Retired Pay Restoration Act, which is legislation that would allow the receipt of both military retired pay and veterans’ disability compensation with respect to any service-connected disability. I am also a cosponsor of H.R. 690, legislation aiming to reduce the minimum age for receipt of military retired pay for non-regular service from 60 to 55.” “Today, as we observe Veteran’s Day, let us all keep our soldiers and their families in our thoughts and prayers.”
10.20.2008	Congressman David Scott will return to Washington to continue important work on the current financial crisis. Congressman Scott is a member of the House Financial Services Committee, which will hold hearings on financial regulation on Tuesday, October 21st. “Our economic crisis is hurting average Americans,” Congressman Scott said. “This is not the time for Congress to take time off from working on economic recovery. We need to roll up our sleeves and get to work on regulation of the financial markets and ensure that the economic recovery bill is implemented effectively. I will continue to fight for additional help for families struggling to stay in their homes and for small business viability.” The Financial Services Committee will hold a hearing to address the need for broad regulatory restructuring and reform for the financial markets, including financial institution oversight and regulation, systemic risk, and housing finance. This hearing will focus on the extent to which an outdated and weak regulatory system contributed to the current market turmoil and whether adoption of a stronger and more robust financial regulatory system could contribute to a more rapid recovery in the financial markets and the economy. WHO: Financial Services Committee - Hearing on the Future of Financial Services Regulation WHEN: Tuesday, October 21, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. WHERE: Room 2128, Rayburn House Office Building Witness list can be found on the Committee Website: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/hearing/financialsvcs_dem/hr102108.shtml ###
10.03.2008	Today, Congressman David Scott voted to support final passage of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (H.R. 1424). “Two things changed this week to help me decide to vote for the final version of this economic assistance bill,” stated Congressman Scott. “First, I was able to work with House leadership to strengthen language providing assistance to homeowners. The language of the bill now forces the Secretary of the Treasury to take a more aggressive strategy to restructure troubled mortgages and prevent further foreclosures.” “Secondly, small businesses in Atlanta started running out of short term loan options,” Congressman Scott said. “They said they would have to start cutting payroll to make ends meet. I believe that in order to help keep employees on the job we could not wait around for a perfect bill. If I thought this was just a bailout for Wall Street, I would continue to oppose it.” Congressman Scott also wants to bring more attention to legislation that he previously helped pass to bring relief to homeowners. As a member of the Financial Services Committee, he helped draft the Housing and Economic Recovery Act. This week, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Federal Housing Administration just announced two major programs created by the bill. The HOPE for Homeowners (H4H) program will help those at risk of default and foreclosure refinance into more affordable, sustainable loans. As many as 400,000 homeowners could avoid foreclosure through this program over the next three years. For more information go to www.FHA.gov. HUD’s new Neighborhood Stabilization Program will provide emergency assistance to state and local governments to acquire and redevelop foreclosed properties that might otherwise become sources of abandonment and blight within their communities. The Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) provides grants to every state and certain local communities to purchase foreclosed or abandoned homes and to rehabilitate, resell, or redevelop these homes in order to stabilize neighborhoods and stem the decline of house values of neighboring homes. For more information go to www.HUD.gov. Congressman Scott Speaks Out About the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act: Editorial from Congressman Scott Atlanta Journal Constitution: Fed Program Could Slow Foreclosures C-SPAN CNBC Fox 5 Atlanta
10.02.2008	U.S. Representative David Scott (GA-13) announced today that the Bureau of Justice Assistance has awarded $150,000 in grants to Clayton County Public Schools for the Gang Resistance Education and Training (G.R.E.A.T.) program. “Violent crimes have been on the rise in Clayton County since 2000 and like many of my constituents, I am very concerned about gang violence and its penetration of schools in the area,” said Rep. Scott. “I am committed to providing Clayton County with the resources it needs to combat crime and gang violence, and I will continue to work to protect our communities from such violent activity.” The G.R.E.A.T. program is a life-skills competency program designed to provide students with the skills they need to avoid gang pressure and youth violence. The G.R.E.A.T. program’s violence prevention curriculum teaches character development and techniques so students learn how to avoid self-destructive activities. Clayton County Public Schools will use the grant funds for more than 6,200 students attending 16 elementary schools and all middle schools in the county. High-risk students referred by school officials, school counselors, parents, police, social workers and probation officers will be selected for participation in a special preventative outreach and after school program. ###
09.30.2008	Yesterday, Representative David Scott (D-GA) and Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Howard Berman called for a Government Accountability Office (GAO) investigation into the alarming growth of U.S. exports to Iran. The GAO study was requested in response to an Associated Press (AP) report earlier this year stating that U.S. exports to Iran – including cigarettes, cosmetics, perfume, fur clothing, musical instruments and possibly weapons –grew more than tenfold during the Bush Administration. "The lax oversight of exports during this administration is cause for much concern. It calls into question the procedures of approving exports to Iran," stated Rep. Scott. "While it is necessary that we assist the Iranian people with humanitarian goods, such as medicine and food, we must be clear that it is in our national security interest that we enforce prohibitions on certain exports to Iran and that we ensure that exemptions to U.S. trade sanctions are not being abused. Rep. David Scott is Vice Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. For your convenience, a copy of the request letter sent to the Government Accountability Office is attached. ###
09.24.2008	Today, U.S. Representative David Scott released the following statement on the House passage of H.R. 2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance and Continuing Appropriations Act. This act funds the federal government for the first part of FY2009, and contains fully year funding for the Department of Defense, Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Veterans Affairs. “I am proud to say that this bill puts our troops first,” said Rep. Scott. “It builds on the efforts of the last two years by furthering our commitment to maintaining a strong national defense, improving military readiness and respecting our veterans who defend us and our freedoms. It secures resources to prepare troops for whatever emergencies may arise, providing them with first class weapons and equipment, and ensuring that they and their families are well taken care of. The bill will also provide $72.9 billion for improving the Veterans Health Administration, Medical Facilities, and many other projects important to the current and past members of our Armed Services.” “I applaud the passage of this bill and the many opportunities it will bring to the constituents of Georgia’s 13th Congressional District. The defense funding included under the final 2009 spending bill will help secure jobs for the 6,900 Lockheed Martin employees working on F-22 and C-130 defense projects that are essential to our national security.” The Homeland Security portion of this legislation will cut funding for low priority or poorly managed programs in order to increase investments in high priority areas including the security of our ports, rail and transit systems. The passage of this legislation enacts $40 billion in funding to keep Americans safe. The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs part of this legislation sends a clear message to America’s servicemen and women, their families, and our veterans that we all appreciate and respect their service and sacrifice. It provides $72.9 billion for improving the Veterans Health Administration, Medical Facilities, as well as many other projects important to the current and past members of the Armed Services. The Defense section of this legislation makes critical investments into the health, well-being and readiness of America’s forces. These recommendations address issues raised by troops, their families and Department of Defense officials in testimony before the Congress, and discovered through visits to military bases across the United States and overseas. Key Defense Investments: Addressing Equipment Shortfalls: $750 million is specifically set aside to ensure that the National Guard and Reserve have all of the tools they need after years of irresponsible shortfalls. The President did not request funding specifically for Guard and Reserve. First Class Medical Care: $25.8 billion, $1 billion above the President’s request and $2.4 billion above 2008, to provide our troops with top of the line medical care. This includes $300 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health. Compensation for Stop Loss: $72 million, not requested by the President, for a new initiative to pay troops $500 for every month their term of service will be involuntarily and arbitrarily extended in 2009. Weapons Programs F-22: $2.9 billion, for 20 F-22s as requested by the President and $523 million not requested by the President for advance procurement of an additional 20 F-22 Raptors. Future Combat Systems: $3.6 billion, $26 million above the President’s request, to accelerate the Unmanned Aerial Vehicle and Unmanned Ground Vehicle programs. Satellite Communications: $150 million, not requested by the President, for the advance procurement of the fourth Advanced Extremely High Frequency military communications satellite. Overall, the bill totals $118.9 billion and provides $72.9 billion in discretionary spending, $47.6 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs, $25 billion for Military Construction, Family Housing and BRAC, and $207.29 million for related agencies. It is $3.6 billion more than the President’s request and $9 billion more than the historic fiscal year 2008 bill. ###
09.23.2008	U.S. Representative David Scott recently introduced H.R. 1461, recognizing the 10th anniversary of the terrorist bombings of the United States embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. “Ten years after the tragic and senseless terrorist attacks on the U.S. embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, we recognize the historic significance of these events and memorialize the citizens and families of the United States, the Republic of Kenya, and the United Republic of Tanzania whose lives were lost and those who were injured in these horrific bombings. We should also pause to recognize the families of those who were affected by this tragedy; their lives have been changed forever,” said Rep. Scott. “We also recognize the gracious contributions and the sacrifices made by the people and governments of Kenya and Tanzania and express our deepest gratitude and support in their future growth and prosperity.” Today, the United States Government is partnering with the people and Governments of Kenya and Tanzania as they continue to recover and rebuild from the terror attacks. “I’d also like to take a moment to reach out to those affected by the recent embassy attack in Yemen. My heart goes out to the families stricken by this terrible attack and I have all confidence that the U.S. security experts, law enforcement officials and Yemeni government will be working around the clock to uncover exactly what happened here and punish those responsible,” said Scott. “Just like ten years ago in Africa, seven years ago in New York and Washington, DC and countless other times throughout recent history, Al Qaeda has reared its ugly head. We must move swiftly and dedicate the necessary resources to combat the persistent threat, and crush Al Qaeda once and for all. ” ###
09.18.2008	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5611, commonly referred to as the National Association of Registered Agents & Brokers Reform Act (NARAB). This bipartisan measure was introduced by Rep. David Scott (D-GA) and Rep. Geoff Davis (R-KY) and will reform the current system of insurance agent licensing. NARAB will provide streamlined non-residential insurance agent and broker licensing, while preserving the market conduct rights of states and their authority to supervise agents and brokers. This measure will also create reciprocity in producer licensing and assist policyholders by generating greater competition. “I, along with my colleague Rep. Geoff Davis, introduced NARAB to help reform and modernize a very important part of state insurance regulation, agent and broker licensing”, said Scott. “This legislation is straight-forward and will most definitely benefit consumers through increased competition among agents and brokers, thus leading to greater consumer choice.” ###
09.17.2008	Yesterday, Congressman Scott supported the passage of H.R. 6899, the Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act, which passed in the House 236 to 189. This bipartisan legislation will bring energy costs down by expanding domestic energy supply, while also investing in renewable energy production. “Democrats have offered a forward-thinking bill that responsibly increases domestic supply and makes a firm commitment to expanding our alternative energy future,” Scott said. “I am very proud to support this compromise.” H.R. 6899 permits states to drill 50 to 100 miles offshore in the outer continental shelf (OCS) if coastal states authorize leasing, and directs the Interior Department to permit drilling 100 to 200 miles offshore. This bill also adheres to strict environmental standards by excluding leasing in national marine monuments and sanctuaries. H.R. 6899 includes provisions from other Scott-supported bills requiring the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to allow oil and natural gas lease sales on an annual basis, rather than biannually, and requires the BLM to expeditiously construct a pipeline from Alaska to the continental 48 states. This measure bans the exportation of Alaskan oil and requires current leaseholders to demonstrate “diligent development” of all existing leases as determined by the Interior Department. Congressman Scott praised the inclusion of incentives to help the cellulosic ethanol industry, including extending biodiesel production tax credits through the end of 2009. “In its commitment to developing cellulosic biofuels, Georgia is a leader in our new energy future,” Scott said. “Democrats know the potential of many kinds of cellulosic ethanol, which is why this legislation provides write-offs for the construction of not only cellulosic biomass ethanol plants, but also cellulosic feedstock development.” This measure also extends a number of renewable energy production credits for wind and solar energy, and authorizes six billion dollars in tax-credit bonds to finance a clean energy infrastructure. The bill also includes provisions for reducing energy costs by offering incentives for commercial green building and residential energy efficiency programs. As a deficit-neutral measure, this bill complies with all PAYGO requirements per the rules of the House of Representatives, accelerating our renewable energy future at no cost to Americans. ###
08.28.2008	Today, Congressman David Scott made the following statement about Clayton County Schools’ loss of accreditation. I am extremely disappointed that SACS has chosen to repeal the Clayton County School System’s accreditation and I urge an immediate appeal of this decision. Yesterday, a judge recommended that four board members be removed due to mismanagement of the school system. I call on the Governor to immediately remove these four board members who refuse to resign and immediately move to install new board members. Only a new functioning board can address the 9 mandates that the current board refuses to address. This is a sad situation that could have been averted. All nine mandates dealt with mismanagement at the school board level and unfortunately the board chose inaction rather than to protect the interests of the citizens of Clayton County. The loss of accreditation was not due to the quality of students or teachers, test scores, level of funding, or academics. Some could say federal policies could do nothing to stop the mismanagement. Nonetheless, I am working to identify any ways in which I can assist Clayton County in order to prevent the loss of accreditation from occurring. Earlier this year, I contacted the leadership of the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Education, as well as the U.S. Department of Education to alert federal officials of this crisis and I will renew those calls for assistance. I will help the new board in any way possible to build the top notch school system the residents of Clayton County expect and deserve. Listed are the 9 mandates: 1. Establish a governing board that is capable of fulfilling its roles and responsibilities 2. Remove the influence of outside groups/individuals. 3. Enact and commit to an ethics policy. 4. Review all board policies. Train board members on policies. 5. Conduct a full, forensic audit of finances. 6. Conduct a comprehensive audit of student attendance records. 7. Ensure each board member is a legal resident of the county and is eligible to hold office. 8. Hire outside consultants with expertise in conflict resolution, governance and organizational effectiveness. 9. Appoint a permanent superintendent with the experience to lead the district. ###
08.18.2008	Congressman David Scott welcomed more than 1,500 constituents and 100 healthcare professionals and volunteers to the Fourth Annual 13th Congressional District Health Fair held Saturday, August 16, 2008 at Mundy’s Mill High School in Clayton County. “Each year I’ve continued to host a health fair to provide accessible healthcare to those who cannot afford to go to the doctor,” said Congressman Scott. “I want them to know that even if they cannot afford to go to the doctor, they can come to Mundy’s Mill High School every year and get all the tests they need for free. This year we were able to continue to build on the success of our first three health fairs by providing much-needed preventive screenings and by empowering and raising awareness around breast cancer and AIDS, which are two of the leading causes of death in African-American women. We were also able to increase the number of on site screenings and provide on site assistance for programs like Medicare, Medicaid, PeachCare, prescription drug assistance and veterans benefits.” Congressman Scott kicked off the health fair with a panel discussing breast cancer awareness featuring advice from Dr. Rogsbert Phillips, one of the nation’s foremost experts on breast cancer, as well as commentary from notable survivors of the disease, including WSB-TV news reporter and anchor JaQuitta Williams and Mrs. Alfredia Scott, wife of Congressman Scott. Panelist shared their personal stories about being diagnosed and their fight to survive breast cancer. “Representing Georgians is more than just casting votes in Washington. I believe strongly that the most important part of being a Member of Congress is helping people,” Scott added. “Throughout my years in public service, from the Georgia legislature to the U.S. Congress, I have made it one of my main objectives to ensure and promote the health and well-being of my fellow Georgians. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Washington to ensure healthcare continues to be at the forefront of our discussions. We have much work to do, but I believe with dedicated efforts, we will achieve success.” Leading hospitals, government agencies, and members of the health care industry were on hand to provide a wide variety of free health screenings, fitness demonstrations, preventative health care consultations and information about important health issues. Attendees of the Health Fair participated in a blood drive and were able to enroll on site in a number of health assistance programs. Participants included Georgia Cancer Foundation, the American Heart Association, Southern Regional Health System, Grady Health System, West End Medical Center, AARP, AID Atlanta, American Red Cross, Sisters by Choice, Social Security Administration, Department of Veteran’s Affairs, Nanston Dental, Resurgens Orthopedics, Sickle Cell Foundation of Georgia, and many others! ###
08.01.2008	Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4137, the Higher Education Opportunity Act by a vote of 380-49. Included in H.R. 4137 is legislation introduced by Congressman Scott - the John R. Justice Prosecutors and Defenders Act of 2007 (H.R. 916) - which passed the House on May 15, 2007 by a 341-73 vote. To address the rising cost of post-secondary education, the Higher Education Opportunity Act not only increases the maximum Pell Grant award to $8,000 by 2014, but also encourages transparency by establishing user-friendly websites that will provide families with important information concerning the costs of tuition and related expenses. This legislation will also hold colleges and universities accountable for tuition increases by requiring explanations for why expenditures must increase. Additionally, this measure will simplify the Free Application for Financial Student Aid (FAFSA) by not only reducing the number of questions on the questionnaire, but also by eliminating the requirement that students must submit a FAFSA each year aid is sought, unless information has changed. The Higher Education Opportunity Act also increases support for undergraduate and graduate programs at Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Predominantly Black Institutions. “As an individual with a bachelor’s degree will earn nearly $20,000 more per year than a peer without, a college education continues to be the best path to the middle class. Unfortunately, the cost of tuition continues to rise faster than inflation,” Congressman Scott said. “Our work today will help American students realize their long-term goals by making a college education more affordable. By passing this bi-partisan legislation, we are also making the financial aid application process more simplified and less intimidating for students who might not otherwise pursue higher education.” Congressman Scott praised the inclusion of his legislative language, which will encourage current and future law students to pursue a public service career following graduation from law school. “A serious situation is emerging impacting public safety, justice, fairness and the integrity of the criminal justice system, as a severe shortage of qualified prosecutors and public defenders looms large over our entire nation,” Congressman Scott said. “In Georgia and throughout the country, the recruitment and retention of public prosecutors and defenders has been a daunting task in recent years. This is largely because crushing student debt burdens have deterred many talented law graduates from pursuing public service careers.” The bipartisan John R. Justice Prosecutors and Defenders Act of 2007 would benefit our criminal justice system and our communities by creating a student loan repayment program for law school graduates who commit to serve for at least three years as criminal prosecutors or public defenders. The bill was introduced on the Senate side by Senator Richard Durbin, and is cosponsored by Senators Arlen Specter, Patrick Leahy, Gordon Smith, John Kerry and Susan Collins. This legislation is supported by the American Bar Association, the National District Attorneys Association, the National Association of Prosecutor Coordinators, the National Legal Aid and Defender Association, and the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. H.R. 4137, the Higher Education Opportunity Act, has passed the Senate and is awaiting the President’s signature. ###
07.28.2008	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) and Mrs. Alfredia Scott announced the selection of 5 area students to receive $10,000 in scholarship awards ranging from $1,000 to $3,000 through the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Spouses Scholarship program. Congressman and Mrs. Scott honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special reception in his Jonesboro District Office. “By earning these awards, each student has demonstrated strong work ethics and a high commitment to achieve excellence in their schools and communities,” said Congressman Scott. Mrs. Scott, wife of Congressman Scott, was very instrumental in securing the scholarships for the students as an active member of the CBC Spouses program. “It is with great pleasure that my husband and I commend each of these students for their exceptional academic achievement and we encourage them to continue to set high goals,” said Mrs. Scott. This year’s CBC Spouses Education Scholarship Awardees include: • Jessica Solomon, Douglasville resident, Georgia College & State University- $3,000 • Rachel Noel, Douglasville resident, Berry College- $2,500 • Shirley Taylor, Ellenwood resident, Spellman College- $2,000 • LaTasha McCracken, Douglasville resident, Berry College- $1,500 • Mohommed A. Saibu, College Park resident, Georgia Southern University- $1,000 The CBC Spouses Education Scholarship Fund was established in 1988 in response to federal cuts in spending for education programs and scholarships. This program provides tuition assistance to enable students to fulfill their higher education goals. Students are required to live in or attend school in a Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Member’s district and be enrolled full-time in good academic standing at an accredited college or university. Students interested in applying for future awards should contact Ashley Tanks at 770-210-5073.
07.23.2008	Tomorrow, the federal minimum wage will rise from $5.85 to $6.55 an hour. This is the second step in the three-step minimum wage increase enacted by Congress in May 2007, to incrementally raise the minimum wage from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour over a two-year period. Last year the minimum wage was increased from $5.15 to $5.85, this year it increases to $6.55, and next year it will increase to $7.25. “As consumer costs – from gas prices to food to health care costs – continue to rise, it is important that we continue to fight to help millions of Americans working full-time, year round, trying to make ends meet and still living in poverty,” said Rep. Scott. “At $5.85 an hour, a full-time minimum wage worker still brings home only $12,168, well below the 2008 federal poverty level of $17,600 for a family of three,” points out Rep. Scott. “Without dispute, the numbers show that raising the minimum wage is a vital step to strengthening and growing our economy over the long-term and this month’s increase serves as another step to make a real difference in the lives of America’s working families.” The federal minimum wage increase to $7.25 an hour will mean an additional $4,400 per year for a minimum wage worker’s family – helping them to keep up with rising costs as they raise the more than 6 million children of low-wage workers. ###
07.23.2008	Today, Congressman David Scott continued the fight to help families refinance their bad home loans, save neighborhoods under assault from foreclosures and provide liquidity to the housing mortgage market. The House gave final approval to H.R. 3221, American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act. “Georgians are facing a wave of foreclosures that threaten families’ stability and the safety of entire neighborhoods,” Congressman Scott said. “This housing crisis needs to be addressed with aggressive action. We have responded by passing the most significant housing bill in a generation to fight predatory lending, which will allow families to refinance their mortgages and provide neighborhood sustainability. I will continue to fight to help families keep their homes and ensure that good credit is available to future borrowers.” Several major housing bills have been combined into a comprehensive bill to expand FHA programs and reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The bills will allow eligible homeowners to renegotiate the terms of bad mortgages. Further, the measure will provide $4 billion in grants and loans to state and local governments to purchase, rehabilitate and resell or rent foreclosed homes. Tax credits will also be made available to first time homebuyers. Finally, the measure will provide an additional $180 million for housing counseling and additional licensing for mortgage originators. Congressman Scott is the senior Georgia representative on the House Financial Services Committee, which created the housing legislation. For more information about the housing legislation, please visit the Committee website at http://financialservices.house.gov/ ###
07.09.2008	Today, the US Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced that Cobb County will be home to one of 39 new VA Vet Centers to open in late 2009. The actual sites of the Vet Centers will depend on market availability of space. The additional VA resources will address the growing need for readjustment counseling services to existing and new combat veterans and their families to include families of those killed while on active duty and veterans experiencing military related sexual trauma. “I am pleased that the VA has selected Cobb County to be the site for one of the new Vet Centers”, said Congressman David Scott. “My district offices have been busy working on cases for veterans who need assistance dealing with the VA. The steady increase in veterans cases shows that more outreach is needed by the VA and I am hopeful that this new facility will alleviate some of the case backlogs.” According to the VA, Vet Centers provide readjustment counseling and outreach services to all veterans who served in any combat zone. Services are also available for their family members for military related issues. Veterans have earned these benefits through their service and all are provided at no cost to the veteran or family. Vet Center staff are available toll free during normal business hours at 1-800-905-4675. More information on Vet Centers can be found at: http://www.vetcenter.va.gov/Vet_Center_Services.asp ###
06.30.2008	Today, Congressman David Scott toured the Fulton County Public Safety Training Center and Wolf Creek complex with Fulton County Vice Chairman William “Bill” Edwards. The visit focused on the increasing importance of the role that local public safety resources play in providing homeland security. Congressman Scott took a first hand look at the resources available for training law enforcement and fire personnel at the facility. He also had a chance to engage local law enforcement and fire personnel to hear their concerns and vision for the facility. “It is so important that we equip our local law enforcement and fire personnel with the tools and training necessary to always be ready to protect and serve our citizens,” said Congressman Scott. “The staff at the Fulton County Public Training Center is doing a phenomenal job of preparing local public safety personnel and I will be working closely with them to identify additional resources that can assist and enable the facility to continue to provide top of the line training.” The Public Safety Training Center, located at 3025 Merk Road, off Camp Creek Parkway, was the site of the 1996 Olympic shooting competition. The site has become a multi-use facility for Fulton County services, including the future of Wolf Creek Amphitheater, currently under construction. ###
06.27.2008	Dear Friend: In this time of economic downturn, I know the financial burdens of retirees and veterans are tremendous. Many are finding it difficult to afford basic items like groceries and a tank of gas for their car. My colleagues and I are confident, however, that the money provided by the Recovery Rebates and Economic Stimulus for the American People Act of 2008 is a vital step in strengthening our economy and giving needed relief to American families. So far, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has issued 76.1 million rebate checks totaling $63.8 billion, and expects to issue 124 million payments by the end of the year. All but 5.2 million eligible retirees and veterans have received their rebates, to date. Many of these individuals do not normally file tax returns because their Social Security and VA benefits are non-taxable. I am writing today to make sure you know that you can receive a stimulus rebate so long as you file a 1040A form by October 15. Based on how you file your tax return, you may receive $300 if single, or $600 if married. Filers will need to have at least $3,000 in qualifying income, which may come from a combination of earned income, nontaxable combat pay and certain benefit payments from Social Security, Veterans Affairs and Railroad Retirement. Receiving this rebate will in no way jeopardize receipt of other benefits, and so you should not hesitate to file your return as soon as possible. My office will continue to be a resource to you in filling out these forms. Please do not hesitate to contact my Jonesboro office at (770) 210-5073, or the Metro Atlanta IRS Taxpayer Assistance Center at (404) 338-7962 for more information. Finally, I also want you to be aware of scam artists using the recovery rebates as an attempt to steal taxpayers’ identities, many calling unsuspecting taxpayers and posing as IRS agents. These imposters might tell you that your rebate is being processed, but need additional and sensitive information like Social Security and bank account numbers. Please know the federal government does not call taxpayers requesting personal information. If you should receive a call like this, please hang up and report such activity to the IRS at 1-800-366-4484. Thank you for the opportunity to serve you in the United States Congress, and I hope to hear from you again soon. Sincerely, David Scott Member of Congress
06.26.2008	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) voted to pass the Saving Energy Through Public Transportation Act (H.R. 6052). The bill provides mass transit grants over two years to reduce fares of public transit use, giving consumers a cost-effective alternative to $4 per gallon gasoline. The bill also increases the Federal cost-share of grants for construction of additional transit parking facilities, creates a pilot program for vanpool demonstration projects in urban and rural areas and increase federal help for local governments to purchase alternative fuel buses, locomotives and ferries. “I, along with many of my Democratic colleagues, have been working hard in Washington, which is why I am proud to support H.R. 6052,” Congressman Scott said. “In a time when Americans are pinched at the pump because of oil dependence, public transportation provides an affordable alternative to driving and saves the average household more that $6,000 per year. This is money that can be used to offset the costs of higher priced groceries and everyday consumer items.” H.R. 6052 received widespread support from consumer groups, state and local governments and transit agencies, and environmental organizations. ###
06.11.2008	“I applaud Governor Perdue for taking this great step in leadership, which will not only help with our traffic congestion, but will also help give an important travel option at this time of high fuel prices,” Congressman Scott said. “This will also provide a much needed economic boost to the Clayton County region.” Congressman Scott has played a key role in securing the $106 million that is available for implementing the Macon to Atlanta commuter rail line, which will run through his district. ###
06.02.2008	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) completed a week-long NATO delegation trip to Germany, Turkey, and Afghanistan. During the trip, Congressman Scott met with Afghan President Karzai, General David H. Petraeus and Air Force personnel from Georgia. Timely issues dealing with Iran, Afghanistan, missile defense, global warming and rising oil prices were discussed at meetings in Berlin, Germany; Istanbul, Ankara, and Incirlik, Turkey; and Kabul, Afghanistan from May 23-31, 2008. Congressman Scott met with President Kohler of Germany, Chancellor Merkel of Germany, President Gul of Turkey, Prime Minister Erdogan of Turkey, Minister of Defense Gonul of Turkey, and President Karzai of Afghanistan. Congressman Scott is a member of the U.S. House NATO Parliamentary Assembly Delegation and the only Georgia member of the House Committee on Foreign Relations. ###
05.22.2008	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) honored the Jonesboro High School Mock Trial Team by recognizing their second national championship win with a page in the Congressional Record, the official record of the United States Congress dating back to 1873. Congressman Scott will also present each of the students on the team with a Certificate of Special Congressional Recognition. “I am proud to celebrate the praiseworthy accomplishments of the Jonesboro High School Mock Trial Team,” said Congressman Scott. “I am also so very proud that the hard-work and commitment of these fifth-teen students is representing the talents and tenacity of the students in Clayton County that we witness in our kids everyday. These students clearly have bright futures ahead of them and I, like many others throughout Clayton County, will be cheering for them next year as they aim to make mock trial history by becoming the first school to win three national championships.” On Saturday, May 10, 2008 the team competed in four grueling rounds against Wyoming, Missouri, Alabama and Ohio. They won every ballot in all four rounds – a resounding victory over the other teams. In the final round, Georgia (Jonesboro High School) went up against Michigan and came out on top, winning their second consecutive national championship. The students of Jonesboro High School’s Mock Trial Team join the Tennessee Family Christian Academy as the only two schools to win two mock trial national titles. A copy of the Congressional Record recognizing the Jonesboro High School Mock Trial Team can be obtained by contacting Ashley Tanks at 770-210-5073. ###
05.15.2008	Today, Congressman David Scott voted to extend unemployment benefits and create new education benefits for our nation’s veterans. The bill provides up to 13 weeks of extended unemployment benefits in every state to workers exhausting the 26 weeks of regular unemployment benefits. The new GI bill restores full, four-year college scholarships to veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars to help make them part of an economic recovery like the veterans of World War II. “Thousands of Georgians are struggling to find a job,” Congressman Scott said. “I just held a jobs fair that was attended by nearly 10,000 job seekers. I found that many of the folks who are without a job are skilled and educated. They deserve an extension of unemployment benefits to help keep their families above water while they continue searching for work. I ask that President Bush not veto relief to Georgia families.” For four consecutive months, the U.S. economy has lost jobs. There are 800,000 additional Americans looking for work than a year ago. The number of long-term unemployed – 1.35 million workers – is higher now than when Congress last extended unemployment benefits in 2002. “Our veterans are the ones who put their lives at risk on our behalf,” Congressman Scott said. “The very least we can do is make sure that they have the opportunity to have a first-class education. The first two years of the new GI bill would cost what we spend in two days in Iraq. It is time that we start taking care of America like we are taking care of Iraq. I am proud of our men and women in uniform and commit my office resources to help fight for full VA and other benefits for eligible veterans and retirees.” Under the new GI bill, service members returning from Iraq or Afghanistan, who have served 3 years on active duty, would receive benefits to cover the costs of a four-year education up to the level of the most expensive in-state public school. Education benefits would be available to troops who have served at least 3 months of active duty since September 11, 2001, including members of the National Guard and Reserve. The two measures were included in an emergency spending bill, which must now be approved by the Senate. ###
05.14.2008	Today, Congressman David Scott spoke from the House floor in support of final passage of the Farm Bill, H.R. 2419 - The Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act. As the only Georgia House member appointed to the House-Senate conference committee on the Farm Bill, Congressman Scott had a direct influence on the bill’s expansion of nutrition programs. “This bill is historically referred to as the Farm Bill. It should be called the Nutrition Bill given that three-fourths of the bill’s funding directly addresses food assistance and nutrition programs,” Congressman Scott said. “Low income families in metro-Atlanta will greatly benefit from the increases in the food stamp program, additional assistance to food banks, and increased nutrition incentives for school lunches.” Help with rising food costs in America • Nearly three-fourths of the Farm Bill, $10.4 billion in new spending, goes to nutrition programs. • The measure eliminates the current cap on childcare costs and makes sure that the families of soldiers in combat are not penalized under the food stamp program. • The minimum benefit would be increased for the first time in 30 years and would be indexed to keep up with rising food prices. • Provides vital support to emergency feeding organizations, such as food banks, food pantries, and soup kitchens– with $50 million for immediate shortages at food pantries. • Helps schools provide healthy snacks to students, with $1 billion for free fresh fruits and vegetables. “In addition to helping families to be able to afford healthy food, the Farm Bill will decrease food costs related to the high demand for corn products,” Congressman Scott said. “The use of corn in feed and ethanol is increasing food costs for consumers. The Farm Bill reduces incentives for corn-based ethanol and gives a boost to Southeastern states by promoting cellulosic ethanol products as an alternative.” Reducing corn-based ethanol’s impact on prices • The Farm Bill takes another critical step in transitioning biofuels beyond corn— by reducing the current tax credit for corn-based ethanol by six cents per gallon and creating a new tax credit to promote the production of cellulosic biofuels. Southeastern states produce more cellulosic products than corn. • The Farm Bill invests $1 billion in renewable energy focusing on new technologies and new sources, including $320 million in loan guarantees for biorefineries that produce advanced biofuels and a new program to encourage the production of new biomass for cellulosic ethanol and other energy production, helping producers learn how to harvest, store, and transport biomass to bioenergy facilities. Congressman Scott is the senior Georgia member of the House Committee on Agriculture and was appointed to the exclusive House-Senate conference committee on the Farm Bill. ###
05.12.2008	Sunday, six tornadoes touched down in parts of the 13th Congressional District affecting Clayton, Fulton and Douglas counties. Congressman Scott immediately responded by going out into the most devastated areas of his district to see the damage first-hand and to speak with constituents. Sunday afternoon, Congressman David Scott toured Ellenwood— the most visibly concentrated area affected by the storm— to speak with families affected by the devastating storms. “My thoughts and prayers are with the families affected by yesterday’s severe storms,” said Scott. “Since early yesterday I have been out in my district working to get assistance to the families and businesses affected by these horrible storms. I am also working diligently with the local and state governments, as well as in Washington, DC to make sure that the Federal Emergency Management Association (FEMA) and other emergency agencies are available to provide assistance to my constituents.” The National Weather Service confirmed Sunday that an EF2 hit Clayton County. The NWS also confirmed there was tornado damage in Douglas County and South Fulton, but the NWS is still investigating the damages and no determination had been made on the strength of the other twisters as of Sunday afternoon. Congressman David Scott’s staff is on call for anyone needing assistance as a result of the severe storms. Those affected by the storms should contact the Congressman’s district offices at 770-210-5073 (Jonesboro District Office) or 770-432-5405 (Smyrna District Office) for information on available disaster relief resources. ###
05.08.2008	Today, Congressman David Scott continued the fight to pass several major housing bills that will help families refinance their bad home loans, save neighborhoods under assault from foreclosures and provide liquidity to the housing mortgage market. “Georgians are facing a wave of foreclosures that threaten families’ stability and the safety of entire neighborhoods,” Congressman Scott said. “We are nearing final action on major legislation to fight predatory lending, allow families to refinance their mortgages, and provide neighborhood sustainability. This housing crisis needs to be addressed with aggressive action. I will continue to fight to help families keep their homes and ensure that good credit is available to future borrowers.” Several major housing bills that have passed the House will now be forwarded to the Senate for final action and combination into a comprehensive bill. The bills will allow eligible homeowners to renegotiate the terms of bad mortgages. Further, the measure will provide $15 billion in grants and loans to state and local governments to purchase, rehabilitate, and resell or rent foreclosed homes. Tax credits will also be made available to first time homebuyers. FHA, VA and other housing programs will be expanded as well. Finally, the measure will provide additional funding for housing counseling and Justice Department mortgage fraud investigations. Congressman Scott is the senior Georgia representative on the House Financial Services Committee, which created the housing legislation. For more information about the housing legislation, please visit the Committee website at: http://financialservices.house.gov/ ###
04.28.2008	Today, the Treasury Department began distributing Recovery Rebates to American families as a result of the Economic Stimulus package. The distribution of rebates was originally scheduled to begin on Friday, May 2, but was pushed up to speed the help for families facing economic crisis. Rebates will be issued according to the last two digits of the main filer’s Social Security number. A schedule of the rebate distribution and other information can be found at www.irs.gov. In Georgia, the Economic Stimulus package will provide an estimated $3.3 billion in total tax rebates to 3, 900,000 households. The Economic Stimulus package includes rebate checks of up to $600 per individual and $1200 per married couple, plus an additional $300 per child. The final economic stimulus bill also provides for nearly 28 million senior households and 250,000 disabled veteran to receive rebates. Seniors and veterans – receiving at least $3000 in either social security or veteran’s disability benefits respectively – are eligible to file to receive the rebate. Seniors and veterans only filing to receive the recovery rebate did not have to file by April 15 and do not have to file for an extension. They will however need to file Form 1040A by October 15 to receive the payment in 2008. “The demands being put on middle- and low-income families in this time of economic downturn is tremendous”, said Representative Scott. “Families are finding it difficult to afford basic items like groceries, as gas prices continue to soar and the unemployment rates rise. It was difficult to make these checks a reality, but we [Congress] are confident that this money is the first step towards strengthening our economy and will give some relief to families in need. We [Congress] realize that the strain on America’s economy demands immediate attention and in the upcoming months, we will continue to work feverishly to explore possible solutions to this crisis and develop a long-term recovery plan for our economy. “In the meantime, I encourage consumers to help boost the economy and lower fuel costs by purchasing American-made goods and services and investing in energy-efficient products, like energy efficient light bulbs and Energy Star appliances”, said Scott. “Purchasing locally-made products will boost the local economy and help to narrow the growing trade deficit, while maximizing energy efficiency will save consumers money on energy bills, reduce overall costs of energy and stimulate the economy.” Constituents should be aware of scam artists using the recovery rebates to try to steal taxpayer’s identities – calling unsuspecting taxpayers and posing as IRS agents. Imposters are saying that the rebate is being processed, but in order to complete it, they need a Social Security and bank account number. Constituents should be warned that the federal government does not call taxpayers requesting personal information. If constituents get calls like this, they should hang up and report such activity to the IRS at 1-800-366-4484. Constituents of the 13th Congressional District should contact Congressman David Scott’s district office at 770-432-5405 with questions about the Economic Stimulus Package or distribution of rebate checks. ###
04.11.2008	Today, U.S. Congressman David Scott (D-GA) hosted the Fourth Annual 13th Congressional District Jobs Fair at the Georgia International Convention Center in College Park. This special event was hosted in conjunction with Comcast Cable, WALR KISS 104.1 FM and CBS 46. “The 13th Congressional District’s Jobs Fair was a great success! This is the fourth jobs fair that I have had the pleasure of hosting and I am very proud of the profound turnout of employers and job seekers here today,” Congressman Scott said. “This is a tough economy and people are hanging on by their fingernails. The outpouring of need is seen in the large number of people tirelessly searching for jobs and the crisis that our local economy is experiencing with the mortgage foreclosure crisis. I am pleased that we were able to assist many able and willing workers today by helping them make direct contact with leading area businesses that are growing and looking to hire.” A long line of eager but patient job seekers wrapped around the front exterior of the Georgia International Convention Center well before Congressman Scott officially opened the doors in great anticipation of the official start of his Fourth Annual Jobs Fair at 10:00 a.m. A diverse group of major corporations, small businesses, and government agencies offering a rich variety of job opportunities teamed up with Congressman Scott for his fourth jobs fair. Some of the participating companies included Lockheed-Martin, Comcast Cable, Home Depot, FedEx ground, Internal Revenue Service, Federal Aviation Administration, Sun Trust Bank, WellStar Health Systems, Georgia Power, Hyundai Motors, World Financial Group, FBI, CSX Transportation, WGCL-TV CBS 46, and the Social Security Administration. ###
04.10.2008	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) was recognized by Ebony Magazine as one of “The Ebony Power 150: The Most Influential Blacks in America”. Ebony’s Power list recognizes inspirational individuals from politics, business, education, entertainment, public service and religion and the broad impact that African-Americans have on our society. Since its 1963 inception, Ebony's presentation of the list - formerly the "100+ Most Influential Black Americans"- has been one of the most annually anticipated features of the magazine. It is the “Who's Who in Black America”, highlighting those who have the capacity to influence a substantial segment of the Black population. “I am humbled to be among Ebony’s Power 150”, said Scott. “Each year Ebony Magazine recognizes African-American leaders who are undoubtedly shaping our world and I am honored to be considered one of these individuals. Thank you to Ebony Magazine for recognizing me and congratulations to my fellow leaders.” Ebony Magazine's "Power 150" for 2008 marks the 45th consecutive year for the list. The list can be found in the May issue on newsstands nationwide. ###
04.10.2008	Today, Congressman David Scott was appointed to the House-Senate Conference Committee on H.R. 2419, the Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act of 200, otherwise known as the Farm Bill. The conference committee will negotiate differences between the House and Senate passed versions of the bill and establish priorities for nutrition, energy and agricultural policy for the next five years. “It is an honor for me to be appointed to this important committee,” Congressman Scott said. “The passage of a strong Farm Bill will have a significant direct impact on American families in many ways including nutrition, energy and even education. This bill will improve nutrition and access to affordable dietary options for students and the elderly. The bill also boosts funding for renewable energy programs by 600 percent, encourages the production of renewable energy and moves us toward energy independence.” Several issues in the farm bill are of particular importance to African-Americans, including: Raising the Standard Deduction and Minimum Benefit for Food Stamps for the first time in 20 and 30 years, respectively; Food Stamps indexed with the TRUE cost of living; Lifting the $175 dependent child care cap in Food Stamps, allowing families to deduct ALL of their childcare expenses. Allowing deserving Pigford claimants an opportunity to have their cases heard in an effort to rectify civil rights abuses against black farmers; Raising the minimum authorization level for programs at Historically Black Colleges and Universities known as “1890 Colleges;” Congressman Scott is the senior Georgia member of the House Agriculture Committee and the committee’s only African-American member. ###
04.03.2008	Today, the US Congress will hold a special joint service in the Capitol Rotunda to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Congressman Scott spoke on the floor on Monday to commemoration Dr. King. The text of Congressman Scott’s floor speech from the Congressional Record is included below: COMMEMORATING THE 40TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. -- (House of Representatives - April 01, 2008) Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, today, we gather to pay tribute and to recognize an extraordinary life on the 40th anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Mr. Speaker, in the book of Genesis in the 37th chapter, in the 19th verse, it says these words: Lo, here cometh the dreamer. Let us slay him and then we shall see what will become of his dream. I think that is a most fitting way to enter my remarks this afternoon about Dr. King, for his was truly a dream, but that dream was built on three strong pillars. One was public accommodations. The other was voting rights. But the other, and perhaps the tougher, was economic rights, how do we get the lever to make the dream a reality. Dr. King knew full well it didn't matter if we could sit anywhere on the bus if we don't have money to get on the bus. It doesn't matter if we could live anywhere we wanted if we didn't have money to buy the house and to keep the house. So, as we reflect today on that economic right, it is so fitting that so much is still to be done. For as we look at the front page of the New York Times yesterday, we find that there are more people who are on food stamps percentage-wise in this country than 40 years ago when Dr. King died. What has happened to his dream after he was slain? It's so fitting that if we start to think for a moment what Dr. King was doing in those moments and hours before his death. He was grappling with the economic question, moving back and forward from Washington, D.C., to Atlanta, Georgia, to Memphis, dealing with the poor people's campaign, the war on poverty, and, most significantly, dealing with the most basic of economic rights, a livable wage for jobs for the sanitation workers in Memphis, Tennessee. And so he knew that the work had not been done. His prophetic words, as Chairman Conyers referred, it's almost as if he was preaching his own funeral when he said he had reached the mountaintop and had looked over and seen the promised land. I may not get there with you, but I want you to know tonight that we, as a people, will get to the promised land. And all the threats that were on his life, it was as if he knew that the bullet in 24 hours was out there waiting for him. And he said in his immortal words: I fear no man, for mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord. So, as we gather here, let us understand that that dream is still not the reality; although the pillars that he planted, part of them are. It is the tough bucket of the economic issues that we are grappling with on the floor of this House of Representatives as we speak, keeping people in their homes, getting people so they can work and have employment and jobs, opening up the economic system so that people will have businesses and participate in a livable way. So, as we reflect, let us remember those words from Genesis: Lo, here cometh the dreamer. Let us slay him and then we shall see what will become of his dream. We in this House of Representatives can make that dream a reality by finishing that final plank, the economic plank. # # #
03.18.2008	Today, Rep. David Scott (D-GA) announced his commitment and continued support to assisting the students and concerned citizens of Clayton County in the wake of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) recent announcement to revoke the accreditation of the Clayton County School District, effective September 1, 2008. Congressman Scott responded to the recent announcement with the following statements: “Like everyone, I am concerned about this critical situation facing the Clayton County School System and I am committed to assisting all parties involved to help keep Clayton County schools accredited,” said Rep. Scott. “I am working to identify any and all ways in which I can assist Clayton County in order to prevent this disastrous step from occurring. I am also working with the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Education and Labor and the U.S. Department of Education to alert federal officials of this crisis. I recommend that all citizens of Clayton County make themselves aware of the nine mandates that must be met in order to retain accreditation outlined by SACS.” “A loss of school accreditation will place the futures of more than 52,000 Clayton County students in jeopardy, throwing their plans for further education and employment into turmoil,” stated Congressman Scott. “Without accreditation, college-bound students once eligible for the HOPE scholarship, a state merit-based scholarship, will have their opportunities for a free college education taken away. Students work hard to maintain their eligibility for HOPE and they rely on HOPE and other scholarships like it to help bring down the financial burden of attending college. Additionally, the potential ramifications will also be devastating to parents and the broader community, as the loss of school accreditation will affect the county’s economic climate as well. We must take as many steps as possible to avoid the loss of accreditation.” The SACS decision, on March 15, 2008, to revoke the accreditation of the Clayton County School District would make Clayton County only the second school system in American history to fully lose accreditation. ###
03.15.2008	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced that he awarded $37,000 in scholarships to the top winners of the 13th District’s Sixth Annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Congressman Scott honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special reception on Saturday at the Arts Clayton Gallery in Jonesboro. “Each year I continue to be amazed at the artistic talents of the students in my district. The pieces on display at this year’s competition were extraordinary. These students have such bright futures ahead of them. I also want to commend the families for their support, as we had a tremendous outpouring of family members and friends to come out and encourage all of the participants”, said Congressman Scott. “Our annual art competition presents a wonderful opportunity for our community to celebrate the talents of our gifted young artists who endeavor to succeed with focus and self-discipline. I am so proud to honor our top winners for their exceptional artistic achievements with scholarships, and I encourage all of this year’s participating student artists to continue to set high goals for themselves.” The Savannah College of Art and Design awarded a $20,000 scholarship ($5,000/year) to the first place winner. The Art Institute of Atlanta presented certificates to attend any Community and Professional Education workshop to all winners, in addition to awarding the first place winner with a $10,000 scholarship; second place, a $5,000 scholarship; third place, a $2,000 scholarship; and an honorable mention, certificate to attend any Community and Professional Education workshop. This year’s top winners include: 1st – “Rachel” by Rachel Ford, Hillgrove High School 2nd – “Old Downtown” by Andrew Sparks, Alexander High School 3rd – “Creative Tools” by Elisa Owens, Stockbridge High School Honorable Mention – “Progression & Change” by Philip Hoffman, Campbell High School The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. To date hundreds of thousands of high school students from around the nation have been able to participate at the local level. This year’s first-place winner Rachel Ford will be invited to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C. on Wednesday, June 25, 2008 where her winning piece “Rachel” will be on display in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol along with other winning entries from around the country. Students interested in participating in next year’s competition should contact Audra Braswell at 770-432-5405. ###
03.14.2008	Today, Rep. David Scott (D-GA) and Rep. Geoff Davis (R-KY) introduced bipartisan legislation to reform the current system of insurance agent licensing. H.R. 5611, commonly referred to as National Association of Registered Agents & Brokers Reform Act (NARAB), would provide streamlined non-residential insurance agent and broker licensing, while preserving the market conduct rights of states and their authority to supervise agents and brokers. NARAB would also create reciprocity in producer licensing and assist policyholders by generating greater competition. “I along with my colleague, Congressman Geoff Davis, introduced NARAB to help reform and modernize a very important part of state insurance regulation: agent and broker licensing”, said Scott. “This legislation is straight-forward and will most definitely benefit consumers through increased competition among agents and brokers, thus leading to greater consumer choice.” Representative Davis had the following to say about the NARAB, “Burdensome and duplicative non-resident insurance licensing is an issue I hear about frequently from insurance agents and brokers in the Fourth District of Kentucky. I am proud to work with my friend from Georgia, David Scott, on a solution to simplify the process. This bill will make a meaningful contribution to the current discussion on options for reforming insurance regulation.” Representative Scott and Representative Davis were joined by several members of the House Financial Services Committee in support of this important legislation. ###
03.12.2008	Congressman David Scott was honored for his standing commitment to supporting middle-class Americans and American women through legislation. In recent months Americans have been faced with many challenges, some include a slowing economy and climbing education costs. In his fight to stand-up for American families, Congressman Scott has been recognized for his scorecard ratings on legislation affecting American women and middle-class families. The American Association of University Women (AAUW) released the Congressional Voting Record for the 110th Congress, First Session Scorecard recognizing Congressman Scott for his 100 percent voting rating in support of issues related to college affordability, expanding STEM education opportunities for women and girls, hate crimes prevention and pay equity. To view Congressman David Scott’s voting record visit AAUW Congressional Voting Record. The Drum Major Institute for Public Policy (DMI) released TheMiddleClass.org 2007 Congressional Scorecard recognizing Congressman Scott for continually demonstrating a commitment to strengthening and expanding America’s middle-class. Congressman Scott received An “A” voting rating in support of issues related to health care, college affordability, and the impact of free trade agreements. To view Congressman David Scott’s voting record visit www.TheMiddleClass.org. “I truly appreciate the recognition given to me by both the American Association of University Women and the Drum Major Institute for Public Policy”, said Scott. “I believe that being a Member of Congress is about connecting with people in order to represent them and their families on the House floor. I am honored to represent the 13th Congressional District of Georgia and will continue to vote for legislation that will improve the lives of my constituents.” ###
02.25.2008	Today, Congressman David Scott honored the extraordinary service and accomplishments of Lieutenant General Russel L. Honoré, United State Army, with House Resolution 944. Lt. General Honoré retires after 37 years of dedicated service to the United States Army. This three-star general assisted in directing the deployment of 1,000 National Guard troops in New Orleans and was one of the most influential leaders in the rebuilding effort. He was successful in providing food and clothing to victims, as well as rebuilding housing in Louisiana after Hurricane Katrina. He was most recently stationed in the 13th Congressional district at Fort Gillem in Forest Park, Georgia. “Lieutenant General Honoré is one of America’s most dedicated and hardworking Generals and he has served my district in Georgia and this nation faithfully for years”, said Congressman Scott. “I commend his great service to American and honor him with this resolution for his service, loyalty, bravery and leadership.” Lt. General Honoré is a native of Lakeland, Louisiana with degrees from Southern University A&M College and Troy State University in Public Administration. He has used this knowledge to serve as Commanding General of the 2nd Infantry Division in Korea, Vice Director for Operations for the Joint Staff in Washington, D.C Headquarters – Homeland Security, U.S. Northern Command and also many other locations. He has also received multiple awards, such as the Defense Distinguished Service Medal, the Defense Superior Service Medal, as well as awards for Meritorious Service. ###
02.13.2008	Last week the Senate joined the House in support of the bipartisan economic stimulus plan to help hardworking Americans struggling to afford the high costs of energy, health care, gas, mortgage payments and other necessities. The bipartisan stimulus plan will put hundreds of dollars back into the hands of more than 130 million American families to promote economic growth in our slowing economy and create jobs. The measure signed by President Bush included: • Tax cuts for More than 130 Million Families. The stimulus plan will provide tax relief of up to $600 for single individuals and $1,200 for married couples, plus an additional $300 for each child. • Unprecedented Tax Relief for Low-Income Working Families. The measure provides tax relief for 35 million families who work but make too little to pay income taxes. Americans who earned at least $3,000 in 2007 will receive at least $300 for single individuals and $600 for married couples, plus a child tax credit of $300 per child. • Rebates for 20 Million Additional Seniors and 250,000 Disabled Veterans. The measure provides rebates to anyone who received at least $3,000 in Social Security income, self-employment income or veterans’ disability payments (including payments to survivors of disabled veterans). Residents of the U.S. territories will also receive the benefit. • Tax Fairness and Targeted Rebates. Rebates will go to middle-income and low-income Americans. Tax relief will begin to phase out above incomes of $75,000 for a single individual and $150,000 for a married couple. • Safeguards that ensure that Undocumented Workers Cannot Receive Rebates. The stimulus plan includes safeguards to ensure that undocumented workers cannot obtain rebates by requiring that all people must have valid Social Security numbers in order to receive the rebates. In addition to rebates targeted for individuals and married couples, the economic stimulus plan will also expand financing opportunities for Americans in danger of losing their homes due to the mortgage crisis and promote small business investments. • Helping Families Avoid Foreclosure. For 2008, the bill increases Federal Housing Authority loan limits to expand affordable mortgage loan opportunities. This will enhance credit availability in the mortgage market and increase the loan limits for single family homes from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from $417,000 up to $729,750 to cover loans made between July 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008. • Encouraging Business Investment. The measure will double the amount small businesses can immediately write off their taxes for capital investments made in 2008 from $125,000 to $250, 000, for purchases of new equipment of up to $800,000. It will also provide immediate tax relief for all businesses to invest in new plants and equipment by speeding up depreciation provisions, allowing firms to write off an additional 50 percent for investments purchased in 2008. ###
02.07.2008	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the H.R. 4137, The College Opportunity and Affordability Act. Included in the legislation is legislation introduced by Congressman Scott, which previously had passed the House. The Scott bill, known as the John R. Justice Prosecutors and Defenders Act of 2007 (H.R. 916), passed the House on May 15, 997 by a 341-73 vote. The College Opportunity and Affordability Act will: addressing rising college prices and increase transparency; protecting borrowers of federal and private student loans; simplifying the federal student aid application; make textbook costs manageable for students; and expand college access for minority students. “A college education continues to be the best path to the middle class,” Congressman Scott said. “But more and more, high college prices and other obstacles are putting a college degree further out of reach for America’s students. In addition to rising tuition, students and their families face an overly complex federal student aid application process and a student loan industry mired in conflicts of interest and corrupt lending practices. “A serious situation is emerging impacting public safety, justice, fairness and the integrity of the criminal justice system, as a severe shortage of qualified prosecutors and public defenders looms large over our entire nation,” Congressman Scott said. “In Georgia and throughout the country, the recruitment and retention of public prosecutors and defenders has been a daunting task in recent years. This is largely because crushing student debt burdens have deterred many talented law graduates from pursuing public service careers.” The bipartisan John R. Justice Prosecutors and Defenders Act of 2007 would benefit our criminal justice system and our communities by creating a student loan repayment program for law school graduates who commit to serve for at least three years as criminal prosecutors or public defenders. The bill was introduced on the Senate side by Senator Richard Durbin, cosponsors include: Senators Arlen Specter, Patrick Leahy, Gordon Smith, John Kerry and Susan Collins. “Our communities suffer when the criminal justice system lacks a sufficient supply of experienced prosecutors and defenders,” Scott added. “Criminal caseloads become unmanageable, cases can be delayed or mishandled, serious crimes may go unprosecuted, and innocent defendants may be sent to jail while guilty criminals go free. This bill will bolster the ranks of talented attorneys in the criminal justice system and help that system function more effectively.” H.R. 916: • Establishes a program of student loan repayment for borrowers who agree to remain employed, for at least three years, as State or local criminal prosecutors or as State, local or Federal public defenders in criminal cases; • Allows eligible attorneys to receive student loan debt repayments of up to $10,000 per year, with a maximum aggregate over time of $60,000; • Covers student loans made, insured or guaranteed under the Higher Education Act of 1965, including consolidation loans; • Permits attorneys to enter into additional loan repayment agreements, after the required three-year period, for additional periods of service; • Requires attorneys to repay the government if they do not complete their required period of service; and • Authorizes $25 million per year through FY 2013 after which the program would sunset unless re-authorized. This legislation is supported by the American Bar Association, the National District Attorneys Association, the National Association of Prosecutor Coordinators, the National Legal Aid and Defender Association, and the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. ###
02.07.2008	Congressman David Scott recently met with local leaders of the City of Morrow to discuss funding for the establishment of the first permanent Boys & Girls Club of Clayton County. Currently there are 21 full-time clubs servicing 11 counties throughout the metro Atlanta area. Bringing the Boys & Girls Club of America into Clayton County would provide access to programs and services that will empower the area youth and provide a positive and safe environment. Mayor Milliron, City of Morrow Manager John Lampl and former State Rep. Gayle Buckner expressed their commitment to bringing this facility to Clayton County to help fill the current void for mentoring programs, leadership development, health awareness, drug prevention, job readiness skills and summer jobs and activities. “The Boys & Girls Club of America has done a tremendous job in creating a safe environment where our children can gain access to opportunities that will help shape their future,” said Congressman Scott. “The mentors and staff members at the Boys & Girls Clubs across metro Atlanta have been vital in helping to develop and empower our youth. I think that a Boys & Girls Club would be a wonderful addition to Clayton County and I believe that this is just what we need.” Following his meeting with Mayor Millirons, the Congressman met with a group of bright young men involved with the Restoration Community Resources Entrepreneurship Mentoring Program (RCR). RCR is a community-based organization dedicated to partnering with families, communities and schools to provide insight and opportunities that encourage young men to be responsible, entrepreneurial-minded citizens and future leaders of America. The RCR mentors spend time with the young men, ranging from age 10-20, and their families to re-enforce business and life skills. RCR mentors come from a variety of backgrounds, including investment banking, education, small businesses and ministry. The young men involved in the program are bright students who have excelled academically and are eager to learn the skills to become leaders in their communities. Many of them have started their own small businesses, participate in community outreach and display great talent in the arts. “I was very impressed with the young men of RCR,” stated Congressman Scott. “These young men have what it takes to soar to the top and become leaders of the next generation. Successful programs like RCR and the Boys & Girls Club prove that our young people want to be challenged and want to excel. All we have to do as their community is provide them with a safe environment, show them that there are opportunities out there for them and support them along the way.”
02.02.2008	Cobb County: Saturday, February 2, 2008 – Ford Center 4181 Atlanta St., Powder Springs, GA 30127 10:00 a.m. Saturday, February 2, 2008 – Smyrna City Hall 2800 King Street, Smyrna, GA 30081 2:00 p.m. Saturday, February 9, 2008 – Collar Community Center 2625 Joe Jerkins Boulevard, Austell, GA 30106 10:00 a.m. Douglas County: Saturday, February 9, 2008 – Douglas County Courthouse 8700 Hospital Drive, Douglasville, GA 30134 2:00 p.m. South Fulton: Saturday, March 1, 2008 – Cliftondale Community Center 4645 Butner Rd., College Park, Georgia 30349 10:00 a.m. Saturday, March 1, 2008 – McNair Middle School 2800 Burdett Rd., Atlanta, GA 30349 2:00 p.m. Henry County: Saturday, March 8, 2008 – Stockbridge City Hall 4545 North Henry Blvd., Stockbridge, GA 30281 10:00 a.m. South Fulton: Saturday, March 8, 2008 – Union City, City Hall 5047 Union Street, Union City, GA 30291 2:00 p.m.
01.28.2008	Today, Congressman David Scott commented on the President’s final State of the Union address as well as the bi-partisan economic stimulus package. “There are many issues that need to be addressed in the State of the Union address, but two issues that I would like the President to focus on are economic stimulus and healthcare,” Congressman Scott said. “America is experiencing an economic downturn, with families struggling to keep up with the rising costs of gasoline, heat, food and heath care. We need to hear a new long-term vision to provide more stability, to grow our economy and create good jobs here at home, to boost America’s ability to compete, and to better protect America’s middle class and the American worker. The President also needs to ensure that 10 million uninsured children across America have health care coverage by ensuring that SCHIP [Peachcare] receives long-term renewal.” On Tuesday, the House will pass a stimulus package that will provide tax rebates, housing assistance and small business tax cuts. Georgia unemployment insurance initial claims are up 16 percent since December 2006. In the 13th Congressional district, unemployment has been a real concern: Cobb County – up 33.3% since December 2006; Clayton County – up 17.9% since December 2006; Fulton County – up 15.4% since December 2006. “In addition to rebate checks, the measure expands affordable mortgage loan opportunities for families at risk of foreclosure through reform of the Federal Housing Administration,” Congressman Scott said. “Among other things, it includes provisions to lower down payments for FHA loans, increases FHA loan limits up to a maximum of $729,750, and permits more borrowers facing defaults to refinance through the FHA. Families in my district have been devastated by foreclosures, so any assistance will make a difference.” The stimulus package also will increase funding for local housing counseling agencies, which will help families avoid foreclosure. Congressman Scott has long been a champion of home owner education and in 2007 introduced the Financial Literacy for Homeowners Act, H.R. 3133. ###
01.24.2008	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced the nomination of fifteen area students to three of the nation’s four military academies. He honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special reception in his Smyrna District Office, located at 888 Concord Road. “I am very proud of these young people,” said Congressman Scott. “Appointment to a military academy demands exceptional academic achievement, character and leadership. Without question, each of these students possesses these qualities.” “These students are outstanding young Americans who proudly reflect the 13th Congressional District’s commitment to education and service. I am confident that they will go on to honorably serve our nation as military academy graduates and leaders in the Armed Forces.” Congressman Scott announced the following primary nominations: United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO: David Adams, Mableton, Campbell High School Gordon Callaway II, Hampton, Military Academy Preparatory School Steven Freund, Powder Springs, McEachern High School Jacob Fulton¸ Douglasville, Chapel Hill High School Ryan Goodwin, Douglasville, Chapel Hill High School Caleb MacLachlan, Jonesboro, Bingham Academy Matthew Roque, Austell, Kennesaw Mountain High School Jeremy Spikes, Ellenwood, Cedar Grove High School Montez Watts, Hampton, Mundy’s Mill High School United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD: Maximillian Boykin, Stockbridge, Stockbridge High School Elliott Bullington, Rex, Jonesboro High School Darius Gittens, Decatur, St. Pius X Catholic High School Darrin McElroy, Smyrna, Holy Innocents’ Episcopal School Rashad Saxon, Riverdale, U.S. Military Preparatory School Michael Whitfield, Stockbridge, Mundy’s Mill High School United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY: Ryan Goodwin, Douglasville, Chapel Hill High School Matthew Roque, Austell, Kennesaw Mountain High School To be considered for an academy appointment, an applicant must first be nominated. U.S. Senators and Members of the U.S. House of Representatives may nominate applicants who meet the following eligibility requirements: 17 years of age, but has not passed his or her 23rd birthday, he or she must be a U.S. citizen, and the applicant must be unmarried, not pregnant, and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. Students interested in applying for the Class of 2013 should contact Congressman Scott’s Military Academy Coordinator David Johnson at 770-210-5073. ###
01.23.2008	Congressman David Scott voted today to support the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), better known in Georgia as PeachCare, and to override the President’s veto of bipartisan legislation to extend health care coverage to 10 million uninsured children across America. Last year 343,690 children in Georgia received health care through PeachCare, and the bipartisan plan vetoed by the President would have extended health care to 161,000 uninsured children currently in Georgia. “America is experiencing an economic downturn, with families struggling to keep up with the rising costs of gasoline, heat, food and heath care,” said Representative Scott. “Now more than ever this program is critical, and I cannot rest until this Congress succeeds in enacting a plan that will ensure that 10 million uninsured children across America have health care coverage.” Additionally, a series of recent polls indicated overwhelming public support for SCHIP, with as much as 81 percent of the country backing the bipartisan Congressional plan. The existing SCHIP program was extended in December until March 2009; however, without this legislation, 3.8 million additional low-income children who are eligible but not enrolled will now not be covered under the program. In addition, state budget shortfalls and administrative rules from President Bush have also put children who are currently covered in jeopardy of losing their health care coverage. Congressman Scott vowed to continue to fight in Washington to enact legislation to provide health care for 10 million children this year. ###
01.23.2008	Congressman David Scott will travel to Colombia with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice this Thursday and Friday. The trip will focus on trade issues as well as violence against the press and unions. “I plan on asking tough questions about violence against members of the press and union members on this trip,” Congressman Scott said. “In addition, I will be taking a close look at trade and business issues that may benefit Georgia companies.” Congressman Scott is the only Georgia member of the influential House Foreign Affairs Committee. He is the Vice-Chair of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. He is also a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and a co-chair of the Democratic Study Group on National Security. ###
01.17.2008	Congressman Scott applauds the release by the Bush Administration of $450 million in energy assistance to help seniors and working families keep their heat on this winter. Over the last year, energy costs have been on the rise causing a 40 percent increase in the home energy costs for American families. The call from Congress for the Bush Administration to release emergency energy funding under the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) will help low income families to supplement their heating and cooling expenses. “With Americans paying record prices to heat their homes, this legislation provides a critical $1.6 million in assistance specifically for the families of Georgia,” said Congressman Scott. “This type of bipartisan cooperation is important because it enabled Congress to work quickly to address the serious challenges of high energy prices and a slowing economy, so that we could help seniors and working families keep the heat on this winter,” said Scott. The 110th Congress included $2.6 billion in LIHEAP funding in omnibus recently enacted – a $400 million increase over last year. To qualify for LIHEAP, individuals and families must be at or below 150 percent of the Federal Poverty Line, or $30,975 for a family of four. To sign up, contact your local community action agency: Clayton and Henry Counties – (404) 363-0575 Cobb County – (770) 422-4926 Douglas County – (770) 949-6339 South Fulton – (404) 559-6040 Should you not qualify for LIHEAP, you may still qualify for low-income rate assistance offered by a number of Georgia utility companies, as well as charitable organizations and the Georgia Department of Human Resources Heating Energy Assistance Team (HEAT). ###
01.15.2008	Congressman Scott’s Web site was honored today by the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF), a non-profit, non-partisan management consulting and research organization in Washington, D.C., for having one of the best Web sites in Congress. The site, www.house.gov/davidscott, was one of only 104 Web sites commended in The 2007 Gold Mouse Report: Lessons from the Best Web Sites on Capitol Hill. Congressman Scott stated, “I am honored that my Web site has been awarded the 2007 Silver Mouse Award. I realize that today’s fast-paced world has many of my constituents on the go and it is important to me that I am able to provide all of my constituents with reliable information and a timely response to their questions and concerns. I am thankful that the time and effort put into my Web site continues to help me reach my constituents who prefer to access information online and I will continue to ensure that they receive quality service.” To identify the awards, CMF analyzed 618 congressional Web sites, including those of all Senate and House Members, committees (both majority and minority sites) and official leadership sites. In 2007, CMF awarded 36 Gold, 34 Silver, and 34 Bronze Mouse Awards. Web sites were graded on how well they incorporate five basic building blocks, which extensive research identified as critical for effectiveness: audience, content, usability, interactivity, and innovation. Using these building blocks, an evaluation framework was developed by CMF and their research partners at Harvard, Ohio State and the University of California-Riverside, which would be fair and objective while still taking into account important qualitative factors that affect a visitor's experience on a Web site. “Representative David Scott’s Web site shows that he understands the value of creating a virtual office to reach specific audiences who have come to expect having their needs met online,” said Bell. “The Congressional Management Foundation congratulates Representative Scott for having a Web site that is among the best-of-the-best on Capitol Hill, and we are pleased to present Representative David Scott with the 2007 Silver Mouse Award.” A full copy of the report, the 2007 Gold Mouse Report: Lessons from the Best Web Sites on Capitol Hill, is available on the Congressional Management Foundation’s Web site at www.cmfweb.org. ###
01.08.2008	On February 17, 2009 all consumers who currently use antennas to receive analog television signals will be required to buy a digital-to-analog converter box in order to continue using their analog television sets. Other options include acquiring a digital television or an analog television equipped with a digital tuner or subscribing to cable, satellite or your local telephone company’s television service. Currently the National Telecommunications and Information Administration of the Department of Commerce and the Federal Communications Commission are working to make this transition as smooth as possible. Congress has set aside $1.5 billion for a coupon program to help analog television owners in purchasing a conversion box for older televisions that may not work after the switch from analog to digital. To request a coupon, consumers can apply online at www.dtv2009.gov or call the 24 hour hotline at 1-888-DTV-2009. To learn more about the digital switchover, visit www.dtv.gov.
01.07.2008	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) was recently recognized by Georgia Trend Magazine as one of the 100 Most Influential Georgians. This honor comes as a result of Congressman Scott’s hard work, achievements and influence as a United States Congressman. The ninth edition of Georgia Trend’s 100 Most Influential Georgians spotlights individuals who have been tested over time and are playing major roles in shaping the world we live in, and the way we think and feel. Georgia Trend recognized Congressman Scott’s ability to overcome a dwindling Democratic presence in Republican Georgia, as he won re-election with almost 70 percent of the vote in a district marked by drastic change in recent years. Georgia Trend also took note of Scott’s long-standing experience in Georgia’s legislature and his ability to use his experience to gain continued influence within the U.S. House of Representatives. “When Georgia Trend Magazine recognizes David Scott, it recognizes a whole bunch of people who have been supporting me throughout my entire life,” said Scott. “I am truly humbled to be recognized as one of Georgia’s 100 Most Influential people and I am continually thankful to my loving and supportive family and God for walking with me throughout the days of my life. Without Him, I could not have survived all that I have had to survive.” For more information about Congressman Scott’s recognition by Georgia Trend Magazine, please visit www.georgiatrend.com. ###
12.20.2007	Wednesday, December 19, 2007, the U.S. House of Representatives approved the final version of the FY2008 federal budget by a vote of 272 to 142. This appropriations bill would fund all agencies of the federal government at a level of $933 billion, with the exception of the Department of Defense, and thus avoid the possibility of a government shutdown caused by President Bush’s threat to veto a larger bill. The President is expected to sign the bill into law sometime in the next several days. Congressman Scott stated, “It is unfortunate that the President once again decided to ignore the needs of his own people, and instead use the power of his position to strong-arm the U.S. Congress into doing his will. However, even with his constant political posturing and the lower than desired overall funding level for this bill, Democrats were able to restore some of the President’s harmful cuts to domestic programs. We even managed to increase spending on many programs that have been ignored in the past. For example we were able to enact the largest increase in funding for veteran’s healthcare in the nation’s history; a valuable investment in improving the lives of those who fought for our country. So while this bill is not ideal by any means, it does represent a return to focusing on the needs of the American people.” The omnibus appropriations bill as passed by the House contains an additional $3.7 billion in funding dedicated to veteran’s healthcare. The bill also increases funding for No Child Left Behind by $1.1 billion; $1.4 billion was added for low-income housing assistance; over $65 million in new funding for the Community Oriented Policing Services program and $1.2 billion in additional border security funding to hire 3,000 new border patrol agents. The bill also contains funding for several important local priorities such as: $326,000 for Grady Health System to upgrade its medical record keeping $250, 000 for a community center in Riverdale $500, 000 to widen Lee Road Bridge on I-20 in Douglasville $125, 000 for youth counseling in Fulton County Congressman Scott added, “I’m saddened that this bill continues to fund the misguided war in Iraq. Rest assured that I will continue to work toward putting an end to this terrible conflict as soon as possible. However, passage of this bill was extremely important. It contained vital funding for projects that will improve the lives of folks here at home in Georgia. Just as importantly however, it will set the tone for future investments in domestic priorities aimed at improving the lives of all Americans.” ###
12.19.2007	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 660, the Court Security Improvement Act, which will further strengthen security measures for our nation’s courts. “In light of the 2005 deaths of three court officials at the Fulton County Courthouse, we must become more vigilant to the security of the men and women who facilitate court proceedings and ensure the rule of law in our country,” Congressman Scott said. “With the passage of this bill, we are taking the necessary steps to protect our judicial system’s public servants from threats, intimidation and harm. I am particularly pleased this legislation bans not only firearms, but any dangerous weapon from courthouses. The bill also increases penalties against individuals who threaten officials and witnesses or file false liens against court officials as a means of harassment.” For retaliation crimes committed against witnesses or informants, the Court Security Improvement Act requires a minimum 30 year prison sentence for attempted murder, and a 20 year sentence for retaliatory acts that cause physical harm. For all federal crimes, this legislation increases maximum sentences for voluntary manslaughter to 20 years and involuntary manslaughter to 10 years. The Court Security Improvement Act also increases penalties for assaults, including a maximum 30 year sentence for assaults with a dangerous weapon. The U.S. Marshals Service, which has the authority to protect federal judges and other judicial court officials, reports that threats to court officials have risen to over 600 per year, often requiring round-the-clock security detail. To ensure security needs are met and threats are mitigated quickly, the Court Security Improvement Act will improve communication between the Marshals and the Judicial Conference. This legislation also authorizes protection for federal tax court officials, instead of on an as-needed basis. ###
12.18.2007	Today, the Senate passed H.R. 3703 without amendment by unanimous consent. This measure was introduced by Congressman Scott to address some discrepancies in the current law regarding the new presidential dollar coins. “Even as the new dollar coin is an exciting new form of currency for America, I want to ensure that the beverage and food vending services industry is not faced with dispensing issues,” Congressman Scott said. “Changing all vending machines to comply with the new coin would cost millions of dollars. To address this issue, I introduced legislation, H.R. 3703, which would address the federal property dollar coin dispensing issue and would provide an exemption for machines that only accept currency up to $1.00 bills.” H.R. 3703 would amend a provision in the dollar coin law that runs counter to the public policy intent of the Act, and actually works to impede the circulation of the dollar coins. In circumstances where a vending machine vends a lower priced item, such as $1.00 or $1.25, there would not be a need to dispense a dollar coin as change. By specifically requiring these machines to have an inventory of dollar coins ready for dispensing, we are creating a situation where these coins will end up sitting dormant, effectively removing them from circulation. H.R. 3703 must now be signed into law by the President. ###
12.13.2007	Just as the President vetoed the first Children’s Health bill; he again vetoed the second bill, which would have provided 10 million American children health coverage. This veto was the President’s 7th veto in 7 years and is one of two vetoes denying millions of our nation’s children access to healthcare. The President’s decision to veto the second bill came after painstaking negotiations and revisions to meet several concerns raised, including enrolling lower-income children first and ensuring benefits are denied to illegal immigrants. The second bill passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 265 to 142, passed the Senate by a veto-proof margin of 64 to 30 and is supported by 270 organizations representing millions of Americans. “The President’s decision to veto the second SCHIP bill is simply unconscionable. Georgia’s children deserve healthcare and are suffering at the hands of an administration that continues to work against negotiation for a strong bill,” Congressman Scott said. It costs less than $3.50 a day to cover a child through CHIP and insuring lower-income children is cost-effective for taxpayers, who pick up the tab for indigent care in emergency rooms—the most expensive way to care for a child’s health. Today, Georgia’s Peachcare program is running a deficit and is maintaining current enrollment through an HHS grant. We, in Congress are dedicated to fighting for a sound SCHIP bill. Until a sound SCHIP bill can be agreed upon, we must proceed with an extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program to ensure that no child currently enrolled will lose their healthcare coverage. ###
12.12.2007	Today Congressman David Scott issued the following statement regarding the ‘Do-not-call’ Improvement Act of 2007. With the support of Congressman Scott, H.R.3541 passed the House of Representatives. “This bill will eliminate the five-year expiration date for telephone numbers currently on the ‘do-not-call’ list and therefore works to protect the rights of families. When a family makes the decision to be placed on the ‘do-not-call’ list, they do so to protect quality time in their household. It is a conscious choice to eat dinner with family and friends in peace and to help their children with homework without the constant interruption of the telephone ringing. This is a decision made to keep the peacefulness of their home intact and this bill ensures that once this decision is made, it is permanent.I strongly support and understand the importance of uninterrupted family time, which is why I chose to vote in favor of the passage of this legislation.”This legislation will also prevent the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) from issuing regulations regarding an expiration date for telephone numbers on the ‘do-not-call’ registry. A related version of the bill, S. 2096 is awaiting action in the Senate. Please note that anyone can register on-line for the national ‘do-not-call’ registry by going to www.donotcall.gov or register by telephone by calling 1-888-382-1222. ###
12.07.2007	Congressman David Scott released the following statement regarding the 66th Anniversary of the Japanese attack on the U.S. military installation at Pearl Harbor. “On this 66th year after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, we pause as a nation to remember our heroes who fought, suffered and died in battle during this and every other battle of World War II . On this day in 1941, our nation suffered staggering losses; with over 2,400 servicemen and women killed, another 1,200 wounded, over 320 aircrafts destroyed or damaged and all eight U.S. battleships in Pearl Harbor sunk or seriously damaged. For the many losses suffered on this day, December 7, 1941, will forever remain a date which will live in infamy. “The brave and courageous members of our Armed Forces who died and fought at Pearl Harbor deserve to be honored for their sacrifices. This important day in American history is an opportunity for Americans to reflect on the sacrifices that our servicemen and women have made in defense of American freedom and a reminder that our veteran’s deserve the best care and treatment possible. “As an American and as a United States Congressman, I am forever grateful for the service of the men and women of the United States Armed Forces and will continue to work tirelessly to ensure our nation’s veterans will want for nothing.” ###
11.06.2007	Today, Congressman David Scott praised the passage of H.R. 3915, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act of 2007, from the House Financial Services Committee. The bill will reform mortgage practices in three major areas. First, the bill will prohibit steering of consumers into bad loans and call for licensing and registration of mortgage originators, including brokers and bank loan officers. Second, the new legislation will set a minimum standard for all mortgages stating that borrowers must have a reasonable ability to repay. Third, the legislation attaches limited liability to secondary market securitizers who package and sell interest in home mortgage loans outside of these standards. However, individual investors in these securities would not be liable. Finally, the bill expands and enhances consumer protections for “high-cost loans” under the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act and includes important protections for renters of foreclosed homes. “Georgia has been hit hard by home foreclosures – Georgia needs relief as soon as possible,” Congressman Scott said. “This legislation will stop the all too common practices of steering people into loans they cannot afford. Further, it will stop the practice of creative loan financing to unnecessarily increase the fees and costs to write the loan. Many Georgians are already too far into default for this legislation to help, but we must work to stop the predatory lending cycle now.” The bill also includes a housing counseling section, similar to legislation introduced by Congressman Scott, H.R. 3133, the Financial Literacy for Homeowners Act. This part of the bill establishes within HUD an Office of Housing Counseling that will coordinate national homeownership and rental housing counseling. Further, it requires HUD to provide financial and technical assistance to States, local governments, and nonprofit organization regarding educational programs, and authorizes appropriations of $45 million for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2011. Finally, it directs HUD to study and report to Congress on the root causes of defaults and foreclosures of home loans. The bill must now be considered by the full House. Congressman Scott is the senior Georgia representative on the House Financial Services Committee. As a member of the Georgia State Senate, then Senator Scott was instrumental in passing the Georgia law on predatory lending. ###
11.06.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced the inclusion of $325,000 for Clayton State University’s development of an archival graduate program in a bill that provides Fiscal Year 2008 funding for the Federal Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education. The House of Representatives is expected to pass the spending bill today which also includes funding for Veterans and Military projects. The funding secured for this initiative would be used to create a Master of Arts in Archive degree program at Clayton State University. The program will be designed to meet the needs of the state, region and nation for a new generation of archivists who have both the technological sophistication and the historical perspective essential for the collection and preservation of records that are so vital to our nation’s history. Furthermore, the program will include community outreach components that will help this exciting project be shared more broadly. “This project is an awesome opportunity to show the rest of the country the importance Georgia holds to our country’s national heritage,” stated Congressman Scott. “I am proud to have secured this funding for Clayton State University, which will help establish an archival graduate program for the citizens of Georgia and the nation. I applaud Clayton State University for their steadfast dedication in working to improve Georgia’s higher education system and choices. I urge the President to sign this bill into law.” The program would expand an existing partnership between three institutions – Clayton State University, a member of the University System of Georgia, the Georgia State Archives and the regional federal archives – which are all located in or near the Gateway Village Development in Morrow, Georgia. The geographic relationship between the institutions brings about opportunities for educational and community service programs that are unique in the nation. The appropriations bill now heads to the President for his signature into law or veto. ###
11.06.2007	Today Congressman David Scott announced that federal funds totaling $459,700 have been awarded to important projects in Fulton County. These awards include $334,700 for Grady Health system to upgrade electronic medical records and $125,000 to assist the county’s Department of Mental Health with creating a jail diversion program. These projects were included in the bill funding the U.S. Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services and Education for Fiscal Year 2008, which was passed by the House of Representatives today. “I am very proud to share this wonderful news with my constituents from Fulton County. This funding will go a long way to enhance Grady Health System’s medical records,” Congressman Scott said. “These funds will also support Fulton County’s initiatives to reduce costs associated with overcrowded facilities and inmate recidivism rates. I urge the President to sign this bill into law” Grady Health System will use these funds to upgrade existing electronic medical record keeping systems. The Fulton County Department of Mental Health will use its funds to create a mental health program for inmates and recruit clinicians and case managers. The bill will now be sent to the President to be signed into law or vetoed. ###
10.24.2007	Are you having trouble keeping up with your mortgage payments? Have you received a notice from your lender asking you to contact them? • Don't ignore the letters from your lender • Contact your lender immediately • Contact a HUD-approved Housing Counseling Agency • Toll FREE (800) 569-4287 • TTY (800) 877-8339 If you are unable to make your mortgage payment: 1. Don't ignore the problem. The further behind you become, the harder it will be to reinstate your loan and the more likely that you will lose your house. 2. Contact your lender as soon as you realize that you have a problem. Lenders do not want your house. They have options to help borrowers through difficult financial times. 3. Open and respond to all mail from your lender. The first notices you receive will offer good information about foreclosure prevention options that can help you weather financial problems. Later mail may include important notice of pending legal action. Your failure to open the mail will not be an excuse in foreclosure court. 4. Know your mortgage rights. Find your loan documents and read them so you know what your lender may do if you can't make your payments. Learn about the foreclosure laws and timeframes in your state (as every state is different) by contacting the State Government Housing Office. 5. Understand foreclosure prevention options. Valuable information about foreclosure prevention (also called loss mitigation) options can be found on the internet at www.fha.gov/foreclosure/index.cfm. 6. Contact a HUD-approved housing counselor. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) funds free or very low cost housing counseling nationwide. Housing counselors can help you understand the law and your options, organize your finances and represent you in negotiations with your lender if you need this assistance. Find a HUD-approved housing counselor near you or call (800) 569-4287 or TTY (800) 877-8339. 7. Prioritize your spending. After healthcare, keeping your house should be your first priority. Review your finances and see where you can cut spending in order to make your mortgage payment. Look for optional expenses-cable TV, memberships, entertainment-that you can eliminate. Delay payments on credit cards and other "unsecured" debt until you have paid your mortgage. 8. Use your assets. Do you have assets-a second car, jewelry, a whole life insurance policy-that you can sell for cash to help reinstate your loan? Can anyone in your household get an extra job to bring in additional income? Even if these efforts don't significantly increase your available cash or your income, they demonstrate to your lender that you are willing to make sacrifices to keep your home. 9. Avoid foreclosure prevention companies. You don't need to pay fees for foreclosure prevention help-use that money to pay the mortgage instead. Many for-profit companies will contact you promising to negotiate with your lender. While these may be legitimate businesses, they will charge you a hefty fee (often two or three month's mortgage payment) for information and services your lender or a HUD approved housing counselor will provide free if you contact them. 10. Don't lose your house to foreclosure recovery scams! If any firm claims they can stop your foreclosure immediately if you sign a document appointing them to act on your behalf, you may well be signing over the title to your property and becoming a renter in your own home! Never sign a legal document without reading and understanding all the terms and getting professional advice from an attorney, a trusted real estate professional, or a HUD approved housing counselor
10.18.2007	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives fell short of the vote needed to override the President’s veto of the bipartisan bill to reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), also known as Peachcare, 273 to 156. “The American people have overwhelmingly supported this bill to reauthorize CHIP and it breaks my heart to know that there are thousands of children who deserve healthcare and will be denied access to it because of the President’s choice to veto this bill,” Congressman Scott said. “I will continue to work with my Democratic and Republican colleagues to get this legislation passed and provide health coverage to those ten million children in need.” The bipartisan bill would have reauthorized Peachcare for an additional five years. The CHIP program provides health coverage to American children whose parents do not qualify for Medicaid, but cannot afford private insurance. The $35 billion bill would bring health coverage to approximately ten million children in need – preserving coverage for all 6.6 million children currently covered by CHIP, and reaching millions more low-income, uninsured American children in the next five years. ###
10.18.2007	Members of Georgia’s congressional delegation have introduced legislation in the U.S. Senate and U.S. House to alleviate the current water crisis by allowing states suffering from droughts to be exempt temporarily from the Endangered Species Act, which in Georgia is threatening our low water supply by taking away large amounts of water from north Georgia and sending it downstream to protect mussels and sturgeon in Florida. Specifically, the legislation would amend the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to allow a state to be exempt from the Act when the Secretary of the Army or a Governor declares that drought conditions are threatening the health, safety and welfare of residents in a region served by a river basin managed by the federal government. U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga. and Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., have introduced the legislation in the Senate and members of Georgia’s delegation introduced the legislation in the House. Congressman David Scott, D, (GA-13) said, “This drought impacting Georgia is a crisis of the highest magnitude and we must act immediately. The Georgia delegation agrees that we must take important legislative steps to help Georgians maintain adequate supplies of drinking water.” Sen. Isakson, R, said, “There is a critical shortage of Georgia’s water resources, and it is time we gave the Army Corps the latitude and the governors of each state the authority to protect our people. I will continue to work with all my colleagues in the Georgia delegation to see that the threat to our Georgia lakes is stopped.” Sen. Chambliss, R, said, “We’ve got to have some common sense here. We have varying needs throughout our river basins, and striking the right balance requires the cooperation of many different stakeholders. However, in times like these, when the health and safety of our human population is threatened and we have exhausted all means to find a solution, it is a logical conclusion that the provisions of the Endangered Species Act should be temporarily suspended so that a short term fix can be provided.” Congressman Sanford Bishop, D, (GA-02) said, “When the health, safety, and welfare of more than 4 million people in Georgia are threatened by a lack of water, it is imperative that we take whatever steps are necessary to protect human life and the Georgia economy - including a temporary waiver of the Endangererd Species Act.” Congressman Nathan Deal, R, (GA-09) said, “I have long supported common sense wildlife conservation and animal protection, but a key factor of that common sense is an operational principle that the health and livelihood of millions of human beings should not be outweighed by endangered mussels.” Congressman John Linder, R, (GA-07) said, “Georgia has reached a critical point with regards to water availability. In fact, I read this morning that the city of Lawrenceville in my home county of Gwinnett is forced to bring several dormant wells back into service. We are long past watering yards and washing cars; we now face a situation where Georgians may not have enough water to drink. We are put in a position where we have to choose between the health and safety of the people who live in Georgia or protecting species that will now be endangering our welfare. This is a good first step in the right direction.” Congressman Phil Gingrey, R, (GA-11), said, “With a potential water crisis on the horizon, this legislation will help to ensure that the Endangered Species Act doesn’t turn the people of Georgia or any other state into an endangered species themselves. The Corps of Engineers -- in coordination with Georgia and every other state -- should have the necessary flexibility to manage our water resources to avert a catastrophe of Biblical proportions.” Congressman Lynn Westmoreland, R, (GA-03) said, “It’s rare that the Georgia delegation is of one mind on major legislation, but we’re united in this crisis to put our people before sturgeon and mussels. The legislation tweaks federal law to provide reasonable relief at a time when we’re taking extraordinary steps to conserve water in North Georgia and in West Georgia. I’d like to call special attention to my district, where the Corps needs to better manage Lake West Point, where we have to release more than we take in from the Chattahoochee. Georgia is taking responsible steps to conserve; we need the federal government to take equally responsible steps to assist us.” Congressman Tom Price, R, (GA-06) said, “Georgians have been extremely patient and generous with our water resources. It is unjust that Georgians are asked to continue providing water to neighboring states, while shortages threaten the health and economic survival of our state. The Corps of Engineers has not acted responsibly. Congressional action is imperative to allow Georgia to appropriately control our natural resources.” Congressman Paul Broun, R, (GA-10) said, “The well-being of the people of Northeastern Georgia is being harmed due to a lack of water caused by the drought. Our legislation just makes sense. Suspending regulatory impediments that put the needs of fish and mussels ahead of Georgia’s people will make it easier for authorities to minimize the harm that Georgians face during this emergency situation.” Background Last week, in a letter to the Corps, Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue requested the immediate alteration of all Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint reservoir releases, so that releases from Woodruff Dam at Lake Seminole are only equivalent to inflows, up to 5,000 cubic feet per second. The letter stipulates that any additional inflows above 5,000 cubic feet per second will be stored. In order to make a short-term immediate impact on Georgia’s water supply, Governor Perdue has requested this action be taken immediately, and kept in place until March 1, 2008. Members of the Georgia delegation have continually worked to get Georgia, Florida and Alabama together and to force the Corp of Engineers to update a 20-year-old Water Control Plan for the Alabama-Coosa-Tallapoosa and Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint River Basins. Members of the delegation have met with and sent letters to Secretary of the Army, Pete Geren, as well as Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works John Paul Woodley, Lieutenant General Robert L. Van Antwerp and General Counsel Craig Schmauder, urging them to update the Water Control Plan. Secretary Geren gave his commitment that if and when mediation broke down and was not making progress, he would begin the update of the water control manuals. Geren’s predecessor had committed to begin the update of the water control manuals on January 2, 2007, but failed to honor that commitment. On September 28, 2007, after judges involved in the mediation announced that the talks had broken down, Isakson and Chambliss sent a letter to Geren strongly urging him to honor his pledge to update the water control plan. ###
10.11.2007	This week, Fairburn resident Kimberly Byrd was recognized as one of the eighteen best child care providers in the country. Earlier this year, Mrs. Byrd was also featured as a “Provider of the Week” on the award-winning PBS program A Place of Our Own. This daily television series, devoted to the needs of individuals who care for children, sponsored the awards ceremony in Washington, D.C. in conjunction with BP and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.Congressman Scott made the following statement:“It is with great honor that I recognize Mrs. Kimberly Byrd for this tremendous award. For the last 10 years, Mrs. Byrd has cared for children of all ages at her Fairburn home. In my eyes, Kim is beyond a child care provider; she is a full-fledged early childhood development specialist who makes an extraordinary difference in the lives of families in my congressional district.”“The research in early childhood is very clear: whether by parenting or other child care means, children need consistent and quality care in order to enter school prepared to succeed. Mrs. Byrd’s instruction and activities clearly demonstrate a commitment to school preparedness. I especially admire her dedication to caring for children with developmental disabilities. She is doing exemplary work in our community and serves as a model for child care providers across our nation. Once again, congratulations to Kimberly on this achievement.” ###
10.03.2007	Today the President vetoed a bipartisan bill to reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), also known as Peachcare. “The President’s veto is just wrong. Thousands of Georgia’s children deserve healthcare. They don’t deserve partisan games to be played over this vital issue,” Congressman Scott said. “I will work with my Democratic and Republican colleagues to overturn this veto and send the bill back to the President.” The bipartisan bill would reauthorize Peachcare for an additional five years. The CHIP program provides health coverage to American children whose parents do not qualify for Medicaid, but cannot afford private insurance. The $35 billion bill would bring health coverage to approximately ten million children in need-preserving coverage for all 6.6 million children currently covered by CHIP, and reaching millions more low-income, uninsured American children in the next five years. ###
10.02.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) issued the following statement in honor of National Disability Employment Awareness Month: In 1945, Congress enacted a law declaring the first week in October of each year as “National Employ the Physically Handicapped Week,” in order to educate the American public about issues related to disability and employment. From there, the week expanded into a month designated “National Disability Employment Awareness Month.” And today, I am so pleased to acknowledge and praise those who work to further the necessary awareness of those individuals and American workers who live with a disability. The American worker has enough to handle and manage as it is, but the employee who lives with a disability copes with other barriers many of us will never experience. I commend the work these groups are doing to ensure these individuals, completely capable of employment, find that employment and are not discriminated against. However, there is much work to do. The employment rate of working age people with disabilities remains only half that of people without disabilities. These numbers are far too low and this population has for far too long been a group unable to rise above the employment and earnings gaps. There is a benefit to us all for working toward inclusion of more and more disabled workers. Again, I am pleased to celebrate “National Disability Employment Awareness Month” this October and will continue my ongoing efforts in Congress to ensure equality for all, making the barriers facing individuals with disabilities once and for all a thing of the past. ###
10.02.2007	Yesterday, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) and Mrs. Alfredia Scott announced the selection of 10 area students to receive scholarship awards in the amount of $1,000 through the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Spouses Scholarship program. Congressman and Mrs. Scott honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special reception in his Jonesboro District Office. “By earning these awards, each student has demonstrated strong work ethics and a high commitment to achieve excellence in their schools and communities,” said Congressman Scott. Mrs. Scott, wife of Congressman Scott, was very instrumental in securing the scholarships for the students as an active member of the CBC Spouses program. “It is with great pleasure that my husband and I commend each of these students for their exceptional academic achievement and we encourage them to continue to set high goals,” said Mrs. Scott. This year’s awardees include: $1,000 CBC Spouses General Education Award · Nitara Carswell, Clayton County · Alexander Easterly, Clayton County · Donté Freeling, Clayton County · Anita Green, Cobb County · Ira Horne, Fulton County · Adero King, Henry County · Jamie Martin, Clayton County · Latoyia Starr, Clayton County · Arielle Watson, Cobb County · Azureblue White, Clayton County The CBC Spouses Education Scholarship Fund was established in 1988 in response to federal cuts in spending for education programs and scholarships. This program provides tuition assistance to enable students to fulfill their higher education goals. Students are required to live or attend school in a Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Member’s district and be enrolled full-time in good academic standing at an accredited college or university. Students interested in applying for future awards should contact Ashley Tanks at 770-210-5073. ###
10.02.2007	Today, Congressman David Scott announced that he will join the NATO Parliamentary Assembly October 5-9, 2007 in Reykjavik, Iceland. Congressman Scott and other members of the U.S. delegation will meet with their legislative counterparts from NATO’s 26 member nations. The meetings will focus on NATO’s policy statements on many global issues including: climate change, missile defense, and the Alliance’s relations with Russia. During the meetings, parliamentarians will also be briefed by prominent world experts and policy-makers on Iran and nuclear proliferation; security in South East Europe; Islam in the Caucasus; the relationship between intelligence, terrorism and the preservation of civil liberties; the prospects for a new Strategic Concept for NATO; and India’s economic development. Additional information on the NATO Assembly can be found at: http://www.nato-pa.int/. “I am honored to join our delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly,” said Congressman Scott. “I plan on speaking with our allies on global warming, the war on terror and the Iran Sanctions Act, which tightens economic sanctions in order to halt Iran’s efforts to develop nuclear weapons. We must resolve to use every available peaceful means, economic, political and diplomatic, to stop Iran’s military buildup.” The Iran Counter-Proliferation Act (H.R. 1400) will remove the Executive Branch’s authority under current law to waive sanctions on companies investing in Iran’s energy sector, which supports the country’s nuclear weapons program. It also blocks U.S. civil nuclear cooperation with countries that assist Iran’s nuclear program. Congressman Scott is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Vice-Chair of the Subcommittee on Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. Since his first term, Congressman Scott has been a Co-Chair of the Democratic Study Group on National Security. ###
09.27.2007	Today, President Bush signed H.R. 2669, the College Cost Reduction and Access Act into law. With overwhelming bi-partisan support from both the House and Senate, this proposal marks a victory for the House Democrats’ New Direction for America platform for the 110th Congress. “For far too many Americans, attending college seems out of reach,” said Congressman David Scott. “Under the leadership of the Democratic Congress, we can finally say to American students that nothing is impossible. This is the single largest investment in higher education since the Montgomery G.I. Bill” Regarded as one of the most effective forms of student aid, Pell Grant award funding will increase by more than $11 billion. Over the next 5 years, award maximums will increase by $1,090 to $5,400. “For Georgia families, this is $859 million in aid, helping nearly 200,000 students in our state pursue higher education,” Scott said. Earlier this year, the House passed Congressman Scott’s legislation, H.R. 916, offering loan forgiveness to law students who pursue careers as prosecutors and public defenders. Similarly, the College Cost Reduction and Access Act will offer loan forgiveness for individuals who have worked 10 years in public service in fields such as public defense, military service, first response, law enforcement, firefighting, and nursing among others. Congressman Scott also praised the inclusion of language for Predominantly Black Institutions, such as Clayton State University in Morrow. “On the heels of U.S. News and World Report recognizing Clayton State as the most racially diverse baccalaureate college in the southeast, I am pleased this law makes Predominantly Black Institutions eligible for $15 million per year for programs in science, health education, globalization, teacher preparation and improving educational outcomes of African American males. This is outstanding for my congressional district and the students who attend Clayton State.” As a budget reconciliation measure, the College Cost Reduction and Access Act not only makes college more affordable for American students, but cuts the federal deficit by $750 million. ###
09.26.2007	Today, Congressman David Scott helped pass legislation for the HOPE VI Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2007. The improvements to the HOPE VI public housing revitalization program provide retention of public housing units, prevention of re-screening of returning residents, protection of residents from disruptions resulting from the grant, increases in resident involvement and improvements to the efficiency and expediency of HOPE VI construction. “I have long supported the HOPE VI program because it is an important program that has helped many low-income families move out of old, run-down housing and into better homes and safer, livable communities,” said Scott. “At a time when many of America’s major cities are going through revitalization, many low-income families are facing a housing crisis. The HOPE VI program provides housing protection and hope for these low-income families.” This program allows cities to change, while also ensuring that low-income residents are treated fairly under the law. The HOPE VI program provides one-to-one replacement of demolished public housing units, on- and off-site mixed-income housing, limitations on exclusion, tenant protection and assurance of green building standards. Congressman Scott is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
09.25.2007	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives considered a bipartisan, bicameral agreement to reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), also known as Peachcare, for an additional five years. CHIP provides health coverage to American children whose parents do not qualify for Medicaid, but cannot afford private insurance. The $35 billion agreement struck by House and Senate negotiators will bring health coverage to approximately ten million children in need – preserving coverage for all 6.6 million children currently covered by CHIP, and reaching millions more low-income, uninsured American children in the next five years. “Today’s compromise symbolizes a strong, bipartisan commitment to taking care of America’s children. It also will strengthen the Peachcare Program and give millions of children access to doctors, life-saving medications, preventative screenings and basic medical care that they would otherwise be denied. I fully support this agreement and urge President Bush to take a serious look at what America’s children will gain from this agreement and reconsider his threat to veto the bill.” Below is a brief list of items outlined in the agreement, designed to specifically target the lowest-income, uninsured American children for outreach and enrollment. • Investing $35 Billion in New Funding for CHIP • Lowering the rate of uninsured low-income children • Improving Access to Benefits for Children (Dental Coverage/Mental Health Parity/EPSDT) • Prioritizing children’s coverage • Providing states with incentives to lower the rate of uninsured low income children • Agreement Replaces CMS August 17th Letter to States • Improving Outreach Tools to Simplify and Streamline Enrollment of Eligible Children • Improving the Quality of Health Care for Low-Income Children • Improving Access to Private Coverage Options The U.S. House of Representatives is expected to pass the bill by a large margin. The Senate will take up the measure shortly and then forward it to the President for his signature into law. The current CHIP authorization expires on September 30. ###
09.21.2007	STATEMENT ON “JENA 6” WASHINGTON. Congressman David Scott comments on the continuing controversy surrounding the town of Jena, Louisiana. “I take pride in how many young people have become involved with the Jena 6 case. It is so important the next generation understands the importance of tolerance and continues to keep the legacy alive of so many civil rights leaders before them. As African Americans we have come so far, yet with incidents such as these, it is clear we still have a long road ahead. I lend my support and prayers to these young men known as Jena 6, and I praise the men and women who have peacefully come together and spoken out on these injustices.”
09.19.2007	MORTGAGE RELIEF ON THE WAY WASHINGTON, DC—Yesterday, Congressman David Scott helped pass legislation that seeks to revitalize the Federal Housing Administration, which was established to provide a reliable source of affordable mortgage loans for first-time homebuyers. The bill will enable the FHA to serve more sub-prime borrowers at affordable rates and terms, to attract borrowers that have turned to predatory loans, and to offer refinancing to homeowners struggling to meet their mortgage payments in the current turbulent mortgage markets. Congressman Scott voted in support of H.R. 1852, which the House passed by a 348-72 vote. “I am committed to protecting the dream of homeownership for all Americans. I believe that everyone is entitled to affordable housing and with this legislation, we are taking the necessary steps to support and serve the families troubled by the current turbulent mortgage market,” said Scott. This new FHA reform will serve families seeking homeownership, protect and provide counseling for high risk FHA borrowers, and reverse mortgage payments for senior homeowners, enabling them to take out money from their mortgages to pay high healthcare bills and/or other expenses. “Reforming the Federal Housing Association creates an opportunity to support American families, their communities and the American Dream.” The House Financial Services Committee will hold a hearing on September 20, 2007, entitled “Legislative and Regulatory Options for Minimizing and Mitigating Mortgage Foreclosures”. Secretaries Henry Paulson and Alphonso Jackson, along with Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, will discuss the President’s plan to expand FHA programs and review other options for assisting homeowners at risk of foreclosure. ###
09.19.2007	H.R. 2761, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Revision and Extension Act of 2007 (TRIREA) by a vote of 312-110. The legislation will extend the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA) for fifteen years and help spur the further development of a private market for terrorism risk insurance. "After the 9/11 terrorist attacks, many insurance companies excluded terrorism events from their insurance policies. Congress had to step in when the private market failed,” Congressman Scott said. “This extension of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act will provide stability for the commercial real estate markets and other industries at risk. Loans can be made with the certainty that a terrorist attack will not overextend the private insurance markets.” Since its enactment, TRIA has ensured the availability of affordable terrorism risk insurance in the marketplace and thereby fostered continued urban development and real estate development in the United States. While the TRIA program has successfully kept terrorism insurance affordable, the President’s Working Group on Financial Markets’ most recent report concluded that a private market for terrorism reinsurance is virtually nonexistent - especially with regard to nuclear biological chemical and radiological (NBCR) acts of terrorism. H.R. 2761 must now be approved by the Senate. Congressman Scott is the senior Georgia representative on the House Financial Services Committee.
09.10.2007	WASHINGTON—Congressman David Scott received a status report on Iraq today from General David H. Petraeus, Commanding General Multi-National Force – Iraq and the Honorable Ryan C. Crocker, United States Ambassador to Iraq. Congressman Scott participated in the hearing as a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. House Armed Services Committee members also attended. “I have great respect for General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker and I found their reports to be very informative,” said Congressman Scott. “There are a lot of subjective analyses on the success of the surge. However, we must weigh these reports judiciously and soberly look at the facts. Facts do not lie.” According to Congressman Scott, there are three facts that must be considered when measuring the success of the surge in American troop levels in Iraq. First, is the wear and tear on our military. Second, is the stability of the Maliki government. Thirdly, is the will of the American People to continue supporting the current course of action. “The President's 'surge' has not led to any increased political reconciliation, which we know is crucial for Iraq to become a stable nation.” Congressman Scott said. “In fact, the only breathing room it's allowed is for the Iraqi government to take a vacation. As such, it's time to begin a responsible, measured redeployment of our troops from Iraq." Congressman Scott is the vice-chair of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade; a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly; and a co-chair of the Democratic Study Group on National Security.
09.04.2007	Congressman David Scott congratulates Smyrna resident Charissa Phillips for being chosen to represent the 13th District of Georgia as a 2007-2008 School Year Congressional Page. As a Congressional Page, Miss Phillips will be completing her junior year of High School in Washington, DC, while serving the United States Congress. “I am so proud to have Charissa Phillips represent the intelligent and motivated young people that we have in the 13th District. She clearly has a very bright future ahead of her and I know that this opportunity will only continue to nurture and develop her leadership skills,” said Congressman Scott. Miss Phillips is an exceptional Campbell High School student who has proven herself academically by earning a 4.3 grade point average, while taking AP and Honors level courses. She is also an active member of Campbell High School’s Beta Club, Track & Field Team and Peer Mediation organization. Outside of school Miss Phillips is also very active with Mt. Zion First Baptist Church as a Youth Choir Director. Charissa’s family and friends wish her well as she prepares for her junior year of high school in Washington, DC. Her Aunt, Ms. Nina Phillips speaks for the family saying, “We just want to congratulate Charissa. We are so proud of her and all that she has accomplished. It is truly an honor to be given this opportunity and we know that this will be a wonderful experience for her. We support her and stand behind her as she purses her dreams.” Since 1839, the United States Congress has employed young people as pages who serve as messengers and perform administrative tasks. Pages are high-school juniors from around the country with a minimum grade point average of 3.0. Students interested in applying to be a Congressional Page should contact their district Representative or Senator to obtain an application.
08.21.2007	Last week Congressman David Scott (GA-13) attended the South Fulton Farm Bureau’s Covered Dish Dinner to discuss issues facing the South Fulton area. Congressman Scott focused on the new Farm Bill stating that “this Farm Bill is the best Farm Bill we have ever had.” During his address, Congressman Scott explained how the new bill will help promote health, fight hunger, increase funding for improvement programs and assist socially disadvantaged and beginning farmers with credit programs. Congressman Scott also discussed how “this bill represents a 46% increase in spending on nutrition programs, greatly increases food stamp program benefits and protects the food stamp program from privatization.” Other major issues discussed by Congressman Scott included strengthening the safety net to ensure a stable food supply, immigration and the debate over mandatory country of origin labeling for meat products. The South Fulton Farm Bureau President, Neil Milam said that “Congressman Scott’s address was both interesting and informative for the farm members and we were very pleased that Congressman Scott was able to join us”. ###
08.20.2007	Congressman David Scott welcomed more than 1,000 constituents and 200 healthcare professionals and volunteers to the Third Annual 13th Congressional District Health Fair held Saturday, August 18, 2007. “While I’ve been working in Congress to provide affordable and accessible healthcare to all Georgians, I wanted to do some extra,” said Congressman Scott. “That’s why I’m hosting my annual health fairs to bring together hospitals, insurance & pharmaceutical companies, government agencies and leading healthcare organizations to offer free services for people who otherwise might not have access to such care. This year we were able to build on the success of our first two fairs by saving more lives with much-needed preventive screenings and empowerment through awareness. We were also able to increase the number of participating organizations, as well as gain participation from the Pharma Bus. At our health fairs, we’ve had people whose blood pressure was so high that doctors had to call for an ambulance to come and take them to the hospital immediately.” Congressman Scott kicked off the health fair by hosting a question and answer panel discussion addressing the importance of preventative care to preempt the onset of such chronic conditions as diabetes, cancer, heart disease, strokes, and obesity. Scott was joined on the panel by Dr. Michael Smith of Atlanta Medical Center’s Oncology Department and Dr. Steve Wertheim of Resurgens Orthopedics. “Representing Georgians is more than just casting votes in Washington. I believe strongly that the most important part of being a Member of Congress is helping people,” Scott added. “Throughout my years in public service, from the Georgia legislature to the U.S. Congress, I have made it one of my main objectives to ensure and promote the health and well-being of my fellow Georgians. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Washington to ensure healthcare continues to be at the forefront of our discussions. We have much work to do, but I believe with dedicated efforts, we will achieve success.” More than 95 area non-profit organizations, hospitals, government agencies, and members of the health care industry were on hand to provide a wide variety of free health screenings, fitness demonstrations, preventative health care consultations and information about important health issues. Attendees of the Health Fair participated in a blood drive and were able to enroll on site in a number of health assistance programs. Participants included Kaiser Permanente, Southern Regional Health System, Emory Health Center, Grady Health System, Alzheimer’s Services Center, Sickle Cell Foundation of Georgia, the American Heart Associations, Healthy Mothers/Healthy Babies, Clayton County Sheriff’s Office, Metro Atlanta Fire Chief, AFLAC, Clayton County Police Department, HUMANA Medicare, Peach State Health Plan, American Red Cross, Partnership for Prescription Assistance, Team Vision, Georgia Breast Cancer, FDA, AID Atlanta, and many others! ###
08.08.2007	Congressman David Scott will host his Third Annual 13th Congressional District Health Fair on Saturday, August 18, 2007 from 9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. This event will take place at Mundy’s Mill High School in Jonesboro, located off Tara Boulevard, approximately 2.5 miles south of the Highway 138 and Tara Boulevard intersection, at 9652 Fayetteville Road. Participants can enjoy a wide offering of free health screenings, cooking, CPR and fitness demonstrations and information about important health issues. Additionally, attendees can participate in a blood drive, hear from Congressman Scott and special guest speakers, and enroll on site in health assistance programs like Medicare, Medicaid, PeachCare, prescription drug assistance, and others for the uninsured. WHAT: Congressman David Scott’s Third Annual 13th Congressional District Health Fair WHEN: Saturday, August 18, 200710:00 am to 2:00 pm WHERE: Mundy’s Mill High School9652 Fayetteville Road (Hwy. 54)Jonesboro, GA 30238CONFIRMED PARTICIPANTS: Aalegna Skin and Health Center AARP Georgia AFLAC Agape Gardens Colon Lavage, LLC AgeWise Connection, Atlanta Regional Commission AID Atlanta, Inc. Alliance for Lupus Research Alzheimer's Association Alzheimer's Services Center American Cancer Society American Heart Association American Kidney Fund American Liver Foundation American Red Cross American Red Cross Ameriplan Health USA Ameriplan USA Angels In Paradise Inc. Arbonne Arthritis Foundation Asheba Stewart Healthy Practice Assurance Group Atlanta Legal Aid Society Back to Back FamilyChiropractic Bright From the Start - Georgia Department of Early Care & Learning Care Improvement Plus Children of Promise-Tennis in The Hood Clayton County Board of Health Clayton County DFCS Clayton County Library System Clayton State University School of Nursing Cooking with Class Davita Jonesboro Discover Chiropractic Dr. Jimmy L. Gregory Eli Lilly and Company Emory Center for AIDS Research Emory Healthcare Fuller Rehabilitation Georgia Breast Cancer Coalition Georgia Cares, Atlanta Regional Commission Georgia Council on Substance Abuse Georgia Osteopathic Medical Association Georgia Power Georgia School Nutrition Association Georgia Transplant Foundation Grace Oasis Personal Care Home Grady Health System Healing Wounded Hearts Healthy Mothers, Healthy Babies Coalition of Georgia Hemophilia of Georgia Humana Medicare Johnson & Johnson LifeLink of Georgia Linx2Health & Globalinx Home Phone March of Dimes Melaleuca Monavie Juice Morehouse School of Medicine My OBGYN NAMI Georgia - National Alliance on Mental Illness Nanston Dental Group National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Georgia Chapter NSA/ Juiceplus Pancreatic Cancer Action Network Partnership for Prescription Assistance Peach State Health Plan Physical Therapy Association of Georgia Primerica Financial Services Resurgens Orthopedics Right at Home Right From the Start Medicaid Riverdale Foot, Ankle and Leg Clinic Safe America Foundation Saladmaster by the Exeter Group Sam's Club Optical Sickle Cell Foundation of Georgia South Metro Chiropractic Center, Inc. Southern Crescent Medical Clinic Southern Crescent Sexual Assault Center Southern Regional Health Systems Sunbridge Care & Rehabilitation for Riverdale Team Vision IP The Marcus Institute The Reach Community Center - Parents Anonymous Together RX Access U.S. Food & Drug Administration University of Georgia, Cooperative Extension Victorian Medical Supply WellStar Health System Women's Resource Center to End Domestic Violence
08.01.2007	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3162, the Children’s Health and Medicare Protection (“CHAMP”) Act, which will reauthorize the highly successful State Children’s Health Insurance Program and ensure thousands of children do not lose their health insurance coverage. “The CHAMP Act will ensure a greater number of our nation’s children, seniors and rural populations have access to quality health services,” said Scott. “Contrary to what the opposition claims, this bill is not an attempt by Democrats to move towards universal healthcare. The ultimate goal is to secure the health of our nation’s children and make certain those kids participating in Georgia’s Peachcare program are able to remain.” Created in 1997, SCHIP was intended to insure children whose families are low-income but not poor enough to qualify for Medicaid. This bill would reauthorize SCHIP by $50 billion over the next five years to a total of $75 billion and enable some 5 million kids to join the program. In addition to improving access to healthcare for children, this legislation also improves the Medicare program by stabilizing the flawed Medicare physician payment formula.“Surely, if the President can find billions to fund the war in Iraq, we in Congress can ensure funding for this proven and successful program,” said Scott. “We must also not forget that many of our nation’s soldiers serving overseas depend on this vital program for healthcare services for their families. I believe this is one of the most important healthcare issues being addressed on Capital Hill this year. Failing to invest in our children and health prevention early in life will only result in long term costs in the near future. I refuse to sit back and allow thousands of America’s children to lose this benefit." The House-passed bill must be approved by the Senate.
07.26.2007	Today, U.S. Representative David Scott (GA-13) announced that a federal award of $300,000 has been approved for the Henry County Consolidated Justice Technology Improvements project, which will develop and install a seamless, wireless, integrated criminal justice information system. The project was included in the bill funding the U.S. Departments of Commerce, Justice and Science for federal Fiscal Year 2008. “I am pleased to be able to provide Henry County with assistance in improving law enforcement communications,” Congressman Scott said. “This worthy project will eliminate repetitive tasks, and decrease the potential for error, while ensuring that information retrieved can be trusted and used as the basis for enforcement, incarceration, and timely apprehension of offenders.” The local criminal justice information system could be immediately connected to 17 jurisdictions through an existing intergovernmental information-sharing agreement, thereby promoting regional public safety. The House-passed bill must be approved by the Senate.
07.25.2007	Today, U.S. Representative David Scott (GA-13) announced that a federal award of $150,000 has been approved for the city of Riverdale’s Multi-Purpose Citizens Center in Clayton County. The project was included in the bill funding the U.S. Departments of Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, and other agencies for Fiscal Year 2008. “I am pleased to be able to provide Riverdale with assistance in improving services available to the county’s growing population,” Congressman Scott said. “This worthy project will provide a greater variety of much-needed community resources, including recreation facilities for youth.” The city of Riverdale will utilize the federal funds to provide recreation and after-school programs. Further, the facility will be used for hosting community-wide events. The House-passed bill must be approved by the Senate.
07.25.2007	Today, U.S. Representative David Scott (GA-13) announced that a federal award of $500,000 has been approved for the widening of a bridge on Lee Road over I-20 in Douglas County. The project was included in the bill funding the U.S. Departments of Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, and other agencies for Fiscal Year 2008. “I am pleased to be able to provide Douglas County with assistance in improving traffic flow on a congested route,” Congressman Scott said. “This worthy project will provide easier access around I-20 for many commuters and is a small, but significant step in alleviating metro Atlanta’s traffic woes.” According to the Georgia DOT, Lee Road will be widened to provide two 12-foot lanes in each direction divided by a 20-foot raised median with 16-foot shoulders that include curb and gutter and 5-foot sidewalks.The House-passed bill must be approved by the Senate.
07.19.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced the inclusion of $300,000 for Clayton State University’s development of an archival graduate program in the FY08 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. The House of Representatives passed the spending bill today. The funding secured for this initiative would be used to create a Master of Arts in Archive degree program at Clayton State University. The program will be designed to meet the needs of the state, region and nation for a new generation of archivists who have both the technological sophistication and the historical perspective essential for the collection and preservation of records that are so vital to our nation’s history. Furthermore, the program will include community outreach components that will help this exciting project be shared more broadly. “This project is an awesome opportunity to show the rest of the country the importance Georgia holds to our country’s national heritage,” stated Congressman Scott. “I am proud to have secured this funding for Clayton State University, which will help establish an archival graduate program for the citizens of Georgia and the nation. I applaud Clayton State University for their steadfast dedication in working to improve Georgia’s higher education system and choices.” The program would expand an existing partnership between three institutions – Clayton State University, a member of the University System of Georgia, the Georgia State Archives and the regional federal archives – which are all located in or near the Gateway Village Development in Morrow, Georgia. The geographic relationship between the institutions brings about opportunities for educational and community service programs that are unique in the nation. The appropriations bill now heads to the Senate for consideration.
06.25.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) praised members and supporters of the Chestnut Log Middle School Reading Team of Douglasville. The team won the Helen Ruffin Reading Bowl at the University of Georgia. Congressman Scott released the following statement: “I rise to honor a great accomplishment by students in my Congressional district. I offer my congratulations to members of the Chestnut Log Middle School Reading Team of Douglasville, GA, for winning the Helen Ruffin Reading Bowl. This competition was held at the University of Georgia in Athens on April 21, 2007. “Students read from a statewide book list and answered questions from the novels in order to earn points and win the contest. To be eligible for the State competition, Chestnut Log students first won the Douglas County Reading Bowl in February, then a regional competition at West Georgia University in Carrollton in March. In April, they became State champions. “I want to recognize the members and coaches of the Chestnut Log Middle School Reading Team. These individuals are Seth Blair, Isaac Carter, Zachary Fowler, Will Gay, Patrick Ray, and Caroline Wesson. Special recognition goes to coaches Jan Easterwood, Margaret Robbins, and Susan Bissell for their guidance of this team and devotion to fostering good reading habits among youth. “In closing, Madam Speaker, I want to commend these students for their great accomplishment. As an avid reader, I wish to persuade all of my constituents, no matter young or old, to read and to encourage reading within their communities.”
06.21.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced that applications for the 2007 Congressional Fall Page Program are available in his Washington and District offices. The U.S. House of Representatives offers an exciting opportunity for students to participate as Congressional Pages during their junior year of high school. This unique program gives participants the opportunity to meet students from around the U.S., attend special classes and seminars at the Page School, and serve the country's leaders while working in the House of Representatives. To be eligible for the fall program, applicants must: • be 16 years of age at the time of their appointment • have a "B" (3.0) average or better • be willing to serve as a Page for the fall semester in their junior year of high school Requirements for Application: • official transcript• parental consent form • 50-100 word essay on why you want to become a Democratic Page • resume of extra-curricular activities • 3 letters of recommendation After reviewing the application, transcript, and additional items, Congressman Scott will choose one to two candidates to recommend for the 2007 Fall Page program, and submit a letter of recommendation to the Speaker's office in Washington, D.C. The Speaker's office will not accept applications from students directly. Eligible students from the Thirteenth Congressional District who wish to be considered for a Page position must submit their completed application to Congressman Scott’s office for review and recommendation by Friday, July 6, 2007. For more information on housing, furnishings, compensation or other concerns, please visit /ConstituentServices/PageProgram.htm or call Amy Schultz in Congressman Scott’s D.C. Office at 202-225-2939.
06.14.2007	Today, The Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) of the 110th Congress issued the following statement regarding the case of Georgia resident, Mr. Genarlow Wilson. “We vigorously object to the miscarriage of justice in the case of Genarlow Wilson of Georgia. First, we believe that the initial sentence of 10 years was abusive and excessive. Second, the decision of the Georgia Attorney General to appeal the decision that would have resulted in the release of Mr. Wilson can only serve to perpetuate the injustice to Mr. Wilson. This case represents yet another tragic breakdown in the criminal justice system that, unfortunately, fails young African American males too often. It is unjust, unfair and un-American.” ###
06.11.2007	Today the House passed H.R. 2356, legislation authored by Congressman David Scott (D-GA) and honoring American fathers and Father's Day as an official occasion to display the U.S. flag. Scott took the floor urging his colleagues to support the measure and released the following statement: “The American flag is one of the greatest symbols of our country. It is the representation of our freedom, values and heritage as a nation," Scott said. "As Americans, our flag code instructs us to fly the flag everyday but especially on a number of significant federal, religious and cultural holidays. “For many years, this list of occasions has included Veteran’s Day, President’s Day, Columbus Day and Mother’s Day. In recent years, this list was amended to include Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s observed birthday, honoring his outstanding contributions to advance civil rights for African-Americans and others in this country. “Yet, our flag code still does not include Father’s Day, the third Sunday in June, among important holidays on which to fly the American flag. Fathers play a vital role in the lives of children, especially by improving children’s self-awareness, decision-making skills and socioeconomic potential. Schools across this country are developing innovative programs to reach out to parents and particularly involve fathers. In my District, the Clayton County DADS organization places fathers in middle schools to serve as mentors and tutors for students and to help maintain order as hallway and classroom monitors. “I am honored to know these fathers are making the ultimate difference in our communities and my District. It is time this body officially recognizes the importance of American fathers by passing this important legislation today, and I am very pleased the House overwhelmingly supports H.R. 2356.” H.R. 2356 would amend the United States flag code to encourage the display of the American flag on Father’s Day. The bill now heads to the Senate for action.
05.25.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) issued the following statement in honor of Memorial Day: “Each year on Memorial Day, we honor valiant American soldiers who sacrificed their lives on behalf of our country. We also proudly salute both veterans of our armed forces and the brave and courageous soldiers currently serving in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world. Let us all keep our soldiers and their families in our thoughts and prayers. “On the battlefield, the Army pledges to leave no soldier behind. Let us, as a nation, pledge to leave no soldier behind when they return home. Georgia is home to more than 757,000 veterans. We must honor their service and sacrifice by strengthening our military, supporting troops and their families, and improving veterans’ healthcare services to keep up with our returning forces. Congress is moving to keep our promises to those veterans and soldiers still with us by addressing our military readiness crisis and voting to provide the largest increase in veterans’ health care in our nation’s history. “I am especially proud to announce that today I was notified by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that it plans to open a new community-based clinic in Stockbridge, which will enhance access to VA health care for veterans of Georgia. The clinic was among 38 approved in 22 states by VA Secretary James Nicholson. The new facilities, called community-based outpatient clinics will become operational in 2007 and 2008. This clinic will bring the VA’s much-needed care closer to veterans in my district.”
05.15.2007	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the John R. Justice Prosecutors and Defenders Act of 2007 (H.R. 916), which is authored by Congressman Scott, by a 341-73 vote. “A serious situation is emerging impacting public safety, justice, fairness and the integrity of the criminal justice system, as a severe shortage of qualified prosecutors and public defenders looms large over our entire nation,” Congressman Scott said. “In Georgia and throughout the country, the recruitment and retention of public prosecutors and defenders has been a daunting task in recent years. This is largely because crushing student debt burdens have deterred many talented law graduates from pursuing public service careers.” The bipartisan John R. Justice Prosecutors and Defenders Act of 2007 would benefit our criminal justice system and our communities by creating a student loan repayment program for law school graduates who commit to serve for at least three years as criminal prosecutors or public defenders. The bill was introduced on the Senate side by Senator Richard Durbin, cosponsors include: Senators Arlen Specter, Patrick Leahy, Gordon Smith, John Kerry and Susan Collins. “Our communities suffer when the criminal justice system lacks a sufficient supply of experienced prosecutors and defenders,” Scott added. “Criminal caseloads become unmanageable, cases can be delayed or mishandled, serious crimes may go unprosecuted, and innocent defendants may be sent to jail while guilty criminals go free. This bill will bolster the ranks of talented attorneys in the criminal justice system and help that system function more effectively.” H.R. 916: Establishes a program of student loan repayment for borrowers who agree to remain employed, for at least three years, as State or local criminal prosecutors or as State, local or Federal public defenders in criminal cases; Allows eligible attorneys to receive student loan debt repayments of up to $10,000 per year, with a maximum aggregate over time of $60,000; Covers student loans made, insured or guaranteed under the Higher Education Act of 1965, including consolidation loans; Permits attorneys to enter into additional loan repayment agreements, after the required three-year period, for additional periods of service; Requires attorneys to repay the government if they do not complete their required period of service; and Authorizes $25 million per year through FY 2013 after which the program would sunset unless re-authorized. This legislation is supported by the American Bar Association, the National District Attorneys Association, the National Association of Prosecutor Coordinators, the National Legal Aid and Defender Association, and the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers.
05.15.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) voted with a bipartisan majority in the House to pass the COPS Reauthorization Act (H.R. 1700). The measure authorizes $600 million a year for COPS hiring grants, $350 million a year for COPS technology grants, and $200 million a year for hiring community prosecutors. “I am proud to support HR 1700, which will restore the tremendously successful COPS program and provide funding to place nearly 1,050 additional police officers on the beat in Georgia,” Congressman Scott said. “With crime on the rise in communities from South Fulton to Cobb and Clayton counties, restoring the COPS Hiring Program is needed more than ever in my district. I heard all too often during my recent town hall meetings of neighborhoods plagued by increases in violent crimes. That is why I strongly support this bill to give our local law enforcement the tools they need to fight crime and make our communities safer.” Created in 1994 during the Clinton Administration, the COPS hiring grants program helped local law enforcement agencies hire 117,000 additional police officers around the country and contributed to a sharp drop in crime rates from 1995 to 2005. In Georgia, COPS grants totaling $170,884,525 supported the hiring of more than 2,400 officers. However, crime rates began rising again in recent years at the same time the Republican-led Congress reduced and later eliminated funding for COPS grants. H.R. 1700 reinvigorates the COPS program with funding to hire officers to engage in community policing, serve as School Resource Officers, or engage in counter-terrorism duties. Additionally, COPS technology grants will allow police agencies to purchase crime mapping software, laptops for patrol cars, and interoperable communications equipment. This legislation is supported by several law enforcement organizations including the Fraternal Order of Police, National Association of Police Organizations and the National Sheriffs’ Association. H.R. 1700 passed the House today by a 381–34 vote.
05.11.2007	Congressman David Scott is proud to host his Third Annual Thirteenth Congressional District Jobs Fair on Friday, May 11, 2007 - 10 am to 4pm. The fair will bring together Georgia's top employers from the public and private sector and take place at the Georgia International Convention Center in College Park. Congressman Scott welcomed over 200 employers and 9,000 job seekers from metro Atlanta and beyond to the Second Annual 13th Congressional District Jobs Fair held last year.“I am very proud to host my Third Annual Thirteenth Congressional District Jobs Fair, a growing annual event that has made a significant impact on our community,” Congressman Scott said. “Last year with the hiring of over a thousand job seekers from our jobs fair, we were able to assist many able and willing workers by helping them make direct contact with leading area businesses that are growing and looking to hire. We will continue to work hard to build on our success by partnering our constituents in need of new job opportunities with companies ready to hire.”Job seekers should remember to dress for success and bring copies of their resume for on the spot interview opportunities. MARTA will provide shuttles from their College Park Rail Station to the Jobs Fair from 9:30am - 4:30pm every half-hour. Parking is $1 for attendees. CONFIRMED EMPLOYERS: Aalgena Skin. Health Care center AETC, Inc. Affiliated Insurance Group Aflac AIG/ American General AirTran Airways All IN One Security Ambassador American Red Cross Amerigroup Community Care Ameriplan USA Aramark Aviation Services ASA Delta Connection AT&T/ Bellsouth Atlanta Airlines Terminal Corp Atlanta Job CorpsAtlanta Journal-Constitution Atlanta Police Department Atlanta Technical College ATZ Travel Avis Rent a Car AVON Bankers Fidelity Insurance Blue Water Security Brian Center Nursing Cares - Austell Career Resource Center Chart Industries, Inc. Cherokee County Sheriff's Office City of Smyrna City of Atlanta Workforce Development City of College Park City of College Park Power City of Columbus City of Douglasville City of Forest Park City of Hapeville Clark Atlanta University Clayton County Government Clayton County Transportation Department Clayton County Water Authority Clayton State University Cobb County Board of Education Cobb County Department of Public Safety Cobb County Fire Department Cobb County Government Cobb County Police Department Cobb Works College Park Police Department Columbus Center Columbus Police Department Comcast Cable Concessions/Paschals, J.V. Cox Radio - WSB-AM, WSB-FM, WBTS-FM, WSRV-FM, WALR-AM CSX Transportation D.R. Horton Home Builders - Construction D.R. Horton Home Builders - Sales DeKalb County Sheriff's Department Delta Airlines Delta Credit Union DeVry University Diversity Recruiters, LLC Douglas County Government Douglasville Police Department Dreamsan, Inc. Drug Enforcement Administration Employment Seeker Enterprise Rent-A-Car Envision Marketing Systems, LLC Exel Logistics Fayette County Dept. of Transportation Fayette County Government Fayette County Police Department Fayette County School System Fed Ex Ground Federal Aviation Administration Federal Bureau of Investigations Federal Bureau of Prisons First Transit Food and Drug Administration Fulton County Workforce Development Fulton County Sheriff's Department G C Services, LP GAT Airline Ground Support Gate Gourmet Georgia Air National Guard Georgia Army National Guard Georgia Community Support and Solutions Georgia Department of Human Resources Georgia Dept. of Corrections Georgia Dept. of Labor Vocational Rehab Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Medical Institute Georgia Military College Georgia Power Georgia State University Globalserv Goodwill Industries Grady Health System Greystone Power Corp Griffin Technical College Griffin-Spaulding Board of Education Gwinnett County Dept. of Corrections Gwinnett County Fire Department Gwinnett County Police Department Gwinnett County Sheriff's Department Hands on Atlanta Harbor Management Hartsfield Area TMA Hartsfield- Jackson Atlanta International Airport Healthcare Staffing Hennessy Mazda Pontiac Buick GMC Henry County Board of Education Henry County Fire Department Henry County Government Henry Medical Center Hertz Rent-A-Car Highly Favored Ministries Home Depot Imperial Health care Interactive College of Technology Internal Revenue Service Jpacker Systems Kindred Hospital Kool Smiles Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Loomis Lowe's Companies, Inc. Mack II, Inc. Mahogany Interiors Maristaff Inc. MARTA MBC Concessions Melaleuca Modern Woodsman Morehouse School of Medicine National Youth Apprenticeship - IBEW Optimum Staffing Services Partnership for Prescription Assistance Personal Touch Tours Travel Agency PNC Bank Practice Works Prepaid Legal Services Primerica Financial Services ProCore Solutions Professional Career Development Prologistix Prudential GA Realty Public Broadcasting Atlanta Revelation Consulting Riverdale Police Department Robertson Sanitation Rockdale County Public Schools Rockport Realty Roswell Nursing and Rehab Center RSG, Inc. Saint Joseph's Hospital of Atlanta SBDC Clayton State University Securitas Security Services Self Image Success Shorter College Small Business Administration Snelling Staffing Services Social Security Administration Southern Regional Health System Southside Seafood Spherion Staffing Staffing Priorities State Broadcasting Corp. - WQZY-FM,WMCG-FM,WQIL-FM,WDBN-FM,WMLT-AM Sterling Investments Strayer University SunTrust Bank Talent Tree Crystal Inc Talent Unlimited The Tensar Corporations, LLC TOTO USA, Inc. U.S. Air Force Reserves United Home & Life United Sates Navy United States Border Patrol United States Postal Service United Way University of Phoenix UPS USA Pools, Inc. Waffle House, Inc. WAGA-TV Fox , WBRC-TV Fox Wal-Mart Warm Spirit WCNN-AM Dickey Broadcasting Company Wellness Resources Wellstar Health Systems Wilson's Leather WMAZ - TV Work Tec World Financial Group WPXA-TV/ ION Media Networks WSB-TV WUPA-TV Y.T.B. Travel Zoo Atlanta
04.24.2007	Reps. David Scott (D-GA), Barney Frank (D-MA) and Gwen Moore (D-WI) introduced legislation today to force the Bush Administration to work together to help other countries dismantle terrorist financing networks and keep Americans safe. The Counter-Terrorism Financing Coordination Act, (H.R. 1993) will direct the Bush Administration to resolve turf wars and end bureaucratic infighting that have compromised the effectiveness of the U.S. government's efforts to assist other countries in the war on terrorism. Specifically, the bill will require the Secretaries of State and Treasury to adopt recommendations of the Government Accountability Office (GAO) delineating the role of each agency in the delivery of counter-terrorism financing training and technical assistance to countries abroad. The Bush administration has been ignoring the problem for years, and has failed to resolve it after a GAO report released in 2005 discovered that these agencies lacked an integrated strategy to coordinate training and technical assistance efforts. The GAO also reported that the two key agencies involved in these efforts, Treasury and State, cannot even agree with each other on their respective roles. “Terrorists organizations continue to plot attacks against the United States. Their activities are funded through a world wide finance network. We need to be aggressive in shutting down terrorism funding sources. We can do this with better coordination and communication between financial regulators,” said Rep. Scott. “This important measure will help cut through bureaucracies to focus the efforts to cut off these funding streams and track down terrorist financiers.”“We can stop terrorist organizations in their tracks by cutting off the financial networks that fund their activities,” said Rep. Moore. “This mission is far too important to allow the possibility that bureaucratic infighting may cause us to miss any potential opportunity to safeguard American lives. It is critical that we utilize every tool we have available and the Counter-Terrorist Financing Coordination Act will help ensure that federal agencies work together as seamlessly as possible.”The "Counter-Terrorism Financing Coordination Act" will call for State and Treasury to enter into a Memorandum of Agreement that requires: • A specific designation of each agency's leadership and role in the delivery of counterterrorism training and technical assistance; • A dispute resolution methodology with specific and reasonable timeframes for resolving interagency disagreements; • The coordination of funding and resources for counterterrorism financing and anti-money laundering training and technical assistance, including the means for providing a transparent assessment of resources and a method for aligning those resources with the needs of vulnerable countries; • Procedures for determining the appropriateness of the use of contractors and a system for evaluating their performance; and, • A process to measure the performance and results of counterterrorism training and technical assistance. In addition, the bill makes Treasury more accountable to Congress by requiring more complete information on the nature and extent of how the agency tracks and blocks terrorist assets and provide performance measurements in an annual report to Congress. Click here for bill text of H.R. 1993 "The Counter-Terrorism Financing Coordination Act."
04.05.2007	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) will convene two Town Hall Meetings on Saturday, April 14, 2007 to hear directly from constituents of the Thirteenth Congressional District. Residents from throughout the district are invited to attend the meetings at Pointe South Middle and Lovejoy High Schools. During the Town Hall Meetings, Congressman Scott looks forward to listening to concerns on national issues like the economy, healthcare, education, national security, and War in Iraq. Congressman Scott will also share information about youth scholarship opportunities and his upcoming Job Fair on May 11th and Health Fair, August 18th. 13th District Town Hall MeetingsSaturday, April 14, 2007 Pointe South Middle School626 Flint River Road, Jonesboro, GA 3023810:00am - 12:00pm Lovejoy High School1587 McDonough Road, Hampton, GA 302282:00 pm - 4:00pm
03.29.2007	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) will host two Town Hall Meetings in South DeKalb and Clayton County to hear directly from constituents of Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District. Residents from throughout the district are invited to attend the meetings at Cedar Grove and Morrow High schools. During the Town Hall Meetings, Congressman Scott looks forward to listening to concerns on national issues like the economy, healthcare, education, national security, and War in Iraq. Congressman Scott will also share how he has been working in Congress to make progress on these and other important issues. 13th Congressional District Town Hall Meetings Saturday, March 31, 2007 - Cedar Grove High School 2360 River Road, Ellenwood, GA 30294 10:00am - 12:00pm Saturday, March 10, 2007 - Morrow High School 2299 Old Rex Morrow Road, Morrow, GA 30260 2:00 pm - 4:00pm For more information, please contact the Office of Congressman David Scott at 770-210-5073.
03.29.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced that applications for the 2007 Congressional Summer Page Program are available in his Washington and District offices. The U.S. House of Representatives offers an exciting opportunity for students to participate as Congressional Pages during their junior year of high school. This unique program gives participants the opportunity to meet students from around the U.S., attend special classes and seminars at the Page School, and serve the country's leaders while working in the House of Representatives. To be eligible for the summer program, applicants must: • be 16 years of age at the time of their appointment • have a "B" (3.0) average or better • be willing to serve as a Page for one month during the summer before or after their junior year of high school Requirements for Application:• official transcript• parental consent form • 50-100 word essay on why you want to become a Democratic Page • resume of extra-curricular activities • 3 letters of recommendation After reviewing the application, transcript, and additional items, Congressman Scott will choose one to two candidates to recommend for the 2007 Summer Page program, and submit a letter of recommendation to the Speaker's office in Washington, D.C. The Speaker's office will not accept applications from students directly. Eligible students from the Thirteenth Congressional District who wish to be considered for a Page position must submit their completed application to Congressman Scott’s office for review and recommendation by Monday, April 9, 2007. For more information on housing, furnishings, compensation or other concerns, please visit /ConstituentServices/PageProgram.htm or call Amy Schultz in Congressman Scott’s D.C. Office at 202-225-2939.
03.27.2007	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced today that applications for the 2007 Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Spouses Education Scholarship are available in his District offices and online at www.cbcfinc.org. “I am pleased to announce the availability of scholarships for deserving 13th District students through the CBC Spouses Education Fund,” said Congressman Scott. “This scholarship presents a wonderful opportunity to expand educational resources available for a new generation of leaders from our community.” The scholarship is offered to students in the 13th Congressional District, which includes portions of 6 counties: Cobb, Clayton, Douglas, Fulton, DeKalb, and Henry. The scholarship program is based on the following criteria: a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.5 a resident of Georgia’s 13th Congressional District an official transcript copy undergraduate/ graduate school letter of acceptance two letters of recommendation personal statement essay community involvement All completed applications must be delivered or postmarked for delivery to Congressman Scott’s District Office on Tuesday, May 1, 2007. The CBC Spouses Education Scholarship Fund was established in 1988 in response to federal cuts in spending for education programs and scholarships. This program provides tuition assistance to enable students to fulfill their higher education goals.
03.26.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced that he awarded $37,000 in scholarships to the top winners of the 13th District’s Fifth Annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Congressman Scott honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special reception on Saturday at the Arts Clayton Gallery in Jonesboro. “This year’s competition was just extraordinary. The art and talent that was on display was extraordinary and having families here with each student speaks volumes and makes my heart swell,” said Congressman Scott. “Our art competition presents a wonderful opportunity for our community to celebrate the talents of gifted young artists who endeavor to succeed with focus and self-discipline. I am so proud to honor our top winners for their exceptional artistic achievements with scholarships, and I encourage all of this year’s participating student artists of the competition to continue to set high goals for themselves.” The Savannah College of Art and Design awarded a $20,000 scholarship ($5,000/year) to the first place winner. The Art Institute of Atlanta also presented the first place winner with a $10,000 scholarship; second place, a $5,000 scholarship; and third place, a $2,000 scholarship. This year’s top winners include: 1st – “Melting Pot” by Allison Jarek, Alexander High School 2nd – “Untitled” by Nuri Durr, Mt. Zion High School 3rd – “Protested” by Jasmine Simmons, Lovejoy High School Honorable Mention – “Broken Wings” by Daisy Johnson, Mt. Zion High School The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. To date hundreds of thousands of high school students from around the nation have been able to participate at the local level. This year’s first-place winner Allison Jarek will be invited to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C. on Thursday, June 28, 2007 where her winning piece “Melting Pot” will be on display in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol along with other winning entries from around the country. Students interested in participating in next year’s competition should contact Audra Braswell at 770-210-5073.
03.23.2007	U.S. Representative David Scott invites you to join him at a reception to honor all participating high school students of his Fifth Annual Congressional Art Competition. The reception will take place on Saturday, March 24, 2007 at the Arts Clayton Gallery in Jonesboro. Residents from throughout the District are invited to support area students by attending the reception and viewing the breathtaking exhibit of all entries submitted for this year’s competition. Participating high schools this year include North Clayton, Lovejoy, Mundy's Mill, Lithia Springs, Douglas County, South Atlanta, New Creation Center, Alexander, Mt. Zion, Cedar Grove and Creekside. The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. To date hundreds of thousands of high school students from around the nation have been able to participate at the local level. During this year’s reception, Congressman Scott will announce scholarships to the Art Institute of Atlanta and the Savannah College of Art and Design for the top 3 student winners. The Art Institute of Atlanta will present the first prize winner with a $10,000 scholarship, the second prize--a $5,000 scholarship, and the third prize--a $2,000 scholarship. The Savannah College of Art and Design will offer a $3,000 scholarship, renewable for up to three years for first prize. This year’s first-place winner will also be invited to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C. What: 5th Annual Congressional Art Competition When: Saturday, March 24, 2007 11:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Where: Arts Clayton Gallery 136 North Main Street, Jonesboro, GA 30236
03.20.2007	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) has become the new vice-chairman of a prestigious congressional subcommittee with responsibility for overseeing U.S. policy on nuclear arms reduction, trade and terrorism. Chairman Tom Lantos of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs today named Scott to this key leadership post on the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. "I am delighted that David Scott has stepped forward to take a leading role in this subcommittee," Chairman Lantos said. "He is the right man to handle such a range of vital issues, and we welcome his very active participation on the Foreign Affairs Committee." "I am very pleased to have been appointed the Vice Chair of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, especially at this very critical time in light of the current crises in Iraq, the Middle East, North Korea and Africa," Congressman Scott said. "I look forward to working with Chairman Tom Lantos and Subcommittee Chairman Brad Sherman to chart a new direction for American foreign policy that will keep our nation safe and secure and restore America's credibility and standing on the international stage." Congressman David Scott represents Georgia's 13th Congressional District, covering parts of Clayton, Cobb, Douglas, Fulton, DeKalb and Henry Counties. Congressman Scott is the Co-Chairman of the Democratic Study Group on National Security; providing leadership in fighting terrorism and maintaining a strong national security and military. He received his BA degree with honors from Florida A&M University and his MBA degree with honors from the Wharton School of Finance at the University of Pennsylvania.
03.12.2007	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) will host two Town Hall Meetings in Henry County and South Fulton County on Saturday, March 17, 2007 to hear directly from constituents of Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District. Residents from throughout the district are invited to attend the meetings, especially constituents from Stockbridge, Ellenwood, and Palmetto. During the Town Hall Meeting, Congressman Scott looks forward to listening to concerns on national issues like the economy, healthcare, education, national security, and War in Iraq. Congressman Scott will also share how he has been working in Congress to make progress on these and other important issues. 13th Congressional District Town Hall Meetings Saturday, March 17, 2007 Fairview Elementary School 458 Fairview Road, Stockbridge, GA 30281 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Palmetto Elementary School 505 Carlton Road, Palmetto, GA 30268 2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. For more information, please contact the Office of Congressman David Scott at 770-210-5073.
03.05.2007	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) will host two Town Hall Meetings in Cobb County to hear directly from constituents of Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District. Residents from throughout the district are invited to attend the meetings at Clarkdale Elementary and R.L. Osborne High schools. During the Town Hall Meetings, Congressman Scott looks forward to listening to concerns on national issues like the economy, healthcare, education, national security, and War in Iraq. Congressman Scott will also share how he has been working in Congress to make progress on these and other important issues. 13th Congressional District Town Hall Meetings Saturday, March 10, 2007 - Clarkdale Elementary School 4455 Wesley Drive, Austell, GA 30106 10:00am - 12:00pm Saturday, March 10, 2007 - R.L. Osborne High School 2451 Favor Road, Marietta, GA 30060 2:00 pm - 4:00pm For more information, please contact the Office of Congressman David Scott at 770-210-5073.
02.26.2007	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) visited with several wounded American soldiers, including Sgt. First Class Raleigh Heekin of Littleton, Colorado (pictured below), at the Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Landstuhl, Germany near the Ramstein Air Base. Congressman Scott told the wounded soldiers, “I feel very honored and privileged to be here with each of you to personally say thank you and to express our heartfelt appreciation from a very, very grateful nation.” Sgt. Heekin said he appreciated Congressman Scott’s visit and shared how he was wounded. Heekin said, “I was hit on February 22nd fighting in Ramadi. We were ambushed and hit by an IED and a rocket. Fighting was intense. My medic and driver were killed. I was hit in my leg and back, but I was able to help several of my buddies to safety.” Sgt. Heekin will be honored and awarded the Purple Heart for his heroic efforts. Congressman Scott said, “The courage and dedication of our American soldiers in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are absolutely extraordinary. We deeply appreciate their courage in the face of this intense and fierce fighting.” Congressman Scott stopped in Germany overnight to visit the wounded soldiers on the way home from his NATO trip, which included meetings in Brussels, Belgium, Paris, France, and Rome, Italy.
02.23.2007	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) will host two Town Hall Meetings in South Fulton on Saturday, March 3, 2007 to hear directly from constituents of Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District. Residents from throughout the district are invited to attend the meetings at the Cliftondale Community House and Nolan Elementary Schools, especially constituents from College Park. During the Town Hall Meeting, Congressman Scott looks forward to listening to concerns on national issues like the economy, healthcare, education, national security, and War in Iraq. Congressman Scott will also share how he has been working in Congress to make progress on these and other important issues. 13th Congressional District Town Hall Meetings Saturday, March 3, 2007 Cliftondale Community House 4645 Butner Road, College Park, GA 30349 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Love T. Nolan Elementary School 2725 Creel Road, College Park, GA 30349 2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. For more information, please contact the Office of Congressman David Scott at 770-210-5073.
02.19.2007	Congressman David Scott (D-GA), a voting member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, is traveling to Brussels, Belgium, Paris, France and Rome, Italy for meetings with senior NATO officials, February 17-25. Scott will also visit wounded soldiers at Ramstein Air Base Hospital in Germany; soldiers who were wounded fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. “With fierce fighting expected in Afghanistan in just a few weeks and with pressure growing on NATO allies to provide more troops to fight the Taliban and al Qaeda, this is indeed a very critical time for NATO,” Congressman Scott said. “It is also very important for the United States to increase our dialogue with other nations,” Congressman Scott continued. “And it is particularly critical for us to move aggressively to build stronger partnerships and a more positive image with other nations, especially in Europe and the Middle East, as we work to bring peace to Iraq and ease tensions with Iran.” Scott added, “I am especially anxious to visit our wounded soldiers and let them know how proud we are of them and how grateful we are as a nation for their service and sacrifice.” This is the second time Congressman Scott has traveled to the hospital in Germany to visit wounded soldiers. Congressman Scott will return from his trip abroad on Monday, February 26. In addition to his position with the NATO Parliament, Congressman Scott is a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chair of the Democratic Study Group on National Security.
02.13.2007	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) released the following statement today on the passing of Congressman Charlie Norwood: "I am very sad to hear the news that Congressman Charlie Norwood has passed away. He was a gracious and dedicated servant committed to fighting for his beliefs and the people of Georgia. "I was privileged to have known and worked closely with Congressman Norwood on many issues, including our recent bipartisan efforts to protect PeachCare coverage for thousands of Georgia’s children. "Today Georgia lost one of its greatest citizens with the passing of Congressman Charlie Norwood. My thoughts and prayers are with the Norwood family at this difficult time."
02.09.2007	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) will host two Town Hall Meetings in Mableton and Douglasville on Saturday, February 10, 2007 to hear directly from constituents of Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District. Residents from throughout the district are invited to attend the meetings, especially constituents from Cobb County’s Mableton community and Douglas County. During the Town Hall Meeting, Congressman Scott looks forward to listening to concerns on national issues like the economy, healthcare, education, national security, and War in Iraq. Congressman Scott will also share how he has been working in Congress to make progress on these and other important issues. 13th Congressional District Town Hall Meetings Saturday, February 10, 2007 Riverside Elementary School 285 South Gordon Road, Mableton, GA 30126 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Citizens Hall - Douglas County Courthouse 8700 Hospital Drive, Douglasville, GA 30134 2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. For more information, please contact the Office of Congressman David Scott at 770-432-5405.
01.31.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced his committee assignments for the 110th session of Congress. Congressman Scott will serve on the following House Committees and Subcommittees: Agriculture Committee - Subcommittee on Conservation, Credit, Energy and Research - Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Financial Services Committee - Capital Markets Subcommittee - Financial Institutions Subcommittee Foreign Affairs Committee - Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia - Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade “I am honored to have been appointed to serve on each of these distinguished committees at this critical time,” said Congressman Scott. In addition, Congressman Scott will serve as a regional whip and was recently appointed to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly as a voting member by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Congressman Scott will travel to Belgium, France and Italy February 17 -25, 2007 to participate in the 2007 opening session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly.
01.29.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) was appointed to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly as a voting member by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Congressman Scott, who was recently appointed to the influential Committee on Foreign Affairs, will travel to Brussels, Belgium on February 17 to participate in the 2007 opening session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. “This is a very crucial and challenging time for NATO,” said Congressman Scott. “30,000 NATO troops along with U.S. forces are leading the fight against Al-Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan.” Scott continued, “I am very appreciative for this appointment to represent the United States as a voting member of the NATO Parliament. I look forward to working with our allies in Europe and the Middle East as we face very difficult and complex issues.” Congressman Scott will travel to Belgium, France and Italy for the NATO meeting February 17 -25, 2007.
01.29.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced his sponsorship of the 5th Annual High School Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery, for Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District. High school students are invited to submit art work for the competition. “I am excited to once again launch the annual Congressional Art Competition,” said Congressman Scott. “This competition presents a great opportunity for our community to celebrate the talents of gifted young artists as well as the tireless work of parents and teachers who support their creative endeavors.”The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. To date hundreds of thousands of high school students from around the nation have been able to participate at the local level. This year’s first-place winner will be invited to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C. where their artwork will hang in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol for one year. Students may obtain entry packets from their High School Art Teachers. All entries must be delivered to Congressman Scott’s Jonesboro District Office located at 173 North Main Street no later than 5:30 pm on Tuesday, February 20, 2007.Scholarships to the Art Institute of Atlanta or the Savannah College of Art and Design will be offered to this year’s top three winners. Last year, the Art Institute of Atlanta presented the first prize winner with a $10,000 scholarship, the second prize--a $5000 scholarship, and the third prize--a $2000 scholarship. The Savannah College of Art and Design offered a $3,000 scholarship renewable for up to four years for first prize. For more information about the Congressional Art Competition, including competition guidelines, please contact Audra Braswell at 770-210-5073.
01.20.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced the nomination of 9 area students to the nation’s four Military Academies. Congressman Scott honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special reception in his Jonesboro District Office.“I am very proud of these young men and women,” said Congressman Scott. “Appointment to a military academy demands exceptional academic achievement, character and leadership. Without question, each of these students possesses these qualities.”“These students are outstanding young Americans who proudly reflect the 13th Congressional District’s commitment to education and service. I am confident that they will go on to honorably serve our nation as military academy graduates and leaders in the Armed Forces.”Congressman Scott announced the following primary nominations:United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, COStephan Atrice, Fairburn resident, U.S. Air Force Prep AcademyBrandon Strickland, Jonesboro resident, Southwest DeKalb High SchoolUnited States Military Academy at West Point, NYAmy Patel, Tucker resident, Meadowcreek High SchoolTorri Preston, Conyers resident, Rockdale County High SchoolJoanna Rasmussen, Conyers resident, Kamal Wheeler, Ellenwood resident, Stockbridge High SchoolMicah Youngblood, Riverdale resident, Faith Academy Home SchoolUnited States Naval Academy at Annapolis, MDJames Phillips, Covington resident, New Creation Home School CenterRashad Saxon, Riverdale resident, Riverdale High School graduateIn December, Congressman Scott directed a nonpartisan Military Academy Board made up of five educators, military personnel, and academy graduates who reside in the district to interview an extremely qualified group of 13th District applicants. Students entering the academies this fall will graduate in 2011. To be considered for an academy appointment, an applicant must first be nominated. U.S. Senators and Members of the U.S. House of Representatives may nominate applicants who meet the following eligibility requirements: 17 years of age, but not have passed his or her 23rd birthday, he or she must be a U.S. citizen, and the applicant must be unmarried, not pregnant, and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. Students interested in applying for the Class of 2012 should contact Congressman Scott's Military Academy Coordinator David Johnson at 770-210-5073.
01.19.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced the opening of a new Thirteenth Congressional District Office in Smyrna, closer to new constituents in Douglas and Cobb counties. The public is invited to attend the open house and meet Congressman Scott on Monday, January 22, from 11:30 am to 1:30 pm. “I want to personally invite all constituents of the Thirteenth District to come by to visit our new District Office and meet our staff,” Congressman Scott said. “Our new office joins with our other District Office in Jonesboro to better serve our constituents throughout the 13thDistrict, which now includes Cobb, Douglas, Clayton, Fulton, Henry, and DeKalb counties.”The new office is located at 888 Concord Road in Smyrna near South Cobb Drive in the Regions Bank Building. For directions or more information, please contact the staff in the Smyrna Office at 770-432-5405 or in the Jonesboro Office at 770-210-5073. WHAT: Congressional District Open House WHEN: Monday, January 22, 2007 11:30 am to 1:30 pm WHERE: 888 Concord Road, Suite 100 Smyrna, GA 30080
01.17.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) released the following statement on the pending House vote on the College Student Relief Act of 2007 (H.R. 5): “Today Democrats are continuing to keep our promise to address vital issues in the first 100 hours of the new 110th Congress,” said Congressman Scott. “Making college more affordable is particularly important when costs of attending college continue to climb at alarming rates.”“In addition to rising interest rates on student loans, tuition has increased by 41% at public universities and by 17% at private universities since 2001 at the same time that Republicans cut $12 billion from college student aid and froze Pell grants for higher education.”“Cutting the interest rates on student loans in half is the kind of tax cut that helps those who are most in need, millions of American students and their families, without increasing our national debt. In Georgia, there are nearly 84,000 four-year college students with subsidized student loans who all would benefit from this bill.”H.R. 5 will amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to reduce interest rates for undergraduate student borrowers under the Federal Family Education Loan and Direct Loan programs from 6.8% to 3.4%. The bill will be fully paid for by making modest reductions in certain lender and guaranty agency subsidies in order to make the student loan program more efficient and effective for students and American taxpayers.“I believe this bill will also significantly strengthen our economy whose health depends on having a highly-skilled and well-educated workforce. Making college more affordable and accessible is key to keeping our economy strong in the face of increasing global competition.”H.R. 5 will be brought up for a vote on the House Floor later today. Congressman Scott was an original cosponsor when the bipartisan bill was introduced last week.
01.12.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) released the following statement on being named to the influential Committee on Foreign Affairs: “I am very pleased to have been appointed to serve on the prestigious Committee on Foreign Affairs, especially at this very critical time in light of the current crises in Iraq, the Middle East, North Korea and Africa. It is important that America regain its good standing in the world, and is once again viewed as a strong and caring leader on the international stage.”“I will work hard with Chairman Tom Lantos (D-CA) and my colleagues on the committee to return U.S. foreign policy to a strong position, building alliances and improving relationships with other nations. And I will provide strong congressional oversight, as we chart a new direction for American foreign policy that will keep our nation safe and secure.” “The people of Georgia’s 13th Congressional District, and the nation as a whole, are very concerned about America’s position in the world. As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs I will be able to directly address their concerns and restore credibility to U.S. foreign policy.”Congressman David Scott represents Georgia’s 13th Congressional District, covering parts of Clayton, Cobb, Douglas, Fulton, DeKalb and Henry Counties. Rep. Scott is also a member of the Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Agriculture.
01.12.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) released the following statement regarding his vote for H.R. 4, the Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act of 2007, which passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 255-170:“Our nation is in the midst of a healthcare crisis with more than 47 million uninsured Americans and millions more who are underinsured,” Congressman Scott said. “I’ve heard from many of my constituents pleading for more affordable prescription drug prices. By requiring the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate with prescription drug providers for lower prices, this legislation will deliver help to millions of seniors and individuals with disabilities.”H.R. 4 would require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate with Medicare prescription drug providers to gain better purchasing power for beneficiaries. With nearly 23 million Medicare Part D beneficiaries, H.R. 4 would grant Secretary Leavitt considerable leverage in bargaining for lower prices by purchasing drugs in bulk.
01.11.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) released the following statement on the pending House vote on the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007 (H.R. 3), which is cosponsored by Congressman Scott: “I am proud to join with Members of Congress, from both sides of the aisle, to put patients first by supporting this bill,” Congressman Scott said. “I have heard overwhelming support for expanding stem cell research from constituents throughout my district. The discovery of the potential power human stem cells hold has opened the door to the possibility of treatments and cures for many different diseases and debilitating injuries, including diabetes, Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s, multiple sclerosis and cancer.” H.R. 3 will increase the number of embryonic stem lines eligible to be used for federally-funded research. The bill only authorizes the use of stem cell lines generated from embryos that otherwise would be discarded by fertility clinics, adhering to strict ethical guidelines. “I believe this bill will significantly advance groundbreaking research and give hope to millions of American families affected by debilitating diseases.” H.R. 3 will be brought up for a vote on the House Floor later today. Congressman Scott was an original cosponsor when the bill was introduced last week.
01.10.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) released the following statement on the pending House vote on the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 (H.R. 2), which is cosponsored by Congressman Scott: “It is long overdue for Congress to take action on raising the minimum wage,” Congressman Scott said. “In Georgia and throughout the country, millions of hard-working American families are struggling to meet rising health insurance, gas, home heating, and college tuition costs while the minimum wage hasn’t been increased in nine years, the longest period since its creation in 1938.” “Raising the minimum wage will put money in the hands of people who need it and help create a stronger middle class in America. In Georgia, nearly 526,000 workers and their families will benefit from a minimum wage increase.” H.R. 2 will increase the minimum wage from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour over two years. The bill will increase the minimum wage to $5.85 sixty days after enactment; to $6.55 a year later; and to $7.25 another year later. “I hope the Senate will follow the House and take swift action to increase the minimum wage immediately. The President has said he supports a minimum wage increase and will sign it into law. America’s working families shouldn’t have to wait any longer.” H.R. 2 will be brought up for a vote on the House Floor later today. Congressman Scott was an original cosponsor when the bipartisan bill was introduced last week.
01.10.2007	Tonight Congressman David Scott (D-GA) released the following statement opposing the President’s plan to increase troop levels in Iraq: “Sending more American troops into combat is not the solution to the escalating problems in Iraq. I was very disappointed to hear tonight that our sons and daughters in the military are being asked to make greater sacrifices when over 3,000 American soldiers have died since the war in Iraq began nearly four years ago. Yet, tonight the President ignored the call for a new direction in Iraq given by American voters in November. The President’s new military plan also ignored the more recent advice of top generals in Iraq against an increase of American troops. Our troops have fought valiantly and with courage. Now is not the time to increase our military presence in Iraq with overextended troops. The way forward in Iraq requires political solutions that address the constant sectarian violence in Iraq that has existed for thousands of years because of ethnic differences.”
01.09.2007	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) released the following statement on the pending House vote on the Implementing the 9/11 Commission Recommendations Act of 2007 (H.R. 1), which is cosponsored by Congressman Scott: “Last November American voters sent a resounding call for a new direction to make our nation safer with the historic election of Democrats to the majority in both chambers of Congress,” Congressman Scott said. “After September 11, the American people trusted the President to take steps to make our country safer but the Administration has failed at every corner to strengthen the protection of our frontlines from terrorist attacks. The American people were further frustrated by the Administration’s tragic missteps after Hurricane Katrina devastated the Gulf Coast region.”“Now in the first 100 hours of the new 110th Congress, I am proud to join with my colleagues to keep our promise to the American people by enacting the remaining recommendations of the bipartisan 9/11 Commission that were left out of the Republicans’ Intelligence Reform Bill of 2004.”“I believe this bill will significantly improve our defense of our homeland by providing more grant support at local levels based on risk, requiring 100% inspection of air cargo over the next 3 years, and requiring 100% inspection of all cargo shipped to the U.S. from foreign ports over the next 5 years.”H.R. 1 will be brought up for a vote on the House Floor later today. As Co-Chair of the Democratic Study Group on National Security, Congressman Scott was an original cosponsor when the bill was introduced last week.
12.21.2006	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) and Mrs. Alfredia Scott announced the selection of 6 area students to receive $10,000 in scholarship awards ranging from $1,640 to $1,800 through the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Spouses Scholarship program. Congressman and Mrs. Scott honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special reception today in his Jonesboro District Office. “By earning these awards, each student has demonstrated a strong work ethic and high commitment to achieve excellence in their schools and communities,” said Congressman Scott. Mrs. Scott, wife of Congressman Scott, was very instrumental in securing the scholarships for the students as Co-Chair of the CBC Spouses. “It is with great pleasure that my husband and I commend each of these students for their exceptional academic achievement and we encourage them to continue to set high goals for themselves,” said Mrs. Scott. This year’s scholarship recipients include: $1,640 CBC Spouses General Education Award · Amber Davis, Ellenwood resident, Spelman College & graduate of DeKalb School of the Arts · Michael Fritz, Riverdale resident, Wingate University & graduate of Landmark Christian Academy · Kimberly Jackson, Jonesboro resident, University of Alabama & graduate of Mundy's Mill High School · Dara Porter, Fairburn resident, University of Georgia & graduate of Creekside High School · Damien Swearing, Jonesboro resident, Emory University & graduate of Jonesboro High School $1,800 CBC Spouses Cheerio Brand Health Initiative Award · Devin Hussey, Jonesboro resident, Piedmont College & graduate of Jonesboro High School The CBC Spouses Education Scholarship Fund was established in 1988 in response to federal cuts in spending for education programs and scholarships. This program provides tuition assistance to enable students to fulfill their higher education goals. Students are required to live or attend school in a Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Member’s district and be enrolled full-time in good academic standing at an accredited college or university. Students interested in applying for future awards should contact Chandra Harris at 770-210-5073.
12.05.2006	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) provided an update on the tremendously successful hiring rate for his Second Annual 13th Congressional District Jobs Fair. Held earlier this year in May at the Georgia International Convention Center, current reports by participating employers reveal that 1,005 job seekers were hired as a result of Congressman Scott bringing together highly qualified candidates with over 200 of the area’s top employers. “I am very proud to share this update which shows the annual 13th Congressional District’s Jobs Fairs are making a significant impact in our community,” Congressman Scott said. “We were able to assist many able and willing workers by helping them make direct contact with leading area businesses that are growing and looking to hire. And we will work hard to build on the success of this year’s fair by partnering our constituents in need of new job opportunities with companies ready to hire.” An updated list of participating companies that hired job seekers from Congressman David Scott's Second Annual Jobs Fair is listed below along with the number of candidates they hired. What some employer representatives had to say about Congressman Scott’s 2006 Thirteenth Congressional District Jobs Fair: “As a voter and a taxpayer, I appreciate Congressman Scott's interest and energy in producing this event. Often, citizens don't feel connected to their representative. This event shows the community that Congressman Scott is not only representing them in Washington, but interested in what happens where they live. I was also impressed to see him at the event, meeting people. And personally speaking, we hired one of the best recruits we've ever hired!”Winnie Thomas, Vice PresidentPrimerica, Inc. “Congressman Scott's jobs fair attracts a huge number of prospective employees and these attendees are home grown folks with knowledge of the area, the airport and the transportation available to get them to and from work. The jobs fair was very successful for us! We attended in hopes of identifying 15 to 20 people, but we ended up hiring approximately 40 people, because the candidates were so good!”Curtis WatsonHR Analyst, GAT Airline Ground Support “I cannot tell you how well the job fair worked for us! We met a lot of wonderful people, and actually hired five new account executives!”John Jones, PresidentLegal Services, Inc. “Congressman Scott's jobs fair is the most successful event of its kind we have ever attended! We were extremely impressed with the candidates who attended, many with Master's and Ph.D. degrees.”Mary Moore, ManagerSocial Security System “Congressman Scott's jobs fair was great! We were extremely pleased with the applicants we met, and we actually hired five new outside sales people! We're already excited to come back next year!”Pat Pettaway, Sales ManagerAtlanta Journal-Constitution "We go to lots of job fairs, but I must say that this one was one of the very best and simply enormous! We were able to see lots of people who were interested in our ramp and gate jobs. We probably hired more than thirty people!" Anne Martin, Recruiting ManagerDelta Airlines - Atlantic SE Airlines - Delta Connection Company # of Hires AFLAC 15 All (n) One Security 10 Ambassador Personnel 15 Ameriplan Dental & Medical Benefits Plans 2 Aramark 50 Atlanta Jobs Corps 4 Atlanta Journal-Constitution 5 Avon District 1186 2 Avon Products 10 BB&T Bank 2 Blue Water Security II, Inc. 25 Brian Center Nursing Care-Austell 10 Buyers Credit Coach 5 Central Michigan University 4 Cherokee County Sheriff's Office 2 City of Douglasville 2 City of Forest Park 2 Clayton Career Resource Center 15 Clayton County Government-Personnel Dept. 12 Clayton County Water Authority 2 SBDC Clayton State University 3 CLP Resources 5 Cobb County Board of Commissioners 2 Cobb County School District 15 College Park Police Department 5 Comcast Cable 57 Concessions/Paschals, J.V. 50 Country Hearth Suites 2 The Color of Public Safety 1 Cyberwize.com 7 Davita Jonesboro Dialysis Center 3 Dekalb County Sheriff's Office 5 Delta Air Lines 30 Department of Aviation 5 Douglas County Board of Commissioners 5 DreamSan Inc 2 DriveTime 5 Employment Seeker 3 Exel Logistics 25 Fast Capital 2 Fayette County Board of Commissioners 5 Fayette County Schools Transportation 10 FedEx Ground 50 First Transit 2 From Concepts to Reality, Inc 8 Fulton County Sheriff Office 15 GAT Airline Ground Support 40 Gate Gourmet 20 GC Services L.P. 10 Georgia Air National Guard 2 Georgia Department of Corrections 5 Georgia Department of Human Resources 2 Georgia Department of Labor 4 Georgia Military College 4 Gwinnett County Department of Corrections 5 Hennesy Mazda Pontiac Buick GMC 5 Henry County Fire Department 5 Interactive College of Technology/ Interactive Learning Systems 5 Internal Revenue Service 5 JPacker Systems 6 Kindred Hospital Atlanta 2 Lowe's Home Improvement 8 MARTA 40 Mechanical Contractors Association of Georgia 2 Modern Woodmen of Atlanta 2 National Youth Apprenticeship Program 40 Optimum Staffing Services 50 Personal Touch Tours Travel Agency 2 Popeyes Chicken & Checker Hamburger 10 PrePaid Legal Services 5 Primerica Financial Services 15 Professional Career Development Institute 12 Project Hope 2 Red Lobster 10 Roswell Nursing and Rehab Center 8 Saint Joseph's Hospital 4 Sassafras Jazz Bistro 1 Securitas 12 Snelling Staffing 5 Spherion Staffing 5 Strayer University 5 Talent Tree Crystal, Inc 15 United States Department of Homeland Security 1 United States Marine Corps 5 V & W Employment Service, LLC 10 TOTAL 1005 For more information about Congressman David Scott's annual Thirteenth Congressional District Jobs Fairs, please call Bob Merrill or Taylor Kline at 770-210-5073.
12.04.2006	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) reported back from visits to Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay that significant progress is being made to sustain renewable fuels infrastructure and development. Congressman Scott joined Agriculture Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (VA), Ranking Member and upcoming Chairman Collin Peterson (D-MN), and other members of the Agriculture Committee. “South America is a world leader in agricultural productivity and important free trade region,” Congressman Scott said. “This trip was especially important to me as a Georgia Congressman because agriculture is our top business in Georgia and we must ensure viable export markets for the crops our farmers grow. It was also vitally important to gain an understanding of renewable fuels infrastructure, and how we can adapt that infrastructure to incorporate Georgia’s strengths and needs. For example, ethanol can now be made from pine trees and pine straw, which Georgia produces more of than any other state. We also produce corn, soybeans and other horticultural products from which ethanol can be produced.” The trip included meetings with government and industry leaders in Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay to discuss agricultural practices, markets and trade. In Brazil, the delegation met with Elizabeth Martinez, Consul General at the U.S. Consulate General in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and Beth Autry, the Agricultural Attache’, and participated in several briefings with U.S. agricultural companies and Brazilian business leaders. “Brazil runs eighty percent of its automobiles on ethanol made from sugarcane,” said Scott. “There is much we can learn from Brazil as we in the United States urgently need to shift our oil dependency from the volatile and unstable Middle East, which now produces sixty-two percent of the world’s oil.” In Uruguay, the group met with Vice President Rodolfo Nin Novoa, Rep. Julio Cardozo, President of the Uruguayan House of Representatives, and U.S. Ambassador to Uruguay Frank Baxter. In Argentina, the delegation met with the country’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Jorge Taiana, Secretary of Foreign Trade Alfredo Chiaradia, Minister of Economy and Production Felisa Miceli, and Secretary of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries, and Food Miguel Campos. Congressman David Scott is a Democratic member of the Agriculture Committee, a leading voice for agriculture-based renewable fuels in Congress, and will be a major player in the upcoming Farm Bill negotiations.
11.17.2006	Today Congressman David Scott joined Reps. Sanford Bishop, Phil Gingrey, Jack Kingston, John Lewis, Charlie Norwood, and Lynn Westmoreland to release the following statement regarding the proposed takeover of Delta Air Lines by U.S. Airways: “As Representatives of the citizens of the State of Georgia in the U.S. Congress, we are deeply troubled by the announcement yesterday by U.S. Airways of a proposed unsolicited takeover of Delta Air Lines. Delta has made outstanding progress toward its goal of emerging from bankruptcy in 2007 as a profitable, fierce competitor. We are seriously concerned that if the U.S. Airways proposal comes to fruition, the economic harm to the economy of the State of Georgia, Georgia’s citizens, and Delta’s employees and passengers around the world would be immeasurable. We remain committed to ensuring that Delta exits from bankruptcy in 2007, as planned, as a profitable, strong, stand-alone airline headquartered in the State of Georgia.”
11.16.2006	“Congressman Hoyer has been a tremendous asset to House Democrats for many years,” Congressman Scott said. “I signed on as one of his earliest supporters because of his work on behalf of the caucus and his friendship to me, which began before I was even sworn in as a new Congressman in 2002. As the Minority Whip, he has helped lead Democrats to the majority. The House Democratic Caucus has rewarded him for not giving up when we were the minority party in Washington.” The House Democratic Caucus met Thursday morning to elect their leadership. Congressman Hoyer previously served as the Democratic Minority Whip. In his new position, Hoyer serves as second-in-command to Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
11.15.2006	“I applaud the Norfolk Southern Rail Company and the Georgia DOT for their recent agreement to proceed with a very important commuter rail line from Atlanta to Macon – with the first phase being the Atlanta to Lovejoy line in south Clayton County,” said Congressman Scott. “This represents an extraordinary partnership between the U.S. Congress, Georgia Legislature, Governor Sonny Perdue, GDOT, Clayton County government and Norfolk Southern. This will certainly offer a badly needed means of alternative transportation for traffic congestion, especially in the fast-growing South Metro area.” “Equally as important is the extraordinary opportunity for economic development on the Southside of Atlanta. For instance, with nearly 400,000 NASCAR fans being drawn into Clayton and Henry Counties each year, this commuter rail line provides a way to get these fans out of their cars and onto the train to spend money in the many shops, restaurants, and attractions that will avail themselves in Jonesboro, Stockbridge, Forest Park, Morrow and connect into downtown Atlanta attractions.” “I can even see passengers viewing new attractions celebrating Clark Gable and Vivian Lee, who brought Tara to the big screen, which is what this part of metro Atlanta is known for, as well as the air museum in Morrow.” “Here in Congress, this is good news for us who led the effort in securing the initial $87 million. Atlanta is now poised to lead the nation on commuter rail service.” An agreement between Norfolk Southern and the Georgia Department of Transportation was announced late Tuesday night.
11.14.2006	Reps. David Scott and John Lewis, the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation (CBCF), and the Morehouse School of Medicine (MSM) will present a District-Level Forum (DLF) on Saturday, November 18, 2006 from 12:00 pm.-6:00 pm. The forum theme is “Unity, Education, Health and Wealth: It Takes a Healthy Village to Raise a Healthy Child.” The day-long event will be held at the National Center for Primary Care at the Morehouse School of Medicine (MSM), 720 Westview Drive SW, Atlanta, Georgia. Funded by the Ford Foundation, this CBCF initiative encourages civic participation at the grassroots level while promoting a community-based learning experience model. The District Level Forums provide an opportunity for national and local leaders to discuss important policy issues with community residents. The event is free and open to the public. “The DLF allows us to bring a taste of our Annual Legislative Conference, which is held in Washington each year, to the Atlanta area. Leading experts on financial literacy, education, and healthcare will share information and facilitate dialogue on issues critical to individual and community success,” said Dr. Elsie Scott, Interim President and CEO of the CBCF. Dr. Ivory A. Toldson, CBCF Senior Research Analyst and Howard University Assistant Professor added, “The DLF in Atlanta will be an interactive, community-based learning experience that will engage community advocates, professionals and emerging leaders. We’re also providing networking opportunities with a reception and after-social called, Rhetoric! hosted by DC-based Momentum USA.” Three panels will be presented. The first panel, “Live Long and Prosper,” will include Dr. Dennis Kimbro, national best-selling author of “Think and Grow Rich” and Dr. David Satcher, Poussaint-Satcher-Cosby Chair in Mental Health at MSM and former U.S. Surgeon General. The second panel, “Be Smart! Taking Control of Learning and Education in our Community,” will be moderated by Collins Spencer, Anchor, WSB-TV (ABC) Channel 2 Action News. Panelists include Dr. Asa Hilliard, Fuller E. Callaway Professor of Urban Education at Georgia State University, and Dr. Haki Madhubuti, Founder/President of Third World Press and Co-Founder of Betty Shabazz International Charter School in Chicago, IL. The third panel, “Emerging Leaders Breakout: Promoting Healthy Behaviors and Leadership Among Young Men and Women,” will feature Orrin C. Hudson, a chess master who CNN dubbed “Pied Piper of Positivity,” and Jessica Care Moore, national award-winning poet, activist, and Moore Black Press CEO. Morehouse School of Medicine’s Dr. LeRoy Reese, an Associate Professor and Dr. Daniel S. Blumenthal, Professor and Chair of the Department of Community Health and Preventive Medicine, enthusiastically accepted the role of local liaisons for the Atlanta DLF. “It is events like this that will ultimately persuade individuals to become more involved with the development of public policy at the grassroots level,” said Dr. Reese. Dr. Blumenthal added, “Morehouse School of Medicine is the perfect forum to host an event that will encourage students, community members and experts to work together to empower our community.” For additional information about the DLF event or to register call (866) 447-7103 or visit the CBCF website at www.cbcfinc.org. CBCF was established in 1976, as a non-partisan, non-profit, public policy research and educational institute. Our mission is to serve as the catalyst that educates future leaders, minority-focused organizational leaders, and organized labor to effect positive and sustainable change in the African American community. The Morehouse School of Medicine (MSM) is a historically black institution established to recruit and train minority and other students as physicians, biomedical scientists, and public health professionals committed to the primary health care needs of the underserved. MSM is not affiliated with Morehouse College.
10.06.2006	For more than 20 years, Americans annually recognize October as National Breast Cancer Awareness Month with nationwide initiatives to educate women about early breast cancer detection, diagnosis and treatment. Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) released the following statement: “As the husband of a courageous survivor of breast cancer, my wife Alfredia Scott, I join countless others this month to honor the inspiring strength of breast cancer patients and the dedication of health professionals who care for them. Almost everyone in America has been touched by this disease. During this year alone an estimated 212,920 new cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed in American women and 40,970 women will die from the disease. “In Georgia breast cancer accounts for 32% of all new cancer cases among women. White women in Georgia are 11% more likely to be diagnosed with cancer than other women. And Black women have a 30% higher mortality rate from breast cancer than other women. While we’ve had great advances in breast cancer treatment options, I urge women to use this month to take control of their health through information and regular screenings.” As a Georgia State Senator, Congressman David Scott authored the Breast Cancer Patient Protection law which gives breast cancer patients and their physicians the right to determine their length of stay in the hospital and their level of medical treatment. Scott has remained an advocate in Congress for breast cancer awareness by cosponsoring key legislation to nationalize the Breast Cancer Patient Protection law that he authored in Georgia; require insurance companies to provide coverage for annual mammograms; and provide grants for breast cancer screening, counseling, treatment, and prevention programs.
10.06.2006	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced that he is currently accepting applications for nomination to our nation’s military service academies. “The privilege of nominating qualified students to the Naval, Air Force, Merchant Marine and Army Academies is one of my most important and rewarding responsibilities,” said Congressman Scott. “The education provided at our nation’s prestigious service academies is of the highest quality and offers challenges that develop our young people into future leaders.” Students who are residents of Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District and interested in nomination to the United States Naval Academy, United States Air Force Academy, United States Merchant Marine Academy or the United States Military Academy may obtain applications through Scott’s District Office or online at www.house.gov/davidscott. Candidates for nomination must be U.S. citizens and at least 17 years old but not have passed their 23rd birthday on July 1 of the year of admission. Applicants must also be unmarried, not pregnant, and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. Applicants will be evaluated by their academic performance, leadership ability, moral character, adequacy of preparation, and commitment to attend a service academy. All completed applications must be received by Monday, October 16, 2006 in Congressman Scott’s Jonesboro Office. “The process toward achieving a nomination is a long and arduous one,” said Scott. “I commend the commitment of students working toward reaching this goal and wish each applicant the very best of success in achieving it.” For additional information regarding the nomination process or to request an application, students should contact David Johnson, the Thirteenth Congressional District's Military Academy Coordinator, at (770) 210-5073 or visit Congressman Scott’s website at www.house.gov/davidscott.
09.27.2006	Congressman David Scott announced today that the House of Representatives approved $1 million in federal funding for a defense project at SKC Powertech, Inc. of Covington. The project was included in the FY 2007 Defense Appropriations Act at the request of Congressman David Scott. SKC Powertech will use the funds to develop its Conformal Lithium Ion Polymer Belt Battery, a high performance, man-wearable rechargeable battery to be used by U.S. Army combat soldiers and firefighters, HAZMAT personnel, security personnel, civilian police force, etc., to power essential communication devices. "Working with the leaders in Washington to fund local projects that strengthen our defense and help our soldiers, first responders, and other personnel do their jobs more effectively continues to be one of my highest priorities for the 13th District. I am happy to bring these funds home to the district," said Congressman Scott. Following a 394-22 vote late last night, the FY 2007 Defense Appropriations Act now heads to the President for his signature. Congressman Scott also previously secured a combined total of $3 million for the Newton County-based SKC Powertech project in both the FY 2006 and FY 2005 Defense Appropriation bills.
09.20.2006	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) spoke out strongly against H.R. 4844, the Federal Election Integrity Act of 2006. The Republican-sponsored measure will cause undue burdens on many populations, particularly the elderly, disabled, minority, students, low-income and rural, by imposing new photo ID requirements for all voters in federal elections. The bill also fails to define what constitutes an official ID and cite specific evidence justifying its passage. “This dastardly, un-American bill is a shameless and divisive attempt by Republicans to target certain voters,” Congressman Scott said. “If implemented, this unconstitutional legislation amounts to an unfunded mandate and modern day poll tax. Not everyone drives a car or even has a birth certificate. Furthermore, many individuals will be disenfranchised because of mobility issues, lack of education, or insufficient means of purchasing a voter ID card.” Scott continued, “Georgia has on three occasions struck down a similar bill because of the inequities and discriminatory aspects of the legislation. Just yesterday, on a fourth try, Fulton County Superior Court Judge T. Jackson Bedford, Jr. tossed the legislation out. The judge deemed Georgia’s similar law violates the very constitutional rights of the state’s voters. In addition, the judge argued there wasn’t enough time allotted to educate voters on the new voter rules.” “H.R. 4844 will not make our elections more secure,” Congressman Scott added. “H.R. 4844 is an election year sham playing to the hearts and minds of the American public’s concern about national security. Only months after the much-celebrated bipartisan renewal of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, Congress should not be developing new ways to limit the right to vote. We have come too far with our voting rights laws in discouraging discriminatory voting practices. Passing this legislation would only set us back.” Congressman Scott voted against H.R. 4844, which the House passed by a 228-196 vote. The bill now heads to the Senate for action.
08.29.2006	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) issued the following statement to mark the first anniversary of Hurricane Katrina. “Today our nation pauses to remember when Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast region one year ago, delivering widespread destruction to New Orleans and coastal communities in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama. As we reflect today on the devastation caused by the worst natural disaster in this country’s history, let us pay tribute to the hundreds of American lives lost in this tragedy and remember still the thousands more who continue to struggle to piece together their broken families, homes, and communities. “Let us also salute the spirit of kindness that inspired Georgia’s citizens and leaders alike to step up without hesitation and welcome over 100,000 Hurricane Katrina evacuees into our homes, schools, and churches, 84,000 of which remain a year later in metro Atlanta. “While Congress acted swiftly in the immediate weeks and months after Katrina hit to approve billions of dollars for rebuilding the Gulf Coast, much of the region remains devastated, government neglect and inefficiency persists, and residents continue to suffer from inadequate housing, health care, and other basic services one year later. “Without question, the road to recovery in New Orleans and throughout the Gulf Coast will be long and difficult. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that our government is prepared to prevent and efficiently respond to national emergencies and is held accountable when it fails to protect all its citizens from harm. “We cannot change the past, but we can control the future. America can and must keep its promise to replace despair and destruction with hope and renewal for the Gulf Coast.”
08.19.2006	Congressman David Scott welcomed more than 1,100 constituents and 200 healthcare professionals and volunteers to the Second Annual 13th Congressional District Health Fair held today at Mundy’s Mill High School in Clayton County. “While I’ve been working in Congress to provide affordable and accessible healthcare to all Georgians, I wanted to do some extra,” said Congressman Scott. “That’s why I’m hosting my annual health fairs to bring together hospitals, insurance & pharmaceutical companies, government agencies and leading healthcare organizations to offer free services for people who otherwise might not have access to such care. This year we were able to build on the success of our first fair by saving more lives with much-needed preventive screenings and empowerment through awareness. At our health fairs, we’ve had people whose blood pressure was so high that doctors had to call for an ambulance to come and take them to the hospital immediately.” Congressman Scott kicked off the health fair by hosting a panel discussion addressing the importance of preventative care to preempt the onset of such chronic conditions as diabetes, cancer, heart disease, strokes, and obesity. Scott was joined on the panel by actress Ruby Dee, who appeared in conjunction with Pfizer to support his efforts to empower people to better manage their health by attending the annual 13th District Health Fair. Dr. Michael Smith of Atlanta Medical Center’s Oncology Department and Dr. Steve Wertheim of Resurgens Orthopedics also served on the panel. “Representing Georgians is more than just casting votes in Washington. I believe strongly that the most important part of being a Member of Congress is helping people,” Scott added. “Throughout my years in public service, from the Georgia legislature to the U.S. Congress, I have made it one of my main objectives to ensure and promote the health and well-being of my fellow Georgians. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Washington to ensure healthcare continues to be at the forefront of our discussions. We have much work to do, but I believe with dedicated efforts, we will achieve success.” More than 95 area non-profit organizations, hospitals, government agencies, and members of the health care industry were on hand to provide a wide variety of free health screenings, cooking, CPR and fitness demonstrations, and information about important health issues. Attendees of the Health Fair participated in a blood drive and were able to enroll on site in a number of health assistance programs. Participants included:Aalegna Skin & HealthCenterAFLACAgape Gardens Colon Lavage, LLCAID AtlantaAllied Healthcare Clinics, Inc.Alzheimer's Services CenterAmerican Cancer SocietyAmerican Heart AssociationAmerican Lung Association, Southeast RegionAmerican Red CrossARC Area Agency on AgingArthritis FoundationAshiki's All NaturalAtlanta Alliance on Developmental DisabilitiesAtlanta Gas & Light CompanyAtlanta Legal Aid SocietyBright from the Start: GA Dept. of Early Care & LearningCentiva Home CareClayton County Collaborative AuthorityClayton County Community Services Authority, Inc. - Head StartClayton County Department of Health - Women's DivisionClayton County DFCSClayton County Police Department - 911 DivisionClayton County Sheriff's OfficeContinental Societies of Atlanta, Inc.Crystal SpringsDaVita Dialysis, Inc.Discover ChiropracticDo You Snore, LLCEli Lilly and CompanyEmory HealthcareExtend Benefits Group, LLC/ Sam's ClubForest Park Fire & EMSFuller Rehabilitation, OLAGeneral Mills, Inc.Georgia Breast Cancer Coalition FundGeorgia Commission on Women/ Georgia Osteoporosis InitiativeGeorgia Osteopathic Medical AssociationGeorgia School Nutrition AssociationGeorgia Transplant FoundationGlaxoSmithKlineGrady Health SystemH.E.A.L.S. of North GeorgiaHenry Medical CenterHeritage HospiceHimalayan Goji JuiceHouse of Refuge MinistriesHumanaKaiser PermanenteKool Smiles Dentistry for ChildrenLA FitnessLifeLink of GeorgiaLove & Courage, Stroke & Heart Disease Survivor ProgramLupus Foundation of America, Inc.-GA ChapterThe Marcus InstituteMedicare RX Access NetworkMedipod, LLCMelaleucaMet LifeMiracle Ear AtlantaMorehouse School of MedicineNanston Dental Group - Dr. Walter ReidNational Kidney Foundation of GeorgiaOn-Line Health & Wellness PremierPartnership for Prescription AssistancePeach State Health PlanPfizer, Inc.Prevent Blindness GeorgiaPrevent Child Abuse GeorgiaPrimerica Financial ServicesResurgens OrthopedicsRiverdale Fire ServicesSafe America FoundationSasha's DaySpa & WellnessCenterScientific Health System - Salad MasterSickle Cell Foundation of GeorgiaSocial Security AdministrationSouthern Crescent Medical ClinicSouthern Regional Health SystemSouthern Regional HomecareU.S. Food & Drug AdministrationUnited Way of Butts, Clayton & HenryCountiesUnited Way of Metro Atlanta - 211University of Georgia Cooperative ExtensionWellcare of Georgia
08.14.2006	Congressman David Scott will convene the 13th Congressional District’s Second Annual Health Fair on Saturday, August 19, 2006 from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. This event will take place at Mundy’s Mill High School in Jonesboro, located off Tara Boulevard, approximately 2.5 miles south of the Highway 138 and Tara Boulevard intersection, at 9652 Fayetteville Road. A diverse selection of free health screenings, cooking, CPR and fitness demonstrations, and information about important health issues will be offered. Additionally, attendees of the Health Fair can participate in a blood drive, hear from Congressman Scott and special guest speakers, and enroll on site in health assistance programs like Medicare, Medicaid, PeachCare, prescription drug assistance, and others for the uninsured. WHAT: Congressman David Scott’s 2nd Annual 13th Congressional District Health Fair WHEN: Saturday, August 19, 200610:00 am to 2:00 pm WHERE: Mundy’s Mill High School9652 Fayetteville Road (Hwy. 54)Jonesboro, GA 30238 PANELISTS: Congressman David Scott Ruby Dee, Actress and Healthcare AdvocateDr. Michael Smith, Cardiothoracic Surgeon & Director of Oncology at Atlanta Medical CenterDr. Steve Wertheim of Resurgens OrthopedicsRev. James Harris, 13th Congressional Delegate, 2005 White House Conference on Aging CONFIRMED PARTICIPANTS: AalegnaSkin & HealthCenterAFLACAgape Gardens Colon Lavage, LLCAID AtlantaAllied Healthcare Clinics, Inc.Alzheimer's Services CenterAmerican Cancer SocietyAmerican Heart AssociationAmerican Lung Association, Southeast RegionAmerican Red CrossARC Area Agency on AgingArthritis FoundationAshiki's All NaturalAtlanta Alliance on Developmental DisabilitiesAtlanta Gas & Light CompanyAtlanta Legal Aid SocietyBright from the Start: GA Dept. of Early Care & LearningCentiva Home CareClayton County Collaborative AuthorityClayton County Community Services Authority, Inc. - Head StartClayton County Department of Health - Women's DivisionClayton County DFCSClayton County Police Department - 911 DivisionClayton County Sheriff's OfficeContinental Societies of Atlanta, Inc.DaVita Dialysis, Inc.Discover ChiropracticDo You Snore, LLCEli Lilly and CompanyEmory HealthcareExtend Benefits Group, LLC/ Sam's ClubForest Park Fire & EMSFuller Rehabilitation, OLAGeneral Mills, Inc.Georgia Breast Cancer Coalition FundGeorgia Commission on Women/ Georgia Osteoporosis InitiativeGeorgia Osteopathic Medical AssociationGeorgia School Nutrition AssociationGeorgia Transplant FoundationGlaxoSmithKlineGrady Health SystemH.E.A.L.S. of North GeorgiaHenry Medical CenterHeritage HospiceHimalayan Goji JuiceHouse of Refuge MinistriesHumanaKaiser PermanenteKool Smiles Dentistry for ChildrenLifeLink of GeorgiaLove & Courage, Stroke & Heart Disease Survivor ProgramLupus Foundation of America, Inc.-GA ChapterMedicare RX Access NetworkMedipod, LLCMelaleucaMet LifeMiracle Ear AtlantaMorehouse School of MedicineNanston Dental Group - Dr. Walter ReidNational Kidney Foundation of GeorgiaOn-Line Health & Wellness PremierPartnership for Prescription AssistancePeach State Health PlanPfizer, Inc.Prevent Blindness GeorgiaPrevent Child Abuse GeorgiaPrimerica Financial ServicesResurgens OrthopedicsRiverdale Fire ServicesSafe America FoundationSasha's DaySpa & WellnessCenterScientific Health System - Salad MasterSickle Cell Foundation of GeorgiaSocial Security AdministrationSouthern Crescent Medical ClinicSouthern Regional Health SystemSouthern Regional HomecareTranquil Escape Mobile SpaTuskegee Airmen, Atlanta ChapterU.S. Food & Drug AdministrationUnited Way of Butts, Clayton & HenryCountiesUnited Way of Metro Atlanta- 211University of Georgia Cooperative ExtensionWellcare of GeorgiaWellStar Health System For more information, call 770-210-5073!
07.28.2006	Today, Congressman David Scott praised passage of H.R. 4, the Pension Protection Act, which includes airline pension relief. Passage of the Pension Protection Act provides for long-needed pension relief for defined benefit plans used by mature industries such as auto manufacturers. Congressman Scott has worked across party lines to ensure that Delta receives relief on its pension payment plan. "Early in the legislative process I worked to ensure that Congress would include specific airline pension relief. Delta employees have made significant sacrifices to help save their airline and this provision gives them some relief," Congressman Scott said. "It is imperative that we help Delta keep its pension plan. We do not want the bankruptcy judge to dump the pension on the government backup agency." The Act was passed by the House and Senate early in the year, but negotiation on the final product dragged on for months until the final product received approval late on Friday. The House pension bill must now receive final approval by the Senate and be signed into law by the president. Delta is the largest private employer in the 13th Congressional District.
07.26.2006	Today U.S. Congressman David Scott (GA-13) issued the following statement about his joint efforts with Congressman John Lewis to win bipartisan and bicameral passage of H.R. 9, the Voting Rights Reauthorization Act. “Over the last year and much of the last few weeks, Congressman John Lewis and I proudly stood together to make a strong case for reauthorizing and renewing the Voting Rights Act,” said Congressman Scott. “While our nation offers support for young democracies around the world we still have a great distance to travel at home in living out our national ideals of equality and opportunity for all of our citizens. Congressman Lewis and I defeated at every turn Republican attempts to thwart the progress of the Voting Rights Act with malicious amendments offered by two of Georgia’s very own Members of Congress. We waged a successful and focused campaign to honor the legacy of all who died in the struggle for civil rights and to renew America’s commitment to eliminate barriers to the right to vote.” Congressman Scott continued, “I applaud the Senate for moving quickly to approve the Voting Rights Reauthorization Act by a 98-0 vote last week and look forward to witnessing President Bush sign this important bill into law at the White House tomorrow.” H.R. 9 reauthorizes for 25 years key provisions of the Voting Rights Act that are set to expire in 2007. President Bush is scheduled to sign the bill into law during a ceremony tomorrow morning. Watch Congressman Scott speak against the Westmoreland Amendment>> Watch Congressman Scott speak in support of VRA Reauthorization>>
07.25.2006	Today the House passed H.Con.Res. 384, legislation recognizing and honoring the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Incorporated, the first intercollegiate Greek-letter fraternity established for African Americans. This week members of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. are gathering from around the country in Washington to participate in the fraternity’s centennial convention.“Mr. Speaker, it is an honor and special privilege to address this great body on such an auspicious occasion,” said Congressman Scott. “As a proud member of this fraternity, I feel special esteem in joining the entire House to recognize the historical significance of the centennial anniversary of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. I joined the ranks of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. as an undergraduate student at Florida A&M University to follow in the footsteps of many great men before me, including W.E.B. DuBois, Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., Edward Brooke, Martin Luther King, Jr., Thurgood Marshall, Andrew Young, William Gray, and Paul Robeson to name a few.”Congressman Scott added, “This week men from every discipline and geographic location convene to chart and plan for the fraternity’s future, celebrate its 100th anniversary, and reinvigorate its founding principles of scholarship, fellowship, good character, and the uplifting of humanity. I commend my brethren and the leadership of the organization for the achievements and accomplishments made thus far. On this historic occasion let us march forth to lay the groundwork for another 100 years.”
07.24.2006	Congressman David Scott announced today that legislation, S. 203, to designate Arabia Mountain in DeKalb, Rockdale and Henry Counties as a National Heritage Area, passed the House tonight by a 323-39 vote. S. 203, introduced by Georgia’s Senators Chambliss and Isakson, passed the Senate earlier this year. “The Arabia Mountain Heritage Area has just moved one step closer to reality,” said Congressman Scott. “Arabia Mountain is recognized as a natural wonder and I am pleased to work with my colleagues from Georgia to help protect and preserve this special place for future generations to enjoy.” According to the National Park Service, a National Heritage Area is a place “designated by the United States Congress, where natural, cultural, historic and recreational resources combine to form a cohesive, nationally distinctive landscape arising from patterns of human activity shaped by geography.” The designation would include a large portion of eastern DeKalb, western Rockdale and northern Henry counties, which are represented in part by Congressman Scott. In DeKalb, the area includes Davidson-Arabia Mountain Nature Preserve, Miners Creek Preserve, Arabia Lake, and Stephenson Creek. More information about Arabia Mountain can be found online at: www.arabiaalliance.org. The Arabia Mountain Heritage Area has broad support from key governmental and community leaders as well as a majority of the Georgia Congressional delegation. The House and Senate versions of the legislation must now be reconciled before receiving final approval by Congress.
07.20.2006	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) issued the following statement regarding President Bush’s first appearance as President at the annual convention of the NAACP, the nation’s oldest civil rights organization: “I was pleased to hear firsthand from the President today during his appearance at the annual NAACP Convention here in Washington, which I also attended. The President’s absence at the convention since 2000 has struck a very negative cord across the nation with African-Americans and other minorities. The botched federal response to Hurricane Katrina last year and recent delay by some Republicans in Congress to reauthorize the Voting Rights Act also fueled further discontent amongst minorities with this President and his Administration. While President Bush touted the accomplishments of the NAACP in fighting discrimination and pledged to work with the organization to address disparities facing minorities, these are good first steps but it remains to be seen whether he will go beyond just talking about these issues and provide clear and decisive leadership to create real solutions for them.”
07.13.2006	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) helped pass legislation to extend the Voting Rights Act for twenty-five years. The Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006, H.R. 9, passed in the House by a 390-33 vote. “I am very proud that key provisions of the Voting Rights Act were finally reauthorized today with strong bipartisan support,” said Congressman Scott. “The Voting Rights Act is without question one of the most important pieces of legislation ever enacted by Congress. I am living proof of the success of the Voting Rights Act having been elected to Congress as an African-American to represent a district without a majority minority constituency. "Our nation has made great progress in expanding and protecting the opportunity for participation in the political process for all Americans since President Lyndon Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act into law in 1965. "Congress acted forthrightly to defeat all four opposing amendments offered today and to ensure that the Voting Rights Act’s legacy of success is not weakened or undone.” H.R. 9 reauthorizes for 25 years key provisions of the Voting Rights Act that are set to expire in 2007. The expiring provisions include: Section 5, which requires jurisdictions with a history of discrimination in voting to get federal approval of any new voting practices or procedures; Section 203, which ensures that American citizens with limited English proficiency get the help they need at the polls; and Sections 6-9, which authorize the Attorney General to send federal examiners to register voters or observe elections if he or she feels it is advisable or receives greater than 20 complaints from any state. Beginning in October 2005, Congressman Scott attended and participated in all ten Congressional hearings held to examine the impact and effectiveness of the Voting Rights Act. The hearings were held in the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and laid the foundation for legislation to extend the Voting Rights Act for another 25 years - H.R. 9. The Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006 now heads to the Senate for consideration. Watch Congressman Scott speak against the Westmoreland Amendment>> Watch Congressman Scott speak in support of VRA Reauthorization>>
07.12.2006	Democratic Members of the House Financial Services Committee reacted with disappointment over new findings released today by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) which show little increase in diversity of the financial services industry over the last 10 years. The GAO study was made public today at a hearing of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. According to the GAO report released today: “Between 1993 and 2004, overall diversity at the management level in the financial services industry did not change substantially, but some racial/ethnic minority groups experienced more change in representation than others….Additionally, the EEO-1 data indicate that, within the financial services industry, certain sectors have a somewhat more diverse management-level workforce than others. For example, the EEO-1 data show that depository institutions, such as commercial banks, and insurance companies generally have a higher degree of representation by minorities or white women at the management level than securities firms.” [GAO-06-617, Overall Trends in Management-Level Diversity and Diversity Initiatives, 1993-2004]. Congressman David Scott said, “As an entrepreneur who attended the Wharton School of Finance, I understand the unique challenges facing minorities in financial services businesses. The GAO study clearly shows that recruitment and retention of minorities in the financial services sector does not reflect overall population numbers. More must be done to open the doors of opportunity to the rest of America. “The federal government is not setting an example for providing opportunity for minority firms. We can just look at the no-bid contracts in Katrina-hit areas to see how minority-owned businesses are being overlooked. The over-reliance on out-of-state contractors has lead to significant waste, fraud and abuse, not to mention a missed opportunity for minority business owners,” continued Scott. The GAO study was requested in February, 2005, by Congressman David Scott, Financial Services Committee Chairman Mike Oxley, Ranking Member Barney Frank, Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chair Sue Kelly, and Ranking member Luis Gutierrez to report on the status of diversity in the financial services industry. An electronic version of the GAO report is available at http://www.house.gov/banking_democrats/GAODiversityReport.pdf.
06.27.2006	Today, U.S. Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced that a federal award of $300,000 has been approved for the development of an Archival Masters Degree Program at Clayton State University. The project was included in the bill funding the U.S. Departments of Labor, Education, and Health and Human Services for Fiscal Year 2007. “I am very pleased to share this great news given the record growth of students and academic opportunities at Clayton State University in recent years,” Congressman Scott said. “I know that officials at the nearby Georgia and National Archives facilities in Morrow are thrilled with this announcement as the funds will go a long way in helping their collaborative efforts to benefit my constituents in Clayton County as well our great state and country. Clayton State University will use these funds to develop a curriculum that teaches the next generation of archivists the technological sophistication and historical perspective essential for the collection and preservation of records that are so vital to perpetuation of our national heritage. The funds may also be used for scholarships. The Committee-passed bill must be approved by the full U.S. House of Representatives and then approved by the Senate.
06.27.2006	Today Congressman David Scott announced that federal funds totaling $550,000 have been awarded to the Fulton County Government to support two important projects. These awards include $250,000 to support the county-wide emergency preparedness program of the Fulton County Department of Health and Wellness and $300,000 to assist the county’s Department of Mental Health with creating a jail diversion program. These projects were included in the bill funding the U.S. Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education for Fiscal Year 2007. “I am very proud to share this wonderful news with my constituents from Fulton County. This funding will go a long way to enhance Fulton County’s emergency response capabilities in the event of a terrorist attack or natural disaster and also in meeting the challenges of this post-9/11 and post-Katrina world,” Congressman Scott said. “These funds will also support Fulton County’s initiatives to reduce costs associated with overcrowded facilities and inmate recidivism rates.” The Fulton County Department of Health and Wellness will use these funds to recruit and train volunteers and health professionals to respond appropriately to any major catastrophe to minimize the loss of human life. The funds will also support public service announcements to help keep the public informed. The Fulton County Department of Mental Health will use its funds to create a mental health program for inmates and recruit clinicians and case managers. The Committee-passed bill must be approved by the full U.S. House of Representatives and then approved by the Senate.
06.21.2006	Today U.S. Congressman David Scott issued the following statement concerning a postponed vote to extend the Voting Rights Act: “I am extremely disappointed with the move today by Republican leaders to hastily and shamefully deny a scheduled vote to consider reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act, one of the most important pieces of legislation ever enacted by Congress. The Act along with its special provisions has proven tremendously successful at expanding and protecting the opportunity for participation in the political process for all Americans and is still very much needed. Members of both parties worked extensively to create sound legislation supported by both Democrats and Republicans.” Congressman David Scott Leads Fight Against Westmoreland, Norwood Amendments Congressman David Scott is strongly opposed to amendments being proposed by fellow Georgia Congressmen Lynn Westmoreland and Charlie Norwood. Congressman Scott said, “Westmoreland’s amendment in effect kills the Voting Rights Act by reversing the current long-standing judicial requirement that jurisdictions bear the burden of establishing that they are freed from discrimination by instead placing that burden on the Attorney General. This results in Justice Department attorneys spending most of their time conducting investigations where discrimination no longer exists instead of enforcing the Act and protecting minority voters against existing discrimination. Scott continued, “And the Norwood amendment would also effectively destroy the Voting Rights Act by changing the legal standard of the Act from one of discrimination against minority voters to a standard of voter turnout, thereby basically killing the Voting Rights Act. Because, we must remember, the Voting Rights Act was enacted to prevent discrimination and protect voting rights; and was not put in place to simply encourage voter turnout.” Making the Law Permanent and Applicable Nationwide is a Trojan Horse Congressman Scott also added, “We must not be fooled by calls to make the Voting Rights Act fully applicable nationwide and permanent for this is nothing more than a guise to effectively kill the Act. To make Section 5 ‘nationwide and permanent’ would make the Act unconstitutional because it would violate the Supreme Court’s stated requirement that the Voting Rights Act be ‘narrowly tailored and congruent and proportional to address the harms it is designed to cure,’ namely a history of discrimination against the voting rights of minority voters. That means the Act must be targeted to states and jurisdictions with a history of discrimination and subject to the Act’s renewal after required congressional hearings to establish a record for continued need for remedy.”
06.20.2006	Tomorrow Congressman David Scott (GA-13) will join members of the U.S. House of Representatives for debate and a vote on H.R. 9, the Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006. This bipartisan bill reauthorizes for 25 years key provisions of the Voting Rights Act that are set to expire in 2007. The expiring provisions include: Section 5, which requires jurisdictions with a history of discrimination in voting to get federal approval of any new voting practices or procedures; Section 203, which ensures that American citizens with limited English proficiency get the help they need at the polls; and Sections 6-9, which authorize the Attorney General to send federal examiners to register voters or observe elections if he or she feels it is advisable or receives greater than 20 complaints from any state. “The Voting Rights Act is one of the most important pieces of legislation enacted by Congress in the 20th century,” Congressman Scott stated. “The Act along with its special provisions has proven tremendously successful at expanding and protecting the opportunity for participation in the political process for all Americans. That is why Congress must not delay in extending and strengthening provisions of the Act which expire in 2007.” Congressman David Scott strongly believes that these provisions need to be extended if not strengthened and has worked tirelessly to that end. In the fall of 2005 and the winter of 2006, Congressman Scott attended and participated in all ten Congressional hearings held to examine the impact and effectiveness of the Voting Rights Act. The hearings were held in the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and laid the foundation for legislation to extend the Voting Rights Act for another 25 years - H.R. 9. Scott added, “The fact that Georgia’s obviously discriminatory Voter ID law was precleared by the U.S. Department of Justice, against the advice of department attorneys, underscores the continued need for the temporary provisions of the Voting Rights Act to be extended.” President Lyndon Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act into law on August 6, 1965, to protect the voting rights of all Americans in view of practices by some states and counties to deny many citizens access to the ballot because of their race, ethnicity, and language-minority status. The Voting Rights Act has been amended and sections that were due to expire extended in 1970, 1975, 1982, and 1992.
06.07.2006	Today, U.S. Representative David Scott (GA-13) announced that a federal award of $150,000 has been approved for the city of Riverdale’s Multi-Purpose Citizens Center in Clayton County. The project was included in the bill funding the U.S. Departments of Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, and other agencies for Fiscal Year 2007. “I am pleased to be able to provide Riverdale with assistance in improving services available to the county’s growing population,” Congressman Scott said. “This worthy project will provide a greater variety of much-needed community resources, including recreation facilities for youth.” The city of Riverdale will utilize the federal funds to provide recreation and after-school programs. Further, the addition will be used for hosting community-wide events. The Committee-passed bill must be approved by the full U.S. House of Representatives and then approved by the Senate.
06.07.2006	Congressman David Scott announced today that the House of Representatives approved $300,000 in federal funding for additional lanes and sidewalks on Bouldercrest Road from I-285 to Linecrest Road in DeKalb County. The project was included in the bill funding the U.S. Departments of Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, and other agencies for Fiscal Year 2007. “As DeKalb continues to grow and develop, these projects make a direct contribution to improving the lives and well-being of our citizens. I am happy to bring these funds home to the district,” said Congressman Scott. In the Fiscal Year 2005 Appropriations bill, Congressman Scott secured $500,000 in funding for the Bouldercrest Road improvement project. The Committee-passed bill must be approved by the full U.S. House of Representatives and then approved by the Senate. ###
06.07.2006	Congressman David Scott announced today that the House of Representatives approved $200,000 in federal funding to design and build the Chattahoochee Hill Country Regional Greenway Trail. The trail will connect through Fulton, Carroll, Coweta and Douglas Counties. The individual counties have funded planning studies for the trail. The project was included in the bill funding the U.S. Departments of Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, and other agencies for Fiscal Year 2007. “As Fulton County continues to grow and develop, these projects make a direct contribution to improving the lives and well-being of our citizens. I am happy to bring these funds home to the district,” said Congressman Scott. Last year, in legislation authorizing federal surface transportation programs Congressman Scott secured $2,000,000 for the Chattahoochee Hill Country regional greenway master plan. The Committee-passed appropriations bill must be approved by the full U.S. House of Representatives and then approved by the Senate.
06.05.2006	After a special meeting today with local and federal leaders concerning future development plans for Fort Gillem, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) released the following statement: “We have an exciting opportunity to make Ft. Gillem a unique model for the rest of the nation as a result of the BRAC process: maintaining a strong military and homeland security presence for this region, while also providing excellent community development possibilities for Forest Park and Clayton County that will be beneficial to our military, national, and homeland security as well as the local economy.” Congressman Scott was joined at the meeting by the following leaders: n Corine Deyton, Mayor of Forest Park, GA n Eldrin Bell, Chairman, Clayton CountyCommission n Colonel Angela Manos-Sittnick, Garrison Commander, FortGillem n Shane Short, Chairman, Local Redevelopment Authority n Joseph Whitaker, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installations and Housing n Gen. Phil Browning (ret.), Executive Director, Georgia Military Affairs Committee n Fred Bryant, Georgia Office of Planning and Budget, Military Affairs Committee n Mr. Kelly Kelkenberg, Director, National Preparedness Division, FEMA Region IV n Representatives of Senator Johnny Isakson and Senator Saxby Chambliss. Officials discussed keeping a military presence on the 1,400 acre post, having a permanent Homeland Security and FEMA presence, and turning more than 900 acres over to the city of Forest Park and Clayton County for redevelopment. Last year Congressman David Scott tirelessly led the campaign to keep Fort Gillem open and also to maintain some level of military presence in the Atlanta area with the world’s busiest airport nearby and disasters like hurricanes looming for the Southeast United States. Scott exited today’s meeting very optimistic by the unique opportunity to maintain a federal presence on the post with the Army and FEMA in conjunction with new commercial and residential options for the Forest Park community. Leaders planning the future redevelopment plans for Fort Gillem will next meet again in early August.
05.24.2006	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced that a federal grant for $14,439 has been awarded to Rockdale County by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). “I am proud to share this good news with the fine people of Rockdale County,” said Congressman Scott. “Law enforcement officers of Rockdale County will use these funds to purchase needed equipment to prevent and control crime in the communities they serve. This grant further demonstrates my work in Washington to deliver more money to assist local communities throughout the Thirteenth District, especially to our first responders.” The grant awarded to Rockdale County was funded through the Department of Justice’s FY2006 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program. JAG Grants may be used to provide personnel, equipment, training, technical assistance, and information systems for more widespread apprehension, prosecution, adjudication, detention, and rehabilitation of offenders who violate state and local laws.
05.16.2006	Congressman Scott issued the following statement regarding the President's border plan: I am glad that the President is finally speaking to the nation about this urgent issue. Constituents from all parts of my district continue to share their concerns with illegal immigration with me. Before we address the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the U.S, we must secure the porous border between the U.S. and Mexico. I agree with the President that additional security is needed at the border, including the use of the National Guard. However, this is only a temporary solution. There are 1,000 fewer Border Patrol Agents than were proposed in the 9/11 Act. In fact, the Border Patrol participated in the jobs fair that I hosted this past Friday. I believe that Congress should fully fund the Border Patrol, increase surveillance technology and erect fencing where needed to strengthen the border. Once that is done, we can begin to deal with the immigrants currently in the country.
05.12.2006	Today, U.S. Congressman David Scott (D-GA) hosted the Second Annual 13th Congressional District Jobs Fair at the Georgia International Convention Center in College Park. This special event was hosted in conjunction with Comcast Cable, UPN Atlanta and CBS 46. “The 13th Congressional District’s Jobs Fair was a great success! This is the second jobs fair that I have had the pleasure of hosting and I am very proud of the profound turnout of employers and job seekers here today,” Congressman Scott said. “Our local economy has experienced a number of significant downturns in recent months with the slated closure of Forts Gillem and McPherson, the Ford plant in Hapeville, and the GM plant in Doraville in addition to the arrival of hundreds of soldiers home to Georgia from service in Iraq. We were able to assist many able and willing workers today by helping them make direct contact with leading area businesses that are growing and looking to hire.” A long line of eager but patient job seekers wrapped around the front exterior of the Georgia International Convention Center well before Congressman Scott officially opened the doors in great anticipation of the official start of his Second Annual Jobs Fair at 10:00 a.m. A diverse group of major corporations, small businesses, and government agencies offering a rich variety of job opportunities teamed up with Congressman Scott for his second jobs fair. Some of the participating companies included Lockheed-Martin, Comcast Cable, Home Depot, FedEx, Clayton County Public Schools, Douglas County, UPS, Sun Trust Bank, WellStar Health Systems, Georgia Power, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency, City of Smyrna, MARTA, Coca Cola Enterprises, American Heart Association, and College Park Police Department.
05.08.2006	Congressman David Scott is proud to host the Second Annual Thirteenth District Jobs Fair in conjunction with Comcast Cable, UPN Atlanta, and CBS 46. The fair will bring together Georgia's top employers from the public and private sector. This event will take place at the Georgia International Convention Center in College Park right off the I-85 and I-285 Camp Creek Parkway exits near the Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport. Please remember to dress for success and bring copies of your resume because job candidates will have the opportunity to be matched up for interviews right on the spot! Also, remember to bring $1 for parking or take MARTA to the COLLEGE PARK station and catch the #182 bus shuttle to the Georgia International Convention Center. Military officials will be on hand to provide special assistance for veterans who've separated from active service within the past 180 days. With proper ID, qualified veterans are eligible for special entry to Congressman Scott's Jobs Fair! WHEN: Friday, May 12, 2006WHERE: Georgia International Convention Center 2000 Convention Center Concourse College Park, GA 30337 (770) 997-3566 TIME: 10:00 am - 4:00 pm CONFIRMED EMPLOYERS: A Perfect Resume Abundant Healing AEI International Affiliated Insurance Group AFLAC AFLAC- Global Market AGL Resources AIG AIG/American General AirTran Airways All (n) 1 Security Services AltaTelecom Ambassador Personnel American General Life and Accident American Heart Association American Intercontinental University - Dunwoody Campus American Red Cross Ameriplan Aramark Aviation Services Atlanta and North Georgia Building and Construction Trades Council Atlanta Job Corps Atlanta Journal Constitution Atlanta Police Department Atlanta Technical College Atlanta Workforce Development Agency Atlantic Southeast Airlines Avon District 1186 Avon Products BB&T Bank Bellsouth Blue Water Security II, Inc. Bobby Dodd Institute Brian Center Nursing Care- Austell Buyers Credit Coach Care Entree' Central Michigan University Cherokee County Sheriff's Office Chick-fil-A, Inc. City of Douglasville City of Forest Park City of Hapeville City of Smyrna Clayton Career Resource Center Clayton County DOT Clayton County Government- Personnel Department Clayton County Public Schools Transportation Department Clayton County Water Authority Clayton State University CLP Resources Cobb County Board of Commissioners Cobb County Police Department Cobb County School System CobbWorks Coca-Cola College Park Police Department Comcast Cable Computer Mainstream Corporation Concessions/Paschals Country Hearth Suites Cyberwize.com Davita Jonesboro Dialysis Center Dekalb County Sheriff's Office Department of Aviation Devry University Douglas County Board of Commissioners Douglasville Police Department DreamSan Inc Employment Seeker Enterprise Rent-A-Car Exel Logistics Fayette County Board of Commissioners Fayette County Board of Education, Administration Services Department Fayette County Board of Education, Food Services Department Fayette County Board of Education, Transportation Department Federal Aviation Administration Federal Bureau of Prisons FedEx Ground First Transit Franklin and Wilson Airport Concessions From Concepts to Reality, Inc Fulton County Sheriff Office GA Department of Labor Vocational Rehabilitation Program GAT Airline Ground Support Gate Gourmet GC Services L.P. Georgia Air National Guard Georgia Army National Guard Georgia Department of Corrections Georgia Department of Human Resources Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Military College Georgia Power Georgia State University Goodwill Industries of North Georgia Grady Health System Greystone Power Company Griffin Technical College Griffin-Spalding County School System Gwinnett County Department of Corrections Gwinnett County Fire and Emergency Services Hands on Atlanta Happiness Habit Harbor Management, Inc Hartsfield Area TMA Hennesy Mazda Pontiac Buick GMC Henry County Fire Department Henry County Government Henry County School System Hertz Rent-A-Car InMotion Entertainment Installation Technology Design Systems Interactive College of Technology/ Interactive Learning Systems Internal Revenue Service JPacker Systems Kodak Dental Systems Kool Smiles Lockheed Martin Loomis, Fargo, and Co Lowe's Home Improvement Mackey & Associates/ MMG Marketing Group MARTA MBC Concessions, Inc. Mechanical Contractors Association of Georgia Melaleuca MetroPCS HIS Modern Woodmen of Atlanta Morehouse School of Medicine National Lending Corporation National Youth Apprenticeship Collaboration Options Unlimited Personal Touch Tours Travel Agency Popeyes Chicken & Checker Hamburger Prepaid Legal Services Primerica Financial Services Professional Career Development Institute Red Lobster Revelation Consulting Riverdale Police Department Robertson Sanitation/ United Waste Rockdale County Public Schools Rollins, Inc/ Orkin Pest Control Roswell Nursing and Rehab Center Saint Josephs Hospital Securitas Security Services Self Image Success Sheraton Gateway Hotel Shorter College Smyrna Police Department Social Security Administration Southern Regional Medical Center Southside Seafood Company Spherion Staffing Strayer University SunTrust Bank Talent Tree Crystal, Inc The Tensar Corporation, LLC The Wellness Company U.S. Air Force Reserve U.S. Customs and Border Protection U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration U.S. Food and Drug Administration U.S. Marine Corps U.S. Navy U.S. Office of Personnel Management U.S. Postal Service U.S. Small Business Administration United Association, Plumbers and Pipe Fitters, Local Union No.72 of Atlanta, Georgia Universal Forest Products Zoo AtlantaPrudential Georgia RealtyFast CapitalV & W Employment ServicesOptimum Staffing ServicesTalented UnlimitedSassafras Jazz BistroU.S. Department of Homeland SecurityCox CommunicationsUniversity of Georgia Verizon Wireless Waffle House Inc. Wal-mart, Inc. Warm Spirit Wellness Resources International, Inc. Wellstar Health System Wilsons Leather Work-tec WVFJ J93.3 Radio
04.27.2006	Today, Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced that Clayton State University will receive grants totaling $131,975 from the U.S. Department of Education’s Fulbright-Hays Group Projects Abroad Program. “I am proud to announce these funds for Clayton State University,” Congressman Scott said. “This grant will fund an important initiative to enhance the courses taught by our middle, high school, and college teachers in Georgia through travel abroad.” The Fulbright-Hays Group Projects Abroad Program supports overseas projects in training, research, and curriculum development in modern foreign languages and area studies for groups of teachers, students, and faculty engaged in a common endeavor. Projects may include short-term seminars, curriculum development, or group research or study. Clayton State University will utilize the funds for dual seminars on cultural diversity and sensitivity that will culminate with travel by 15 teachers to South Africa or Malaysia and Singapore. For more information, please visit the U.S. Department of Education’s website at www.ed.gov.
04.17.2006	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) visited Powder Springs Mayor Pat Vaughn and Council Members Nancy Arnold, Ra Barr, Al Thurman, Tom Bevirt, and Robert Farmer during their bi-weekly council meeting. Congressman Scott met with the municipal leaders to discuss the vital need for continued federal support of a number of key projects in the city of Powder Springs. These projects include protecting federal grants from budget keeps to carry on renovation efforts of the Coach George E. Ford Community Center. Congressman Scott also welcomed the opportunity to join Mayor Vaughn and Council Members in personally honoring Mrs. Willie G. Watts, a lifelong resident of Powder Springs, for her entrepreneurial spirit and courageous faith in the face of adversity. Mrs. Watts has been widely recognized because the State of Georgia abruptly prohibited her from selling homemade fried pies out of her kitchen earlier this year, citing a mandatory inspection law for all food preparers. Members of the State Assembly moved quickly to pass new legislation that allows people to sell up to $2,000 worth of homemade products without being licensed or inspected.
03.28.2006	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) and members of the House Agriculture Committee’s Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management convened a field hearing in Valdosta, Georgia to review federal commodity programs. This is the Subcommittee’s first in a series of hearings to review various aspects of the 2002 Farm Bill which is set to expire in September 2007. Ten Members attended today’s hearing and heard from one panel of witnesses about a variety of farm policy issues including commodity programs, export markets, market access, and crop insurance. “Today’s farmers must deal with a growing number of challenges, including rising energy costs, more environmental regulation, and natural disasters that have wreaked havoc on crops, livestock, and property,” said Congressman Scott. “We need to hear firsthand what’s working and what isn’t working in the current farm bill and what can be improved upon.” Agriculture is Georgia’s largest industry, contributing over $5.1 billion annually in cash receipts to the state’s economy. Georgia ranks first in the nation in the production of poultry and eggs and peanuts and ranks second in cotton production. Today’s witnesses represented the diversity of Georgia’s agricultural production including poultry, cotton, peanut, livestock, soybean, wheat, corn, fruit and vegetable producers. “This hearing today in Valdosta provided Georgia farmers an opportunity to share with us their experiences with the 2002 Farm Bill. We heard what portions of the Farm Bill have been working, what has not worked, and what priorities Georgia farmers believe we should address in the next farm bill,” said Congressman Scott. At least 160 members of the community attended the hearing including local producers and agribusiness leaders. Committee Members included: Congressman David Scott, D-GA, Chairman Jerry Moran, R-KS, Randy Neugebauer, R-TX, Mike Conaway, R-TX, Subcommittee Ranking Minority Member Bob Etheridge, D-NC, Jim Marshall, D-GA, John Barrow, D-GA, and Rick Larsen, D-WA. Reps. Jack Kingston, R-GA, and Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., D-GA, both members of the House Appropriations Committee, also participated in the hearing.To receive up-to-date schedule and news information from the Committee throughout the farm bill hearing process, please visit the House Committee on Agriculture website to sign up for email updates: http://agriculture.house.gov/Eupdates/updates.html. WITNESS LIST Panel I Mr. Donald Chase, Peanut, Corn and Poultry Producer, Oglethorpe, Georgia Mr. Wavell Robinson, Cotton Producer, Pavo, Georgia Mr. Bill Brim, Fruit and Vegetable Producer, Tifton, Georgia Mr. Mike Newberry, Cotton, Corn, Peanut, and Cattle Producer, Arlington, Georgia Mr. R. Lee Webster, Jr., Cotton, Corn, Soybean, and Wheat Producer, Waynesboro, Georgia Mr. Ralph Cavender, Onion, Peanut, Corn, and Soybean Producer, Claxton, Georgia
03.26.2006	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced the nomination of sixteen area students to each of the nation’s four Military Academies. Congressman Scott honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special reception in his Jonesboro District Office located at 173 North Main Street. “I am very proud of these young men and women. Appointment to a military academy demands exceptional academic achievement, character and leadership. Without question, each of these students possesses these qualities,” said Congressman Scott. “These students are outstanding young Americans who proudly reflect the 13th Congressional District’s commitment to education and service. I am confident that they will go on to honorably serve our nation as military academy graduates and leaders in the Armed Forces.”Congressman Scott announced the following primary nominations:United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO: Christopher Allen, Riverdale resident. Graduate of Riverdale High School and currently enrolled at the United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School. Christina Chu, Rex resident, Morrow High School Jeannette Diaz, Lilburn resident, Berkmar High School Jamerson Mason, Hampton resident, Lovejoy High School Priyenkumar Patel, Tucker resident, Meadowcreek High School Andrew Smith, Stockbridge resident, Eagle’s Landing High SchoolUnited States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY: Nicole Soto, Jonesboro resident. Graduate of Jonesboro High School graduate and currently enrolled at the Merchant Marine Academy Preparatory School .United States Military Academy at West Point, NY: JoAnna Rasmussen, Conyers resident, Salem High School Stefan Griffith, Hampton resident, Griffin High School JoTerrica Williams, Riverdale resident, North Clayton High School graduateUnited States Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD: Nicholas Anderson, Locust Grove resident, Luella High School Daniel Carl, Jonesboro resident, Lovejoy High School Anthony Chase, Riverdale resident, Riverdale High School Joseph DeJunco, Fairburn resident. Graduate of Woodward Academy and currently enrolled at the United States Naval Academy Preparatory School. James Golden, Conyers resident, Heritage High School Daniel Moore, Stockbridge resident, Stockbridge High SchoolIn November, Congressman Scott directed a nonpartisan Military Academy Board made up of five educators, military personnel, and academy graduates who reside in the district to interview an extremely qualified group of 13th District applicants. Students entering the academies this fall will graduate in 2010. To be considered for an academy appointment, an applicant must first be nominated. U.S. Senators and Members of the U.S. House of Representatives may nominate applicants who meet the following eligibility requirements: 17 years of age, but not have passed his or her 23rd birthday, he or she must be a U.S. citizen, and the applicant must be unmarried, not pregnant, and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. Students interested in applying for the Class of 2011 should contact Congressman Scott's Military Academy Coordinator David Johnson at 770-210-5073.
03.21.2006	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced the selection of three area student artists to receive scholarship awards ranging from $2,000 to $10,000 through the 13th District’s 4th Annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Congressman Scott honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special reception at the Arts Clayton Gallery in Jonesboro. “This competition presents a wonderful opportunity for our community to celebrate the talents of gifted young artists as well as the tireless work of parents and teachers who support their creative endeavors,” said Scott. “It is with great pleasure that I commend each of this year’s top three winners for their exceptional artistic achievements and I encourage all of the participating student artists of the competition to continue to set high goals for themselves.” The Art Institute of Atlanta presented the first prize winner with a $10,000 scholarship, the second prize--a $5000 scholarship, and the third prize--a $2000 scholarship. The Savannah College of Art and Design offered a $3,000 scholarship renewable for up to four years for first prize. This year’s top winners include: 1st – “Untitled” by Dean Beresford, Mundy’s Mill High School 2nd – “Why Are You Crying” by Rachel Saddler, Cedar Grove High School 3rd – “Untitled” by Ngoc Le, Riverdale High School The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. To date hundreds of thousands of high school students from around the nation have been able to participate at the local level. This year’s first-place winner Dean Beresford will be invited to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C. on Wednesday, June 28, 2006 where his winning piece “Untitled” will be on display in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol along with other winning entries from around the country. Students interested in participating in next year’s competition should contact Scott Goldstein at 770-210-5073.
03.03.2006	As Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District Representative, it is with great pleasure that each year I have the duty to nominate qualified candidates to the United States military academies. To provide an opportunity for students interested in attending a military academy to become familiar with the application and nomination process and to expose them to academy life, this year I along with other members of the Georgia Congressional Delegation will participate in the second statewide academy event hosted by Senator Isakson. The academy event is scheduled for Saturday, May 6, 2006 from 9:30 – 11:00 A.M. at Naval Air Station Atlanta. Representatives from all five academies as well as cadets and midshipman will be in attendance and will be available to answer questions from students and parents. The event is open to students in grades 8 – 12. Photo ID for all attendees required for Atlanta Road admittance checkpoint. Reservations required due to security restrictions. Participants MUST register online by April 26, 2006 at 5 p.m. with Senator Isakson’s office. PLEASE REGISTER ONLINE at: www.isakson.senate.gov/academy-day.htm. For more information about the 2006-07 nomination process for military academies contact David Johnson, Military Academy Coordinator at (770) 210-5073. All completed service academy applications must be returned to the Jonesboro District Office by Friday, October 13, 2006.
03.01.2006	In a Congressional hearing today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) blasted the Bush administration’s decision to allow Dubai Ports World, owned by the United Arab Emirates, to provide security and operations of six leading U.S. seaports. Congressman Scott sharply questioned Administration officials about how U.S. port security could be turned over to a country with ties to terrorism. “I am very troubled about this deal,” Congressman Scott said. “It weakens our homeland security. If the Administration will not end this deal, then Congress should. The American people deserve better than this.” The 9/11 Commission found that the UAE was a problem in combating terrorism. The country was one of three countries to recognize the Taliban as the legitimate government in Afghanistan. Further, the UAE acted as a transfer point for shipping illegal nuclear components to Iran, North Korea and Libya. The UAE had also been a base for wire transfer money to the 9/11 hijackers. The UAE gave support to al Qaeda and 2 of the 9/11 hijackers flew planes into the twin towers in New York were from the UAE. “We only inspect 5 percent of cargo at our ports,” Congressman Scott said. “We must take immediate action to screen 100% of the cargo that comes into U.S. ports. We must also ensure that American workers inspect all cargo at their foreign points of origin before they even arrive to our ports. These are important points that we must incorporate into our port security going forward.” Scott went on to say that: “Hong Kong inspects 100% their cargo and they process 22 million containers per year. They are not even a terrorist target. The U.S. only inspects 5 % of our cargo and we handle only 12 million containers per year. If Hong Kong can check 100%, the surely we can, especially since we are a terrorist target.” Congressman Scott is working on legislation, H.R. 4807, which would put a stop to all the port deals with the UAE companies.
02.18.2006	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) spoke to residents from throughout the Thirteenth District during his town hall meeting at the Fairburn City Hall. Congressman Scott began the meeting with an overview of his work in Washington to address constituents’ concerns about rising gas prices; problems enrolling in the new Medicare prescription program; our overextended military and his recent trip to Iraq; and the recent loss of thousands of jobs to the region with Delta’s downsizing and the imminent closing of Ford’s Hapeville plant and Forts McPherson and Gillem. Scott also listened intently and provided direct responses to more than sixty constituent questions on a wide range of issues. To address inquiries about the new Medicare prescription benefit, Congressman Scott was joined by Rhonda Hunter with Medicare and Bridget Delaney and Lola Parks from Georgia Cares. “I always enjoy hosting town hall meetings. These meetings give me an opportunity to share my legislative priorities and accomplishments and, more importantly, to hear directly from my constituents about the issues that matter most to them,” said Congressman Scott. “South Fulton County is home to a thriving, fast growing community. I am proud to represent this vibrant community in Washington, and I will move forthrightly to address some of the rapid growth challenges facing South Fulton residents.”And Congressman Scott highlighted his work in Congress in securing federal funds for Fulton County: $4.6 million for access roads and $3 million for rail improvements in Hapeville. $800,000 to improve the intersection of Butner Road and Stonewall Tell Road. $1.2 million to widen Fulton Industrial from Camp Creek Parkway to the rail line. $2,000,000 for transportation improvements to the Chattahoochee Hill Country master plan. $400,000 to replace instrument landing equipment at Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport. $300,000 for security upgrades at the Fulton County Justice Center Complex. $3,000,000 to the Georgia Department of Labor to assist hurricane evacuees.
02.16.2006	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) will host a Town Hall Meeting in the city of Fairburn on Saturday, February 18, 2006 to hear directly from constituents of the Thirteenth Congressional District. Residents from throughout the district are invited to attend the meeting, especially constituents from South Fulton, Clayton, Henry, and southwest DeKalb counties. During the Town Hall Meeting, Congressman Scott will discuss the new Medicare prescription program, Social Security, veterans and military affairs, healthcare, jobs and the economy, and other issues currently before Congress. Additionally, Medicare specialists will be on hand to provide direct and immediate help for constituents with questions about the new prescription benefit program. WHAT: 13th District Town Hall Meeting WHEN: Saturday, February 18, 2006 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. WHERE: Fairburn City Hall 56 Malone Street Fairburn, GA 30213 For more information, please call 770-210-5073. See you Saturday!
02.09.2006	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) applauded the announcement by Delta Air Lines of plans to link the world’s largest airport in Atlanta to Dakar, Senegal and the growing South African capital city of Johannesburg by becoming the only U.S. air carrier to provide scheduled service between the U.S. and Africa beginning December 2006. “The addition of these routes to Africa is excellent news for Delta and the people of Georgia,” said Congressman Scott. “This news shows that Delta is working hard to come out of bankruptcy and become financially solvent. I have worked tirelessly on behalf of the thousands of Delta employees who live in my district to help Delta keep its pension plan and look forward to working with Delta Air Lines to make this new route meaningful and successful.” With today’s announcement, Delta filed a request with the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) for approval to offer customers service within Africa – a process expected to take 60 to 90 days. Once approved in the U.S. Delta will then seek clearance from the governments of Senegal and South Africa. With the new service, Delta customers traveling to or from Africa would have convenient connecting opportunities to nearly 900 daily Delta and Delta Connection departures to more than 220 worldwide destinations across five continents – more than from any single airline hub in the world. Delta is the largest private employer in the 13th Congressional District.
02.01.2006	Congressman David Scott released the following statement today in response to the President’s State of the Union speech to Congress last night: “Last night, while the President delivered his State of the Union address, our nation continued to look for much-needed leadership in several critical areas. Americans want bold and clear plans that will strengthen healthcare, meet our energy challenges, bolster the sagging economy, strengthen our military and benefits for veterans, and improve our foreign policy. I, like many Americans, wanted to hear the President deliver some real solutions for the health care crisis in this country. It is shameful that in the most industrialized nation in the world more than 44 million Americans have no health insurance. In Georgia alone, thousands of families are struggling to meet skyrocketing health care costs and over 1.4 million people do not have any health insurance. I had also hoped to hear the President address the complexities of the new Medicare prescription drug program. Far too many seniors are having to go without their medications because the program has been plagued by glitches and is just too confusing. With the President’s support, Congress can move quickly to extend the enrollment period for Medicare beneficiaries and to revisit some of the program’s complexities. Additionally, while our economy has experienced a slight upturn in the past year, many Georgians are not feeling the benefits of economic growth and are grappling with the loss of thousands of jobs in the manufacturing and transportation industries to Asian markets. Our president had an awesome opportunity before him to foster economic prosperity that reaches all Americans and creates good jobs at home. I was pleased to hear the President denounce our overdependence on oil and share his plans to keep America competitive while energizing private investment in technology for alternative fuel and transportation through tax incentives. The President must go further and also support pension relief for our ailing airlines. Finally, while this administration has made the war on terror a top priority, the President must go beyond urging Americans to simply stay the course. Without question our military is the most powerful in the world. We can successfully fight any war, anywhere. However, our greatest military weakness lies in our inability to maintain peace post-conflict. I observed firsthand during my recent trip to the Middle East the extraordinary job our soldiers are doing in war zones in Iraq and Afghanistan. But we must make our military stronger. Our troops are overextended, should be equipped with the latest technology, and deserve better services and benefits. We also cannot continue to go at this war on terror alone. We need to strengthen our diplomatic relationships with foreign nations so that American taxpayers are not bearing almost all the costs and casualties in stabilizing and rebuilding Iraq. At the same time we still need a clear and decisive measure of victory so that we can bring our troops home."
01.23.2006	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) issued the following statement on the decision by Ford Motors to close their plant in Hapeville, located in the 13th District: Today Ford Motor Company announced that it would be shutting the Ford Motor Plant in Hapeville, Georgia. The plant will immediately be idled while the company negotiates with the United Auto Workers on the terms of the layoff of the nearly 2,100 employees at the plant. “I am very disappointed that Ford decided to close a vital plant in Georgia that employs so many of my constituents. This plant has played a vital role since 1947 in stimulating the local economy and supporting the Hapeville community. Since arriving in Congress, I have been a strong champion of keeping this facility open. I worked with Senator Isakson to successfully bring $4.6 million in road improvements and $3 million in rail improvements to the Ford Plant in Hapeville just this past year. I will continue to work overtime to ensure that the employees are provided with needed assistance in this difficult period of transition for them.” Ford announced it will close 14 manufacturing facilities by 2012 and today announced the idling of 7 of those plants. The closures are part of a process to restructure the company and streamline the divisions which are losing money. Although Ford announced this morning a $2 billion annual profit last year, the growth was in their Ford Credit Service Division. The auto manufacturing division actually lost $1.2 billion last year, prompting today’s layoffs.
01.20.2006	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced today his participation in the 25th Annual High School Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. High school students of the 13th District are invited to submit art work for the competition. “I am excited to once again launch the annual Congressional Art Competition,” said Congressman Scott. “This competition presents a great opportunity for our community to celebrate the talents of gifted young artists as well as the tireless work of parents and teachers who support their creative endeavors.” The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. To date hundreds of thousands of high school students from around the nation have been able to participate at the local level. This year’s first-place winner will be invited to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C. where their artwork will hang in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol for one year. Students may obtain entry packets from their High School Art Teachers. All entries must be delivered to Congressman Scott’s Jonesboro District Office located at 173 North Main Street no later than 5:30 pm on Monday, February 20, 2006. On Saturday, March 18, 2006, Congressman Scott will host a reception to recognize all participating students of the competition and announce the top three winners at the Arts Clayton Gallery. Residents throughout the 13th District are invited to come out to support area students and view an exhibit of all of the entries. During last year’s reception, scholarships to the Art Institute of Atlanta or the Savannah College of Art and Design were offered as awards to the winners. The Art Institute of Atlanta presented the first prize winner with a $10,000 scholarship, the second prize--a $5000 scholarship, and the third prize--a $2000 scholarship. The Savannah College of Art and Design offered a $3,000 scholarship renewable for up to four years for first prize. For more information about the Congressional Art Competition, including competition guidelines, please contact Scott Goldstein at 770-210-5073.
01.13.2006	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) met with U.S. troops stationed at Camp Victory in Iraq and praised soldiers for their extraordinary valor and noble service. “I cannot describe how proud I am of the fine job that our brave young soldiers are doing in Iraq,” said Congressman Scott. “Our troops are successfully fighting the Taliban in Afghanistan and insurgents in Iraq while winning the hearts and minds of people throughout the Middle East region. I was especially honored to meet and have lunch with soldiers from Georgia at Camp Victory today. I was humbled to hear of their experiences and proud to personally share how thankful and supportive I and the people of Georgia are of their many contributions to the ongoing war in Iraq.” Congressman Scott is traveling with a small bipartisan group of members of Congress to assess the ongoing war on terror in the Middle East firsthand. Scott has spent the past week in Bulgaria, Afghanistan, Kuwait, Pakistan, and Iraq visiting with troops and meeting with military leaders and government officials.
01.08.2006	Earlier this evening Congressman David Scott (D-GA) departed for Iraq to visit with American troops, meet with military leaders and newly-elected Iraqi government officials, and travel to other countries in the Middle East. “By being in Iraq in person and on the ground with our troops, our generals, and the Iraqi people, I will come back to this country better informed,” said Congressman Scott. “I will be able to speak in Congress and to my constituents in Georgia with greater intelligence and credibility on the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, the situation in the Middle East, and the overall war on terror.” Congressman Scott is traveling with a small bipartisan group of members of Congress. They will visit Iraq, Afghanistan, and other nations in the Middle East. “This trip will give me the opportunity to show my support for our troops in person and tell them how much we all appreciate their courage, their valor, and their sacrifices,” Scott said. “Further, this trip gives me a chance to see for myself just how the situation in Iraq is going.” Scott continued, “This is a very critical and important time to be going to Iraq, especially after the recent elections for the new Iraqi government and the announced start of withdrawal of U.S troops from Iraq, as I recommended last month. This is also a crucial time because of what I see as a transition from military to a more political strategy for success in Iraq. “And, of course,” Congressman Scott added, “we now have increasing uncertainty and instability surrounding Israel due to both the grave situation with Prime Minister Sharon and the troubling security issues with Iran, Syria, and Saudi Arabia. All of this makes the Middle East region very challenging and unstable.” “We must all work together - Democrats and Republicans - for our success in Iraq and Afghanistan and for peace in the entire Middle East. We must remember, America is still the greatest hope for peace in the world and the key is success in the Middle East. This trip will help me as a member of Congress play a stronger role in finding solutions and developing a more successful foreign policy.”
01.04.2006	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) and Mrs. Alfredia Scott announced the selection of 6 area students to receive scholarship awards ranging from $1,800 to $2,000 through the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Spouses Scholarship program. Congressman and Mrs. Scott honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special reception today in his Jonesboro District Office. “By earning these awards, each student has demonstrated a strong work ethic and high commitment to achieve excellence in their schools and communities,” said Congressman Scott. Mrs. Scott, wife of Congressman Scott, was very instrumental in securing the scholarships for the students as an active member of the CBC Spouses program. “It is with great pleasure that my husband and I commend each of these students for their exceptional academic achievement and we encourage them to continue to set high goals for themselves,” said Mrs. Scott. This year’s scholarship recipients include: $2,000 CBC Spouses General Education Award · Char-Shenda Crawford, Southeast Atlanta resident, Spelman College · Arthur C. Franklin, Ellenwood resident, Morehouse College · Dwight Helton, McDonough resident, Morehouse College · Camille Matthews, College Park resident, Georgia State University · Ibrahim Muhammad, Riverdale resident, Xavier University $1,800 CBC Spouses Cheerio Brand Health Initiative Award · Ebony Mulero, Jonesboro resident, Georgia Baptist College of Nursing at Mercer University The CBC Spouses Education Scholarship Fund was established in 1988 in response to federal cuts in spending for education programs and scholarships. This program provides tuition assistance to enable students to fulfill their higher education goals. Students are required to live or attend school in a Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Member’s district and be enrolled full-time in good academic standing at an accredited college or university. Students interested in applying for future awards should contact Chandra Harris at 770-210-5073.
12.19.2005	Congressman David Scott announced today that legislation, H.R. 2099, to designate Arabia Mountain in DeKalb, Rockdale and Henry Counties as a National Heritage Area, passed the House early this morning by unanimous consent. Senators Chambliss and Isakson introduced similar legislation, S. 203, which passed the Senate earlier this year. “The Arabia Mountain Heritage Area has just moved one step closer to reality," said Congressman Scott. "Arabia Mountain is recognized as a natural wonder and I am pleased to work with my colleagues from Georgia to help protect and preserve this special place for future generations to enjoy.” According to the National Park Service, a National Heritage Area is a place “designated by the United States Congress, where natural, cultural, historic and recreational resources combine to form a cohesive, nationally distinctive landscape arising from patterns of human activity shaped by geography.” The designation would include a large portion of eastern DeKalb, western Rockdale and northern Henry counties, which are represented in part by Congressman Scott. In DeKalb, the area includes Davidson-Arabia Mountain Nature Preserve, Miners Creek Preserve, Arabia Lake, and Stephenson Creek. More information about Arabia Mountain can be found online at: www.arabiaalliance.org. The Arabia Mountain Heritage Area has broad support from key governmental and community leaders as well as a majority of the Georgia Congressional delegation. The House and Senate versions of the legislation must now be reconciled before receiving final approval by Congress.
12.15.2005	Today, Congressman David Scott urged his colleagues to support H.R. 2830, the Pension Reform Act, during remarks on the House Floor and, subsequently, praised the House passage of the major pension overhaul bill. Passage of the Pension Reform Act provides for long-needed pension relief for defined benefit plans used by mature industries such as auto manufacturers. Congressman Scott has worked across party lines to ensure that Delta receives relief on its pension payment plan. "While the House-passed bill does not include specific airline pension relief, it moves the process forward," Congressman Scott said. "I will be working to ensure that the Isakson airline pension language is included in the final version of the bill. It is imperative that we help Delta keep its pension plan. We do not want the bankruptcy judge to dump the pension on the government backup agency." The House pension bill must now be reconciled with the Senate version of the bill. The Senate plan includes relief for airline pensions. Delta is the largest private employer in the 13th Congressional District.
11.18.2005	Today, U.S. Representative David Scott (GA-13) announced that federal funds totaling $530,000 have been awarded to the City of Stockbridge for a pedestrian trail project. The project was included in the bill funding the U.S. Departments of Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, and other agencies for Fiscal Year 2006. “I am pleased to be able to provide the City of Stockbridge with assistance in improving trails in their parks,” Congressman Scott said. “This worthy project will assist the City greatly in improving the access to area parks and recreation for residents.” Stockbridge will utilize their federal award to construct a pedestrian tunnel under the Norfolk Southern Railroad to connect Davis Road and East Atlanta Road. This path will connect Clark Park and Gardner Park. The U.S House of Representatives passed the FY 2006 spending bill today. It must now be signed into law by the President.
11.15.2005	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced his selection of Rev. James Harris, Senior Pastor of Dixon Grove Baptist Church in Jonesboro, to serve as the Thirteenth Congressional District Delegate for the distinguished 2005 White House Conference on Aging. “I am pleased to announce my selection of Rev. James Harris to represent the Thirteenth District in Washington, D.C. at the upcoming White House Conference on Aging. Without reservation, I selected Rev. Harris based on his continued and far-reaching community service as Senior Pastor of Dixon Grove Baptist Church,” said Congressman Scott. “A committed and well-accomplished minister, Rev. James Harris has demonstrated special efforts to improve the quality of life for members of Dixon Grove Baptist Church and residents of the greater Clayton County community. Rev. Harris has established himself as a humble, concerned and active citizen of constant service to his community.” The White House Conference on Aging occurs once a decade to make aging policy recommendations to the President and Congress, and to assist the public and private sectors in promoting dignity, health, independence and economic security of current and future generations of older persons. Taking place in Washington, D.C. December 11-14, the 2005 White House Conference on Aging occurs as the first wave of the baby boom generation prepares for retirement, creating an important opportunity to creatively assess aging in America and improve the lives of older Americans. Rev. James Harris will participate in conference discussions on such issues as planning for expenses of long term care, creating incentives for retaining older workers, and promoting increased personal savings and investments for retirement as well as health promotion and disease prevention. As the Senior Pastor of Dixon Grove Baptist Church for twenty-five consecutive years, Rev. James Harris is an active member of the Clayton County Association of Christian Ministers, the Clayton County NAACP and the Jonesboro and Henry County Hospital Chaplain Societies. Rev. Harris has also been the recipient of commendations by numerous professional and civic organizations.
11.09.2005	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced funding for a project in Griffin. The project was included in the bill funding the U.S. Departments of State, Justice, and Commerce, and other agencies for Fiscal Year 2006. The Griffin Police Department will receive $50,000 for technology upgrades. “I am pleased to be able to provide the Griffin Police Department with assistance in improving their law enforcement technology,” Congressman Scott said. “Given the extremely tight budget situation in Washington, it is an accomplishment to be able to secure funding for important projects for the residents of Griffin. I salute the men and women who serve in the Griffin Police Department.” The FY 2006 spending bill was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives today. It must now be signed into law by the President.
11.09.2005	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced funding for a project in Newton County. The project was included in the bill funding the U.S. Departments of State, Justice, and Commerce, and other agencies for Fiscal Year 2006. The Newton County Sheriff’s Department will receive $50,000 for technology upgrades. “I am pleased to be able to provide the Newton County Sheriff’s Department with assistance in improving their law enforcement technology,” Congressman Scott said. “Given the extremely tight budget situation in Washington, it is an accomplishment to be able to secure funding for important projects for the residents of Newton County. I salute the men and women who serve in the Sheriff’s Office.” The FY 2006 spending bill was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives today. It must now be signed into law by the President.
10.27.2005	Today, Congressman David Scott (GA-13) made a final push to keep Forts Gillem and McPherson open by voting in support of a joint House resolution to reject the president's approval of the 2005 round of base realignments and closures. Congressman Scott cosponsored the measure, H.J. Res. 65, which disapproves the recommendations of the Defense Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) as submitted by the president to Congress on September 15, 2005. H.J. Res. 65 failed to pass in the House today by a vote of 85 - 324. “Unfortunately, this round of base closings and realignments has failed to accomplish the military goals of shedding excess operations and facilities without seriously weakening our national security and homeland defense,” Congressman Scott said. “I strongly oppose the president’s recommendations to close Ft. Gillem and Fort McPherson, and I have tried to make a strong case in their defense at every opportunity available to me, including directly addressing members of the BRAC Commission and urging President Bush to consider their unmatched military value and unique strategic readiness for homeland defense.” Under the first four BRAC rounds through 2001, approximately 20% of the Pentagon's capacity that existed in 1988 had been eliminated, producing an immediate net savings of approximately $17.7 billion and an additional $7 billion annually since 2001. The current recommendations involve a greater degree of reorganizing and sharing underused facilities, rather than outright closures. Overall savings are expected to be lower than in previous rounds. “I am very disappointed by the outcome of today’s vote and that Ft. Gillem and Ft. McPherson remained on the BRAC list for closure despite the vital role they continue to play a in coordinating the deployment of troops abroad and federal response to national disasters like this year’s string of devastating hurricanes,” Congressman Scott stated. “I will work with defense officials and the Local Redevelopment Authority during the upcoming transition period for Forts Gillem and McPherson.” Congressman Scott’s efforts to remove Forts Gillem and McPherson from the BRAC list of closings proved partly successful as he secured the extension of six federal functions at an enclave at Ft. Gillem, blocking a complete closing of the military base. These functions include the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Laboratory, Georgia Army National Guard, 3rd MEDCOM, SE Army Reserve Intelligence Center, FEMA, and Red Cross. Congress had until October 30, 2005 to pass a joint resolution of disapproval of the list. Following today’s vote, the Defense Department is now charged with carrying out the recommended closures and realignments. ### RELATED ITEMS: SCOTT RESPONDS TO BASE CLOSING ANNOUNCEMENT CONGRESSMAN SCOTT FIGHTS TO KEEP FORT GILLEM OPEN Congressman Scott Tours Fort Gillem with BRAC Commissioner Congressman Scott Joins BRAC Commissioner on Tour of Fort McPherson COLUMN: Forts Gillem and McPherson Provide Critical Link for Troops ARTICLE: Atlanta Journal-Constitution: Base Backers Make Case July 1, 2005 Text of Congressman Scott's Opening Remarks at BRAC Regional Hearing VIDEO: June 30 -Congressman Scott and Congressman John Lewis Fight Ft. Gillem and Fort McPherson Base Closings at BRAC Regional Hearing, held at Georgia Tech Conference Center (streaming footage, courtesy of Georgia Public Broadcasting) VIDEO: June 30 - Statewide Overview of Recommended Military Base Closings from BRAC Regional Hearing, held at Georgia Tech Conference Center (streaming footage, courtesy of Georgia Public Broadcasting) VIDEO: June 30 - Closing Remarks from BRAC Regional Hearing at Georgia Tech Conference Center (streaming footage, courtesy of Georgia Public Broadcasting) VIDEO: June 30 - Congressman Scott and State Official Speak at Press Conference Following BRAC Regional Hearing (streaming footage, courtesy of Georgia Public Broadcasting) Scott Condemns Base Closings
10.19.2005	Congressman David Scott spoke at the first of a series of Congressional hearings to take action regarding the Voting Rights Act and six temporary provisions set to expire in 2007. The hearing was held yesterday in the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution to review the impact and effectiveness of the Voting Rights Act. “The Voting Rights Act is one of the most important pieces of legislation enacted by Congress in the 20th century,” Congressman Scott stated. “The Act along with its special provisions has proven tremendously successful at expanding and protecting the opportunity for participation in the political process for all Americans. That is why Congress must not delay in extending and strengthening provisions of the Act which expire in 2007.” SCOTT EXPRESSES CONCERNS ABOUT THE RECENTLY PASSED GEORGIA VOTER ID LAW: Scott particularly took issue with the effectiveness of the preclearance provisions in Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act that require states, including Georgia, with a history of discriminatory voting practices to obtain pre-clearance for any proposed changes to their election laws or procedures. “The fact that Georgia’s obviously discriminatory Voter ID law was precleared by the U.S. Department of Justice underscores the continued need for the judicial remedies of the Voting Rights Act to be extended. A citizen’s right to vote must not be left to the political winds of which party controls the Justice Department, but should be enshrined in our federal laws and protected by judicial review,” Scott said. Congressman Scott will join members of the House Judiciary Subcommittee during their next hearing on Thursday, October 20, 2005, to examine the scope and criteria for coverage under the special provisions of the Act. President Lyndon Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act into law on August 6, 1965, to protect the voting rights of all Americans in view of practices by some states and counties to deny many citizens access to the ballot because of their race, ethnicity, and language-minority status. Major provisions of the act due to expire in 2007 if not extended by Congress create a right of action for private citizens or the government to challenge discriminatory voting practices and procedures. The Voting Rights Act has been amended and sections that were due to expire extended in 1970, 1975, 1982, and 1992. ###
10.11.2005	Today Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced that he is currently accepting applications for nomination to our nation’s military service academies. “The privilege of nominating qualified students to the Naval, Air Force, Merchant Marine and Army Academies is one of my most important and rewarding responsibilities,” said Congressman Scott. “The education provided at our nation’s prestigious service academies is of the highest quality and offers challenges that develop our young people into future leaders.” Students who are residents of Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District and interested in nomination to the United States Naval Academy, United States Air Force Academy, United States Merchant Marine Academy or the United States Military Academy may find more information online and may obtain applications through Scott’s District Offices. Interested students may also download and complete our application online. All completed applications must be mailed and received by no later than 5 p.m., Friday, October 14, 2005 in Congressman Scott’s Jonesboro Office located at 173 North Main Street, Jonesboro, GA 30236. Candidates for nomination must be U.S. citizens and at least 17 years old but not have passed their 23rd birthday on July 1 of the year of admission. Applicants must also be unmarried, not pregnant, and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. Applicants will be evaluated using the “whole person concept.” This includes an assessment of academic performance, leadership ability, moral character, adequacy of preparation, and commitment to attend a service academy. “The process toward achieving a nomination is a long and arduous one,” said Scott. “I commend the commitment of students working toward reaching this goal and wish each applicant the very best of success in achieving it.” For additional information regarding the nomination process or to request an application, students should contact David Johnson, the Thirteenth Congressional District's Military Academy Coordinator, at (770) 210-5073. ### RELATED ITEMS: 2006 Service Academy Information and Nomination Application Congressman Scott Invites Students to Military Academy Day 2005: September 17, 2005
09.26.2005	U.S. Representative David Scott (GA-13) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has awarded the Hapeville Fire Department a grant totaling $95,877 through its 2005 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. “This funding provides resources for emergency preparedness and homeland security initiatives that are desperately needed by our local fire departments. Firefighters with the Hapeville Fire Department will use these funds to improve their firefighting operations and firefighter health and safety programs,” said Congressman Scott. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program awards one-year grants directly to fire departments to support the nation’s firefighters and the services they deliver. The grant awarded to the Hapeville Fire Department specifically provides funding in the area of Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety, which includes training, wellness and fitness, firefighting equipment, personal protective equipment, and modifications to fire stations and facilities. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in Washington and local officials to deliver much-needed resources to our area first responders and the communities they safeguard,” said Congressman Scott. Fire departments with questions about the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program can reach the fire grants help desk by calling 1-866-274-0960 or by writing to firegrants@dhs.gov. For the most current information regarding the 2005 Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program including a complete list of applications, financial information, and fire department data, visit www.firegrant.com ###
09.26.2005	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced that a federal grant for $13,878 has been awarded to the City of Conyers by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). “I am thrilled to share this good news with the fine people of Conyers,” said Congressman Scott. “Law enforcement officers of Conyers will use these funds to purchase needed equipment to prevent and control crime in the communities they serve. This grant award also demonstrates my work in Washington to deliver more money to assist local communities throughout the Thirteenth District, especially to our first responders.” The grant awarded to the City of Conyers was funded through the Department of Justice’s FY2005 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program. JAG Grants may be used to provide personnel, equipment, training, technical assistance, and information systems for more widespread apprehension, prosecution, adjudication, detention, and rehabilitation of offenders who violate state and local laws. ###
09.20.2005	U.S. Representative David Scott (GA-13) announced today that federal grants totaling $746,153 have been awarded to Walton County from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). “I am pleased to share this great news with the residents of Monroe and Social Circle,” said Congressman Scott. “Each of these grant awards represent my continued efforts to bring more money back from Washington to the Thirteenth District to support a high quality of life for all of our residents.” Grants awarded include: • $635,133 to the Monroe Housing Authority under HUD’s FY2005 Capital Fund Program for modernization, development and management improvements; • $111,020 to the Social Circle Housing Authority also under HUD’s FY2005 Capital Fund Program for modernization, development and management improvements. ###
09.20.2005	U.S. Representative David Scott (GA-13) announced today that federal grants totaling $386,263 have been awarded to Gwinnett County from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). “I am pleased to share this great news with the residents of Lawrenceville and Norcross,” said Congressman Scott. “Each of these grant awards represent my continued efforts to bring more money back from Washington to the Thirteenth District to support a high quality of life for all of our residents.” Grants awarded include: $321,102M to the Lawrenceville Housing Authority under HUD’s FY2005 Capital Fund Program for modernization, development and management improvements; $65,161 to the Norcross Housing Authority also under HUD’s FY2005 Capital Fund Program for modernization, development and management improvements. ###
09.20.2005	U.S. Representative David Scott (GA-13) announced today that federal grants totaling more than $31.5 million have been awarded to Fulton and Fayette Counties by the U.S. Departments of Education (DOED), Justice (DOJ), and Housing and Urban Development (HUD). “I am pleased to share this great news with residents of Fulton and Fayette Counties,” said Congressman Scott. “Each of these grant awards represent my continued efforts to bring more money back from Washington to the Thirteenth District to support a high quality of life for all of our residents.” Grants awarded include: • $318,600 to the Fulton County School District under the DOED Carol M. White Physical Education program to initiate and enhance physical fitness programs for students in grades kindergarten through the 12th grade; • $305,149 to the Fayette County Board of Education also under the DOED Carol M. White Physical Education program to initiate and enhance physical fitness programs for students in grades kindergarten through the 12th grade; • $1,581,600 to the Georgia Department of Juvenile Justice by DOJ to support operations of the state juvenile justice system including delinquency prevention programs and activities; • $27,528,070 to the Georgia Criminal Justice Coordinating Council by DOJ to support the establishment and continuation of effective criminal justice programs in Georgia by enhancing crime victims services, funding a study to assess the methamphetamine epidemic, and enhancing services in cases involving violent crimes against women; • $12,824 to the City of Union City through the DOJ FY2005 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program to support this city’s gang education awareness and resistance program; • $989,175 to the Housing Authority of Fulton County under HUD’s FY2005 Capital Fund Program for modernization, development and management improvements; • $766,680 to the College Park Housing Authority under HUD’s FY2005 Capital Fund Program for modernization, development and management improvements; • $38,989 to the Fairburn Housing Authority under HUD’s FY2005 Capital Fund Program for modernization, development and management improvements; • $31,368 to the Palmetto Housing Authority under HUD’s FY2005 Capital Fund Program for modernization, development and management improvements; • $24,379 to the Union City Housing Authority under HUD’s FY2005 Capital Fund Program for modernization, development and management improvements. ###
09.20.2005	U.S. Representative David Scott (GA-13) announced today that a federal grant has been awarded to the City of Jackson from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). “I am pleased to share this great news with residents of Butts County,” said Congressman Scott. “This grant award represents my continued efforts to bring more money back from Washington to the Thirteenth District to support a high quality of life for all of our residents.” Grant awarded includes: • $153,768 to the Jackson Housing Authority under HUD’s FY2005 Capital Fund Program for modernization, development and management improvements. ###
09.20.2005	U.S. Representative David Scott (GA-13) announced today that a federal grant has been awarded to the City of Griffin from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). “I am pleased to share this great news with the residents of Spalding County,” said Congressman Scott. “This grant award represents my continued efforts to bring more money back from Washington to the Thirteenth District to support a high quality of life for all of our residents.” Grant awarded includes: • $406,538 to the Griffin Housing Authority under HUD’s FY2005 Capital Fund Program for modernization, development and management improvements. ###
09.17.2005	Today, Congressman David Scott participated in the first Congressional hearing to take action regarding the Supreme Court case Kelo v. City of New London which allows that private property may be condemned and turned over to private developers. The hearing was held in the House Agriculture Committee of which Congressman Scott is the most senior member from Georgia. Mr. Alva Hopkins of Folkston, Georgia testified on behalf of the Forest Landowners Association. “The Supreme Court decision was a wake-up call for many communities,” Congressman Scott said. “I have heard loud and clear from my constituents that they are worried that their property rights are in jeopardy.” The Committee specifically will consider H.R. 3405, the Strengthening the Ownership of Private Property Act of 2005, also known as the STOPP Act. This measure would prohibit the use of federal economic development funds by any state or locality that uses the power of eminent domain to obtain property for private commercial development or that fails to pay relocation costs to persons displaced for economic development purposes. “As a cosponsor of the STOPP Act, I will work to ensure that no federal dollars will be used to unjustly take any property at the local and state level. I will continue to support efforts to curtail the power of eminent domain in an effort to protect private property rights,” Scott stated. The Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution requires the government to compensate the owner of property taken by eminent domain, stating that no “private property shall be taken for public use, without just compensation.” On June 23, 2005, the Supreme Court handed down its decision in the case of Kelo v. City of New London. In Kelo, the Court addressed the city's condemnation of private property to implement its redevelopment plan aimed at invigorating a depressed economy. By 5-4, the Court held that the condemnations satisfied the Fifth Amendment requirement that property condemnations be for a "public use," notwithstanding that the property, as part of the plan, might be turned over to private developers.
09.15.2005	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) praised the decision by the Georgia Department of Transportation (DOT) Board to adopt a resolution in support of a commuter rail line to run along the Macon Corridor from Atlanta to Lovejoy with possible service to commence in October 2006. “I commend the members of the Georgia DOT Board for acting forthrightly in support of the Atlanta to Lovejoy commuter rail line today,” said Congressman Scott. “Georgia is continuing to experience rapid growth. This line will provide tremendous economic benefits to the Southside communities all along the rail route as well as much needed alternative transportation for people who brave terrible traffic on choked roads and ever-rising gas prices in metro Atlanta. With today’s vote, Georgia is moving forward quickly to provide solid evidence of progress on eliminating congestion and improving air quality for its residents.” The resolution was adopted during a full Georgia DOT Board meeting today with a 7 to 5 vote in favor of the project. $87 million in federal funds matched with $19 million in state funds will upgrade rail lines, purchase rail cars, and build park-and-ride lots and station platforms. On August 2, 2005, the Clayton County Commission adopted a Resolution authorizing the County Commissioner to enter into a Local Project Agreement with the DOT for the establishment and operation of the project.
09.14.2005	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) issued the following statement following the decision by locally-based Delta Air Lines to file for bankruptcy court protection from creditors: “The news of Delta’s filing for bankruptcy today greatly affects residents of the 13th District and the Metro Atlanta economy as Delta is metro Atlanta’s largest private employer,” said Congressman Scott. “Delta employees and passengers should not expect any across-the-board layoffs or disruption of flights and frequent flier miles. Rather, Delta is using bankruptcy as a good plan for financial restructuring and to access an immediate infusion of cash to pay off debts. I will continue to monitor the effect on employees, especially related to pension benefits, and work in Congress to pass legislation that will allow airlines like Delta to spread out their pension plan payments. Overall, bankruptcy will allow Delta to continue operations and service to nearly all of its current destinations.” ### Related Article Atlanta Journal Constitution: Thursday, September 15, 2005 "What does future hold for fliers, workers?"
09.08.2005	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) called for immediate federal aid for victims of Hurricane Katrina during a joint press conference with Representatives John Lewis (GA-5) and Cynthia McKinney (GA-4), Mayor Shirley Franklin of Atlanta, and Reverend Joseph Lowery at the Atlanta City Hall. “People are dying because FEMA and the military cannot get to Louisiana and the Gulf Coast fast enough,” said Congressman Scott. “This is a shame that that the federal government is moving so slowly. People are dying because their federal government has failed them. The greatest tragedy in this devastating ordeal is the failure of the federal government and the military to quickly respond. This is unbelievable that this is happening in the United States of America.” Scott continued, “I commend our own Lt. Gen. Russel Honore’ of Fort Gillem, who according to the Mayor of New Orleans, is the only bright spot in this otherwise disastrous federal response. The colossal-sized failure of the federal government and military warrants the call for a Congressional investigation.” ### How You Can Help: Hurricane Katrina Information and Relief Efforts
09.01.2005	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced today that Congress will vote on Friday to approve a $10 billion emergency aid package to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina. “We in Congress are moving quickly to provide the necessary funding for relief efforts for the victims in the Gulf Coast and New Orleans,” said Congressman Scott. “The magnitude of destruction and suffering is staggering and I will continue to do everything possible to provide relief for the victims of this horrific tragedy. This $10 billion relief package is simply a first step on the long road to recovery, rebuilding, and the renewal of life for our fellow citizens in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.” The Emergency Supplemental is likely to pass by unanimous consent and will serve as a temporary funding measure until a much larger relief package is approved. The bulk of the relief package will be sent to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), which is taking the lead in federal relief efforts in New Orleans and the Gulf Coast region. ### How You Can Help: Hurricane Katrina Information and Relief Efforts
08.30.2005	Our deepest condolences go to the victims of Hurricane Katrina, who lost their lives, their homes and their livelihoods. Our thoughts and prayers are with them and their families. While we are devastated by the enormity of this tragedy, our faith, tenacity and determination ensure that we will rebuild and we will endure. The American spirit of generosity will be evident in the days to come, as communities in the afflicted areas come together and our American family from coast to coast provides assistance. This page provides useful information about Hurricane Katrina, links to organizations that are helping provide relief, and how to obtain disaster assistance. RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is is moving ice, water, meals, Search and Rescue and Disaster Medical Assistance teams into areas hardest hit by Hurricane Katrina. Click here to visit FEMA's web site. To apply for assistance call 1-800-621-FEMA (3362). The speech or hearing impaired may call (TTY) 1-800-462-7585. You may also register for assistance online here. In addition, you may find FEMA's "Help After a Disaster: Applicant's Guide to the Individuals & Households Program" helpful. To find local shelters and other state specific information please visit: Louisiana Office of Homeland Security & Emergency Preparedness (225) 925-7500 Mississippi Emergency Management Agency (601) 960-9020 Alabama Emergency Management Agency 1-800-843-0699 American Red Cross 1-866-GET-INFO (1-866-438-4636) Atlanta Red Cross 404-575-3730 Please call 404-870-4440 for up-to-date assistance and Metropolitan Atlanta shelter information. The number of shelters and their availability to take addtional people is constantly changing. HOW TO HELP Volunteer agencies provide a wide variety of services after disasters, such as clean up, childcare, housing repair, crisis counseling, sheltering and food. Below is a list of phone numbers set up solely for cash donations and/or volunteers: Atlanta Red Cross 404-575-3730 Contributions to the Disaster Relief Fund may be sent to: Metropolitan Atlanta Chapter of the American Red Cross P.O. Box 101590 Atlanta, GA 30392-1776. Internet Users can make a secure online contribution by visiting www.redcrossatlanta.org American Red Cross 1-800-HELP NOW (435-7669) English, 1-800-257-7575 Spanish Southern Baptist Convention -- Disaster Relief 1-800-462-8657, ext. 6440 Salvation Army 1-800-SAL-ARMY (725-2769) Operation Blessing 1-800-436-6348 America’s Second Harvest 1-800-344-8070 Adventist Community Services 1-800-381-7171 Catholic Charities, USA 703 549-1390 Christian Disaster Response 941-956-5183 or 941-551-9554 Christian Reformed World Relief Committee 1-800-848-5818 Church World Service 1-800-297-1516 Convoy of Hope 417-823-8998 Lutheran Disaster Response 800-638-3522 Mennonite Disaster Service 717-859-2210 Nazarene Disaster Response 888-256-5886 Presbyterian Disaster Assistance 800-872-3283 United Methodist Committee on Relief 1-800-554-8583 BUSINESSES Small businesses interested in registering their capabilities to assist in the Hurricane Katrina disaster relief efforts should visit www.fedbizopps.gov ADDITIONAL RESOURCES Relatives and loved ones who are struggling to cope with the devastation of the disaster and loss of life can contact their local American Red Cross to speak with a Disaster Mental Health volunteer. UPDATED INFORMATION ABOUT HURRICANE KATRINA For updated information about the hurricane and relief efforts, please visit the FEMA and National Hurricane Center web sites.
08.24.2005	Today Congressman David Scott issued the following statement condemning the recommendation of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure Commission panel to close both Fort Gillem and Fort McPherson: “I am very, very disappointed by the BRAC panel’s recommendations to shut down both Fort Gillem and Fort McPherson. Closing these bases will be a terrible mistake given their unmatched military value and strategic readiness for homeland defense. "Fort Gillem and Fort McPherson have been very instrumental in coordinating the war in Iraq and mobilizing Army Reserve and National Guard forces to the front lines. Further, these bases have provided a strong military presence for the vital metro Atlanta region. Closing Fort Gillem and Fort McPherson will remove Atlanta from being a major player in military affairs, readiness, and national security decisions. "At every step in this BRAC process, I joined with Governor Perdue, Senators Isakson and Chambliss, GMACC, and the Fort McPherson and Fort Gillem community to remove the Forts from the BRAC list. However, in spite of today’s grim announcement, we must continue to fight. "We must make use of the next available step, which is to communicate to President Bush the urgency of keeping a base open in the Atlanta region. And hopefully, the President will agree with us that now is not the time to downsize our military by such drastic measures as closing the bases in Atlanta when the world stage is presenting us with extraordinary terror concerns.” ### RELATED ITEMS: CONGRESSMAN SCOTT FIGHTS TO KEEP FORT GILLEM OPEN Congressman Scott Tours Fort Gillem with BRAC Commissioner Congressman Scott Joins BRAC Commissioner on Tour of Fort McPherson COLUMN: Forts Gillem and McPherson Provide Critical Link for Troops ARTICLE: Atlanta Journal-Constitution: Base Backers Make Case July 1, 2005 Text of Congressman Scott's Opening Remarks at BRAC Regional Hearing VIDEO: June 30 -Congressman Scott and Congressman John Lewis Fight Ft. Gillem and Fort McPherson Base Closings at BRAC Regional Hearing, held at Georgia Tech Conference Center (streaming footage, courtesy of Georgia Public Broadcasting) VIDEO: June 30 - Statewide Overview of Recommended Military Base Closings from BRAC Regional Hearing, held at Georgia Tech Conference Center (streaming footage, courtesy of Georgia Public Broadcasting) VIDEO: June 30 - Closing Remarks from BRAC Regional Hearing at Georgia Tech Conference Center (streaming footage, courtesy of Georgia Public Broadcasting) VIDEO: June 30 - Congressman Scott and State Official Speak at Press Conference Following BRAC Regional Hearing (streaming footage, courtesy of Georgia Public Broadcasting) Scott Condemns Base Closings
08.22.2005	As Georgia’s Thirteenth Congressional District Representative, it is with great pleasure that each year I have the duty to nominate qualified candidates to the United States military academies. To provide an opportunity for students interested in attending a military academy to become familiar with the application and nomination process and to expose them to academy life, this year I along with other members of the Georgia Congressional Delegation will participate in the first statewide academy event hosted by Senator Isakson. The academy event is scheduled for Saturday, September 17, 2005 from 9:30 – 11:00 A.M. at Naval Air Station Atlanta.  Representatives from all five academies as well as cadets and midshipman will be in attendance and will be available to answer questions from students and parents.  The event is open to students in grades 8 – 12.  Photo ID for all attendees required for Atlanta Road admittance checkpoint.  Reservations required due to security restrictions.  Participants MUST register online by September 9, 2005. with Senator Isakson’s office: 2005 Military Academy Day Registration Has PASSED. More information about the 2005 Military Academy Day and applications for 2006 nomination to the military academies may be found here: 2006 Military Academy Nomination Information and Application or by contacting David Johnson, Military Academy Coordinator at (770) 210-5073. All completed service academy applications must be returned to the Jonesboro District Office by Friday, October 7, 2005
08.18.2005	Today Congressman David Scott discussed the importance of education and his work in Walton County during his keynote remarks at the dedication ceremony for the new Monroe Area High School. “I am so proud of Walton County because Walton County is right on target,” said Congressman Scott. “Walton County is working for a strong future for its community and a better life for our young people. We are in a highly competitive, global economy with highly competitive skilled jobs, so we must never rest or feel over confident. Rather, we should continue to yearn for more. This is the American way.” “Georgia is growing fast and that growth is evident here in Monroe and Walton County,” Scott said. “It is important that Monroe and Walton County build a strong, high-quality education system that can handle a fast growing population, and Walton County is doing just that with this fine new school and state-of-the-art facility, of which I am a proud, strong partner.” Congressman Scott also highlighted his work in Congress for Walton County by sharing the federal money he has secured for projects in Walton County including: $635,133 to the City of Monroe for housing; $150,000 to the Alcove, Inc. Youth Shelter; $357,468 to the City of Social Circle for housing; $2,400,000 for a highway bypass of the City of Social Circle, which will create 200 new jobs for Walton County; $2,100,000 for the Northeast Georgia Water Planning District; $350,000 for water and wastewater system improvements in Social Circle; $5,300,000 for Highway 78 improvements through Walton County; $2,750 to the City of Monroe Police Department for bullet-resistant vests; $11,295,351 - Total funds delivered by Congressman Scott for Walton County. ###
08.06.2005	Congressman David Scott welcomed nearly 1,000 constituents to the First Annual 13th Congressional District Health Fair held today at Mundy’s Mill High School in Clayton County. “I’m proud to share that our first health fair was a tremendous success,” said Scott. “Our attendance was absolutely great. We were able to help nearly 1,000 persons with their health care needs and received many positive comments from attendees and health care providers about their meaningful experiences during the fair.” Congressman Scott kicked off the health fair by hosting a panel discussion to address such urgent health issues as expanding coverage options for the uninsured, the pending changes due soon for Medicaid and Medicare recipients, and increasing awareness to prevent diabetes, cancer, heart disease, and strokes. Scott was joined on the panel by: - Dr. Michael Smith of Atlanta Medical Center’s Oncology Department; - Dr. Michael Frankel of the Emory Stroke Program; - Dr. Andrew Agnuwobi, CEO of Grady Health System; - Mark Trail, Chief of Georgia’s Medicaid Program; - Denise Stanley, Pharmacist at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services; - LyCynthia Baskin of the American Diabetes Association; - and Deb Smith-Callahan of Pfizer, Inc. “Again, I am so pleased that our inaugural health fair shaped up to be such an impressive and meaningful event for so many people, thanks in large part to the wide participation of numerous area hospitals, agencies and health organizations,” Scott continued. “We were able to save lives by empowering people with information and providing screenings vital to preventing and diagnosing the onset of many chronic ailments. I’m looking forward to building upon the success of this event and attracting even more attendees and health care providers next year.” More than 90 area non-profit organizations, hospitals, government agencies, and members of the health care industry were on hand to provide a diverse selection of free health screenings, cooking, CPR and fitness demonstrations, and information about important health issues. Participants included Southern Regional Health System, Emory Healthcare, Grady Health System, Henry Medical Center, Northlake Medical Center, the American Heart, Diabetes, and Stroke Associations, Riverdale Fire Services, AFLAC, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, Gwinnett County Health Department, American Red Cross, Pfizer, Inc., CDC, Social Security Administration, FDA, AID Atlanta, and many others. Attendees of the Health Fair also participated in a blood drive and were able to enroll on site in a number of health assistance programs. ###
08.01.2005	Congressman David Scott will convene the 13th Congressional District’s First Annual Health Fair on Saturday, August 6, 2005 from 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. This event will take place at Mundy’s Mill High School in Jonesboro, located off Tara Boulevard, approximately 2.5 miles south of the Highway 138 and Tara Boulevard intersection, at 9652 Fayetteville Road. A diverse selection of free health screenings, cooking, CPR and fitness demonstrations, and information about important health issues will be offered. Additionally, attendees of the Health Fair can participate in a blood drive, hear from Congressman Scott and special guest speakers, and enroll on site in health assistance programs like Medicare, Medicaid, PeachCare, prescription drug assistance, and others for the uninsured. All persons who plan to attend the Health Fair may call 770-210-5073 for more information. This list will be updated as additional Health Fair participants are added. WHAT: CONGRESSMAN DAVID SCOTT’S 1ST ANNUAL 13TH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT HEALTH FAIR WHEN: SATURDAY, AUGUST 6, 2005 10:00 A.M. -- 1:00 P.M. WHERE: MUNDY’S MILL HIGH SCHOOL 9652 FAYETTEVILLE ROAD (HWY. 54) JONESBORO, GA 30236 PANELISTS: Congressman David Scott Dr. Michael Smith Cardiothoracic Surgeon & Director of Oncology Dept. at Atlanta Medical Center Dr. Michael Frankel American Stroke & Heart Association SE; Professor of Neurology-Emory Univ. School of Medicine & Chief of Neurology-Grady Memorial Hospital Ms. Denise Stanley U.S. Center for Medicare Services Ms. Deb Smith-Callahan, RN Public Affairs Director Mr. Mark Trail Chief of Medical Assistance Plans, Georgia Dept of Community Health Ms. LaCynthia Baskin Diabetes Advocate, American Diabetes Association CONFIRMED PARTICIPANTS: AARP Agape Gardens Colon Lavage Spa AID Atlanta Alegna Skin & Health Center Allied Healthcare Clinics, Inc. Alzheimer's Association, Georgia Chapter Alzheimer's Services Center American Cancer Society American Diabetes Association American Heart Association American Lung Association American Red Cross Arthritis Foundation Atlanta Gas & Light Company (AGL Resources) Atlanta Legal Aid Society, Inc. Atlanta Regional Commission/ GA Cares Atlanta Regional Commission, Area Agency on Aging Awesome, Inc. Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Georgia Bobby Dodd Vocational Rehabilitation Services Bright from the Start: GA Dept. of Early Care & Learning Bristol-Meyers Squibb Butterfly Life Atlanta CDC Center for Medicare Services Clayton County Collaborative Authority Clayton County Community Services Authority, Inc. Clayton County Board of Health Clayton County DFCS Clayton County Library System Clayton Right From the Start Medicaid Outreach Team DaVita Dialysis, Inc. Emory Healthcare FDA Forest Park Fire/ EMS Fuller Rehab I.L.A. Durable Medical Equipment Fulton County Office of Aging Georgia Breast Cancer Coalition Georgia Council on Aging Georgia Osteoporosis Initiative Georgia School Nutrition Association GlaxoSmithKline Good Shepherd Clinic Grady Health System Gwinnett County Health Department Healthcare Leadership Council Healthy Mothers Healthy Babies Coalition of GA Henry Medical Center Heritage Hospice, Inc. Himalayan Goji Juice House of Refuge Ministries Humana KJA, Inc. Kool Smiles, General Dentistry for Children LA Fitness Life University LifeLink of Georgia Lupus Foundation of America, Inc. March of Dimes Melaleuca "The Wellness Company" MERCK Millennium Filmworks, Inc. National Alliance for the Mentally Ill Northlake Medical Center Pfizer, Inc. Primerica Financial Services Right at Home Riverdale Fire Services Safe America Sickle Cell Foundation of Georgia, Inc Social Security Administration, Georgia Area Director's Office Southern Crescent Medical Clinic Southern Regional Health System Spectacles Plus Eye Care Tranquil Escape Mobile Spa Services United American Insurance Company United Way of Butts, Clayton & Henry Counties U Should Know, Inc.
06.30.2005	Congressman David Scott (GA-13) will address four BRAC Commissioners during their regional hearing tomorrow in Atlanta to assess the value of military installations in Georgia recommended for closing by the Defense Department. Congressman Scott will provide testimony in defense of Fort Gillem’s extraordinary military value for our nation’s defense and national security. MEDIA AVAILABILITY: Congressman Scott will be available for media interviews immediately following the conclusion of Georgia’s presentation before the BRAC Commissioners. BRAC Commissioners: Honorable Philip Coyle, Honorable Samuel K. Skinner, Honorable James H. Bilbray, Admiral Harold W. Gehman, Jr. (U.S. Navy, Ret.) WHEN: THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2005  7:30 a.m. - Doors Open to Public  8:30 a.m. to 12:30 - BRAC Hearing  8:50 a.m. - Congressman Scott Addresses BRAC Commissioners WHERE: GEORGIA TECH HOTEL & CONFERENCE CENTER 800 Spring Street NW Atlanta, GA 30308
06.29.2005	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) voted to crack down on the predatory sales tactics of firms marketing high-cost and outdated investments to young recruits on military bases. The measure, the Military Personnel Financial Services Protection Act (HR 458), passed the House Tuesday by 405-2 after the predatory sales practices of insurance agents—many which were former military personnel—on military bases were first exposed by a series of New York Times reports last summer. The Military Personnel Financial Services Protection Act bans the sale of so-called contractual mutual funds, an investment that nearly disappeared from the civilian market due to steep sales commissions in the buyer’s first years of contributions. The bill also authorizes state insurance regulators to oversee insurance sales on military installations, and would create a list of individuals banned from doing business on military bases. “When this issue first came to light last summer, I was shocked and disgusted that military commanders had colluded with certain shady insurance agents to take advantage of young recruits who were training to defend our country. It was even more scandalous to learn that this scheme had apparently been going on for years and I called for the Defense Department to account for why these agents were repeatedly allowed onto bases. What message does it send when our soldiers are dedicating their lives to protect our nation and yet are being robbed and exploited by the very people they are trained to trust? I’m glad we passed this bill to put a stop to this abuse,” said Congressman Scott. The Military Personnel Financial Services Protection Act was sponsored by Rep. Geoff Davis, R-KY, after the House Financial Services Committee approved the bill by voice vote in March. The House passed a similar version of the bill last October with broad support on a 396-2 vote. That measure stalled in the Senate, which did not take up the issue before the 108th Congress ended last December. H.R. 458 now heads to the Senate for consideration. ###
06.10.2005	Today, U.S. Representative David Scott (GA-13) joined BRAC Commissioner James Bilbray during his tour of Ft. Gillem to examine whether the military installation should be closed as recommended by the Defense Department’s 2005 BRAC list. “Today’s visit to Fort Gillem yielded a major opportunity for me to state the case for protecting this base and all that it provides for our nation’s military and our local community before a BRAC Commissioner who has publicly stated before that the Defense Department should not hastily close Ft. Gillem,” said Congressman Scott. “Home to several major Army Command Headquarters, Fort Gillem is directly engaged in the worldwide war on terrorism as well as homeland security and domestic disaster relief operations. The staff of Ft. Gillem presented a detailed and solid overview discussing the diverse merits and unique missions of this base again making for a solid case to defend and keep this base open.” Fort Gillem currently serves as headquarters for the First US Army, 3rd Medical Command, 2nd Recruiting Brigade, US Army Criminal Investigation Laboratory, and the 52nd Explosives Ordnance Group (EOD). Ft. Gillem is also home to a regional Army Air Force Exchange Service Distribution Center, the Atlanta Military Entrance Processing Station (MEPS), and the regional headquarters of FEMA, GEMA and the Red Cross. If the fort closes, Fort Gillem is projected to lose 1,081 jobs. “I was very encouraged by the outcome of BRAC Commissioner Bilbray’s visit who shared time and time again how he was highly impressed by the quality of the facilities he saw and the overall strong military value of Ft. Gillem,” said Scott. “Commissioner Bilbray also raised significant concerns about the high costs the Defense Department would incur to reproduce this type of installation at any other location. I am hopeful that Ft. Gillem gained an advocate today in Commissioner Bilbray who stated himself that this base has an excellent chance of coming off the BRAC list.” Congressman Scott will next participate in the BRAC Commission’s regional hearing in Atlanta on June 30. During the regional hearing, the BRAC Commission will listen to public concerns about the proposed area base closures prior to making their final recommendations to President Bush. Simultaneous hearings in multiple cities will be held until the commissioners can assemble a final list of base closures to submit to the President by September. Congress has 45 legislative days after President Bush approves and forwards the recommendations to Capitol Hill to issue a joint resolution of disapproval or the recommendations become binding.
06.08.2005	Today, Congressman David Scott joined BRAC Commissioner Retired General James Hill during his visit and tour of Ft. McPherson to carefully review firsthand whether the military installation should be closed as recommended by the Defense Department on May 13, 2005 with the release of their 2005 BRAC list. “Today’s visit to Ft. McPherson by BRAC Commissioner Hill presented a great opportunity to give a solid case to defend and keep this base open,” said Congressman Scott. “Commissioner Hill was able to personally observe the critical military value that Ft. McPherson provides to the U.S. Army’s current and future capabilities. Having previously been stationed at Ft. McPherson, Commissioner Hill conveyed sensitivity to the fact that thousands of lives and jobs as well as the economic well-being of metro Atlanta will be adversely affected if this base is closed in addition to the loss of unique military assets the region provides that cannot be duplicated anywhere else.” Fort McPherson currently serves as headquarters for the Third US Army, the US Army Reserve Command (USARC), and US Army Forces Command (FORSCOM). If the fort closes, the Third US Army will relocate to Shaw Air Force Base in South Carolina while FORSCOM and USARC will transfer headquarters to Pope Air Force Base in North Carolina. Fort McPherson, Atlanta’s seventh largest employer, will shed 4,141 military and civilian positions while Fort Gillem is projected to lose 1,081 jobs. “The blueprint for the 2005 round of base closures was laid out well before 9/11 happened and before Syria, Iran and North Korea presented growing security concerns for our nation,” Scott added. “Now is simply not the time to close Ft. McPherson or Fort Gillem when our Army is overextended, not meeting its recruiting goals, and fighting concurrent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. I made a strong case today in defense of Ft. McPherson’s extraordinary military value. I hope that Commissioner Hill leaves here today in agreement with me that closing Ft. McPherson neither would be in the best interest of our national security nor be a good stewardship of millions of tax dollars recently spent on a number of new projects on this base.” Congressman Scott will continue working to protect area bases by next joining BRAC Commissioner James Bilbray on his visit to Ft. Gillem in Clayton County on Friday, June 10, and also participating in the BRAC Commission’s regional hearing in Atlanta on June 30. During the regional hearing, the BRAC Commission will consider community interests concerning proposed area base closures prior to making their final recommendations to President Bush. Simultaneous hearings in multiple cities will be held until the commissioners can assemble a final list of base closures to submit to the President by September. Congress has 45 legislative days after President Bush approves and forwards the recommendations to Capitol Hill to issue a joint resolution of disapproval or the recommendations become binding. ### Links to news station video coverage of Congressman David Scott with BRAC commissioner General James Hill (Ret.) at Fort McPherson on June 8, 2005: WGCL - CBS46: BRAC Tours Ft. McPherson WXIA - 11alive: Base Battle Centers in Atlanta
06.01.2005	Today eighteen elected officials representing the local, state and federal government levels of Clayton County gathered to assess youth gang violence and demonstrate a unified effort to combat the county’s gang problems and discuss funding options for law enforcement, judicial and community initiatives. Participants in the meeting issued the following joint statement: “In recent months, our families, constituents and communities have expressed growing concern about the gang and violent crime activity in Clayton County. Today we had an open and frank exchange among the County’s top policymakers. As the elected leadership of this wonderfully vibrant and diverse County, we are charged with finding solutions for this problem together. As we all share a commitment to stopping such activity, we pledge to unite on one accord at the local, state and federal levels to work collectively towards a single goal of strengthening our County and its families and preventing negative and external gang influences from finding fertile ground amongst our youth and our communities.” PARTICIPANTS - Congressman David Scott - Commission Chairman Eldrin Bell - Sheriff Victor Hill - Superior Court Chief Judge Stephen Boswell - Magistrate Chief Judge Daphne Walker - Juvenile Court Chief Judge K. Van Banke - Solicitor General Leslie Miller Terry - District Attorney Jewel Scott - School Board Chairwoman Ericka Davis - Superintendent Barbara Pulliam - Mayor Jack Longino, City of College Park - Mayor Chuck Hall, City of Forest Park - Mayor Joy Day, City of Jonesboro - Mayor Willie Oswalt, City of Lake City - Mayor Joe Murphy, City of Lovejoy - Mayor Jim Millirons, City of Morrow - Mayor Pro Tem Rick Scoggins, City of Riverdale - Councilman Kenny Ruffin, City of Riverdale ###
05.24.2005	Congressman David Scott continued his campaign to stop predatory lending by urging passage of The Responsible Lending Act today at a joint hearing of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity and the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit. Congressman David Scott is a co-sponsor of The Responsible Lending Act (H.R. 1295), introduced by Congressmen Bob Ney (R-OH) and Paul Kanjorski (D-PA). The bill includes Congressman Scott’s provision for a nationwide toll-free number to receive complaints and provide information about predatory lending and credit counseling. “Because predatory lending is a targeted abuse against specific groups, usually the elderly, minorities, and low- income borrowers, this legislation targets assistance and funding to the most vulnerable groups. I am especially pleased that The Responsible Lending Act includes my provision for a fully-staffed, toll-free number that consumers can call and get the help they need,” said Congressman Scott. Borrowers with fair to good credit ratings generally obtain home loans in the “prime” mortgage market, with the lowest interest rates and costs. Americans with lower credit scores, inadequate proof of income or little cash reserves for down payments more often rely on the secondary “subprime” market, where borrowers pay higher rates and servicing costs to offset greater risk to lenders. A recent study by the Center for Community Change, entitled “Risk or Race? Racial Disparities and the Subprime Refinance Market” found a geographic concentration of subprime lending in minority neighborhood and to borrowers of color at all income levels. Abusive sales practices, commonly referred to as “predatory lending,” involve home mortgages, mortgage refinancing, home equity loans, and home repair loans with unjustifiably high interest rates, excessive fees, prepayment penalties, and balloon payments. In January, Congressman Scott introduced H.R. 200, The Prevention of Predatory Lending Through Education Act, to authorize the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to provide funding to states for counseling and education programs designed to help stop predatory lending. H.R 200, which is currently pending in the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, also establishes a toll-free number for complaints regarding predatory lending. Congressman David Scott is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
05.14.2005	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced the selection of 3 area student artists to receive scholarship awards ranging from $2,000 to $10,000 through the 13th District’s 3rd Annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Congressman Scott honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special reception today at the Arts Clayton Gallery in Jonesboro. “This competition presents a wonderful opportunity for our community to celebrate the talents of gifted young artists as well as the tireless work of parents and teachers who support their creative endeavors,” said Scott. “It is with great pleasure that I commend each of this year’s top three winners for their exceptional artistic achievements and I encourage all of the participating student artists of the competition to continue to set high goals for themselves.” The Art Institute of Atlanta presented the first prize winner with a $10,000 scholarship, the second prize--a $5000 scholarship, and the third prize--a $2000 scholarship. The Savannah College of Art and Design offered a $3,000 scholarship renewable for up to four years for first prize. This year’s top winners include: 1st - Dean Beresford, Mundy’s Mill H.S. 2nd - Andrea Hawes, Jackson H.S. 3rd - Tiffany Herrin, Jonesboro H.S. The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. To date hundreds of thousands of high school students from around the nation have been able to participate at the local level. This year’s first-place winner Dean Beresford will be invited to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C. on Tuesday, June 14, 2005 where his winning piece “Angel” will be on display in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol along with other winning entries from around the country. Students interested in participating in next year’s competition should contact Scott Goldstein at 770-210-5073.
05.13.2005	Today, Congressman David Scott joined Governor Sonny Perdue and Senators Isakson and Chambliss in condemning the Pentagon’s 2005 Base Closure and Realignment list released today that recommends that Fort McPherson and Fort Gillem should be closed. “The base closures are truly disappointing. I am surprised and shocked that the Pentagon would call for Fort McPherson and Fort Gillem to be closed when they have been so instrumental in coordinating the war in Iraq and mobilizing Army Reserve and National Guard forces to the front lines,” said Congressman Scott. “The important thing to remember is that these recommendations are only one step in the process, and I will continue to work with Governor Perdue, Senators Chambliss and Isakson, the BRAC commissioners, and my fellow members of Congress to keep Fort McPherson and Fort Gillem from being closed. We simply have to put party aside when it comes to fighting to keep our bases open,” Scott continued. The base closure list was hand delivered by uniformed officer today around 9:15 a.m. following a year of negotiations between Congressman Scott and top Pentagon officials to keep the bases open. Last May, Congressman Scott hosted a meeting with Paul Grone, Deputy Under Secretary for Installations and Environment, where he expressed strong opposition to the Defense Department’s latest BRAC round in light of ongoing military commitments in Iraq and in the war against terrorism. Congressman Scott also appealed directly to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to keep the bases open last fall during a Capitol Hill visit with congressional lawmakers. Earlier this year, the Defense Department announced plans to shift 70,000 troops from bases abroad to the United States, a move that ostensibly eased original base closing projections. Secretary Rumsfeld recently stated that excess base capacity is about half the 24 percent Pentagon officials previously cited. Next, the BRAC commission will announce its schedule of regional hearings to review the list and 2 commissioners will visit each base recommended for closure. Simultaneous hearings in multiple cities will be held until the commissioners can assemble a final list of base closures to submit to the President by September. Congress has 45 legislative days after President Bush approves and forwards the recommendations to Capitol Hill to issue a joint resolution of disapproval or the recommendations become binding. As a satellite installation and logistical support hub for Ft. McPherson, Clayton County’s Fort Gillem consists of 142 buildings and 77 tenants spread over 1,427 acres, with the First U.S. Army as the senior occupant. The First U.S. Army trains, mobilizes and deploys Army Reserve and National Guard units in the eastern United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and, as directed, conducts Homeland Defense in support of national objectives. The First US Army will relocate to Redstone Arsenal, AL. Fort McPherson currently serves as headquarters for the Third US Army, the US Army Reserve Command (USARC), and US Army Forces Command (FORSCOM). The Third US Army will relocate to Shaw Air Force Base, SC while FORSCOM and USARC will transfer headquarters to Pope Air Force Base, NC. Fort Gillem is projected to lose 1,081 jobs while Fort McPherson, Atlanta’s seventh largest employer, will shed 4,141 military and civilian positions. ###
04.29.2005	Congressman David Scott welcomed over 9,000 job seekers from metro Atlanta and beyond to the 13th Congressional District’s First Annual Jobs Fair held today at the Georgia International Convention Center. “It is an understatement to say that the positive response to our first Jobs Fair has been truly overwhelming. We set out to bring hiring area employers and job seekers in the community together under one roof, so to see over 9,000 people eagerly show up with their resumes in hand and dressed for success is truly exciting. For the past 2 months, my staff has worked diligently to field thousands of calls and answer questions from residents across the District to bring this fair together. We’re looking forward to building upon the success of this event and attracting even more job seekers and employers next year!” Congressman Scott said. Residents began arriving well before the jobs fair began at 1:00 p.m., some as early as 8:00 a.m. Many attended free 30-minute workshops throughout the day on resume writing, interview techniques, and projecting a professional personal image. More than 130 private, federal, and county employers participated, including FedEx, SunTrust Bank, Edward Jones, Clayton County Government, the Federal Bureau of Investigations, and Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport.
04.22.2005	Congressman David Scott will host the First Annual Jobs Fair on Friday, April 29, 2005 from 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. The fair will bring together Georgia's top employers from the public and private sector. This event will take place at the Georgia International Convention Center in College Park right off the I-85 and I-285 Camp Creek Parkway exits near the Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport. Job candidates will have the opportunity to be matched up for interviews right there on the spot! Additionally, attendees of the Jobs Fair can participate in such career-enhancing workshops as: “Writing an Effective Resume,” “Image Building and Dressing for Success,” and “Successful Interviewing & Networking Skills.” All persons who plan to attend the Jobs Fair should call (770)210-5073 before April 29 to register for the event. WHEN: Friday, April 29, 2005 WHERE: Georgia International Convention Center Exhibit Hall A 2000 Convention Center Concourse College Park, GA 30337 (770) 997-3566 TIME: 1:00 pm - 4:00 pm POTENTIAL EMPLOYERS: A - Perfect Resume' ABWA Advanced Career Training Air Force Reserve AirTran Airways Allan Vigil Ford Allied Baiton Security American Red Cross, Blood Services Arbonna International Independent Consultants Atlanta Bread Company ATS Staffing Barrington University - On Line Becker Profession Review Bell South Blue Water Security Caduceus Occupational Medicine Career Resource Center Caroline Handling Chart Industries Cherokee Co. Sheriff City of Atlanta City of Forest Park City of Hapeville City of Morrow City of Riverdale Clayton County Board of Commissioners - Personnel Department Clayton County DFCS Clayton County Water Authority Paschals Concessions Dekalb Sheriff Office Delta Air Lines, Inc. Department of Homeland Security Department of Homeland Security Customs & Border Protection Dietrich Metal Framing Edward Jones Embracing Hospice Care Enterprise Rent-A-Car Federal Aviation Administration Federal Bureau of Investigation Federal Bureau of Prisons FedEx Ground FreshPoint of Atlanta GA Department of Labor Vocational Rehabilitation Program GC Services L.P. Georgia Army National Guard Georgia Department of Human Resources Georgia Legal Services - Piedmont Office Georgia Military College Georgia Power Company Georgia World Congress Center Authority Global Concessions God's Promise Center, Inc. Good Shepherd Clinic Griffin Technical College Hands On Atlanta Hennessy Mazda Pontiac Buick GMC Henry County Schools Henry Medical Center Hertz Corp. Hilton Atlanta Airport HMS Host Holiday Inn Airport North Home Depot Information Technology Training Center Internal Revenue Service Iverson Business School Iverson Business School & Court Reporting JB Hunt Transport, Inc. Kool Smiles & General Dentist for Children Lilburn Police Department Lowe's Mack II Inc. dba Popeyes Chicken: Checker Hamburger Marine Corps. MARTA MCI Melaleuca Wellness Company Mercer University School of Medicine - Master of Public Health Program MetLife Nationwide Insurance NexagenUSA/fatsquisher Options Unlimited Personal Touch Travel Primerica Financial Services Primerica Financial Services Professional Career Development Institute Professional Development Resources - First Baptist Program Promove Renaissance Concourse Hotel Sheltering Arms Staples SunTrust Bank Sutherland's Foodservice, Inc. The Wellness Company Timco Aviation Services, Inc. Toni Stith Agency AFLAC United States Postal Service UPS US Airways USDA Office of Inspector General Verizon Wireless Waffle House Inc. Walton County Schools Washington Mutual Bank WorkStaff Personnel World Group Securities
04.21.2005	Congressman David Scott today placed a debt clock in front of his Washington office in an effort to call attention to the nation’s mounting national debt. The clock, which will be updated daily, currently reads $7.671 trillion, or $27,000 per person. “It can be easy walking through the marble halls of Congress to forget that we have huge budget deficits and a staggering national debt,” said Scott, member of the Blue Dog Coalition, a group of moderate to conservative House Democrats with reputations as fiscal hawks. “Now, members of Congress and visitors to Capitol Hill will have no choice but to face these daunting statistics on a daily basis. In order to cure our nation’s addiction to deficit spending, we have to realize there’s a problem.” Several other members of the Blue Dog Coalition joined Congressman Scott in displaying a debt clock in front of their offices. By next week, more than two dozen Coalition members are expected to participate. Earlier this year, the Blue Dogs released a 12-Step Reform Plan get America’s fiscal house in order. 1) Require a balanced Budget 2) Don’t let Congress buy on credit – Restore PAYGO 3) Put a lid on spending 4) Require federal agencies to put their fiscal houses in order 5) Make Congress tell taxpayers how much they’re spending 6) Set aside a rainy-day fund 7) Don’t hide votes to raise the debt limit 8) Justify spending for pet projects 9) Ensure that Congress reads the bills it’s voting on 10) Require honest cost estimates for every bill that Congress votes on 11) Make sure new bills fit the budget 12) Make Congress do a better job keeping tabs on government programs “What comes as common sense to American families and business owners doesn’t come that easily to members of Congress and the Administration,” Scott said. “We need to inject a little common sense into the way our federal government does business. The importance of the Reform Plan is only underscored by the ever rising numbers that are now posted in front of our offices.”
04.04.2005	Today Congressman David Scott (GA-13) announced the nomination of seventeen area students to each of the nation’s four Military Academies and honored these outstanding young people and their families during a special reception in his Jonesboro District Office located at 173 North Main Street. “I am very proud of these young men and women. Appointment to a military academy demands exceptional academic achievement, character and leadership. Without question, each of these students possesses these qualities,” said Congressman Scott. “These students are outstanding young Americans who proudly reflect the 13th Congressional District’s commitment to education and service. I am confident that they will go on to honorably serve our nation as military academy graduates and leaders in the Armed Forces.” Congressman Scott announced the following primary nominations: United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO: Christopher Allen, Riverdale resident, Riverdale High School Rudy Bowen, Riverdale resident, Air Force Preparatory School Gyscar Inocencia-Holloway, Ellenwood resident, Air Force Preparatory School Jacob Schiefer, Conyers resident, Rockdale High School United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY: Nicole Soto, Jonesboro resident, Jonesboro High School United States Military Academy at West Point, NY: David Hankerson, IV, Jonesboro resident, Mt. Zion High School Jason Lee, Conyers resident, Salem High School David-Shea Melloy, Rex resident, Mt Zion Christian Academy Michael O’Shields, Jonesboro resident, Mt Zion Christian Academy Kathleen Pulliam, Conyers resident, Salem High School Patrick Saxby, Jonesboro resident, Jonesboro High School Phillip Sevenson, Palmetto resident, Creekside High School Vincent Wiggins, Fayetteville resident, Florida A&M University United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD: Joseph DeJunco, Fairburn resident, Woodward Academy Johnathan Dunn, Hampton resident, Home school student Jeffrey Gamez, Hampton resident, Lovejoy High School Elizabeth Penn-Sanders, Jackson resident, Jackson High School In November, Congressman Scott directed a nonpartisan Military Academy Board made up of five educators, military personnel, and academy graduates who reside in the district to interview an extremely qualified group of 13th District applicants. Students entering the academies this fall will graduate in 2009. To be considered for an academy appointment, an applicant must first be nominated. U.S. Senators and Members of the U.S. House of Representatives may nominate applicants who meet the following eligibility requirements: 17 years of age, but not have passed his or her 23rd birthday, he or she must be a U.S. citizen, and the applicant must be unmarried, not pregnant, and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. Students interested in applying for the Class of 2010 may download the 2006 Service Academy Nomination Application Packet here and should contact Congressman Scott's Military Academy Coordinator David Johnson at 770-210-5073 if they have additional questions. From the Clayton News Daily and Henry Daily Herald Monday April 4, 2005 Congressman Nominates Students for Military Academies By Aisha I. Jefferson A single tear settled in the corner of Susan Soto's left eye as she listened to her daughter, Nicole, discuss receiving a Congressional nomination to attend one of the country's military academies. "I'm very proud of her," Susan Soto said, standing next to her daughter and her husband, Edwin. Nicole Soto, a Jonesboro High School senior, is one of 17 young Americans in whom U.S. Rep. David Scott, D-Jonesboro, nominated to four of the nation's military academies. The nominees, 11 of whom reside in Henry and Clayton counties, were honored during a reception held in his Jonesboro District 13 office. The 17 residents received nominations to attend either the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colo., the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, N.Y., the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, N.Y., or the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Md. Eleven of the nominees reside in Henry and Clayton counties. "Ever since 10th-grade year in the Junior ROTC, I always wanted to go to a military academy," said Nicole Soto, who is a junior squadron commander - the highest ranking officer - in Jonesboro High's Junior ROTC program. Nicole Soto, who is ranked third in her senior class, will attend the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, N.Y. this fall. Although the nomination is not a guaranteed in into the academy - students have to apply separately - it is a critical point of the acceptance process, Scott explained. "Without a nomination, you can't get in," Scott said. This year marks Scott's third time holding nominations. He previously nominated 10 people - eight to military academies and two to military preparatory schools. Paid tuition for four years of school and top-notch training, along with other benefits, are among the many gains the nominees will receive if they are accepted into the military academies. "It is a very, very highly valued education," Scott said, explaining if there was a dollar amount put on the whole package, economists, educators and military officials had valued it around $300,000. The 17 nominees honored Saturday were among about 50 who initially inquired about receiving the Congressional nomination. The 13th District 2005 Military Academy Selection Board, which is comprised of seven ranking military officers, is the advisory group that helps winnow down the nominee selection. "It's an ongoing process. In this process, I've already began the process of the next school year," said David Johnson, Scott's senior staff assistant and military and veterans liaison. Riverdale resident Theresa Bowen's 19-year-old son, Rudolph, will graduate from the Air Force Preparatory School in Colorado next month after receiving a nomination from Scott last year to attend. "And he's doing quite well there. He's on the prep school basketball team, and he's a flight commander," Bowen said. Scott also nominated Rudolph Bowen to attend the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colo., in the fall. "It is truly a blessing for me to have this opportunity to make these appointments for these outstanding, well-qualified and dedicated young people," Scott said. "They are excellent role models for our youth." Scott said every Congressman and senator has the opportunity to make such nominations.
03.17.2005	Today Congressman David Scott voted against the House Republican budget resolution that cuts funding for vital Georgia programs and continues large deficits and spiraling debt. The Republican FY2006 budget resolution, H. Con. Res. 95, adds more than $4 trillion to the deficit in the next 10 years while cutting billions in education, health care, housing, and environmental programs. H. Con. Res. 95 passed the House today by a 218-214, mostly party-line vote. “The Republican’s 2006 budget resolution makes the wrong choices for our nation. It reflects skewed priorities and runs counter to our deepest held beliefs. The budget embraces disastrous economic policies while at the same time failing to put forward a vision of what the United States should be. Despite these cuts, every Georgia family’s share of the national debt has been increased by $38, 281!” said Congressman Scott. Programs important to Georgia that are cut in the budget include: • $800 million from the Centers for Disease Control • $60 million from 2004 spending for military construction projects in Georgia • $366.8 Million from 91,050 Georgia children by under funding No Child Left Behind • $26.7 Million in Homeland Security Funding for Georgia • $7.9 million negative impact to Southern Regional Hospital by cuts to Medicaid • Section 8 families cut by 8,700 in 2010 • Community Development Block Grants cut by $211.9 million from 2006-2010 • Elimination of the HOPE VI program, which is revitalizing public housing in Georgia • Health care for 2 million Georgia veterans • Funding for firefighters by 30 Percent “The federal budget should be an honest blueprint for the spending priorities of the government. Instead, this budget is passing our obligations, responsibilities and challenges to our children and grandchildren, while cutting programs that benefit our society's most vulnerable citizens,” Scott continued.
03.11.2005	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced today that applications for the 2005 Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Spouses Education Scholarship are available in his District offices and online at www.house.gov/davidscott. “I am pleased to announce the availability of scholarships for deserving 13th District students through the CBC Spouses Education Fund,” said Congressman Scott. “This scholarship presents a wonderful opportunity to expand educational resources available for a new generation of leaders from our community.” The scholarship is offered to students in the 13th Congressional District, which includes part of the City of Atlanta and portions of 11 counties: Clayton, Fulton, Gwinnett, Dekalb, Rockdale, Henry, Newton, Walton, Fayette, Butts and Spalding. The scholarship is open to high school seniors or full-time undergraduate, graduate or professional school students with a minimum 2.5 grade point average. All completed applications must be returned to Congressman Scott’s Jonesboro District Office no later than 5:30 p.m. on Friday, April 1, 2005. The CBC Spouses Education Scholarship Fund was established in 1988 in response to federal cuts in spending for education programs and scholarships. This program provides tuition assistance to enable students to fulfill their higher education goals. The scholarships are awarded in the Congressional Districts of each member of the Congressional Black Caucus. This year marks the second that Congressman Scott has offered the CBC Spouses Education Scholarship to 13th District students. For more information, interested students may contact Chandra Harris in Congressman Scott’s Jonesoboro District Office at 770-210-5073.
03.10.2005	Today, Congressman David Scott announced the inclusion of Gwinnett County transportation projects in the federal surface transportation bill. The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU) passed the House today by a vote of 417-9 and reauthorizes the federal highway and transit programs for six years. Congressman Scott successfully included surface transportation projects for Georgia's 13th Congressional District in the bill. Gwinnett County: $500,000 to create a new interchange at SR 316/SR 20. $500,000 for infrastructure upgrades to Highway 78. Transportation issues are important to the 13th Congressional District, which includes five Interstate Highways (I-75, I-85, I-285, I-685, and I-20) as well as part of Hartsfield International Airport, the busiest airport in the world. TEA-LU now heads to the Senate for consideration.
03.10.2005	Today, Congressman David Scott announced the inclusion of Rockdale, Spalding, and Walton county projects in the federal surface transportation bill. The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU) passed the House today by a vote of 417-9 and reauthorizes the federal highway and transit programs for six years. Congressman Scott successfully included surface transportation projects for Georgia's 13th Congressional District in the bill. Rockdale: $1,500,000 to create HOV lanes on I-20 from Evans Mill Road to Salem Road in Dekalb and Rockdale Counties. $500,000 (+$800,000 from Westmoreland) to create trails in the Veterans Park. Spalding: $1,500,000 to improve the median of US 19/SR92 from Ellis Road to West Taylor Street near the City of Griffin. Walton: $3,000,000 to finish a bypass of the City of Social Circle. Transportation issues are important to the 13th Congressional District, which includes five Interstate Highways (I-75, I-85, I-285, I-685, and I-20) as well as part of Hartsfield International Airport, the busiest airport in the world.
03.10.2005	Today, Congressman David Scott announced the inclusion of Clayton County transportation projects in the federal surface transportation bill. The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU) passed the House today by a vote of 417-9 and reauthorizes the federal highway and transit programs for six years. Congressman Scott successfully included surface transportation projects for Georgia's 13th Congressional District in the bill. Clayton County: $1,500,000 to widen and improve SR 85 from Adams Drive to the I-75 and reconstruct the Forest Parkway interchange. $1,500,000 to construct HOV lanes on I-75 from SR 54 to Aviation Boulevard. Transportation issues are important to the 13th Congressional District, which includes five Interstate Highways (I-75, I-85, I-285, I-685, and I-20) as well as part of Hartsfield International Airport, the busiest airport in the world. TEA-LU now heads to the Senate for consideration.
03.10.2005	Today, Congressman David Scott announced the inclusion of Fulton and DeKalb County transportation projects in the federal surface transportation bill. The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU) passed the House today by a vote of 417-9 and reauthorizes the federal highway and transit programs for six years. Congressman Scott successfully included surface transportation projects for Georgia's 13th Congressional District in the bill. Fulton County $1,500,000 to widen and improve SR 70/Fulton Industrial Boulevard from Camp Creek Parkway to SCL RR. $1,000,000 to improve a two-lane roundabout at the intersection of Butner Road and Stonewall Tell Road $3,000,000 to convert MARTA buses and trains to a smart-card fare collection system. Dekalb: $1,500,000 to create HOV lanes on I-20 from Evans Mill Road to Salem Road in Dekalb and Rockdale Counties. Transportation issues are important to the 13th Congressional District, which includes five Interstate Highways (I-75, I-85, I-285, I-685, and I-20) as well as part of Hartsfield International Airport, the busiest airport in the world. TEA-LU now heads to the Senate for consideration.
03.04.2005	Congressman David Scott (D-GA) announced today his participation in the 24th Annual High School Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. High school students of the 13th District are invited to submit art work for the competition. “I am excited to once again launch the annual Congressional Art Competition,” said Congressman Scott. “This competition presents a great opportunity for our community to celebrate the talents of gifted young artists as well as the tireless work of parents and teachers who support their creative endeavors.” The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. To date hundreds of thousands of high school students from around the nation have been able to participate at the local level. The winning entries from last year's successful competition, including a painting by the 13th District’s Brandon DeLoach of Lovejoy High School, currently hang in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol. This year’s first-place winner will be invited to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C. on Tuesday, June 14, 2005. Students may obtain entry packets from their High School Art Teachers. All entries must be delivered to Congressman Scott’s Jonesboro District Office located at 173 North Main Street no later than 5:30 pm on Friday, May 6, 2005. On Saturday, May 14, 2005, Congressman Scott will host a reception to recognize all participating students of the competition and announce the top three winners at the Arts Clayton Gallery. Residents of the District are invited to come out to support area students and view an exhibit of all of the entries. During last year’s reception, scholarships to the Art Institute of Atlanta or the Savannah College of Art and Design were offered as awards to the winners. The Art Institute of Atlanta presented the first prize winner with a $10,000 scholarship, the second prize--a $5000 scholarship, and the third prize--a $2000 scholarship. The Savannah College of Art and Design offered a $3,000 scholarship renewable for up to four years for first prize. For more information about the Congressional Art Competition, including competition guidelines, please contact Chandra Harris at 770-210-5073.
03.02.2005	Today, Congressman David Scott contested the elimination of popular housing and development programs in the Administration’s FY 2006 budget for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in a Financial Services Committee hearing on Capitol Hill. The budget proposes elimination of the HOPE VI program, cuts in Section 8 vouchers and Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds, and reduction in housing counseling funds. “Unfortunately, this budget cuts housing programs that serve low-income families, the elderly and disabled persons throughout Georgia,” Congressman Scott said. “I have heard from nearly every city and county in my district about the devastating effects that the cuts in CDBG funds and Section 8 vouchers will have on their communities,” Scott continued. The CDBG program is the largest source of federal financial assistance in support of state and local governments’ community development and neighborhood revitalization activities. The HUD FY2006 budget would be slashed by $3.85 billion, from $32.358 billion to $28.51 billion, or by 12 percent. Specifically, the Section 8 voucher program would face cuts of $90 million, CDBG would be reduced by 35% and transferred to the Commerce Department, and the HOPE VI program would be eliminated. “I am disappointed that the budget eliminates HOPE VI for the third straight year,” Congressman Scott said. “Both the housing authorities of Fulton County and Atlanta have used HOPE VI grants to raze old developments and replace them with mixed-income communities. If the Administration wants to create an ownership society then it should not cut HOPE VI.” The FY 2006 budget proposes to cut home counseling funding from $41.664 million to $39.7 million. “Given the devastating impact of predatory lending in many communities, Congress should not cut back on efforts to educate consumers about the home buying process,” Congressman Scott said. Congressman Scott is a member of the Financial Services Committee and Housing Subcommittee.
02.09.2005	Today, Congressman David Scott spoke out against the Bush Administration's campaign to privatize Social Security and urged young adults and African-Americans to scrutinize the touted benefits of president’s plan carefully. Congressman Scott formally opposed President Bush’s social security scheme from the floor of the House of Representatives yesterday. “President Bush insists that he is undertaking this drastic dismantling of Social Security for the good of our young people. He wants Americans to believe that private accounts are a great deal and a good deal for those under age 55. But the President is wrong. The President claims he will not cut benefits for current retirees to fund his proposal. He claims he will not raise payroll taxes. Well, the only thing left is to borrow the money, thereby increasing the deficit, a deficit that will have to be paid, of course, you guessed it, by younger workers, the very group that the President says he is trying to help,” Scott said. Congressman Scott also condemned President Bush’s use of the lower life expectancy of African-Americans in order to sell his Social Security privatization plan to blacks. In recent weeks, the president has repeatedly asserted that blacks are short-changed because they are more likely than whites to die before receiving their fair share of retirement benefits. “Mr. Bush's use of this false argument is doubly shameful. I do believe he is getting some bad advice on this, because I know the President, and I know that he is a decent person. But inadvertently, when he makes the claim that Social Security is bad for black people because they die younger, he is exploiting the high death rates in childhood and young adulthood to promote this privatization plan instead of trying to remove the deep inequalities that remain in our society,” Scott said. “We know that when African American men make it to age 65, they can expect to live and collect the same benefits for an additional 14 or 15 years, almost equal to the 16 years for white males. So, when the President makes this kind of statement, it is sort of like cutting the legs out from under a man and then condemning him for being disabled.”
02.09.2005	Today Congressman David Scott rejected aspects of the 2.5 trillion Fiscal Year 2006 Budget submitted to Congress by President Bush on Monday. The Bush Administration’s 2006 budget adds more than $4 trillion to the deficit in the next 10 years while cutting billions in education, health care, housing, and environmental programs. Congressman Scott formally spoke out against the budget from the floor of the House of Representatives yesterday. “This budget is not honest and egregiously omits many important priorities that were signature points in President Bush’s State of the Union address last week, including the transition costs of privatizing Social Security and continuing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. This completely negates his promise to cut the deficit in half by 2009,” said Scott. Under the administration's policies, the annual burden of the Federal debt on the typical American family will more than double over the next 10 years, with each family's share of the Federal interest payments on the debt rising from just over $2,000 per year to around $5,000 per year. Estimates from the Congressional Budget Office also put costs for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan as much as $400 billion more than what the president’s budget includes. “The Draconian cuts and flat discretionary spending in the president’s budget do not reduce the deficit. In fact, the deficit continues as far as the eye can see. The $5.6 trillion 10-year surplus inherited by this administration from the Clinton administration, which should have been used to strengthen Social Security, instead has been squandered and replaced by a deficit of $4 trillion over the same time period from 2002 to 2011, which just passes the bill for today's policy choices on to our children and our grandchildren,” said Scott. The President’s budget also imposes a new $250 annual enrollment fee for veterans without service-connected disabilities who also have incomes above VA means-tested levels. “This is the meanest cut of all in this budget: to cut our veterans, to raise taxes on our veterans. We need to be doing more for our veterans, not less. And certainly not raising taxes on our veterans as this budget does,” Scott continued.
02.09.2005	U.S. Representative David Scott (GA-13) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has awarded $337,416 in grants to two local fire departments in the Thirteenth District through the DHS Assistance to Firefighters Grant program. “This funding provides resources for emergency preparedness and homeland security initiatives that are desperately needed by our local fire departments. Firefighters with the City of Oxford and Henry County Fire Departments will use these funds to improve their firefighting operations and firefighter health and safety programs,” said Congressman Scott. Area fire departments from the 13th Congressional District that will receive awards include: • City of Oxford Fire Department - $83,529 for Operations and Firefighter Safety • Henry County Fire Department - $253,887 for Operations and Firefighter Safety The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the DHS Office of Domestic Preparedness, in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration (USFA), and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These grants are used to help local firefighters purchase firefighting equipment, fund firefighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical services programs, and conduct fire education and prevention programs. The City of Oxford and Henry County Fire Departments join more than 8,000 fire departments from around the country that will ultimately receive a total of $750 million in direct assistance grants to support their role as first responders in the neighborhoods and communities they serve. The grants awarded to the City of Oxford and Henry County Fire Departments provide funding specifically in the area of Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety, which includes training, wellness and fitness, firefighting equipment, personal protective equipment, and modifications to fire stations and facilities. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in Washington and local officials to deliver the resources that our area first responders need to protect the communities they serve,” said Scott. Fire departments with questions about the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program can reach the fire grants help desk by calling 1-866-274-0960 or by writing to firegrants@dhs.gov.
02.02.2005	Today Congressman David Scott issued the following statement in response to President Bush’s State of the Union address: “Following tonight’s State of the Union address, I join with President Bush in celebrating Sunday’s election in Iraq as an extraordinary victory. Our soldiers in Iraq and those who lost their lives are the real heroes. I congratulate the President on his leadership and commend the brave people of Iraq who persevered in the face of threats and violence to cast their votes. “Tonight we heard President Bush reiterate his desire to privatize Social Security. I’m concerned that his private accounts will do nothing to save Social Security but will only add $2 trillion to the deficit and be a burden to young people and future generations. “In addition, I think it is very unfortunate that the president recently used the lower life expectancy of African-Americans in order to sell his Social Security privatization plan to blacks. Not only is the President relying on bad advice and citing inaccurate statistics, he is ignoring the true problems involved. If he wants to address life expectancy disparities in the African American community, he should commit to addressing the underlying problems such as high infant mortality, young adult death rates, and poor access to health care that causes blacks to die earlier than the general population. I am disappointed that instead President Bush unwisely chose to exploit these disparities for political gain. “If we are really going to find a lasting solution to Social Security, we must set aside such political games and truly work together in a bipartisan manner.”
01.26.2005	Today, Congressman David Scott issued the following statement regarding the meeting of Members of the Congressional Black Caucus with President Bush earlier today at the White House: “We had a great meeting with President Bush today at the White House. The CBC got a chance to begin a working dialogue with the White House on closing the disparities in health care, jobs, and other social problems minorities continue to face in comparison to the general population. I look forward to more discussions with President Bush in the future.”
01.25.2005	Congressman David Scott will join Members of the Congressional Black Caucus for a scheduled meeting with President Bush at the White House on Wednesday, January 26, 2005. “I’m grateful for this opportunity to meet with President Bush at the beginning of his second term and to begin a working dialogue on health care, education, economic opportunity, justice and retirement security,” Scott said. Wednesday’s meeting with the CBC will be the third time the CBC has met with President Bush in the past four years. The CBC delegation will be led by new CBC Chairman Representative Mel Watt (D-NC). Congressman Scott, a CBC member since 2003, is eager to discuss the president’s priorities and their impact on the growing deficit. “As we begin work in the 109th Congress, foreign policy remains at the forefront of my concerns. Today, President Bush asked Congress to provide an additional $80 billion for the war and I continue to stand with the president and our troops in their efforts to bring democracy to Iraq. However, I am eager to discuss how we will continue to pay for the war and fund the changes to Social Security the President supports without burdening our children with an enormous federal debt,” Scott continued.
