01.03.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement on his vote for the Speaker of the House. “Today I voted “present” in the vote for Speaker of the House, consistent with my eight-year push for new Democratic leadership. Now that we are back in the majority, I did not vote for a rival candidate because there are none. I am very excited about the new Democratic majority. Finally, the Republican monopoly on power in Washington is over. Now, one half of one of the three branches of government will be able to stand up to President Trump when he is wrong. This is the way America’s 200-year-old two-party system of checks and balances is supposed to work: speaking truth to power and competing to help the average voter. We should use this opportunity to help all Americans have a brighter future. If we do a good job getting America back on track, we will more likely win the White House and a majority-Democratic U.S. Senate in 2020. I hope our new House leadership will chart a sensible course, and show all of America that we are up to the job.”
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today denounced President Trump’s decision to withdraw American troops from Syria. “President Trump’s decision to withdraw American troops from Syria is impulsive and irresponsible. National security experts believe ISIS is still a threat, and the removal of our troops will create a power vacuum in the Middle East. We also should not abandon our Kurdish allies who have been working tirelessly beside us in the fight against ISIS,” Rep. Cooper said. “Revealing our military strategy to everyone in the world, including our enemies, is an avoidable error Trump himself has mocked in the past. The fact that Putin is supportive of this decision should be an indication that it is an alarming idea.”
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced that two students from Martin Luther King Jr. Magnet High School are this year’s Congressional App Challenge winners for Tennessee’s 5th Congressional District. The high school juniors are Zavier Miller and Bob Qian. Zavier and Bob used computer programming to create a user-friendly digital scheduling apparatus for students and teachers. They also produced a video that describes the app’s inner workings. Each day, students at the winners’ school get a block of time to choose and attend one class in which they feel they need extra time or instruction. The winning app provides students an easy way to secure space in desired classes and eliminates a cumbersome paper process. The app also gives teachers a high-tech way to communicate their daily course offerings to students and track student attendance. “Zavier and Bob did what Congress should do more often – they simplified a complicated process and solved a problem,” Rep. Cooper said. “Both students clearly have a bright future. Thinking big is what will keep America on top!” The Congressional App Challenge is a national effort to encourage students to learn computer programming through annual district-wide competitions hosted by members of Congress. Students participate in technology and math programs, and have the opportunity to create and code. Winning apps will be displayed at the U.S. Capitol. Although the competition has closed for this year, it opens back up in 2019, and all middle and high school students in Tennessee’s 5th Congressional District are eligible to participate. The district includes Cheatham, Davidson, and Dickson counties. Click here to learn more about the Congressional App Challenge.
12.17.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement after U.S. Sen. Lamar Alexander said he would not seek re-election in 2020: “Lamar is finishing a stellar career in Tennessee politics,” Rep. Cooper said. “I honor him for his service, but I also hope he will use his last two years in office to challenge President Trump the way that Bob Corker has done. I am worried that the Tennessee Republican Party is losing the legacy of Howard Baker: his willingness to investigate his own president, to insist on fiscal discipline, open markets, and civil rights. America needs that fair-mindedness now more than ever.”
12.01.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement. “President George H.W. Bush embodied a bygone American era of civility, respect and bipartisanship,” Rep. Cooper said. “The leader of a patriotic family, he was a war hero, CIA director, honorable commander-in-chief, and the proud father of a fellow President and a governor. No President is perfect, but it’s certain we’ve lost a national hero. President Bush and his beloved Barbara are deeply missed.”
11.01.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today encouraged Tennesseans to evaluate their health insurance options, including some that are newly available to Volunteer State residents, before choosing an Affordable Care Act (ACA) Marketplace plan that best fits their needs. Today is the first day to enroll in ACA Marketplace coverage plans at Healthcare.gov between now and Dec. 15. The plans will cover consumers for calendar year 2019. Most Tennesseans will have more insurance choices at a lower cost. Benchmark premiums across Tennessee are dropping an average of 26.2 percent, the largest decrease in the country. Nashville will have a new insurer offering coverage, Bright Health, as well as continued options from Cigna and Oscar Health. “It’s never been easier for Middle Tennesseans to sign up for health insurance!” Rep. Cooper said. “All the new and expanded options show the Affordable Care Act is working. Tennesseans have six weeks to choose the best plan for them.” More than 229,000 Tennesseans selected ACA plans during the most recent sign-up time despite the Trump administration shortening the open enrollment period by several weeks. A recent study also found that Marketplace premiums are 16 percent higher than they would be absent some administration actions, including repealing the individual mandate and expanding short-term “junk” plans. Despite the success of the individual market, many Tennesseans still struggle to gain access to affordable coverage. Tennessee has still failed to expand Medicaid, which would cover more than 250,000 Tennesseans and reduce premiums even further for those shopping on the individual market. Meanwhile, researchers at the University of Tennessee recently found that the statewide rate of uninsured Tennesseans has increased about 10 percent in the last year, leaving a total of about 450,000 residents without any form of health insurance. Tennesseans can shop for plans at Healthcare.gov or by calling 1-800-318-2596.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today applauded congressional passage of the Music Modernization Act, a bill that promotes fairness in an essential Nashville industry. The House this week passed the Senate’s version of the legislation. President Trump’s signature will make the landmark bill the law of the land. “Congress has finally listened to the music industry,” Rep. Cooper said. “I hope the President signs our bill into law quickly so our songwriters get better pay for their work. This bill is great news for Music City.” Rep. Cooper was an original cosponsor of the Music Modernization Act, legislation that creates a blanket licensing system and spurs other major changes. The bill is set to promote public consumption of licensed music, increase royalties paid out to rights holders, and lead to licensing efficiencies.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) and U.S. Rep. Mark Sanford (SC-01) today introduced the Promoting Responsible and Free Trade Act, a bipartisan bill that would give Congress a stronger role in implementing trade policy and scrutinizing unnecessary tariffs. The president currently possesses unilateral authority to impose any tariff under Sections 201, 301 and 232. Before a tariff is imposed, however, the Commerce Department, International Trade Commission (ITC) or U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) must issue a report on the proposed tariff’s justification and potential effects. But Congress doesn’t have an official say in the matter, and the president is able to impose a tariff without any congressional approval or oversight. The new Cooper-Sanford bill would give Congress the authority to debate and accept or reject any such tariffs before they are imposed. “Our bipartisan bill gives Congress the authority to weigh in on tariffs before they are implemented,” Rep. Cooper said. “No President should have unlimited powers, especially when those powers are hurting innocent farmers and businesses.” “Although the power to impose tariffs is one our Constitution explicitly grants to Congress, modern history is filled with examples of the executive branch imposing tariffs without Congress’s approval...or even a congressional debate,” Rep. Sanford said. “Our Founding Fathers were deliberate in setting up a system of checks and balances, and regardless of your views on the global trading system, the underlying balance of powers should be respected. Given recent events, I think Congress needs to reclaim its seat at the table, and this bill is a simple and effective way to give Congress a more proactive role in trade policy.” Here is how each type of tariff would be affected by the new bill: Section 201: The ITC would be required to send its report to Congress for a maximum review period of 60 days. Congress would then be given the power to pass a joint resolution of disapproval within the 60-day window to stop the tariff’s implementation. Section 301: The USTR would be required to send its report to Congress for a maximum review period of 60 days. Congress would then be given the power to pass a joint resolution of disapproval within the 60-day window to stop the tariff from being implemented. Section 232: The Department of Defense and the Department of Commerce would be required to send a report that reviews any national security implications and tariff recommendations to Congress for approval. The Defense Department would be required to submit its report on national security implications to the president. If the president determines a tariff is necessary, the Commerce Department would be required to send a report to Congress on tariff-level recommendations. Congress will have a maximum of 60 days to approve the tariff report. If approved, the tariff report will go to the president for final approval and implementation. There is a two-year retroactivity period for Section 232 tariffs due to national security implications. This allows Congress to review any existing Section 232 tariffs. The text of the bill can be viewed here.
08.31.2018	WASHINGTON – Weeks after fighting for such an outcome, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) celebrated the end of President Trump’s Commerce Department tariff on a chief component of newsprint, heralding a big win for local and national media organizations that rely on the printed page. "This is an awesome week for American journalism,” Rep. Cooper said. “Newspapers are important defenders of democracy. Thank goodness the threat of newspaper tariffs is over.” Rep. Cooper joined several members of the House and Senate in publicly opposing the tariffs earlier this summer at a July 17 hearing of the U.S. International Trade Commission. Rep. Cooper’s full testimony to the commission is below. First announced in January, increased in March and overturned this week after a unanimous vote by the commission, the tariff – some as high as 20% – affected newspapers large and small. This week’s vote means the tariff will be stopped. Newsprint is the paper on which newspapers and retail inserts are printed, and uncoated groundwood paper is a key component of the final product. Just five U.S. paper mills produce such paper. Meanwhile, Canada produces about 60 percent of all newsprint paper in the world. The U.S. imported more than $1 billion of uncoated groundwood paper in 2016. Tennessee newspapers are delivered to more than 1 million households each week. Supplementing Rep. Cooper’s testimony, three Tennessee newspapers – The Manchester Times, The Tullahoma News and Morristown’s Citizen Tribune – submitted letters for the record, stating the negative effects of the tariff. The Tennessean also editorialized on the tariff, imploring the Commerce Department to stop the “job-killing tax on newspapers.” U.S. International Trade Commission Testimony of Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) Hearing: Uncoated Groundwood Paper (INV701-TA-584 & 731-TA-1382) July 17, 2018 Thank you, Chairman Johanson and Commissioners, for convening this important hearing to address the adverse effects of the duty on uncoated groundwood paper from Canada. As you well know, uncoated groundwood paper is primarily used to make newsprint, the paper on which newspapers and retail inserts are printed. According to the Department of Commerce, the United States imported over $1 billion of uncoated groundwood paper from Canada in 2016. We have to import; we have no choice. Canada produces about 60% of all newsprint paper in the world and few U.S. paper mills actually produce this kind of paper. Five, to be exact. On their best day, those five mills are not going to produce enough newsprint at a low enough cost to cover the circulation of America’s biggest newspapers. It’s no surprise that American newspapers and printing companies import most newsprint paper from Canada. This investigation started with one company, but the practical effects of this shortsighted tariff are already dramatic. Paper is already the second-largest expense for any newspaper, behind labor. To make up for the increased cost of importing paper, newspapers across the country are cutting pages, decreasing circulation and eliminating jobs. Newspapers and printing companies are not suddenly going to start buying newsprint from American producers. They aren’t buying from them now for several reasons: there are too few, it is too expensive, and there just simply isn’t enough supply to keep up with demand. This tariff on newsprint and the ultimate decision on uncoated groundwood paper will hurt rural and local papers the most. Big papers like The Wall Street Journal will initially cut pages, but local papers like The Dickson Herald could cut jobs and even close their doors. A small increase of 2 cents more per paper per day may not sound like much, but it has a big effect. It will add over $8 million in annual expenses for The Wall Street Journal. Newspapers provide the best source of news information around. Tennessee newspapers are delivered to over 1 million households each week. Less news will lead to an increasingly distant and ill-informed American citizen; it will make them more likely to make an ill-informed choice at the ballot box, or perhaps not even vote at all. In times like these, that is something this country cannot afford. Even before this uncoated groundwood paper investigation was initiated, the paper and newspaper industries were already declining. While many of us would like to believe that most Americans read the news each day, it is simply not the case. Subscriptions and circulations are down and continue to drop. While The New York Times can reach many of its readers through online content, rural Tennesseans rely on their printed local papers for the news that directly affects them. The decline in demand for newsprint and other paper is due to the decline of readership of newspapers, not imports from Canada. Even with this decline in readership, the American printing and newspaper industries employ over 600,000 people. One company filed a complaint to initiate this investigation and now we are headed down a rabbit hole. Newsprint prices have already increased by about 30% since the start of the year. We have around 150 newspapers in circulation in Tennessee, 20% of which are printed daily. What does that mean for those papers? Right now, it means a hiring freeze and fewer pages dedicated to the actual news until the tariff is either eliminated or becomes final. I am proud that the main newspaper for the state, The Tennessean, is produced in my district. But The Tennessean and local papers alike cannot afford this unforeseen and unnecessary financial burden. The Manchester Times in Manchester, Tenn., will pay an additional $40,000 over the next year because of the increased price of newsprint. The Tullahoma News will pay $50,000. That is not sustainable. I would like to submit three letters for the record from local papers in Tennessee stating the effects of this tariff and describing their grim futures. Newspapers make their profit in print because of retail inserts. There is very little profit to be made when readers are all online. Quad Graphics produces retail inserts for magazines and newspapers and has a plant in Nashville that employs about 200 people. That plant consumes over 52,000 tons of newsprint each year. With the tariff, the Nashville plant alone will see its paper expenses increase by almost $8 million per year. There is no chance of this company being able to keep up its same production levels with the same employee base. It’s impossible. Those additional expenses will be passed along to customers. I appreciate the USITC’s investigation into the dumping of uncoated groundwood paper into the American market. But only one of the five newsprint-producing paper mills in the United States filed this complaint. That is telling. The damage this tariff will do to the newspaper and printing industries will be catastrophic. This knowledge should far outweigh one stakeholder’s concern of subsidized paper imports from Canada. America’s trade laws should protect the whole, not endanger the few. This administration’s approach to trade is cavalier and ill-informed. I cannot sit by and watch this country’s news industry be destroyed by federal overreach. I hope the USITC will stand with me in protecting American jobs and its news. Thank you.
08.10.2018	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement after Vice President Pence's Aug. 9 speech at the Pentagon. Origin of the “Space Force” Idea I am embarrassed by the politicization, polarization, and even commercialization of the idea of strengthening U.S. military capabilities in space. The Aug. 9, 2018, speech by Vice President Pence at the Pentagon—a speech that I was invited to attend but did not—looked like it was boosting national defense, but may have harmed it. The vice president mentioned four people by name in the speech, including me, to demonstrate the bipartisan nature of strengthening U.S. space capabilities, but the administration is handling the issue so clumsily that it risks becoming a laughingstock. Even worse, the campaign arm of the Trump administration has suggested selling merchandise with the logo of the Space Force on it in order to help finance President Trump’s re-election campaign. This makes efforts to strengthen U.S. space capabilities look like a partisan joke, further strengthening the hands of America’s rivals. Origins Our satellites were safe until about 11 years ago, when China successfully attacked one of its own weather satellites. That test proved that China could destroy many satellites, as well as create a debris field that threatens everything in orbit. Nations like Russia have also taken aggressive actions in space. These nations aren’t our friends. An adversarial attack in space could cripple satellites before we knew what hit us. Without satellites, cell phones wouldn’t work, our banking systems would crash, planes could not fly, and electrical sockets would go dead. It would crush our economy and paralyze our military. At the end of 2016, Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL) and I began pushing the idea of giving our military space professionals more support and flexibility so that they could better meet the national security challenges that America has been facing. Since most of these space professionals are in the Air Force, our natural conclusion was that the Air Force was not doing enough to help them and to ensure our readiness in space. Mike and I are the chairman and ranking member of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, so it is our job to request the briefings and to lead the hearings of the subcommittee. Our jurisdiction includes nuclear weapons and military satellites. We knew that the Chinese and Russians had been taking steps for many years to militarize space, to threaten U.S. and world satellites that are largely defenseless, and to be able to disrupt every type of satellite activity on which the world’s business, entertainment, and defense structures completely depend. We also knew that the U.S. response was extremely slow, ridden with cost-overruns, and increasingly behind the technical curve, leaving us increasingly exposed to new threats. After months of discussing these problems with top Air Force personnel, with the other services, and with outside experts, we decided that creation of a “Space Corps” would be appropriate within the Air Force. The Marine Corps has long held a similar position within the Department of the Navy. This proposal would have given the secretary of the Air Force and other Air Force leadership more authority to streamline the acquisition process for new satellites, to improve morale and expertise of space specialists in the Air Force, and to gradually start the process of evolving space from the Air Force over many years. We specifically directed that no new military bases, academies, uniforms or unnecessary overhead were required. We preferred that the Air Force reallocate existing resources to strengthen its space capabilities and increase its organizational focus to address rapidly emerging threats. Since our proposal was launched, it has gone through two years of full committee markups and two years of floor passage of two National Defense Authorization Acts, with overwhelming—sometimes even unanimous--support. Each year, Senate conferees have tried to trim back our proposals with some success. In response, we urge our Senate colleagues to attend the secret Pentagon briefings that will help them understand the urgency of our security challenges. Space is already a war-fighting domain. Pretending that our satellites are safe today would be foolish. Despite Senate misgivings, the strong bipartisan nature of the House’s support for the idea has resulted in fundamental changes in the Air Force treatment of space, and in the writing of the latest Pentagon report on space which prompted the vice president’s speech. Trump’s Intervention President Trump has gone off-script on several occasions in 2018 to strongly support a “Space Force,” an entirely separate military service devoted to space. He has publicly and abruptly demanded that General Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, get the Pentagon to push the new service. The president has provided no detail to his thinking; only that it is the latest shiny object to capture his attention. Vice President Pence’s recent speech is the formal kickoff of the process of creating a new service (the first since 1947), which he demanded should end with the creation of a Space Force by 2020. Vice President Pence’s speech was in response to a congressionally mandated report on Pentagon recommendations for strengthening America’s space capabilities. The vice president’s remarks go beyond what the Pentagon had recommended in the report. Now there is talk of billions in new spending, new uniforms, and the vast overhead that goes with an entirely new service. Already, the idea of streamlining space acquisition and performance looks like it is getting bogged down in overhead and bureaucracy. My Reaction At first, I was optimistic that President Trump was supporting our hard-fought and timely congressional initiative to strengthen our capabilities to defend our vital space assets, thinking that his support might wear down some of the opposition to reform both in the Senate and in the Air Force. To use a country phrase, “why look a gift horse in the mouth?” But the administration’s mishandling of the idea by allowing it to become a political fundraising tool, a jingoistic partisan rallying cry, an exaggerated caricature of a new service, and a rhetorical scourge of our brave men and women in uniform, just goes too far and will not help the cause. America urgently needs better satellite capability and better defenses in space against real threats, but the administration’s stridently political approach undermines that goal. We need serious conversation, not e-mails from political campaigns to vote on a logo or a patch.
07.26.2018	“Tariff” is an ugly word. It’s not a cuss word or an insult, but it’s a government word, used mainly in capitols and legislatures. If someone “puts a tariff on you,” it sounds like a hex. Fortunately, only presidents or Congress can impose tariffs. Think of tariffs as Washington voodoo. A tariff is not a hex but a tax — or series of taxes — on what other nations try to sell to us. Politicians are not brave enough to call them tax hikes, but they are. Tariffs are painful, like needle pricks. Naturally, foreign leaders want to fight back by sticking us with their own tariffs. This quickly leads to tariff wars that can spread like wildfire. Tariffs are popular at first. We get lots of money from the tariffs that other countries pay. Why not take the money? Also, we can benefit when the prices of imports rise by the amount of the tariff. American-made products look cheaper, so our sales increase. It’s fun hiding behind tariff walls. ariffs seem good, so why not solve all of our problems that way? Developing nations are tempted to do just that. Advanced nations learned not to, however. About 80 years ago (with the Smoot-Hawley tariffs), Americans realized that tariffs backfired, making the Great Depression worse. Tariffs start a race to the bottom, not the top. How tariffs start a race to the bottom First, Americans usually end up paying the tariffs because we can’t wean ourselves from imports. Tariffs end up taxing us, not foreigners. We pay the bill. Tariffs are boomerangs. Second, businesses hiding behind tariff walls often conceal other things like inferior quality, low productivity, or waste. They rarely pass along their new profits to their workers. Most important, tariffs are like drinking hard liquor. You are never as smart or good-looking as tariffs make you feel. You are just getting high, hungover, and hooked. Some people can hold their liquor, but people who brag about doing that are drunks. Today’s tariff talk from the Trump Administration has already spread from eight tariffs to 20,000. Meanwhile, the world is retaliating. China, a notorious cheater on trade deals, is brazenly trying to reverse roles and replace traditional U.S. leadership in the world by reducing tariff barriers for its friends. Democrats and Republicans are criticizing the president's policies The Tennessee Farm Bureau and other Tennessee businesses know the value of low- or no-tariff trade. Virtually every Tennessee elected official, Democrat and Republican, is criticizing the Trump Administration’s belligerence on tariffs. Virtually every economist, liberal or conservative, agrees that tariffs are bad for America. U.S. Sen. Bob Corker has been particularly critical of President Trump for taking power from Congress when he claims that he can unilaterally put a tariff on other countries for “national security.” President Trump’s tariffs are not about our security but his own personal insecurity. The architect of President Trump’s tax cut legislation, Gary Cohn, says that Trump’s tariffs are already offsetting the benefits of the tax cuts. What the government gave with one hand, it is taking with the other. The Chairman of the Federal Reserve says that tariffs are already slowing the growth of our entire economy. Tennessee is a world center of the automobile industry. Tariffs are expected to raise the cost of each car by $5,800. Our whiskey industry is specifically being targeted for retaliation by nations that want to send a message to Sen. Mitch McConnell from Kentucky. It’s hard to find one of our industries that will not be adversely affected by tariffs. Let’s come to our senses and stop this madness before it gets out of control. Tariffs are bad news. They are not only ugly but stupid. Op-Ed appeared in the Tennessean on July 26, 2018.
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05), one of two Tennessee representatives serving on the House Armed Services Committee (HASC), today spoke on the House Floor and pledged his support for the National Defense Authorization Act. During his remarks, he vowed to continue working toward “the establishment of a true Space Corps or Space Force.” Rep. Cooper is Ranking Member of HASC’s Strategic Forces Subcommittee, which oversees America’s nuclear weapons, ballistic missile defense, national security space programs, and Department of Energy national security programs. A video of Rep. Cooper’s floor speech can be found HERE and a transcript of his remarks is below. I would like to thank all members of the conference committee for their record-breaking work on this National Defense Authorization Act. This bill supports national security, so I am pleased to support the bill. I particularly would like to thank my good friend Chairman Rogers for his bipartisan leadership of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee. In addition to authorizing core missions of our nuclear forces to provide a strong deterrent, this defense authorization bill: Mandates an independent study on increasing the decision time before the President can use nuclear weapons, Allows negotiations for extending the New START Treaty to maintain binding limits on the number of strategic nuclear weapons that Russia can deploy, Drops a provision that would have all but separated the Nuclear Security Administration from the Department of Energy in direct contradiction of expert recommendations, and Allows the Department of Energy to continue terminating the failed and unaffordable MOX boondoggle. The bill supports effective missile defense efforts, including pressing for near-term solutions such as boost-phase missile defense using kinetic interceptors. It increases accountability for the acquisition of expensive interceptors. And, of course, we support US-Israeli missile defense. Finally, I strongly commend Chairman Rogers’s leadership in strengthening our ability to defend our assets in space against increasing threats. This bill creates a sub-unified command for space; continues oversight of warfighting readiness; presses for more rapid and agile acquisition processes; and mandates a plan for improving our space capabilities. I look forward to continuing to work with Chairman Rogers and others toward the establishment of a true Space Corps or Space Force. Thank you again and I urge support for this bill.
07.19.2018	All Middle & High School Students in Middle Tennessee Eligible to Participate WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today invited eligible Middle Tennessee students to submit their work for consideration in this year’s nationwide Congressional App Challenge. The Congressional App Challenge is an annual effort to encourage students to learn computer programming through annual district-wide competitions hosted by members of Congress. It encourages student participation in technology and math programs by offering students a chance to create and code. All middle and high school students in Middle Tennessee are eligible and encouraged to participate. “Brilliant students are turning Middle Tennessee into America’s next tech hub,” Rep. Cooper said. “Every time I visit a school I’m amazed at the skills I see. Let’s show the world our expertise!” Last year, Delia Batdorff, a student at RePublic High School in Nashville, won the competition in Tennessee’s 5th Congressional District, which Rep. Cooper represents. The district is comprised of Cheatham, Davidson and Dickson counties. Delia’s work was showcased in Washington. For this year’s competition, online registration closes on Oct. 15. Students who register before Sept. 10 qualify for early incentives, and winners will be announced in December. For complete details on the Congressional App Challenge, please click here.
07.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Testifying to the U.S. International Trade Commission this morning, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) denounced the Commerce Department’s tariff on a chief component of newsprint, citing the immense financial burden for local and national media organizations that rely on the printed page. “The damage this tariff will do to the newspaper and printing industries will be catastrophic,” Rep. Cooper said in remarks submitted for the record. “Less news will lead to an increasingly distant and ill-informed American citizen.” Newsprint is the paper on which newspapers and retail inserts are printed, and uncoated groundwood paper is a key component of the final product. The U.S. imported more than $1 billion of uncoated groundwood paper in 2016. Canada produces about 60 percent of all newsprint paper in the world; just five U.S. paper mills produce such paper. So American newspapers and printing companies rely on Canada for much of their newsprint. First announced in January and increased in March, the tariffs have affected newspapers large and small. Tennessee newspapers are delivered to more than 1 million households each week. Supplementing Rep. Cooper’s testimony, three Tennessee newspapers – The Manchester Times, The Tullahoma News and Morristown’s Citizen Tribune – submitted letters for the record, stating the negative effects of the tariff. The Tennessean recently editorialized on the tariff, imploring the Commerce Department to stop the “job-killing tax on newspapers.” The tariffs are not permanent, and Rep. Cooper hopes his testimony will hasten their stoppage. Rep. Cooper’s full written testimony is below. U.S. International Trade Commission Testimony of Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) Hearing: Uncoated Groundwood Paper (INV701-TA-584 & 731-TA-1382) July 17, 2018 Thank you, Chairman Johanson and Commissioners, for convening this important hearing to address the adverse effects of the duty on uncoated groundwood paper from Canada. As you well know, uncoated groundwood paper is primarily used to make newsprint, the paper on which newspapers and retail inserts are printed. According to the Department of Commerce, the United States imported over $1 billion of uncoated groundwood paper from Canada in 2016. We have to import; we have no choice. Canada produces about 60% of all newsprint paper in the world and few U.S. paper mills actually produce this kind of paper. Five, to be exact. On their best day, those five mills are not going to produce enough newsprint at a low enough cost to cover the circulation of America’s biggest newspapers. It’s no surprise that American newspapers and printing companies import most newsprint paper from Canada. This investigation started with one company, but the practical effects of this shortsighted tariff are already dramatic. Paper is already the second-largest expense for any newspaper, behind labor. To make up for the increased cost of importing paper, newspapers across the country are cutting pages, decreasing circulation and eliminating jobs. Newspapers and printing companies are not suddenly going to start buying newsprint from American producers. They aren’t buying from them now for several reasons: there are too few, it is too expensive, and there just simply isn’t enough supply to keep up with demand. This tariff on newsprint and the ultimate decision on uncoated groundwood paper will hurt rural and local papers the most. Big papers like The Wall Street Journal will initially cut pages, but local papers like The Dickson Herald could cut jobs and even close their doors. A small increase of 2 cents more per paper per day may not sound like much, but it has a big effect. It will add over $8 million in annual expenses for The Wall Street Journal. Newspapers provide the best source of news information around. Tennessee newspapers are delivered to over 1 million households each week. Less news will lead to an increasingly distant and ill-informed American citizen; it will make them more likely to make an ill-informed choice at the ballot box, or perhaps not even vote at all. In times like these, that is something this country cannot afford. Even before this uncoated groundwood paper investigation was initiated, the paper and newspaper industries were already declining. While many of us would like to believe that most Americans read the news each day, it is simply not the case. Subscriptions and circulations are down and continue to drop. While The New York Times can reach many of its readers through online content, rural Tennesseans rely on their printed local papers for the news that directly affects them. The decline in demand for newsprint and other paper is due to the decline of readership of newspapers, not imports from Canada. Even with this decline in readership, the American printing and newspaper industries employ over 600,000 people. One company filed a complaint to initiate this investigation and now we are headed down a rabbit hole. Newsprint prices have already increased by about 30% since the start of the year. We have around 150 newspapers in circulation in Tennessee, 20% of which are printed daily. What does that mean for those papers? Right now, it means a hiring freeze and fewer pages dedicated to the actual news until the tariff is either eliminated or becomes final. I am proud that the main newspaper for the state, The Tennessean, is produced in my district. But The Tennessean and local papers alike cannot afford this unforeseen and unnecessary financial burden. The Manchester Times in Manchester, Tenn., will pay an additional $40,000 over the next year because of the increased price of newsprint. The Tullahoma News will pay $50,000. That is not sustainable. I would like to submit three letters for the record from local papers in Tennessee stating the effects of this tariff and describing their grim futures. Newspapers make their profit in print because of retail inserts. There is very little profit to be made when readers are all online. Quad Graphics produces retail inserts for magazines and newspapers and has a plant in Nashville that employs about 200 people. That plant consumes over 52,000 tons of newsprint each year. With the tariff, the Nashville plant alone will see its paper expenses increase by almost $8 million per year. There is no chance of this company being able to keep up its same production levels with the same employee base. It’s impossible. Those additional expenses will be passed along to customers. I appreciate the USITC’s investigation into the dumping of uncoated groundwood paper into the American market. But only one of the five newsprint-producing paper mills in the United States filed this complaint. That is telling. The damage this tariff will do to the newspaper and printing industries will be catastrophic. This knowledge should far outweigh one stakeholder’s concern of subsidized paper imports from Canada. America’s trade laws should protect the whole, not endanger the few. This administration’s approach to trade is cavalier and ill-informed. I cannot sit by and watch this country’s news industry be destroyed by federal overreach. I hope the USITC will stand with me in protecting American jobs and its news. Thank you.
07.02.2018	NASHVILLE – A day before Tennesseans must register to vote in order to participate in the Aug. 2 elections, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) and Tennessee State Sen. Steve Dickerson announced a big milestone for Project Register, a nonpartisan community initiative they created to raise awareness about online voter registration in Middle Tennessee. Since the program launched six months ago, 200 companies, universities and other organizations have joined the effort by encouraging employees to get registered and check their voter status. From Middle Tennessee’s largest employers to small businesses, nonprofits, sports teams and community organizations, Project Register’s participants employ 382,000 people who share a commitment to improve voter participations rates in Tennessee. “I’ve never had an easier time encouraging people to join any other effort,” Rep. Cooper said. “Middle Tennessee employers understand the importance of voting and raising our state’s low rankings. I’m thankful that so many organizations are happy to help spread the word about our most significant right as Americans.” “We have received a huge response from the Nashville business community,” Sen. Dickerson said. “It’s been a big success and a great experience for all concerned.” At the start of Project Register, Tennessee was ranked 40th in voter registration and 50th in voter turnout; the Volunteer State was home to more than 838,000 adults who were not registered to vote. Along with incorporating voter registration into their new-hire onboarding processes, participating companies agree to remind employees twice annually to vote online. Earlier this month, Project Register participants received a message reminding them to notify their employees ahead of the upcoming Aug. 2 elections. A wide variety of companies followed up and sent reminders to employees, including Fisk University, Vanderbilt University, ThinkTennessee, the Center for Nonprofit Management, St. Thomas Health and Regions Bank. Other organizations, including the Nashville Predators and the John and Natasha Deane Foundation, produced video reminders. The document attached here includes a list of all 200 Project Register participants. Tomorrow is the deadline to register in the Aug. 2 election. Register to vote online at https://ovr.govote.tn.gov/.
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement on the Supreme Court's ruling on Janus v. AFSCME: "Unions help keep America strong and ensure equal rights in the workplace. The Supreme Court has made it harder to stop workplace abuse and ensure fair pay and benefits," Rep. Cooper said. "As Justice Sotomayor wrote in dissent: 'There is no sugarcoating today’s opinion. The majority overthrows a decision entrenched in this Nation’s law – and in its economic life – for 40 years. As a result it prevents the American people, acting through their state and local officials, from making important choices about workplace governance.'"
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today voted against another partisan immigration bill, helping defeat more legislation that did nothing to reunite separated families. “Republicans called this bill a ‘compromise,’ but Democrats were completely shut out. America’s immigration problems won’t be solved until Congress starts embracing bipartisan legislation,” Rep. Cooper said. “Meanwhile, where is the plan to reunite separated families? How are the children being treated? The White House must answer these questions and more.” The bill on the floor today: Did nothing to reunite families recently separated at the border. Diminished protections for those fleeing violence and seeking asylum. Eliminated the ability of American citizens to petition for their siblings or married children. Revoked more than 3 million previously approved citizenship petitions. Failed to provide a permanent and guaranteed path to citizenship for DREAMers. Ended the diversity visa lottery program As a cosponsor of the DREAM Act – and the only member of the Tennessee delegation to vote for the DREAM Act when it passed the House in 2010 – Rep. Cooper recognizes the importance of establishing a path to citizenship and permanent protection for young people who arrived in America as children. He also supports the Keep Families Together Act. Rep. Cooper strongly opposes the Trump family separation policy in all its forms. Earlier this month he hosted a news conference to outline his concerns. Since then, Rep. Cooper has signed several letters to the administration, asking how many children have been detained, how they are being treated and how much the policy is costing taxpayers. Additionally, Rep. Cooper has requested a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee investigation, asked House appropriators to cut off funding for any program used to separate families, and cosponsored a House resolution condemning the practice.
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement after Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy announced his upcoming retirement. “Justice Kennedy’s retirement once again proves a cold, hard fact: ELECTIONS MATTER,” Rep. Cooper said. “Trump will single-handedly change the direction of the Supreme Court and American life for decades. Our most fundamental rights – speech, choice, religion, marriage, health care, voting, you name it – are at risk now more than ever. Vote like your life depends on it.”
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON – In the wake of several recent Supreme Court decisions that have dodged the question of gerrymandering, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today reiterated his belief that Congress should pass legislation that would help eliminate the partisan redrawing of voting districts. "Gerrymandering undermines our democracy and minimizes the power of the American people. Both political parties are guilty of manipulating districts for political gain, depending on which party is in control,” Rep. Cooper said. “Instead of waiting for the Supreme Court to rule, Congress should pass real reform to clean up the redistricting process. Democracy is being threatened and voting rights are at risk." Often described as politicians choosing their voters, gerrymandering is the purposeful manipulation of geographical voting districts so that one party is favored over another. Last week, the Supreme Court sidestepped the central question of partisan gerrymandering in cases in Maryland and Wisconsin. This week, the Supreme Court decided to avoid answering similar questions in a North Carolina case. Meanwhile, in Abbott v. Perez, a majority of Supreme Court justices overturned the orders of a three-judge court in the Western District of Texas, which originally found that Texas’ redistricting maps were tainted by discriminatory intent. Justice Sonia Sotomayor condemned the decision in her dissent. She wrote: “After undeniable proof of intentional discrimination, minority voters in Texas—despite constituting a majority of the population within the State—will continue to be underrepresented in the political process.” Rep. Cooper is the chief sponsor of two bills to reform redistricting and bring accountability and transparency to the process.
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today joined a bipartisan majority, including all Democrats and 41 Republicans, in soundly defeating a “cruel” immigration bill. “This bill is too cruel to support, and it doesn’t do anything to reunite families already separated at the border,” Rep. Cooper said. “We could be voting on bipartisan bills that would begin to solve some of our nation’s immigration problems, but House Republican leadership won’t allow us to do that.” Another partisan immigration bill was expected in the House this afternoon. That bill was suddenly pulled by House Republican leadership and may be considered tomorrow. The bill on the floor today: Did nothing to stop family separations. Did nothing to reunify families recently separated at the border. Included no permanent solution for Dreamers. Eliminated the ability of American citizens to sponsor their parents, adult children and siblings. Earlier this month, Rep. Cooper announced his opposition to the Trump family separation policy, hosting a news conference this week to further describe his concerns. Legislatively, Rep. Cooper has taken several other steps, requesting a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee investigation; asking House appropriators to cut off funding for any program used to separate families; and cosponsoring a House resolution condemning the practice. Rep. Cooper supports the DREAM Act and the Keep Families Together Act.
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) welcomed Rabbi Mark Schiftan of Nashville as today’s guest chaplain on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. To watch a video of Rabbi Schiftan’s opening prayer, please click here. To watch a video of Rep. Cooper’s subsequent remarks, please click here. Transcripts of Rabbi Schiftan’s opening prayer and Rep. Cooper’s remarks are below. Rabbi Mark Schiftan: God, bless this land and all its inhabitants. This land, built on foundations we may call our own; pledged to law and freedom, to equality and harmony; haven for the huddled masses, yearning to breathe free. We and you who lead us are a nation of immigrants. Each of us, all of us, are here because of the individually and mutually inspired hopes and dreams of those who came before us – those who often fled persecution to find safe haven on this nation’s shores. For them, and for future generations that followed them, including each and every one of us: More than any other instruction in the Bible is the sacred reminder to embrace the stranger, to love the newcomer as much or even more than the native-born. May we, may you who lead us, do just that. Help us, oh God, to fulfill the promise of America. May we and you who lead us be true to this land and its traditions. Renew in all of us a zeal for justice. Tempered always with mercy, awaken within us compassion, so we may enter upon the future, with restored vision, and dedicated afresh to a proud destiny for all. Amen.U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper: Mr. Speaker, the opening prayer today was given by Rabbi Mark Schiftan of Nashville, the senior rabbi of the oldest and largest Jewish congregation in Middle Tennessee. The congregation dates back to 1851 when the Vine Street Temple began worship services in downtown Nashville, even before the Civil War. Rabbi Schiftan has led today’s Temple: Congregation of Ohabai Sholom, for nearly 20 years, and is well-known and beloved in our community. His family escaped the Holocaust from Vienna, Austria, fleeing first to Shanghai, China, and then to San Francisco. Rabbi Schiftan was educated at San Francisco State University, the Hebrew Union of Los Angeles, and then was ordained at the Hebrew Union of Cincinnati. Under Rabbi Schiftan’s leadership, The Temple has been the indispensable religious and cultural institution for all of Middle Tennessee. I would like to personally thank the rabbi for his strong leadership in our community, for our personal friendship, and for opening the House with prayer today. Thank you.
06.19.2018	Congressman Cosponsors the Keep Families Together Act NASHVILLE – Continuing to fight for immigrant families, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today condemned President Trump’s “zero-tolerance” policy, which has resulted in separating children from their families at the border. Rep. Cooper’s condemnation occurred during a news conference in Nashville, where he called the separation policy an “unspeakable betrayal of America’s history.” The full news conference can be downloaded and viewed here. At the news conference, Rep. Cooper announced he is cosponsoring a new bill that would keep families together and prevent children from being separated from their parents. The Keep Families Together Act, sponsored by Rep. Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), will be introduced today. Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) introduced a similar bill in the Senate that is supported by all Democratic senators. “This policy is deliberate cruelty. Kids are being damaged permanently every day. This is an embarrassment to the world and must end immediately,” Rep. Cooper said. “Trump has the ability to stop family separations himself, but if the White House doesn’t act now, Congress must step forward and save these children.” President Trump and other White House officials have falsely claimed the administration is enforcing a law. In reality, the practice is part of the Trump administration’s “zero-tolerance” policy, where the decision was made to prosecute all families trying to enter the country. Parents are apprehended, which separates children from their families. President George W. Bush and President Barack Obama stepped up enforcement at the border, but did not pursue family separation. The current policy could be overturned by President Trump today. Earlier this month, Rep. Cooper announced his opposition to the Trump policy and took several other steps, requesting a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee investigation; asking House appropriators to cut off any funding for any program used to separate families; and cosponsoring a House resolution condemning the practice.
06.11.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today responded to a Supreme Court ruling that allows states to purge some citizens from voter registration rolls after they miss elections. “Because of today’s Supreme Court decision, voting is now ‘use it or lose it’ for some Americans. I’m glad the Tennessee legislature changed our state law last year to protect our citizens. I hope it doesn’t reverse that law,” Rep. Cooper said. “It’s more important than ever to vote in EVERY election. Sitting out could be used against you in some states.”
06.08.2018	Legislation Asserts Congress’ Right to Scrutinize Presidential Trade Actions, Including Tariffs WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced he is cosponsoring bipartisan legislation that would require presidents to allow Congress to review proposed trade actions – such as tariffs – at least 60 days before the trade actions are scheduled to take effect. The Trade Authority Protection Act is sponsored by Rep. Ron Kind (WI-03) and asserts Congress’ authority to evaluate trade actions proposed by the Executive Branch. Rep. Cooper’s support comes after President Trump’s hasty move to impose tariffs on aluminum and steel, as well as his proposal to place levies on auto imports. “Nobody wins in trade wars. Other countries need to be held accountable for unfair trade,” Rep. Cooper said. “But using tariffs to pressure our partners into better behavior rarely works. Tennesseans will be the ones who get hurt.” The Trade Authority Protection Act would require the president for all congressionally delegated trade authorities to submit a report to Congress 60 days before the trade action is to take effect. The report would: Describe the proposed action; Outline the effective period of said action; Analyze said action, including whether the action is in the national economic interest of the U.S.; Assess the threat of potential retaliation from trading partners; Provide an economic analysis of the impact of both the action and expected reactions from trading partners; and Show a list of articles affected by said action. Rep. Cooper supports similar efforts by Tennessee Sens. Bob Corker and Lamar Alexander to check executive authority on trade. Last month, Rep. Cooper announced his opposition to President Trump’s suggested tariffs on auto imports, saying they would hurt Tennessee.
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement after President Trump announced that the United States would withdraw from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). “The Iran deal was much better than President Trump thinks. He is making a big mistake by withdrawing from it,” Rep. Cooper said. “This will further isolate America from our allies and provoke even more trouble in the Middle East."
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today voted for a sweeping bipartisan bill that promotes fairness in the music industry and praised its unanimous passage in the full House of Representatives. Rep. Cooper was an original cosponsor of the Music Modernization Act, legislation that creates a blanket licensing system and spurs other major changes. If the bill is also passed by the Senate, it will promote public consumption of licensed music, increase royalties paid out to rights holders and lead to licensing efficiencies. “These updates are long overdue and will help level the playing field for Music City’s terrific artists,” Rep. Cooper said. “The Senate should quickly pass our bill so our songwriters are paid fairly for their awesome work.” In the spirit of compromise, Rep. Cooper applauded the bill’s historic and broad support from the music and technology industries. The bill has been endorsed by record labels, music publishers, songwriters, internet companies and other digital services.
04.25.2018	Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the victims of a deadly mass shooting at a Waffle House in Antioch, Tennessee, on the morning of Sunday, April 22. Four young, promising lives were lost, and two other people were injured. Today we mourn Joe R. Perez, 20 years old, who moved to Nashville to live with his grandmother and work at his brother’s business; DeEbony Groves, 21, a senior at Belmont University who was weeks from earning a degree in social work; Taurean C. Sanderlin, 29, a Waffle House employee who was outside on a break; and Akilah Dasilva, 23, a student and aspiring musician. Their paths crossed at the Waffle House, expecting nothing more than good food. Now, four young lives are lost. We mourn with their families, friends, and the Antioch community. I would also like to recognize Mr. James Shaw, Jr. a native Nashvillian and an American hero. Mr. Shaw bravely stopped this attack from being even worse. His courageous and decisive actions saved many lives. In Mr. Shaw’s own words, he “saw an opportunity and took it.” Later Sunday morning, after receiving treatment for his own injuries, Mr. Shaw went home to see his family. He is a loving father to his 4-year-old daughter, Brooklyn. He then went to the church he has attended since he was a baby. Mr. Shaw’s greatest concern is for the other victims, and he has organized a fund to support them. Mr. Shaw doesn’t consider himself a hero, but his actions clearly prove otherwise. Mr. Shaw gave us hope on one of Nashville’s darkest days, and he embodies the very best of our community. We are forever grateful for his bravery and his willingness to put his own life at risk in order to save others. We are both heartbroken for the tragic loss of lives and proud of our hometown hero. This tragedy will not define our city. We are grateful to people all across America who have supported our community with prayers and financial support. May we all remember Mr. Shaw’s words: “I hope we can bring violence in all facets – not just gun violence, but all facets of violence – to an end.”
04.22.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement on this morning’s shooting at a Waffle House on Murfreesboro Pike: “Nashville woke up to devastating news. We mourn the innocent victims and thank our brave first responders,” Rep. Cooper said. “Many will say now is not the time to discuss change. But now IS the time. We can and must do everything possible to prevent these tragedies and keep Americans safe. That starts with restricting widespread civilian access to military-grade assault weapons.”
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced results after this year’s 42 nonpartisan voter registration drives at high schools across Tennessee’s 5th Congressional District, encouraging more than 3,000 new voters in Cheatham, Davidson and Dickson counties to participate in the 2018 election cycle. Some of the results of this effort were unveiled recently at the Youth Opportunity Center in Nashville. The youth voter registration drive is the culmination of a group effort including Rep. Cooper, State Sen. Steve Dickerson, Cheatham County Mayor Kerry McCarver, Dickson County Mayor Bob Rial, the Nashville Mayor’s Youth Council, the Cheatham County Election Commission, the Davidson County Election Commission and the Dickson County Election Commission. The effort registered a total of 3,007 high school students in Cheatham, Davidson and Dickson countiess. “I’m so proud of every newly registered voter in Cheatham, Davidson and Dickson counties,” Rep. Cooper said. “I hope they all vote in every election, and I thank our partners for helping this generation participate in our democracy!”
04.03.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today received confirmation that the omnibus funding bill recently passed by Congress releases $7.5 million in fresh funding for election security in Tennessee. The federal Election Assistance Commission sent a letter to Rep. Cooper that says each state will receive grant notifications by Friday. Tennessee will be expected to supplement its new federal grants with a 5 percent match of about $378,000. Via the Help America Vote Act, federal officials have said Tennessee already has $28 million that can be used to safeguard its election systems. “The Election Assistance Commission is giving Tennessee an additional $7.5 million,” Rep. Cooper said. “That means our state will have nearly $36 million to improve our election infrastructure and secure our votes. America’s intelligence chiefs say our systems are vulnerable, but Tennessee officials don’t seem to care.” The letter states that the grant money can be used to secure Tennessee elections in several important ways: Replace voting equipment that only records a voter’s intent electronically with equipment that utilizes a voter-verified paper record; Implement a post-election audit system that provides a high level of confidence in the accuracy of the final vote tally; Upgrade election-related computer systems to address cyber vulnerabilities identified through the Department of Homeland Security or similar scans or assessments of existing election systems; and Facilitate cybersecurity training for state and local election officials. Rep. Cooper previously sounded a statewide alarm when former Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, CIA Director Mike Pompeo and Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats – all conservatives – voiced concern that America is vulnerable to Russian hacking in the upcoming November elections. American intelligence agencies already agree the Russians meddled in the 2016 presidential election.
03.28.2018	Pet Projects Don’t Belong in Congressional Budgets WASHINGTON – Fighting a push to resurrect pork-barrel federal spending, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05), U.S. Rep. Kathleen Rice (NY-04), U.S. Rep. Ted Budd (NC-13) and U.S. Rep. Ralph Norman (SC-05) today announced bipartisan legislation that would permanently ban earmarks from the legislative process. Earmarks – also known as “pork projects” – are directed spending items, limited tax benefits or limited tariff benefits that are targeted to help a specific entity in a given congressional district and nothing else. Amid a period of fiscal irresponsibility in Congress, the Earmark Elimination Act of 2018 is timely, given recent efforts to restore earmarks to the congressional budget process. Congress has passed brief moratoriums in the past, but some Members of Congress have continued to conjure ways to work around the bans. “Earmarks encourage the worst behavior because they tempt people in Congress to steal taxpayer money to benefit big contributors or grease their own re-election,” said Rep. Jim Cooper. “Taxpayer money should only be spent on high-quality projects, not low-grade special interests. Allowing even a few earmarks is like planting kudzu; pretty soon they will take over everything.” “Eliminating earmarks was one of the few real steps Congress has taken in recent years to reform the status quo in Washington and put taxpayers first,” said Rep. Kathleen Rice. “As we’ve seen over just the past year, there are always people working to erase progress and get back to the old way of doing business in Washington. That’s why we need to act now to pass this bipartisan legislation and make the earmark ban permanent.” “This bill is about sending a clear message: that the days of pork-barrel spending ended in 2011,” said Rep. Ted Budd. “It represents a permanent solution to the earmark problem, and gives the current ban the force of law. North Carolina taxpayers do not work hard every day and pay their taxes to build bridges to nowhere or indoor rainforests. I’m grateful to my bipartisan colleagues, Reps. Cooper, Norman and Rice, for their support on this important legislation.” “Earmarks are not the solution for Congressional dysfunction, and would only move us in the wrong direction,” Rep. Ralph Norman said. “This legislation will ensure that decisions to vote for or against a bill are on the bill’s merits, not because of whether a member will get pork for voting for a bill or not.” The Earmark Elimination Act would prohibit the House from considering any legislation containing earmarks, and it would strip any earmarks found in a bill being considered by the House before it may proceed.
03.17.2018	NASHVILLE — Amid reports that President Trump’s lawyer wants a premature end to Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s active investigation, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) defended the probe, urging Congress to protect Mueller so he can finish examining Russian interference in American affairs. “Republicans must join Democrats and move to protect Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation,” Rep. Cooper said. “Americans deserve the whole truth. Anything less corrodes our democracy. The investigation must be allowed to continue.” Hours after Attorney General Jeff Sessions fired high-ranking FBI official Andrew McCabe in the dark of night, The Daily Beast reported today that John Dowd, President Trump’s counsel, said officials should “bring an end” to Mueller’s investigation. Rep. Cooper has joined several legislative efforts to protect the probe.
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced his support of a new legislative effort to preserve net neutrality and reverse last year’s Federal Communications Commission (FCC) vote to eliminate it. “The internet should be like an interstate highway with no tolls – open to everyone, no preferred access and no extra money to use it,” Rep. Cooper said. Net neutrality stops internet service providers from slowing down or discriminating against different types of internet content, such as Netflix, Skype and FaceTime. In December, the FCC voted to abolish net neutrality. Introduced today by Rep. Cooper and 150 fellow House members, the new legislation would use provisions of the Congressional Review Act to overturn the FCC vote.
02.21.2018	NASHVILLE – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced an expansion of his internship program and encouraged eligible college students to apply for new need-based, paid summer fellowships in his offices in Nashville and Washington. Already well-known in both capital cities, Rep. Cooper’s robust internship program will now offer a limited number of need-based, paid fellowships to summer interns. Applicants who would not otherwise be able to take advantage of an unpaid internship opportunity due to financial need – and who can demonstrate that need in a two-page essay – are eligible to be awarded fellowships of $1,500 for a six-week period during the summer. The deadline to apply for Rep. Cooper’s summer internship program is March 16. Apply here. “I’m proud to have one of the largest and most active internship programs in the U.S. House of Representatives,” Rep. Cooper said. “It doesn’t matter whether you’re a Democrat, Republican or something else. My hope is to develop good citizens and engaged leaders who care about Tennessee and our country.” A group of community leaders will read all submitted essays and recommend students for the fellowships. Internships are highly competitive. Rep. Cooper’s internship program is unique and generally has a large class – usually between 10 to 12 students per summer session at each office, so between 40 to 50 students from May until August. Work is rigorous but fun, and includes daily reading and writing assignments, along with regular interaction with Rep. Cooper. Applicants are chosen based on academic performance and writing samples. The office does not ask applicants for political affiliation. Interested students may click here for further information.
02.16.2018	NASHVILLE – After a week in Washington filled with ominous warnings from America’s top intelligence chiefs, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) will return home Friday to sound a statewide alarm about Russian meddling in the 2018 midterms and specific vulnerabilities that could impact elections in Tennessee. “Tennessee is vulnerable to election hacking,” Rep. Cooper said. “Like most other states, we need to act immediately to protect our vote.” Over the last several weeks, a steady drumbeat of current and former Cabinet members, homeland security officials and intelligence leaders have said America is vulnerable to Russian hacking in the November elections. They include the conservative voices of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, CIA Director Mike Pompeo, Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats and others. American intelligence agencies already agree the Russians meddled in the 2016 presidential election. At 10 a.m. CT Friday at his 605 Church Street office, Rep. Cooper will discuss these issues and amplify concerns that directly affect Tennessee – and what could happen if no action is taken.
02.16.2018	NASHVILLE – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement: “Thanks to the Mueller investigation, we better know how the Russians interfered in the 2016 election. The indictment released today describes manipulation through social media and news channels, including the Russian-controlled fake @TEN_GOP Twitter account. And we already know they targeted states’ voting systems. “Intelligence officials issued dire warnings this week. They unanimously agree: Russia will interfere again and we are NOT ready. But it’s not just Russia. These attacks could come from any of our adversaries. “I held a press conference this morning to sound the alarm here in Tennessee. Our citizens deserve to have the confidence that our elections are secure. We can – and must – make election security a top priority in our state. “We need to be proactive in creating a security culture around elections, including major upgrades and reforms to protect our election systems from future interference. For example, paper ballots, which even conservative anti-tax activist Grover Norquist supports, would ensure that every vote has a hard-copy record. And mandatory audits, such as those in other states, could warn us about potential interference. “I’m glad Tennessee leaders participated in the study Harvard released this week on cybersecurity in elections. According to the latest report, Tennessee has at least $28 million in federal funding – more than almost any other state – that we can use to safeguard our system. It’s time to do it.” Rep. Cooper has cosponsored the Election Security Act, a bill introduced this week that would provide assistance to states and election administrators to protect their systems – including $1 billion in grants to replace aging voting machines with voter-marked, paper-ballot voting systems.
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement: “This bill is fiscal lunacy. In less than two months, $4 trillion has been added to our debt and $1 trillion deficits are guaranteed for the foreseeable future,” Rep. Cooper said. “President Trump bankrupted several companies already; now he’s trying to bankrupt America. There are responsible ways to fund the government. This definitely was not one of them.”
02.08.2018	KINGSTON SPRINGS, Tenn. – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05), Cheatham County Mayor Kerry McCarver and the Cheatham County Election Commission launched an effort today in Cheatham County as part of a vigorous bid to raise youth voter registration rates across Middle Tennessee. Mayor McCarver, Cheatham County Elections Administrator Pam Frejowsky and a representative from Rep. Cooper’s office today spoke with students at Sycamore High School, Pleasant View Christian School and Harpeth High School. Rep. Cooper was unable to attend today’s visits due to congressional votes in Washington. Air Force Major Dave Bates, Rep. Cooper’s military aide, appeared on behalf of the congressman and discussed the civic importance of voting. “These students are the very best of Middle Tennessee, and our future is in their hands,” Rep. Cooper said. “I couldn’t be happier about their ability to make a positive impact on our region at the ballot box. I thank Mayor McCarver, the Cheatham County Election Commission and Major Bates for getting our great students excited about voting!” Cheatham County Election Commission staffers were on hand to register students at Pleasant View Christian School today, and will register students at the two other schools tomorrow. In Tennessee, people do not choose a particular political party when registering to vote. This year, elected officials have completed 45 similar school visits in Nashville, and two other voter registration assemblies will be held at Dickson County schools next week. Rep. Cooper represents Cheatham, Davidson and Dickson counties in Congress.
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today applauded House passage of two anti-sexual harassment bills, saying it’s a long-overdue step to ensure appropriate conduct in the halls of Congress. Both bipartisan bills were introduced as the #MeToo movement swept over Capitol Hill, exposing numerous harassment cases among lawmakers and staff. “I’m glad the House passed these much-needed reforms,” Rep. Cooper said. “The Senate must quickly pass each bill, and the President needs to sign them into law. Congress should be punished for bad behavior.” Passed today via voice vote, the House legislation seeks to streamline investigative processes in Congress, eliminate taxpayer-funded settlements and establish transparency requirements for harassment cases. In November, Rep. Cooper announced he was one of four lead cosponsors on a similar bipartisan bill that sought to empower victims of sexual harassment and eliminate the confidential “hush fund” used to settle sexual harassment claims in Congress. The House bills passed today would achieve both goals.
02.02.2018	NASHVILLE – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05), state Sen. Steve Dickerson and the Davidson County Election Commission today announced early results of their high school voter registration drive in Nashville. The coalition also invited media to attend an upcoming registration at a local high school on Monday. So far this year, Rep. Cooper, Sen. Dickerson, the Davidson County Election Commission and other elected officials have completed 45 visits to local schools, yielding 2,052 newly registered voters, according to Election Commission data. “These students are the very best of Nashville, and the future is in their hands,” Rep. Cooper said. “I couldn’t be more excited about their ability to make a positive impact on our city at the ballot box.” Local media are invited to visit Pearl-Cohn Entertainment Magnet High School Monday afternoon to see students registering to vote. Election Commission representatives and students will be available for interviews. Logistical information can be found below. Pearl-Cohn Entertainment Magnet High School Voter Registration Assembly: Monday, 12:30-1:00 p.m. CT; 904 26th Avenue North, Nashville, TN 37208
01.19.2018	EFFECTS OF A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN A list of government agencies and how you might be affected during a shutdown. How Will a Shutdown Affect You? A government shutdown for many federal agencies may begin this weekend. You may wonder what this means for you. Please see below for information released by specific agencies that may affect you. Some government agencies will remain open and functional to protect life and property. These include the armed forces, border patrol agents, air traffic controllers, and federal workers who provide medical care on the job. The Postal Service, which is self-funded, will also continue to operate. Regardless of what happens in Washington, I am working hard to make sure that everyone in our area gets the service they need. My Nashville and Washington offices will remain open to continue assisting you. If you have any questions, please contact my office.FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Q: What happens when the federal government shuts down? A: Here are a few examples. About 850,000 federal workers will be furloughed. The National Institutes of Health will stop action on grant applications. The NIH Clinical Center will not admit new patients or initiate new clinical trials. The Environmental Protection Agency will almost entirely shut down. Numerous services for veterans will be delayed or disrupted. Social Security checks will be mailed to current enrollees, but some services won't be offered. America's national parks are closed. All Smithsonian institutions, museums and zoos are closed. Public tours of the U.S. Capitol are suspended. Mail Q: Will mail continue to be delivered? A: Yes. The Postal Service is not affected by a government shutdown.Social Security Q: I'm enrolled in Social Security. Will I get my check? A: Yes. Social Security and Supplemental Security Income checks will be sent out largely uninterrupted. However, during a government shutdown, the Social Security Administration will not be able to issue new or replacement Social Security cards, replace your Medicare card, or issue a proof of income letter.Medicare Q: Does Medicare still work? A: Benefits for Medicare are exempt from the shutdown, so current participants shouldn't notice an interruption. Benefit verification and new card issuance would stop.Veterans Q: Will VA hospitals be open? A: Yes. Passports and Visas Q: I need help with my passport or visa. Will I be able to get help? A: Yes. Consular offices domestically and abroad will remain open so there should be no disruption in services. If a passport agency is located in a government building that has been affected by the shutdown, passport services will not be available. Travel Q: Will I need to cancel my air travel plans? A: No, air travel should not be impacted by the shutdown. Air traffic controllers and TSA employees are considered “essential employees,” so they will report to work as scheduled. Congress Q: Will Congress get paid? A: Yes, the Constitution requires it. But Jim has introduced two bills that would stop Members of Congress from being paid if Congress doesn't pass a budget or America defaults on its bills. Jim has also cosponsored a bill stopping congressional pay if the government shuts down. Q: Does Congress shut down? A: No, Congress is in session.ADDITIONAL INFORMATION & RESOURCES How are government agencies affected during a shutdown? To view a link to all government agency contingency plans, click here. To view the Washington Post’s breakdown by agency, click here. For more shutdown information, click here and here.
01.11.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) and Cheatham County Mayor Kerry McCarver this Friday will speak with Cheatham County students at Sycamore High School and Harpeth High School on the importance of registering to vote. The Cheatham County Election Commission staff will visit Sycamore High School to register students on Tuesday, Jan. 16, and Harpeth High School on Wednesday, Jan. 17. Local media are welcome to attend both events this Friday. Partnering with the Cheatham County Election Commission, Rep. Cooper and Mayor McCarver will be addressing a number of topics related to voter registration and participation. The visits seek to replicate Rep. Cooper and state Sen. Steve Dickerson’s successful bipartisan voter registration drive in Davidson County a few years ago, when the county high school voter registration rate increased 85% after similar visits to Nashville-area high schools. Rep. Cooper represents Cheatham, Davidson and Dickson counties in Congress. Logistical details for his Friday appearances are below. Sycamore High School Voter Registration Assembly: 11:00 CT, 1021 Old Clarksville Pike, Pleasant View, Tenn. Harpeth High School Voter Registration Assembly: 2:00 CT, 170 E. Kingston Springs Road, Kingston Springs, Tenn. NOTE: E-mail updates will be provided to media if schools are closed Friday due to inclement weather.
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today criticized Congress for neglecting to protect the American right to vote and effectively outsourcing the issue to the courts. This includes a major Supreme Court voter “purging” case that could have lasting impact in Tennessee. “Roadblocks to the polls threaten our democracy,” Rep. Cooper said. “Congress should make it easier for our citizens to vote everywhere in America. It’s our responsibility to ensure free and fair elections, and to provide the proper guidelines for states.” Today, the Supreme Court heard arguments in a landmark voting rights case challenging whether Ohio’s voter registration and purging rules violate federal law. Among the most aggressive laws of its kind in America, the contested Ohio statute removes voters from registration rolls if they do not vote in two consecutive elections and if they don’t respond to a notice from the state. Tennessee’s rules were nearly identical to Ohio’s until last year. For years, the Volunteer State punished infrequent voters by using the failure to vote as a way to eliminate them from official registration rolls. The National Voter Registration Act states that a voter cannot be purged merely for a failure to vote. Last year, after the Sixth Circuit sided with voting rights organizations aligned against Ohio’s voter list maintenance process, Tennessee amended its law in order to be in compliance with federal law. According to the relevant bill’s sponsor, the Tennessee legislature took action to “ensure we’re in compliance with the federal law.” But Tennessee joined an amicus brief in support of Ohio in the Supreme Court case heard today – indicating its preference for purging voters if they don’t exercise their right to vote – and state officials have done nothing to restore unlawfully purged voters, possibly reaching into hundreds of thousands of people. Rep. Cooper strongly opposes such purging policies, and voting rights advocates have described purging as “very likely to be the next big method of voter suppression.”
01.09.2018	NASHVILLE – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) this month presented a Congressional Award – Congress’s highest honor for youth – to Christine Li of Nashville. “Christine represents the future of Nashville,” Rep. Cooper said. “Her volunteer work, community service and good deeds serve as a shining example for other young people in our city.” The Congressional Award is the highest honor Congress can give to youth civilians. Established in 1979, the Congressional Award program offers a non-competitive opportunity for Americans aged 14 to 24 to realize their potential through goal setting in four program areas: Voluntary Public Service, Personal Development, Physical Fitness and Expedition/Exploration. Christine received a Silver Medal in recognition of her efforts. Christine is a junior at Hume-Fogg Academic Magnet High School. In pursuit of her medal, Christine volunteered at the Little Pantry That Could and Hands On Nashville, helping to combat hunger and homelessness in her community. Attached is a photograph of Christine and Rep. Cooper during the medal presentation last week in Nashville.
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today cosponsored bipartisan legislation that will help songwriters and modernize music payouts in the digital age. The Music Modernization Act, announced and released today, ensures music creators are more fairly compensated, increases efficiency in the licensing process, provides greater transparency and reforms an outdated system to meet 21st Century needs. “I’m proud to cosponsor new legislation that gives Nashville songwriters a much better deal in the digital age,” Rep. Cooper said. “Music City needs the Music Modernization Act!” The Music Modernization Act includes several major components: Allows judges to review evidence when setting rates for the public performance of music; Establishes fair assignment of judges for public performance of music; Allows for consideration of fair market standards for compensation for mechanical licenses; and Makes other updates to increase business efficiency, ensure creators get compensated and provide transparency.
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement after voting against the Republican tax bill: “Everyone likes tax cuts, but the Republican tax bill gives most of them to Scrooge, not Bob Cratchit. This bill increases the deficit dramatically, keeps the tax code complicated, prioritizes corporations over people, and even threatens Social Security and Medicare,” Rep. Cooper said. “The vast majority of Americans don’t like it, and with good reason. Reagan-era tax reform was very different; this Trump bill is not an echo of that reform but a craven Christmas present to the most powerful lobbyists in Washington. Trump promised to help everyday Americans but this bill fails to do that.”
12.18.2017	NASHVILLE – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced that Delia Batdorff, a local high school junior, is the 2017 Congressional App Challenge winner for Tennessee’s 5th Congressional District! Information about Delia’s winning app will be displayed at the U.S. Capitol and at House.gov. The Congressional App Challenge is a national effort to encourage students to learn computer programming through annual district-wide competitions hosted by members of Congress. It encourages student participation in technology and math programs by offering students a chance to create and code. A student at RePublic High School in Nashville, Delia is enrolled in a forward-thinking computer science curriculum, where she practices advanced programming skills. Delia’s winning app is a triangle calculator that solves missing values and angles via trigonometry. “Delia’s app is awesome. It’ll help students, architects and engineers,” Rep. Cooper said. “Delia and so many other Middle Tennessee students are computer experts. I’m amazed by their skills every day!” Although the competition has closed for this year, it opens back up in 2018, and all middle and high school students in Middle Tennessee are eligible to participate. To learn more about the Congressional App Challenge, click here.
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today criticized congressional leaders for general inaction and incompetence, citing a long list of missed deadlines, stalled priorities and policy blunders. Rep. Cooper urged House leadership to clear several must-pass measures, and he pushed for self-policing bills that would hold Congress accountable for inaction and misbehavior. “One party controls both chambers of Congress and the White House. Yet very little good is getting done,” Rep. Cooper said. “We need priorities in Washington, D.C., to align with priorities here in Tennessee. Congress shouldn’t be a clown show.” Rep. Cooper called attention to the following issues: Government Shutdown: Barring action from the House and Senate, the federal government will shut down at the end of Friday. Previous shutdowns occurred under divided government – when Republicans controlled one or both houses of Congress and Democrats controlled the presidency, or the reverse. But it has never happened under unified party control. A longtime advocate of congressional accountability, Rep. Cooper supports the No Budget, No Pay Act and the Hold Congress Accountable Act. The latter bill would reduce the salary of members of Congress during a government shutdown. Short-Term Spending: Even if Republicans resolve their differences this week, any spending bill is likely to be just a brief stopgap. Top Pentagon officials have described such short-term agreements as “wasteful and inefficient,” as well as “damaging” to the military. CHIP: Congress is already more than two months late in reauthorizing the Children’s Health Insurance Program, a lifeline for 9 million children, including many thousands of young Tennesseans. Taxes: An emerging Republican tax plan – subject to no real hearings in the House or Senate – is speeding along in Congress despite “glitches” and other problems with its drafting. A report by the Joint Tax Committee indicates the plan would add $1 trillion to the debt. Even Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker voted against the Senate Republican version of the tax plan. Immigration: The No. 2 Senate Republican this week vowed that his party would not prioritize year-end negotiations to protect undocumented immigrants brought to the U.S. as children, leaving 690,000 currently protected, law-abiding young people at risk of deportation. Conduct in Congress: Sexual harassment allegations continue to plague the Capitol. Rep. Cooper is a lead cosponsor of a bill that would empower victims of sexual harassment and eliminate the confidential “hush fund” currently used to settle sexual harassment claims in Congress. But House Republican leadership has failed to bring this measure to a vote. “Republicans should work with Democrats to keep government open, to legislate like adults and to start helping all Americans,” Rep. Cooper said.
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) is one of four lead cosponsors on a bipartisan bill that would empower victims of sexual harassment and eliminate the confidential “hush fund” currently used to settle sexual harassment claims in Congress. “No more cover-ups,” Rep. Cooper said. “We need transparency, safety and appropriate behavior. Sexual misconduct has no place here, or anywhere.” The Congressional Accountability and Hush Fund Elimination Act would overhaul the secret taxpayer-funded system that is currently used to settle harassment claims. The bill would: Prohibit the use of public funds to pay settlements or awards for sexual harassment or assault claims; Require the Office of Compliance to disclose all previously made payments on its website; (the name of the victim is expressly prohibited from being disclosed); Require perpetrators to reimburse the taxpayers with interest; Prohibit nondisclosure agreements as a precondition to initiate procedures to address sexual harassment or assault claims; and Permit victims of sexual harassment or assault to make public statements about their claim, regardless of any previously signed nondisclosure agreement. Joining Rep. Cooper are lead sponsor Rep. Ron DeSantis (FL-06) and fellow cosponsors Rep. Marsha Blackburn (TN-07), Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02) and Rep. Kathleen Rice (NY-04). The House is voting this afternoon to require members and staff to take the House’s voluntary anti-harassment training course. (Rep. Cooper’s individual office policy already requires him and his staff to take the course.) Earlier this week, Rep. Cooper called for stronger reforms and urged House leaders to move quickly. Rep. Cooper will join his fellow cosponsors to discuss the bill at a press conference today at 3:00 p.m. ET on Capitol Hill in HVC Studio A, which is located in the hallway between the Capitol and Capitol Visitors Center. For media based outside of Washington, the press conference will be broadcast live at Rep. Cooper’s Facebook page.
11.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Ahead of a vote this week to formally establish mandatory sexual harassment training in the House, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) encouraged House leaders to go much further by unmasking the secret settlements that lawmakers have reached with people accusing them of sexual harassment. “Training is not enough,” Rep. Cooper said. “Whenever Congress spends taxpayer money, we should disclose it all. Maybe then, our ‘zero tolerance’ policies will actually mean something. No one is above the law.” Rep. Cooper, whose staff is already required to take an anti-harassment training course offered by the House, said heightened public awareness of sexual harassment issues should be more than enough reason for Congress to take additional steps beyond training. These steps include naming the House and Senate lawmakers who have used a secret taxpayer-funded account to settle sexual harassment claims in Congress – retroactively and, if necessary, moving forward. But Rep. Cooper believes the current practice of secret settlements should be abolished altogether.
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today applauded Speaker Paul Ryan’s announcement to require all House Members and staff to complete a sexual harassment training course that was merely voluntary until yesterday. Rep. Cooper’s personal office policy had already required that he and his staff complete the House’s sexual harassment training course. “A little more than a year ago, our state attorney general issued a report outlining pervasive sexual harassment at the Tennessee legislature,” Rep. Cooper said. “Congress should probably have a similar report done on itself in order to curb harassment of any type, anywhere. We should be doing the nation’s business and solving problems – not creating terrible new ones.” Several current and former Members of Congress and congressional employees have described detailed stories of sexual harassment in recent news accounts. Speaker Ryan yesterday said the new House-wide policy would take effect “going forward.”
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today amplified his opposition to the House Republican tax plan, highlighting specific ways it would hurt Middle Tennesseans in Cheatham, Davidson and Dickson counties. Rep. Cooper previously described the House Republican plan as a “real pain for Tennesseans” on Nov. 2, the day of its release. Several changes have been made since then. Today Rep. Cooper outlined new objections to the so-called “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,” which would add at least $1.4 trillion to America’s already unacceptable debt. Details remain fluid as Republicans make last-minute changes, but the House is expected to vote on its tax plan tomorrow. Meanwhile, Senate Republicans are working through their own version, which currently includes a repeal of the Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate. The House plan does not – for now – include the healthcare piece. After passage in each chamber, the House and Senate must work out any differences between their bills and agree on a final bill before it can become law. Based on 2014 tax data collected by the IRS Taxpayer Advocate Service, many residents of Rep. Cooper’s congressional district claim deductions and tax credits now at risk under the House Republican plan as currently written: 94% of Middle Tennesseans filing a return claimed the personal exemption, which would be eliminated. This is currently worth $4,050 per family member and becomes more valuable as one’s family grows in size. If the House Republican plan becomes law, a family of four currently claiming $16,200 would lose that entire exemption. The personal exemption was worth more than $2.5 billion to Middle Tennesseans filing a return in 2014. 39,000 Middle Tennessee students and families filing a return claimed the student loan interest deduction, which would be eliminated. Currently, eligible households can deduct up to $2,500 in student loan interest. 21% of Middle Tennesseans filing a return claimed the earned income tax credit – and would not see that credit expanded. More than 16,000 Middle Tennesseans filing a return claimed the medical expense deduction for an average deduction of $9,800. The deduction would be eliminated. 22% of Middle Tennesseans filing a return claimed the state sales tax deduction for an average of $3,000. Seventy-nine percent of those Middle Tennesseans make less than $150,000. This deduction would be eliminated. Additionally, according to 2016 data from the IRS, only 58 estates in the 5th Congressional District were subject to the estate tax, which would be repealed. The alternative minimum tax, which mostly hits Tennesseans making more than $200,000 per year, would also be repealed. Other deductions would be impacted. For example, the mortgage interest deduction for homebuyers would be limited to $500,000, and the deduction for teachers to purchase classroom supplies would be eliminated. Meanwhile, officials at Tennessee universities have said the House Republican plan would hinder their ability to provide financial aid to students and finance research. Under the GOP plan, the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center estimates that 24% of Americans would see a tax increase of nearly $2,100 by 2027. “President Trump pledged ‘a major, major’ tax cut for American workers,” Rep. Cooper said. “The reality is many Tennesseans will be hurt. We need tax reform that helps everyday Tennesseans.”
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today highlighted reports of early surges in this year’s open enrollment period during the first week of Affordable Care Act signups. Encouraging Middle Tennesseans to evaluate their options – including numerous zero-premium or low-cost plans – Rep. Cooper said just five weeks remain before the Dec. 15 deadline. “Obamacare has provided insurance to 20 million people. Republicans keep trying to repeal it, but the law continues to work,” Rep. Cooper said. “Obamacare is more popular than ever and cheaper than you think. Tennesseans who haven’t signed up yet should give it a try.” Rep. Cooper highlighted news reports that said – despite a shorter enrollment period, no advertising and failed Republican attempts to repeal the law – more than 200,000 Americans chose marketplace plans on the first day of open enrollment alone. That is compared with 100,000 signups on last year’s first day of open enrollment, reports said. Additionally, Rep. Cooper pointed out that ACA marketplace insurance plans are available to many Tennesseans at an extremely low cost. For instance, a 45-year-old in Nashville with a $30,000 annual salary will qualify for a plan with $0 in monthly premiums; others would qualify for plans with premium rates of $2-3 a month. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, many Tennesseans across the state making less than $40,000 a year will qualify for at least one zero-premium plan. Most zero-premium plans are the result of “silver-loading,” or increasing the cost of silver health plans to protect against premium increases for bronze and gold plans. Unfortunately, there are 163,000 Tennesseans in the Medicaid “coverage gap” – people making too much to qualify for Medicaid, but too little to receive a tax credit. They will bear the full brunt of steep rate increases in 2018 because of the Tennessee legislature’s failure to expand Medicaid. A total of 332,000 Tennesseans would be covered by Medicaid if the state legislature passed Insure Tennessee. Rep. Cooper again reminded Middle Tennesseans to use Healthcare.gov to sign up for health coverage before Dec. 15, the final day to choose a plan. President Trump shortened the open enrollment period by six weeks this year.
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced several changes to his staff. Charlane Oliver is Rep. Cooper’s new Nashville-based community liaison and field representative. A resident of Goodlettsville, Oliver previously was communications director for the Williamson County Chamber of Commerce, and will also join Rep. Cooper’s communications team. A Vanderbilt University graduate, Oliver holds a master of public administration degree from the University of Tennessee at Knoxville. She is the founder and board president of The Equity Alliance, a nonprofit group focused on minority civic engagement. Brandi Jackson, a Dickson native, is Rep. Cooper’s new Washington-based scheduler. A former paralegal and editor who attended Belmont University, Jackson is responsible for planning Rep. Cooper’s meetings in Washington and organizing office logistics. Johannes Fischer is Rep. Cooper’s new Washington-based legislative correspondent. A Vanderbilt University graduate, Fischer handles constituent mail, works on digital communications and helps research policy issues. Both Jackson and Fischer formerly worked in Rep. Cooper’s Nashville office and received promotions before arriving in Washington. “I’m so happy to have Charlane, Brandi and Johannes on my staff,” Rep. Cooper said. “They are energetic and deeply committed to helping Middle Tennesseans.” Oliver replaces Alandis Brassel, a Vanderbilt University Law School graduate who served as counsel in Rep. Cooper’s Nashville office. Brassel is now the director of programs at the Arts & Business Council of Greater Nashville. Jackson replaces Savannah Darnall, now a first-year student at the University of Tennessee College of Law.
11.03.2017	Open Enrollment is available NOW through December 15! Step 1: Visit healthcare.gov or call 1-800-318-2596. (It's helpful to review this checklist before calling.) Step 2: Shop for a plan that meets your needs.Step 3: Need help? Click here and find a local contact who can help you with your options. Get Local Help: 1-844-644-5443Call the Marketplace: 1-800-318-2596TTDY: 1-855-889-4325Frequently Asked Questions Q. How much will it cost? A. Plans will vary based on a number of factors including the coverage you choose, your income, your age, etc. Q. Can I enroll in January? A. No. Enrollment is allowed only during this time unless you have a qualifying life event (birth of child, change in job, etc.) Q. Will my local hospitals be in network? A. You can view exact hospital and physicians covered when you shop for plans.
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement on the Republican tax plan: “The Republican tax plan isn’t real reform. It’s real pain for Tennesseans. It hurts families and adds $1.5 trillion to the debt. Surely America can do better,” Rep. Cooper said. “I agree our current tax code is broken, but Republicans should start from scratch and work with Democrats so we can pass a tax bill that can actually become law.”
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today promoted the first week of Open Enrollment, urging Tennesseans to evaluate their health insurance options and choose an Affordable Care Act plan that best fits their needs. “Sign up now for health insurance,” Rep. Cooper said. “You and your family will be glad you did. It’s much more affordable than you think.” Wednesday was the first day to enroll in Affordable Care Act marketplace coverage plans at Healthcare.gov. Dec. 15 is the final day to sign up. Rep. Cooper pointed out that the Open Enrollment period is six weeks shorter this year. He also highlighted that the website will be closed for maintenance during some nights and weekends. A calendar is attached showing days and times that Healthcare.gov will be available to use. More than 234,000 Tennesseans selected marketplace plans during the most recent open enrollment period.
10.25.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today celebrated the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office’s evaluation of Sen. Lamar Alexander’s bipartisan health stabilization bill. “We have a bipartisan agreement that keeps people insured and restores sanity to the market,” Rep. Cooper said. “It’s a small step and we need to continue fixing the Affordable Care Act.” Drafted with Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA), Sen. Alexander’s bipartisan bill would fund key insurance subsidies for low-income Americans, according to CBO. Additionally, CBO said, the bill would keep Americans covered. President Trump recently said he would attempt to cancel the subsidies, but he has also expressed openness to Sen. Alexander’s proposal. Nearly 60 percent of all marketplace enrollees in Tennessee – 118,901 people – benefit from the subsidies. That includes 18,588 Davidson County residents; 1,281 Dickson County residents; and 919 Cheatham County residents in 2016.
10.19.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05), joined by U.S. Rep. Evan Jenkins (WV-03), U.S. Rep. Ann McLane Kuster (NH-02) and U.S. Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13), today introduced bipartisan legislation repealing the Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act of 2016. The Washington Post and “60 Minutes” recently revealed that the Act has severely restricted the ability of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to investigate and discipline opioid distributors suspected of illegal behavior. The House bill introduced today would restore the stronger, original standard. U.S. Sen. Claire McCaskill of Missouri has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “We need to restore DEA’s full powers, not hamper the agency the way the drug industry wanted,” Rep. Cooper said. “Congress made a terrible mistake letting the drug industry bill slip through. Congress should correct that mistake NOW!” The law has dramatically altered DEA procedures and made it far more difficult for the agency to combat the spread of opioids into the black market. “We need a DEA that is fully empowered to enforce opioid regulations and crack down on irresponsible distributors,” Rep. Jenkins said. “I’m proud to join with Reps. Kuster, Cooper and Ryan to introduce this bill to repeal provisions of the Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act and ensure bad actors are held responsible for their role in the opioid epidemic in our communities.” “At a time when the opioid epidemic is impacting communities across the country, it’s critical that no tools are taken off the table,” Rep. Kuster said. “We know that the opioid crisis has in part been fueled by the over prescribing of opioid pain medications and any limitations on the DEA’s ability to get unneeded prescription drugs off the street must be eliminated. I’m pleased that we’ve been able to come together in a bipartisan fashion to introduce this bill to repeal provisions of the Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act, which DEA officials cite as restricting their ability to do their job.” “It is clear that the Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act of 2016 has significantly and adversely affected the Federal Government’s ability to crack down on opioid distributors that are endangering communities across the country,” Rep. Ryan said. “I am proud to introduce this legislation with Congresswoman Kuster, Congressman Jenkins, and Congressman Cooper which would repeal provisions of the legislation and restore the Drug Enforcement Administration’s authority to prohibit opioid manufacturers from flooding communities suffering from addiction with more pills.” “It appears that this law has significantly affected the government’s ability to crack down on opioid distributors that are failing to meet their obligations and endangering our communities,” Sen. McCaskill said. “That’s why I introduced legislation that repeals this law and will continue my work investigating the role pharmaceutical distributors played in fueling this public health crisis.”
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today released the following statement after President Trump announced his decision to end cost-sharing reduction payments under the Affordable Care Act: “The Affordable Care Act made America healthier and families more secure. It relied on subsidies to bring more people under the umbrella of coverage. Trump is canceling those subsidies, which will throw people off their insurance due to higher premiums that will be unaffordable,” Rep. Cooper said. “As our nation's insurance commissioners have noted, the insurance markets will soon be in chaos. The president could have helped fix our health care system, building on what we've learned from the ACA; instead he is destroying it.” About 59 percent of all marketplace enrollees in Tennessee benefit from cost-sharing reduction payments. That includes 18,588 Davidson County residents; 1,281 Dickson County residents and 919 Cheatham County residents in 2016.
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) released the following statement today after President Trump signed an executive order designed to sabotage health insurance markets and increase premiums for Americans with pre-existing conditions: “Today’s announcement is one of many steps this administration has taken to undermine the Affordable Care Act. It creates an exclusive market for the healthy at the expense of the sick, and is opposed by all kinds of health care experts,” Rep. Cooper said. “In the end, Washington lobbyists stand to benefit the most. This executive order will only hurt Americans, not help them.”
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) this week honored three teams of scientists whose federally funded – yet seemingly obscure – research has provided benefits to society. “The Golden Goose Award reminds us why politicians must leave scientific research to the scientists,” Rep. Cooper said. “This year’s winners prove how obscure and even unbelievable studies can change the world as we know it. We must continue to support our scientists whose brilliance and ingenuity keep America the greatest nation on earth.” In conjunction with a coalition of business, scientific and academic institutions, including Vanderbilt University, Rep. Cooper launched the Golden Goose Award in 2012 to highlight odd-sounding research that has led to breakthroughs and societal impact. The Golden Goose Award serves as a strong counterpoint to characterizations of basic research as wasteful federal spending by the likes of former Sen. William Proxmire and his “Golden Fleece Award.” Examining such things as mussels and frogs, this year’s Golden Goose Award winners pushed themselves toward important environmental, biological and computer science discoveries. For detailed information on 2017’s Golden Goose awardees, please click here.
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) issued the following statement after Sen. Bob Corker announced he would not seek re-election in 2018: “I congratulate Sen. Corker for two terms in the Senate. Despite our differences, we have a solid working relationship and I admire his expertise on foreign affairs,” Rep. Cooper said. “I wish him the best in his future endeavors, and I thank him for his service to Tennessee.”
09.21.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today expressed disappointment with Graham-Cassidy supporters U.S. Sen. Lamar Alexander, U.S. Sen. Bob Corker and Gov. Bill Haslam, offering another point of view that aligns with provider, hospital and disease advocacy groups all over America. “The latest Republican attempt to pass a ‘health’ bill (their fourth) is the worst yet. Although it can be painted to look good in the next few years, the bill makes false promises that will hurt at least 32 million Americans, and hurt them very soon. How many hundreds of thousands of those victims are Tennesseans?” Rep. Cooper said. “Almost everyone who knows anything about health care is strongly against this bill. Why? This bill is a cynical attempt to buy barely enough Republican votes by bribing Southern states to overlook the horrific national damage the bill will cause with $4 trillion in overall cuts. Southern states will suffer, too. To call this a ‘states’ rights’ approach to health reform is a lie. It is a race to the bottom, with each state competing to be crueler to its citizens by denying them health insurance and health care. America deserves better, much better, and I am working to persuade enough Republicans with a soul to stop this devastatingly partisan attack on all Americans.” Gov. Haslam has described Graham-Cassidy as a “home run” and “flat-out good” for Tennessee, and both senators have expressed their willingness to vote for it. While Graham-Cassidy would briefly reward Tennessee with new funding, Cooper said the Volunteer State would have received the money years ago had its legislature expanded Medicaid. Cooper highlighted several studies showing that the Graham-Cassidy bill would cause 32 million Americans to lose their insurance; reduce vital federal funding for Tennessee; and increase premiums for people with pre-existing conditions. “A much better course of action would have been to let our own senator, Lamar Alexander, complete his efforts to craft a bipartisan health reform bill. He has been trying but has been betrayed by his own political party,” Rep. Cooper said. “Apparently, now, even he has given up. That is a tragic mistake. Without bipartisanship, Republicans will merely be repeating the mistakes of previous partisan reform efforts, which Republicans have long criticized. By not learning the lessons of history, Republicans are doomed to repeat history’s mistakes. This bill simply must be stopped!” The bill also would allow plans that exclude important benefits like mental health and maternity care. Additionally: According to the Commonwealth Fund, 32 million Americans would lose their health insurance after 2026. A study by Avalere shows Tennessee would lose $61 billion in federal funding between 2020 and 2036. The Kaiser Family Foundation says that, under the Affordable Care Act, 176,000 Tennesseans will receive a total of $1.3 billion in premium tax credits this year to help buy private insurance. Under the Graham-Cassidy bill, those Tennesseans would lose that assistance. People with pre-existing conditions could lose protection and see dramatic premium increases if their states get a waiver. Cooper noted the Graham-Cassidy bill is gaining momentum a day after the state of Tennessee granted drastic rate hikes to insurance companies.
09.19.2017	NASHVILLE – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper, on behalf of the extended Cooper family, announced today that Hortense Hayes Powell Cooper died last night, Sept. 18, at Vanderbilt Hospital. She was 98 years old. Further information will follow.
09.12.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) announced today that he will join a legislative effort to force a vote on the DREAM Act, a bill that would provide a path to citizenship and permanent protection for young people who arrived in America as children. “DREAMers are our friends and neighbors. They are hard workers and many are going to school or serving in our military,” Rep. Cooper said. “They have bright futures and embody the best of America. The DREAM Act has bipartisan support, so Congress should be allowed to vote on it.” Last week in Nashville, Rep. Cooper criticized President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program unless Congress acts in six months. Former President Barack Obama started DACA after Congress failed to agree on comprehensive immigration reform, and the program has granted permits to an estimated 750,000 “DREAMers,” including 8,000 Tennesseans. To achieve their goal of a House vote on the DREAM Act, Democrats plan to file a discharge petition later this month. A discharge petition is a legislative procedure that at least half of House members must support in order to bring a given bill to the floor for a vote. The DREAM Act discharge petition effort is being led by House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD-5) and Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chair Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1). Rep. Cooper plans to sign the discharge petition. Rep. Cooper was the only member of Tennessee’s congressional delegation to vote for the DREAM Act in 2010. A cosponsor of the DREAM Act, Rep. Cooper continues to seek a long-term legislative solution and a path to citizenship for DREAMers.
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today celebrated House passage of critical legislation for Tennesseans that would prevent infants and toddlers from being killed or injured when unknowingly left behind in vehicles. Cosponsored by Rep. Cooper earlier this summer and passed today as part of a larger bill, the Helping Overcome Trauma for Children Alone in Rear Seats (HOT CARS) Act would require the federal government to issue a final rule requiring stringent safety features in all new passenger vehicles. The HOT CARS Act says each vehicle must be equipped with a reminder system to alert the driver if a passenger remains in the back seat when a vehicle is turned off. The technology is available and akin to a seat belt reminder, complete with warning sounds and flashing graphics near the speedometer. In the last 19 years, at least 736 children have died of heatstroke after being left in vehicles; 25 of those deaths occurred in Tennessee, consistently placing our state in the 10 highest totals nationwide, according to NoHeatStroke.org, a program supported by the National Safety Council. This year, 36 children have suffered such a death in America, including an 11-month-old infant in Chattanooga and a 2-year-old child in Gatlinburg in July. “I’m thankful for quick House passage, and I hope the Senate follows our sense of urgency,” Rep. Cooper said. “Smart legislative action would help save precious lives.” NASA engineers developed a child presence sensor in 2003, but the agency has only had one potential license, which was withdrawn. Some car seat manufacturers have installed child presence sensors on their car seats, but the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has warned against relying on these systems. To date, only General Motors has installed a Rear Seat Reminder. It is available on more than 20 vehicles and is now a standard feature on many of GM’s 2017 and 2018 model vehicles. More than 20 of the nation’s leading public health, consumer and safety organizations support the HOT CARS bill. A bipartisan effort, the HOT CARS Act was introduced by Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) and joined by Reps. Peter King (R-NY) and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL). Last fall Tim Ryan challenged Nancy Pelosi for Democratic Leader. Along with more than 60 other Democrats, Rep. Cooper supported Tim Ryan, saying he is part of a new generation and applauding his vision to lead House Democrats.
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON – As Congress returned from its August recess and Republican majorities failed to develop a plan for funding government, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) reintroduced a bill that would stop congressional pay in case of an even bigger catastrophe: American default. “It’s our duty in Congress to keep America strong. Risking our nation’s credit rating hurts America. Members of Congress should do their jobs, not play political games,” Rep. Cooper said. “Shutting down government is shameful. Defaulting on our debt is dangerous.” Cooper is the lead sponsor of the Stop Pay for Members Act as Congress again lumbers toward fiscal meltdown. Even as a government funding bill expires Sept. 30, U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin recently warned that Congress must raise the debt ceiling by late September or risk federal default. Raising the debt ceiling is a parliamentary procedure that allows America to pay bills Congress is already obligated to pay. A veteran supporter of a bipartisan debt plan that would tackle America’s toughest issues, Cooper says his bill is a needed antidote to rampant congressional misbehavior. Just six years ago, Congress came within hours of failing to increase the debt limit in time, leading the nation to the brink of default. Citing partisan brinksmanship and an inability to complete even basic tasks in Congress, Standard & Poor’s downgraded America’s credit rating as the 2011 dispute resolved itself at virtually the last minute. The U.S. Treasury issued a report in 2013 detailing the impasse’s impact on the economy. Cooper first introduced the Stop Pay for Members Act during the 2011 crisis. Two years later, Cooper reintroduced the bill during a similar breakdown, and House Republicans eventually used it as the basis of an amendment to a debt ceiling bill. The amendment passed overwhelmingly, receiving 340 votes. A longtime advocate for fiscal accountability, Cooper is also sponsoring the No Budget, No Pay Act, a bill that would halt congressional pay if Congress fails to pass America’s budget bills on time.
09.05.2017	NASHVILLE – Surrounded by DREAMers and other leaders of Nashville’s vibrant immigrant community, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today criticized President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, citing the innocence, hard work and future of those affected. “You were brought here through no fault of your own,” Rep. Cooper said this morning at Casa Azafrán. “It’s not your fault you didn’t have paperwork when you were 2 or 3 years old. But you’ve done everything right. You’re working hard in school, you have bright futures, and we want your future to be here in the United States of America. … I am thankful for your presence in this country. I am thankful for your innocence and your hard work.” Former President Barack Obama started DACA after Congress failed to agree on comprehensive immigration reform. The program has granted permits to an estimated 750,000 young people – known as “DREAMers” – who arrived in America as children. Immediately before Rep. Cooper spoke at Casa Azafrán, President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that DACA would be terminated unless Congress acts on a legislative solution within six months. Rep. Cooper said there was “good news” and “hope,” pointing out that Tennessee’s two U.S. senators, Lamar Alexander and Bob Corker, supported comprehensive immigration reform as recently as 2013. But Rep. Cooper said the president’s decision unnecessarily places innocent young people in “a terrible limbo” and squanders a variety of benefits America otherwise would enjoy. “To throw that away, as the president’s policy is suggesting, would be just shooting ourselves in the foot,” Rep. Cooper said. “America needs you.” As the only member of Tennessee’s congressional delegation to vote for the DREAM Act in 2010, Rep. Cooper continues to favor a long-term legislative solution and a path to citizenship for DREAMers.
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) issued the following statement after Senate Republicans voted to advance legislation that would undermine health care coverage for millions of Americans: “The Senate has, until now, been known as the thoughtful, deliberative house of Congress. Republican senators just voted to advance consideration of multiple health care plans that have received no hearings, but will reorder one-sixth of our economy and throw millions of people off of their health insurance,” Rep. Cooper said. “So today marks a dramatic change in our history. It’s shameful. I ask Tennesseans to continue to engage with their representatives and senators. All Americans deserve affordable health care that works and that doesn’t bankrupt our country or our families.”
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) has cosponsored the Helping Overcome Trauma for Children Alone in Rear Seats (HOT CARS) Act, a critical bill for Tennessee that would prevent infants and toddlers from being killed or injured when unknowingly left behind in vehicles. Since 1998, more than 700 children have died of heatstroke after being left in vehicles; 25 of those deaths occurred in Tennessee – tied for the seventh-highest total among all states, according to NoHeatStroke.org, a program supported by the National Safety Council. Already this year, 23 children have died this way in America, including an 11-month-old infant in Chattanooga and a 2-year-old child in Gatlinburg earlier this month. The HOT CARS Act would require the U.S. Department of Transportation to issue a final rule requiring each new passenger vehicle to be equipped with a reminder system to alert the driver if a passenger remains in the back seat when a vehicle is turned off. The technology is available and akin to a seat belt reminder, complete with warning sounds and flashing graphics near the speedometer. “Your car already reminds you to fasten your seatbelt, so why can’t it also remind you to check the rear seat?” Rep. Cooper said. “That could be the difference between the life and death of a child.” NASA engineers developed a child presence sensor in 2003, but the agency has only had one potential license, which was withdrawn. Some car seat manufacturers have installed child presence sensors on their car seats, but the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has warned against relying on these systems. To date, only General Motors has installed a Rear Seat Reminder. It is available on more than 20 vehicles and is now a standard feature on many of GM’s 2017 and 2018 model vehicles. More than 20 of the nation’s leading public health, consumer and safety organizations support the bipartisan HOT CARS bill. The HOT CARS Act was introduced by Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH), joined by Reps. Peter King (R-NY) and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL). Last fall Tim Ryan challenged Nancy Pelosi for Democratic Leader. Along with more than 60 other Democrats, Rep. Cooper supported Tim Ryan, saying he is part of a new generation and applauding his vision to lead House Democrats.
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) this week proposed an amendment to the Ozone Standards Implementation Act that would have ensured states have the option of including local land use policies – such as zoning and local ordinances – in State Implementation Plans (SIPs). SIPs are state-approved, long-term plans required for meeting federal air quality standards, such as controlling smog and other harmful pollutants. But existing law is ambiguous on including local land use policies in these SIPs. Republicans blocked Rep. Cooper’s amendment from reaching the House floor. Under Rep. Cooper’s amendment, states would have retained final decision-making power over whether to include local input. However, the amendment would have given local communities greater input as states decide how land is allocated for various purposes. A recent example involves the planned gas compressor station in Joelton, Tenn., where Rep. Cooper led a vocal yet unsuccessful charge to deny an industrial company’s plans to do business in a residential community. Rep. Cooper’s amendment would not have retroactively affected that case, but it would have applied to similar matters in the future. “This has affected us in Middle Tennessee, but it’s a problem everywhere in America,” Rep. Cooper said. “There are good people in local communities and their concerns matter. They shouldn’t be steamrolled in the process.” Catholic nuns in Pennsylvania confronted similar issues – recently documented in The Washington Post – when they built a chapel in a cornfield to block the path of a proposed gas pipeline.
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) spoke on the House floor this week to strongly oppose an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would reduce oversight and weaken requirements on weapon acquisitions related to the Missile Defense Agency. “This is not a vote on whether we are for or against missile defense,” Rep. Cooper said on the House floor. “I am strongly for missile defense. I just want to make sure that it works.” Despite Cooper’s opposition, the amendment, sponsored by U.S. Rep. Doug Lamborn (CO-5), passed the House 235-189 on Friday. It would eliminate Congress’ “fly-before-you-buy” rule, removing the Secretary of Defense from the process of vetting and approving billions of dollars’ worth of missile defense weaponry. In his floor remarks, Rep. Cooper called the amendment “a defense contractor’s dream.” “[This] is a vendor’s dream, [this] is a defense contractor’s dream, because it would enable them to sell stuff to us – the American taxpayer and to the citizens of this country – promising national defense, but not proving it,” Rep. Cooper said. The existing rule requires the Secretary of Defense to refrain from buying and deploying such weaponry until the Secretary believes there is enough data to know the weapons – missile defense interceptors among them – will work reliably and as intended. A member of the House Armed Services Committee and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Rep. Cooper noted that Rep. Lamborn’s amendment was not voted on in committee or subcommittee votes on NDAA. The Pentagon and the Missile Defense Agency do not support Rep. Lamborn’s amendment, Rep. Cooper added. “We need to fly it before we buy it. We need to test it before we invest in it,” Rep. Cooper said. “We need to make sure that it works before we fork over the dough.”
07.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Amid Trump administration calls for voter data – including Social Security numbers – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today urged Americans to demand a return to “the secret ballot” so personal privacy is protected and election integrity is preserved. “People need confidence that their vote matters. But a dirty secret is we’ve lost ‘the secret ballot’ in America,” Rep. Cooper said. “No party could gerrymander unless they knew how people are going to vote. That is a real loss of privacy, and everyone should be deeply concerned. Political parties know everything about you, but your vote is nobody’s business.” Rep. Cooper’s remarks came as the National Association of Secretaries of State begins its summer conference today. Most states – at least 44, according to one tally – declined to provide the voter data recently requested by President Trump’s Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity. Despite that setback, the Department of Justice asked Tennessee officials this week for information on how the state purges people from voter rolls. A longtime advocate for redistricting reform, Rep. Cooper has said the lack of a “secret ballot” is a crucial reason why politicians are reluctant to change the process in any meaningful way. Both political parties already have access to plentiful voter information, and it is used to target specific voters during election season; the same data is used each decade when legislators are reshaping their districts, leading to the rampant gerrymandering seen today. Even in states where party registration is not required to vote – such as Tennessee – public databases identify exactly which party voters choose when participating in primary elections. “Americans think their votes are secret,” Rep. Cooper said. “They are not. They should be.”
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today made the following statement after Senate Republicans announced they will postpone a vote on their health care bill: “Thanks to calls and protests from Americans – Democrats, Republicans and independents; the elderly, the sick and the poor; religious leaders, community advocates and thoughtful organizers; hospital leaders, doctors and other health care providers; and hard-working, tax-paying, caring Tennesseans – Senate Republicans have delayed a vote on their awful health care bill,” Rep. Cooper said. “That’s great news, but the fight is far from over, and a bad bill could come back in the future. The Affordable Care Act isn’t perfect and we can fix its problems. The best health care plan would be one that can achieve bipartisan support.”
06.20.2017	WASHINGTON – Nearly 200 members of Congress, including U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05), have filed a federal lawsuit against President Trump, whose ongoing failure to disclose his foreign business dealings violates one of the Constitution’s critical anti-corruption provisions: the Foreign Emoluments Clause. “The Constitution says our president should be free from all foreign influence,” Rep. Cooper said. “Since President Trump shows no sign of changing, Congress must ask the courts to enforce the Constitution he has sworn to uphold.” Defying decades of tradition, President Trump has refused to release his tax returns, and he is believed to have companies in about two dozen countries. The Constitution’s Foreign Emoluments Clause says that “no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under [the United States], shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept of any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.” Rep. Cooper and nearly 200 other members of Congress recently filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against President Trump. In the week since the lawsuit was filed, public reporting has revealed that President Trump has received another stream of foreign benefits, including new trademarks in China. Meanwhile, he is brokering business deals in Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf as regional tensions escalate. The lawsuit seeks to compel President Trump to follow the law and obtain the consent of Congress before accepting any payments, benefits or gifts from foreign states. Today at a press conference on Capitol Hill, several members of Congress laid out the case against the president. Rep. Cooper has been outspoken on this issue and others like it. In recent months, Rep. Cooper and his colleagues on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee have asked Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz multiple times for investigations and briefings on various matters in the Trump White House.
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today released the following statement on the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office’s cost estimate of Trumpcare: “Now we know for sure: This is a disaster,” Rep. Cooper said. “Obamacare provided 20 million Americans with health insurance. Three weeks after House Republicans passed Trumpcare, we find out 23 million will lose coverage. Earlier estimates were right, but they voted for it anyway. How does this make America healthier?”
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement on President Trump’s detailed budget proposal for fiscal year 2018: “This administration’s priorities are clear and cruel: Destroy federal research; deny food and health care to poor children; and ignore humanitarian needs abroad,” Rep. Cooper said. “Other than wealthy Americans expecting new tax cuts, it’s hard to find people who wouldn’t be hurt if Congress passed the Trump budget. Thankfully, every president’s budget is nothing more than a glorified wish list. I am especially happy this one is dead on arrival. Congress needs to start all over so America won’t be hurt.” In March, when President Trump released his preliminary budget proposal, Rep. Cooper voiced similar concerns.
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, questioning the Senate’s current approach to the debate over health care. Rep. Cooper’s letter follows House passage of the American Health Care Act. The letter was Rep. Cooper’s response to a private letter sent May 12 by Sen. Hatch soliciting input on the Senate’s emerging health care bill. Sen. Hatch’s letter was never released to the public, and today was the final day to respond. The letter also comes hours after Sen. Bob Corker criticized senators in his own party for failing to hold public hearings or otherwise allow open and public analysis of the process. In the letter, Rep. Cooper calls for bipartisanship, transparency and inclusion on an issue that touches every American. The text of the letter is below. Dear Majority Leader McConnell and Chairman Hatch, Please listen to Sen. Bob Corker's criticism of the Senate process for drafting a health care bill. No hearings, no experts, no real debate? And you are deliberately bypassing the Senate HELP Committee with a special committee that you appointed that is comprised of 13 white male Republicans? You are deliberately omitting Republican women senators and Republican physician senators? And, of course, you are omitting all Democratic senators. Why are you refusing to even try to be bipartisan? We read today in The New York Times that you might accept emailed comments, if they are submitted today. What is this new process? An email hearing? Aren't you just confirming Sen. Corker's suspicions? No hearings, no witnesses, no in-person testimony? Is this any way to run the U.S. Senate? No. This is an abomination. What once was viewed as the world's greatest deliberative body is being reduced to a shadow of its former self, under your leadership. The most recent CBO analysis of the House bill indicates that it will hurt 24 million Americans. Your short-circuiting the Senate could do even more damage. A better course of action would be to hold real hearings on the problems of Obamacare, and to make a serious, bipartisan effort to fix any such problems. That would be the way the U.S. Senate is supposed to function. Give it a try, Rep. Jim Cooper Member of Congress
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON – Joining every Democratic member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and the House Committee on the Judiciary, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) sent a detailed letter to the committees’ Republican chairmen outlining a request for an immediate and robust investigation into the recent actions of President Trump and other administration officials. This week’s request for a thorough probe of the administration came on the heels of a brief period during which President Trump: Fired the FBI leader in charge of investigating potential collusion with Russia; Switched his story about how he arrived at that decision; Suggested he kept “tapes” to secretly record private conversations; And reportedly leaked classified information to Russian diplomats. Additionally, President Trump in February asked then-FBI Director James Comey to “shut down” a federal investigation into former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, according to an article this week in The New York Times. “More and more Republicans in Congress, from Sen. Corker to Sen. McCain, are realizing the gravity of what is happening at the White House,” Rep. Cooper said. “Congress clearly needs to investigate, and we need to hear from Comey now. Congress must put country before politics and do its job.” Rep. Cooper is a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, the premiere investigative body in the House. In recent months, Rep. Cooper and his colleagues on the committee have asked Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz multiple times for investigations and briefings on various issues in the Trump White House. To date, minimal action has been taken. Among other requests, the new letter demands an immediate public hearing with Comey and copies of all of the former FBI director’s memos relating to the president, as well as all associated agency and White House records, including any audio tapes and notes, if they exist. The letter also requests that the Oversight Committee schedule an immediate vote on a motion to subpoena the White House to produce documents it has been withholding in response to the bipartisan request from Ranking Member Elijah Cummings and Chairman Chaffetz on March 22.
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement: “I proudly voted against Trumpcare,” Rep. Cooper said. “This Republican bill is a national tragedy. Millions of Americans will lose health coverage and protections. Lives will be lost, and Congress will regret the vote. I pray the Senate will reject this reckless plan.”
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement as House Republicans worked toward a vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act this week. “$23 a month,” Rep. Cooper said. “That’s what the latest Republican amendment would give Americans with pre-existing conditions while their premiums and cost of care may increase by thousands of dollars. If the Republican health care bill is brought to the floor, I will of course vote against it. For Tennesseans who worry about health care, this is urgent because the House could vote on the bill as soon as tomorrow. Tennesseans should take this moment to call their representatives and senators. Tell them they must do everything possible to block the bill and protect our care. Everyone deserves affordable health insurance.” Today, in exchange for their votes, Rep. Fred Upton and other Republican House members were promised an additional $8 billion toward an already underfunded proposal to establish “high-risk pools.” This is a meager addition for Americans with a pre-existing condition. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, the $8 billion addition averages out to $271 per year for those with pre-existing conditions on the non-group market – or $23 per month. Rep. Cooper is speaking out and available for phone interviews.
04.25.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced he has once again cosponsored the Hold Congress Accountable Act, a bill that would reduce the salary of members of Congress in the event of a government shutdown for as long as the shutdown continues. Unless the House and Senate pass a bill to keep the government open, a shutdown is set to begin at 12:01 a.m. Saturday. The longtime chief sponsor behind the No Budget, No Pay Act, which would stop congressional pay if Congress fails to pass a budget on time, Rep. Cooper believes legislators aren’t entitled to their salaries if they cannot keep government up-and-running. “Congress should be punished for poor performance,” Rep. Cooper said. “No member of Congress should get paid during a shutdown.” During the 16-day government shutdown of 2013, Rep. Cooper donated his own pay to Second Harvest Food Bank of Middle Tennessee.
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today recognized Equal Pay Day, cosponsoring the Paycheck Fairness Act and renewing his call to close the pay gap between women and men. “It's sad that in 2017 we are still having to fight to give our mothers, wives and daughters an equal chance to make a living,” Rep. Cooper said. “They should never have been discriminated against, but the fact that it continues is tragic. We need equal pay for equal work!” Last week, President Trump reversed the Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces order, which then-President Obama enacted in 2014 to ensure that companies with federal contracts obeyed civil rights and labor laws. The Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces order had included a pair of rules focused on helping working women – wage & salary transparency and a ban on forced arbitration clauses for various discrimination claims. Equal Pay Day is held in early April because it symbolizes when – more than three months into 2017 – women’s wages finally catch up with what men were paid in 2016. Nationally, women working full-time, year-round jobs continue to earn about 80 cents for every dollar earned by men. At current rates, women will not see pay equity with men until 2059. And according to the National Women’s Law Center, a Tennessee woman would have to work until she is 69 to make what a man makes by the time he is 60. The Paycheck Fairness Act would provide several remedies to women who are not getting equal pay for equal work. It would guarantee that women can challenge pay discrimination and hold employers accountable. The Paycheck Fairness Act would bolster the Equal Pay Act of 1963 by holding employers accountable for discriminatory practices, ending the practice of pay secrecy, easing workers’ ability to individually or jointly challenge pay discrimination and strengthening available remedies for wronged employees. Rep. Cooper joined Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) in cosponsoring the legislation in the House, and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced a companion bill in the Senate.
03.29.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today reintroduced bipartisan legislation that would stop congressional pay if Congress fails to pass America’s budget bills on time. A longtime advocate for congressional reform, Rep. Cooper first introduced the No Budget, No Pay Act in 2011 after a Nashville constituent asked why Congress is allowed to miss budget and tax deadlines while the public has no such luxury. “Congress is the only place in America where you get paid for showing up but not doing your work. There shouldn’t be special treatment for members of Congress,” Rep. Cooper said. “They should live by the same rules as everybody else: Do your job and do it on time, or you don’t get paid. It’s that simple.” Earlier this month, Rep. Cooper issued a statement about President Trump’s proposed budget. Rep. Cooper strongly criticized the president’s suggested blueprint and noted that Congress ultimately sets the nation’s spending priorities. Congress overwhelmingly passed a watered-down, one-year version of Rep. Cooper’s No Budget, No Pay Act in 2013. That year, the House and Senate passed individual budgets for the first time in four years. Rep. Cooper’s No Budget, No Pay Act is permanent and would halt paychecks for all House and Senate members if they miss annual deadlines for budget and appropriations bills. The No Budget, No Pay Act would prohibit members from receiving pay for each day past Sept. 30 that budget and spending bills don’t pass. Members would not be allowed to recover the pay retroactively. It has been 20 years since all appropriations bills were passed on time. Rep. Cooper today introduced the No Budget, No Pay Act in the House with Reps. Ami Bera (D-CA), Vern Buchanan (R-FL) and Ron DeSantis (R-FL). To access the bill text, click here. For a one-pager with FAQs, click here.
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Days after House Republicans failed to repeal the Affordable Care Act, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued a statement in support of Insure Tennessee. “Speaker Ryan said: ‘Obamacare is the law of the land.’ Kansas and other states with Republican legislatures are working toward Medicaid expansion,” Rep. Cooper said. “It’s time to stop the bickering, help our neighbors and pass Insure Tennessee. There is no excuse for inaction.” Cooper also applauded state Rep. Craig Fitzhugh and state Sen. Jeff Yarbro for reviving action on a bill that would authorize Gov. Haslam to expand Medicaid pursuant to the Affordable Care Act. Rep. Fitzhugh will be presenting the bill to the Tennessee House Insurance and Banking Subcommittee on Wednesday.
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) released the following statement on the canceled Republican health care vote: “I’m glad the House didn’t pass this bad bill and hurt people who need health care. I think the energy from people back home, including thousands of Tennesseans, made the difference,” Rep. Cooper said. “Obamacare isn’t perfect. But we should work together to fix the law and make it better for everyone. It will take courage and political will from both parties. I hope Congress is up to the task because voters are watching.”
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement on President Trump’s budget proposal: “There are many problems with the Trump budget. It hurts our standing abroad, assumes climate change is a myth, puts our local art and music programs in jeopardy, and cuts after-school and affordable housing programs that Nashvillians need. It also omits Trump campaign priorities like jobs and infrastructure spending. “And it would devastate medical research. NIH has funded more than $3 billion in research in Tennessee in the last decade. That funding helps local researchers who are fighting cancer, Alzheimer's, AIDS, obesity, diabetes and much more. Cutting today's research dollars will hamper tomorrow's treatments and cures. “But ultimately Congress sets the budget, not the President. I hope the public will help Congress improve the budget so that it won't harm America.”
03.13.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today released the following statement on the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office’s cost estimate of the Republican health care bill: “President Trump promised ‘insurance for everybody’ and Secretary Price said that everybody will get coverage under the Republican plan. More than 20 million people gained insurance under the Affordable Care Act, and we have the lowest uninsured rate in U.S. history,” Rep. Cooper said. “But today, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office confirmed what health experts already feared – 24 million Americans will lose their health insurance under the Republican health plan. That’s not insurance for everybody. Republicans are undoing progress that was made and ruining lives.”
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper today released the following statement on the Republican health care bill:“This entire process has been conducted in secret. Calling for a vote on a bill that nobody has seen is akin to martial law. Plus, no one knows how much the bill would cost. “What we do know is this doesn’t replace Obamacare, and it doesn’t make improvements either. The Republican bill makes insurance more expensive and takes insurance away from people who need it the most. In its place, insurance executives making $500,000 get a tax break. “The Republican bill does nothing to control costs; nothing to combat high drug prices; and nothing to get every American covered. In an especially cruel turn, Republicans would force state Medicaid programs for the poorest people to either foot a bill they can’t afford or cut enrollees.”
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05), a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today requested a full briefing by the Justice Department, Federal Bureau of Investigation and other relevant agencies concerning former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn’s communications with Russian officials – and any knowledge and involvement others in the Trump administration may have had regarding those communications. Outlined in the attached letter, the request for a briefing occurred after last night, when Rep. Cooper asked Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz for a full investigation into United States ties with Russia. The New York Times and Wall Street Journal have indicated that, ahead of President Trump’s inauguration, incoming National Security Advisor Michael Flynn suggested to Russian officials that the new administration would scrutinize or potentially reverse sanctions imposed by President Obama. The Times asserted that General Flynn potentially “violated a law against private citizens’ engaging in diplomacy.” Late Monday night, General Flynn resigned after The Washington Post reported that the Justice Department warned the White House that General Flynn had misled administration officials about those discussions. The Post also said General Flynn “was potentially vulnerable to Russian blackmail.” Rep. Cooper today reiterated his call for a bipartisan, independent investigation into Russian hacking in the 2016 election. American intelligence agencies have concluded with high confidence that the Russian government meddled in the presidential election by hacking emails, spreading disinformation and promoting false political news. “Russia is our enemy, not our friend,” Rep. Cooper said. “Inappropriate contact with Russian officials isn’t just illegal, it’s dangerous. Congress should investigate these matters immediately.”
02.06.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced several changes to his staff. Justin Tooley, Rep. Cooper’s Washington-based Legislative Assistant for education, immigration, voting rights and other issues, has taken a new job with the Office of the State Superintendent of the District of Columbia as Special Assistant for Legislative Affairs and Policy. Prior to joining Rep. Cooper’s office, Tooley taught high school in Memphis with Teach For America and worked in the Tennessee Department of Education. “I’ll miss Justin’s policy expertise and upbeat personality,” Rep. Cooper said. “We were lucky to have him, and he’ll be a great asset to D.C. schools and students.” Meanwhile, U.S. Air Force Maj. Kevin Scholz has filled the position of Defense Fellow, advising Rep. Cooper in Washington on national security, foreign relations and veteran affairs. Serving his 25th year in the Air Force, Scholz has deployed numerous times; he received the Bronze Star Medal for his actions while serving in Kandahar, Afghanistan. Additionally, Scholz was the recipient of the 2011 Air Force Lieutenant General Leo Marquez Award – the most prestigious award an aircraft maintainer can earn. Prior to becoming Rep. Cooper’s Defense Fellow, Scholz was the Aircraft Maintenance Operations Officer for Air Force One, leading a team of more than 200 personnel. Scholz succeeds Rep. Cooper’s former Defense Fellow, U.S. Air Force Maj. Donavan Laskey, now an Air Force Legislative Liaison at the Pentagon. Rep. Cooper also has hired a new Washington-based Staff Assistant, Ella Mathews, a Nashville native who graduated from University School of Nashville and Southern Methodist University. Mathews will supervise Rep. Cooper’s intern program, organize U.S. Capitol tours and assume other responsibilities. “I’m delighted to have Kevin and Ella join my staff,” Rep. Cooper said. “Both are deeply committed to helping Middle Tennesseans.” Mathews’ predecessor, Miranda McDonald, has been promoted to Legislative Correspondent and will manage Rep. Cooper’s mail system. McDonald is a Nashville native who graduated from St. Cecilia Academy and Tennessee State University.
02.01.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced that a Kurdish family initially stopped on the way to Nashville has been cleared for entry into the United States. “It’s shattering when you’re headed to the United States on a plane and you get pulled off for no good reason,” Rep. Cooper said. “The Sharef family were innocent victims of President Trump’s executive orders, which I am fighting to reverse. I hope they make it to Nashville without incident.” Beginning their journey from Iraq – and equipped with special immigrant visas due to Mr. Fuad Sharef Suleman’s service to the U.S. government – family members were stopped in Cairo last weekend and prevented from boarding their connecting flight to America. The husband, wife and three children had planned to settle in Nashville. Last night, the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad received revised guidance by the Department of State that it is “in the national interest to allow Iraqi special immigrant visa holders to now travel to the United States.” The Sharefs were notified this morning that they were cleared to travel. Rep. Cooper had been in touch with the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad and officials at Customs and Border Protection on behalf of the family. Today he praised America’s diplomatic corps for working to uphold the nation’s values overseas. “Swift action by many committed U.S. State Department employees allowed our nation to right a wrong and fulfill its promise to the Sharef family,” Rep. Cooper said. “In America, we should honor our commitments.”
01.30.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement: I am cosponsoring legislation that would reverse the President’s Executive Orders. It is my hope that there are Republicans in the House who will cross party lines to support it. I am more worried about the future of America than I have been in a long, long time. Even the headline in today’s Wall Street Journal, often viewed as a Republican newspaper, says, “Immigration Order Sows Chaos.” Our President should not be sowing chaos. The President’s Executive Orders on immigration this past weekend were confusing, irresponsible and make America less safe. For example, Trump is denying entry to Iraqis and Kurds who helped U.S. troops survive during the war. Trump was also temporarily exiling green card holders who are legally permitted to be in the United States. Gen. John Kelly, Trump’s Homeland Security Secretary, clarified the President’s order by saying that allowing green card holders to return to the U.S. is “in the national interest.” Gen. Michael Hayden, former Director of the National Security Agency, Deputy Director of National Intelligence and Director of the CIA, calls the refugee order a “political, ideological move” that makes us less safe because it verifies the jihadists’ propaganda. I’m thankful for Republicans, including Senators Alexander, Corker, McCain and Graham, who are opposing the President’s actions. Just as concerning is the sudden reorganization of the National Security Council, which gives Trump advisor Steve Bannon a permanent seat on the council, and diminishes the role of our key military experts, such as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs. This is a radical, dangerous change. Locally, a Kurdish family was bound for Nashville on special immigrant visas. They were sent back to the Middle East after spending years undergoing intense vetting. The father previously worked as a translator at an organization contracted by the U.S. government. My office is currently working to help them.
01.27.2017	NASHVILLE – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced his IssueWatch project, a twice-weekly online newsletter dedicated to Middle Tennesseans interested in important congressional updates and other major happenings in Washington. “Knowledge is power and it’s never been more important to stay informed,” Rep. Cooper said. “There are a lot of changes proposed by our new president, and it’s hard to keep up. Plus, it’s hard to know what’s real news and what’s fake. I hope Middle Tennesseans find IssueWatch useful and will appreciate the reliable, sourced material that we will be sharing.” Sent Tuesdays and Fridays beginning today, the IssueWatch newsletter will focus on health care, national security, budgetary policy, environmental news and other issues of interest to Middle Tennesseans. The newsletter will feature articles, infographics and charts. If recipients choose to read beyond the newsletter, they may click through to full articles; otherwise, the newsletter will seek to give an easily readable and shareable summary of essential news and facts for Middle Tennesseans. To sign up, Middle Tennesseans and others may visit this link. Rep. Cooper’s office will continue distributing “Top 10 at 10,” a daily collection of recommended news articles covering a wide variety of topics. To sign up, visit this link.
01.27.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today reintroduced two bills that would stop the private practice of gerrymandering and unmask the secretive congressional redistricting process so all Americans can participate. “Redistricting shouldn’t be about protecting the powerful,” Rep. Cooper said. “Let’s bring integrity to a shady process so voters aren’t kept in the dark. Sunlight is the best disinfectant.” A veteran fighter for transparency in redistricting, Rep. Cooper is sponsoring the bills several years ahead of new census maps and as political polarization continues to gridlock Congress. Only 20 percent of House districts are considered competitive by the Cook Political Report’s Partisan Voting Index, and the number of “swing seats” has dwindled to a record low of 90 out of 435. Almost 60 percent of House districts are seen as extremely lopsided and partisan, contributing to the paralysis in Congress in recent years. Named for former Congressman John Tanner, a Tennessean who championed the measure for many years before his retirement from the House in 2010, the John Tanner Fairness in Redistricting Act removes politics and partisanship from the congressional redistricting process. Under the bill, each state would be required to establish an independent, bipartisan redistricting commission to redraw congressional district lines once every 10 years that reflect contiguous communities. These communities would replace carved-out, gerrymandered districts that protect extreme political partisans. The Redistricting Transparency Act of 2017 would require states to publicize redistricting information online, including the data used in the process, details of the process, proposed maps and public hearing dates. It also would require that the public be allowed to comment before maps receive final approval. Since their origination, both bills have been introduced by and endorsed by the fiscally-responsible Blue Dog Coalition. The measures also have the backing of Third Way, one of Washington’s leading think tanks. Redistricting occurs every decade after the federal census is completed. In Tennessee, the General Assembly controls the redistricting process. Five years after the most recent redistricting in 2012, eight of nine congressional districts in Tennessee are considered non-competitive, meaning they have been mapped in a way that the population in those districts strongly favors one party over the other. Rep. Cooper represents the lone competitive House seat in Tennessee. By contrast, in Iowa, where districts are drawn by a nonpartisan commission, all four Congressional districts are considered competitive for Democrats and Republicans. State legislatures are scheduled to redraw state house and congressional lines again after the general election in 2020. Those lines will be in effect until 2032.
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today voted against a Republican budget that increases the national debt by $9.5 trillion and sets the table for full repeal of the Affordable Care Act without a replacement. Passed now by the House and Senate, the measure jeopardizes access to health care for an estimated 231,705 Tennesseans, according to maps published by the Kaiser Family Foundation. “Republicans are playing with fire. Tennessee lives are at stake,” Rep. Cooper said. “The Affordable Care Act needs to be fixed, not destroyed. Republicans have no replacement, and sensible Republicans know they need one now. Today’s vote also increases the national debt by $9.5 trillion. That is irresponsible.” Cooper praised the Affordable Care Act’s benefits, including the fact that adult children can stay on a parent’s plan until age 26, and that insurance companies cannot discriminate against people with pre-existing conditions. In addition, repealing the Affordable Care Act would increase the deficit by $350 billion, according to the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. An estimated 33,600 residents of Tennessee’s 5th Congressional District – Cheatham, Davidson and Dickson counties – were enrolled in Marketplace plans in 2016, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.
01.11.2017	This week, The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation released new interactive maps that show 2016 Marketplace enrollees by congressional district. In 2016 alone, more than 230,000 Tennesseans signed up for healthcare coverage through the Marketplace.
01.10.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced he is co-sponsoring the Protecting Our Democracy Act, a bill that would compel Congress to create a bipartisan, independent commission to examine foreign interference – specifically by Russia – in the 2016 election. “Almost every Tennessean is suspicious of Russia and Putin, and rightly so. It would be wrong to overlook the attack on America by some of our worst enemies,” Rep. Cooper said. “We cannot sweep this under the rug. We should learn what happened and make sure it never happens again.” American intelligence agencies have concluded with high confidence that the Russian government interfered in the 2016 election by hacking emails, spreading disinformation and promoting false political news. Creating a new bipartisan commission is essential. Such a structure would encourage independence and avoid the limitations of individual congressional committees’ jurisdictional mandates. Senators Chuck Schumer, Jack Reed, John McCain and Lindsey Graham recently agreed in a joint statement: “Democrats and Republicans must work together, and across the jurisdictional lines of the Congress, to examine these recent incidents thoroughly and devise comprehensive solutions to deter and defend against further cyber-attacks.”
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced that he has co-sponsored a resolution insisting that President-elect Trump take immediate steps to eliminate his foreign financial conflicts of interest. The House resolution was filed to ensure President-elect Trump’s compliance with the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution before he takes office Jan. 20. An identical resolution was filed in the Senate. “The Constitution requires all U.S. presidents to be free from foreign influence and control. No president is above the law,” Rep. Cooper said. “I do not object to President-elect Trump’s business interests, but the Constitution requires him, while he is President, to work only for American taxpayers, no one else. He should take the necessary steps to comply with the Constitution he will be sworn to uphold.” It is well established that President-elect Trump will be sworn in with an unprecedented number of foreign conflicts of interest, given his business ventures around the world. President-elect Trump has said the Emoluments Clause does not apply to him, but the Constitution clearly states otherwise. Article I, Section 9, Clause 8 of the Constitution provides that “no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under [the United States], shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept of any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.” The resolution expresses the sense of Congress that President-elect Trump should follow the precedent established by prior presidents and convert his assets to simple, conflict-free holdings, adopt blind trusts managed by independent trustees, or take other equivalent measures. The resolution notes that, in the absence of such actions by President-elect Trump before he assumes office or without specific authorization by Congress, Congress will regard dealings by Trump-owned companies with any entity owned by a foreign governmental actor as potential violations of the Constitution’s Emoluments Clause.
01.04.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05), working with U.S. Rep. Tim Walberg (MI-07), today announced House passage of his first bill of the new congressional session. The bill will provide Americans with more information on how tax dollars are spent. Cleared without opposition in the House today, the Taxpayers Right-To-Know Act also unanimously passed the House in the last two sessions of Congress. “This is the third time the House has passed our bill,” Rep. Cooper said. “Tennesseans work hard for their money. It’s time for the Senate to do its job and pass this commonsense bill before more taxpayer dollars are wasted.” “Increasing transparency and collecting better data is the first step towards eliminating redundant and wasteful spending,” Rep. Walberg said. “Washington must be held accountable, and shining a light on overlapping and inefficient federal programs is a commonsense way to save taxpayer money. I’m proud to start the new year on a strong note fighting for Michigan taxpayers.” The Taxpayers Right-To-Know Act requires each federal agency to annually report online every federal program and provide a description and cost of each program. Each list would be submitted to the Office of Management and Budget, which would determine how many duplicative and overlapping government programs exist and recommend ways to eliminate identical programs. Each government program would be identified and reports would outline: Total administrative costs of the program; Total expenditures for services; Total number of beneficiaries who receive assistance from the program; and An estimate of the number of staff who administer the program, including contractor staff. Each report also would include: A listing of other programs within the agency with duplicative or overlapping missions and services; The latest performance reviews for the program, including the metrics used to review the program; The latest improper payment rate for the program, including fraudulent payments; and The total amount of unspent and unobligated program funds held by the agency and grant recipients. This information would be updated each year and posted online, along with recommendations to consolidate duplicative and overlapping programs; to eliminate waste and inefficiency; and to terminate lower-priority, outdated and unnecessary programs.
01.04.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced that a recent FCC ruling will help the Cheatham County School District keep its access to more than $1 million for internet service funding. The Cheatham County School District collaborates with other school districts as the Sweetwater City Schools Consortium to seek funding and negotiate rates. One funding source is the federal E-Rate program, which sets aside money for phone and internet services in schools and libraries. A contracting agency representing the Federal Communications Commission initially denied more than $50 million in E-Rate funds to the Consortium. The Cheatham County School District was scheduled to lose more than $1 million. On Dec. 9, Cooper wrote a letter to FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler. In the letter, Cooper asked the FCC to end its “inexcusable” delay and immediately rule on the Consortium’s appeal. On Dec. 30, the FCC overturned the denial and the funds again became available. “This is great news for Cheatham County,” Rep. Cooper said. “I’m glad the FCC reversed the decision and the school district can get money owed for internet service."
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) and other members of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform today called for an investigation related to an internal Pentagon study that identified $125 billion in potential savings, but never saw the light of day. The Washington Post this week described a “buried” study that – if implemented – would have made the Pentagon’s “enormous back-office bureaucracy more efficient”; the study’s proposals “would not have required layoffs of civil servants or reductions in military personnel.” Savings were set to be reinvested in combat power. “Congress needs to investigate why the Pentagon suppressed this report,” Rep. Cooper said. “It is outrageous that the Pentagon could be wasting so much money.” According to the Post, the $125 billion would be enough to “cover the operational costs for 50 Army brigades, or 3,000 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters for the Air Force, or 10 aircraft-carrier strike groups for the Navy.” The letter, sent to Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter, requests that Pentagon officials send documents and correspondence related to the study for further investigation. A copy of the letter can be viewed here.
12.01.2016	UPDATE: The sign-up period has ended. To be added to a wait list, click here. If there are remaining tickets available, you will be notified by January 6. WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced plans to distribute tickets to the 2017 presidential inauguration to interested residents of Tennessee’s 5th Congressional District. Inauguration Day is Jan. 20. All tickets are “standing” only. Guests will be standing outdoors for many hours – possibly in the rain or snow – on what is typically a cold January morning. Tickets will be distributed over the next few weeks, following an electronic lottery process. All requests must be submitted online at cooper.house.gov/inaugurationtickets, and no requests will be accepted over the phone. Requests will be accepted for residents of Cheatham, Davidson and Dickson counties. There is a limit of two (2) tickets per household. Tickets are not transferable. Cooper’s office outlined the following steps that interested residents should follow: Submit your request online at ​cooper.house.gov/inaugurationtickets​ anytime between Monday, Dec. 5 at 9:00 a.m. CST and Friday, Dec. 9 at 5:00 p.m. CST. (A dedicated form will be available on Cooper’s website starting Monday morning.) On Monday, Dec. 12, Cooper’s office will hold a lottery drawing, and winners will be notified via email. Only those who win tickets will receive an email. The deadline to confirm acceptance – again, via email response to Cooper’s office – is Friday, Dec. 16 at 5:00 p.m. CST. No phone confirmations will be accepted. For any tickets that are not electronically claimed by the Dec. 16 deadline, a second lottery drawing will be held on Monday, Dec. 19. New winners will be informed later that day. They will need to confirm by email within 24 hours. Tickets must be picked up in person with photo ID at 1536 Longworth House Office Building in Washington, DC, on Thursday, Jan. 19 from 1:00 p.m. EST until 6:00 p.m. EST. Travelers should consider this timeframe. Tickets not picked up by 6:00 EST will be forfeited. The Presidential Inaugural Committee (PIC) and Cooper’s office also offered the following information for those considering entering the lottery: Gate opening times will be announced in January. Due to large crowds, everyone is encouraged to arrive early to ensure they can enter by the time the ceremony begins at 11:30 a.m. EST. At recent inaugurations, thousands of guests were already in line for security by 7:00 or 8:00 a.m. Ticket holders will be required to pass through security screening, so they should not bring a bag any larger than a small purse. Due to security and street closings, all are strongly encouraged to use Metro rail. There will be no public parking near the Capitol grounds. The event is historically cold and wet. The crowds will be very large and guests will likely be outside in the cold for at least three hours. The elderly or those with limited mobility may find the conditions very difficult. Rain or snow boots are the recommended footwear. Gloves, hats, layered clothing and warm jackets are all necessary to maintain some level of comfort in uncertain weather conditions. Click here to submit your ticket request: cooper.house.gov/inaugurationtickets​
11.28.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) and the Democratic Members of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform sent a letter to Chairman Jason Chaffetz requesting an immediate review of President-elect Donald Trump’s financial arrangements. In August, OGR Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz pledged to hold the next President-elect accountable, no matter who is in the White House saying his “job is to hold them accountable and provide that oversight.” "No one is above the law,” Cooper said. “The President-elect should fully disclose his holdings and dispose of any potential conflicts of interest. And Chairman Chaffetz should follow through on his promise to provide oversight and accountability.” Click for the full text of the letter.
11.15.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued a statement condemning President-elect Donald Trump’s selection of Steve Bannon as White House Chief Strategist. “It’s a terrible mistake for Trump to choose a hate-monger and fear-monger like Steve Bannon as his chief strategist,” Rep. Cooper said Monday. “This makes Nixon’s Southern Strategy look like child’s play.” Cooper also signed a letter spearheaded by Rep. David Cicilline (RI-01). The letter asks Trump to immediately withdraw Bannon’s appointment, and garnered 169 signatures. The full text of Cicilline’s letter to President-elect Trump is below. Dear President-elect Trump: Immediately following your victory, many Americans were optimistic and hopeful that you would take the steps necessary to unify our country following the divisive and contentious election. In your election night speech you said, “Now it’s time for America to bind the wounds of division. It is time for us to come together as one united people.” Unfortunately, your appointment of Stephen Bannon, whose ties to the White Nationalist movement have been well-documented, directly undermines your ability to unite the country. As elected representatives of millions of Americans from diverse backgrounds, religions, and ethnicities, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision to appoint Mr. Bannon to White House Chief Strategist. Since the election there have been a number of incidents across the country in which minorities, including Muslim Americans, African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Jewish Americans, have been the targets of violence, harassment and intimidation. Mr. Bannon’s appointment sends the wrong message to people who have engaged in those types of activities, indicating that they will not only be tolerated, but endorsed by your Administration. Millions of Americans have expressed fear and concern about how they will be treated by the Trump Administration and your appointment of Mr. Bannon only exacerbates and validates their concerns. As the Executive Chairman of Breitbart News, Mr. Bannon repeatedly and aggressively pushed stories that promote anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and racism. During an interview last summer, Mr. Bannon bragged that Breitbart was “the platform for the alt-right,” a movement that upholds White Nationalism while strongly rejecting diversity in any form. Under Mr. Bannon’s leadership, Breitbart has referred to a leading Republican who opposed your election as a “Renegade Jew,” suggested “Young Muslims in the West are a ticking time bomb,” declared that the “Confederate flag proclaims a glorious heritage,” and praised the alt-right as a “smarter” version of “old-school racist skinheads.” Disturbingly, leading white nationalists like former KKK Grand Dragon David Duke, American Nazi Party Chairman Rocky J. Suhadya, Richard Spencer, Peter Brimelow, and Brad Griffin have praised the news of Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We believe it should concern you that civil rights groups, including the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center, are widely opposed to Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We strongly believe that Mr. Bannon’s appointment will not allow the country to heal and come together as one. As one of your top advisors, the White House chief strategist will help set the tone for your administration. The person in this role must be prepared to serve the interests of all Americans, not those of a select few. Once again, we strongly urge you to rescind this appointment immediately and build a diverse White House staff who are committed to the core American values of inclusiveness, diversity and tolerance. -30-
11.09.2016	NASHVILLE – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement on the presidential election. “It’s an honor to continue serving Middle Tennesseans in Congress. There has never been a more important time for civility,” Rep. Cooper said. “I hope the president-elect will pledge to represent all people – including those who legitimately and genuinely feel threatened by him – not just those who voted for him.”
10.03.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today congratulated Nashville entrepreneur Marcus Whitney on his invitation to South by South Lawn (SXSL), a White House festival of ideas, art and action. Whitney became a key figure in the Nashville technology sector as a co-founder of Moontoast, a social media advertising company now known as Spendsetter. Currently, Whitney is president of Jumpstart Foundry, a Nashville-based startup accelerator he co-founded. He also has served on numerous boards over the years. “Marcus has played a huge role in pushing Nashville to become a top city for technology and innovation,” Rep. Cooper said. “Marcus is one of our strongest leaders, and it’s no surprise he’s at the White House today showing what Nashville has to offer.” Inspired by President Obama’s recent involvement at South by Southwest (SXSW), SXSL highlights the contributions of creators, innovators and organizers from across the country. The festival is a day of music, film and great ideas. SXSL is being streamed live today on WhiteHouse.gov, Facebook.com/WhiteHouse, and sxsw.com/live. Members of the public can join the online conversation using #SXSL to share ideas.
09.30.2016	NASHVILLE – The office of U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) is hosting an information session tomorrow morning for area middle and high school students interested in America’s service academies. Rep. Cooper’s annual Academy Day event is designed to connect prospective students and their families with educational opportunities at the service academies. Representatives from the following will be in attendance: U.S. Military Academy U.S. Naval Academy U.S. Air Force Academy U.S. Coast Guard Academy U.S. Merchant Marine Academy U.S. State Department National Guard ROTC The service academies offer full scholarships, leadership training, internship opportunities and a chance to see the world. Registration begins at 9:30 a.m. at the Nashville Public Library at 615 Church Street. The program will begin at 10 a.m. Academy Day is open to 8th-12th grade students in the 5th District, which includes Cheatham, Davidson and Dickson counties. For more information, please call Kathy Buggs at (615) 736-5295.
09.27.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued a statement on a repatriation ceremony in which the remains of some members of a Tennessee militia will be returned to America 169 years after the Mexican-American War. For some time, Cooper and his staff – in consultation with the Mexican government and researchers at Middle Tennessee State University – have been working to bring home the remains of Tennessee veterans who fought in the Battle of Monterrey. “Whether it’s a recent war or a war fought more than a century ago, Tennesseans never forget their bravest citizens,” Rep. Cooper said. “Our fallen veterans always need to come home.” The Mexican-American War was fought from 1846-47. The conflict led to America adding territory that later would become seven states: Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming. Due to votes in Washington, Cooper is unable to attend Wednesday’s ceremony at Dover Air Force Base, but his Defense Fellow Maj. Donavan Laskey will be in attendance.
09.26.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued a statement in reaction to Blue Cross Blue Shield leaving the health insurance marketplace under the Affordable Care Act in Nashville and other areas in Tennessee. “I'm disappointed about Blue Cross’s decision. The health care exchanges are working in many other states, but our state is turning down billions of dollars that would stabilize our health insurance market,” Rep. Cooper said. “I’m thankful that Nashvillians still have options in the marketplace, but it’s clear we need Insure Tennessee now more than ever.”
09.23.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today issued a statement on the passing of Ed Temple. "Ed Temple was one of the greatest coaches of any sport in history,” Rep. Cooper said. “His TSU Tigerbelles, including the legendary Wilma Rudolph, set the standard for track and field. Coach Temple broke barriers and made history from Nashville to the Olympics. What an amazing life, what an amazing man." Coach Temple’s athletes dominated track and field, earning 23 Olympic medals – 13 of them gold. Among Coach Temple’s many protégés, Rudolph became the fastest woman in the world. A pillar of Nashville, Coach Temple helmed the TSU women’s team for more than four decades and shaped his community. In 2012, he was inducted into the U.S. Olympics Hall of Fame, and last year, a statue honoring Coach Temple was unveiled along a greenway in downtown Nashville.
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) and other members of the Blue Dog Coalition this week endorsed a bill that could prevent dramatic drug price hikes seen recently with the EpiPen and other medicines. Cooper is a cosponsor of the Lower Drug Costs Through Competition Act. The bill would help streamline the FDA approval process on generic drugs. It also would encourage competition by providing incentives for more generic drugs to come to the market. “The U.S. has some of the highest prescription drug costs in the world. And that’s before companies jack up prices or use shadow pricing techniques for life-saving medicine,” Rep. Cooper said. “We’re just not getting a good deal, and Congress has been dragging its feet for years. People should get the best possible price for prescription drugs. They shouldn’t be denied access to medicine that may save their lives.” Turing Pharmaceuticals CEO Martin Shkreli raised the price of a life-saving drug by more than 5,000 percent. Meanwhile, Mylan, the lone manufacturer of the popular EpiPen, raised the price of that drug by more than 400 percent, lifting the price to about $600 per pack. While Mylan purchased the rights to EpiPen about a decade ago, the EpiPen itself is off-patent. That means generic equivalents are allowed to come to the market, but two generic drugs have been stymied by the pricey and lengthy FDA application process. The Lower Drug Costs Through Competition Act would require action on applications to market generic drugs within six months of submission when there is no equivalent generic available, or for drugs on the drug shortage list. It also creates incentives for pharmaceutical companies to develop more generic drugs.
08.29.2016	NASHVILLE – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today presented two Congressional Awards – Congress’s highest honors for youth – to Allison Plattsmier of Nashville. “Allison represents the best of Nashville, and she’s already volunteered more than most people do in a lifetime,” Rep. Cooper said. “I’m so proud of her, and I hope other young Nashvillians follow her lead. Our city will only get better!” The Congressional Award is the highest honor Congress can bestow upon youth civilians. Established in 1979, the award offers a non-competitive opportunity for young people, ages 14 to 24, to realize their own potential through goal setting in four program areas: Voluntary Public Service, Personal Development, Physical Fitness, and Expedition/Exploration. There are six levels of Award — Bronze, Silver, and Gold Certificates and Bronze, Silver, and Gold Medals. Allison received two awards: Bronze and Silver. In pursuit of her awards, Allison logged more than 260 hours of Voluntary Public Service. Most recently, she devoted much of her volunteerism to Hands On Nashville and Do Something activities. She has made comfort cards for impoverished youths, advocated for anti-gun violence, assisted the Disaster Services Team of the American Red Cross and more. Allison is the associate director of programs and development at the Transit Alliance of Middle Tennessee.
08.19.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today was notified by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) that Tennessee stands to lose approximately $60 million in funding for highways because of a recent bill passed by the state legislature. The bill, SB 1317, reduced alcohol offenses for minor drivers. It changed the allowable Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) from .02 to .08 for 18-to-20-year-olds. It was signed into law on May 5 and went into effect on July 1. The federal zero tolerance ​law requires that states limit BAC to .02 for drivers under 21. If a state is not in compliance with federal drunk driving laws, the U.S. Department of Transportation must ​withhold 8% of federal highway funding. ​NHTSA officials warned that if Tennessee is not in compliance on October 1, 2016, Tennessee will forfeit approximately $60 million in highway funding. “This must be a mistake,” Rep. Cooper said. “No one wants more drunk drivers on the road. State leaders should act​ immediately and comply with a zero tolerance policy.”
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON – WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) and fellow Blue Dog Coalition members U.S. Rep. Kurt Schrader (OR-5), U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson (MN-7) today introduced a bill that will initiate a three-year phase-in of the Department of Labor’s overtime rule. Proposed in May, the new rule raises the threshold for employees who are exempt from overtime pay. On Dec. 1, the overtime threshold will jump from $23,660 to $47,476. The Overtime Reform and Enhancement Act will incrementally phase in the new threshold of $47,476 over the next three years, beginning with a 50 percent increase this December. The salary threshold will then be raised by $74 per week until December 1, 2019, when DOL’s new $47,476 threshold is reached. This is the first time since 2004 that the threshold for overtime exemption will be raised. “I am hearing from lots of Middle Tennesseans who are worried about how this new rule will affect them,” Rep. Cooper said. “The overtime rule hadn’t been adjusted in years and needed updating. But it’s good to make commonsense changes and add flexibility so the rule works for all businesses and workers can actually have a chance to get ahead. We don’t want to see lost hours or shifts in job responsibility.” “The current overtime threshold is horribly outdated and needs to be raised as both employees and employers navigate our changing economy. This bill will do exactly that without disrupting the way businesses operate and employees are paid,” Rep. Schrader said. “Since the DOL’s immediate phase-in date was announced, we’ve heard from business owners and their employees who are worried about implementing this increase overnight. Without sufficient time to plan for the increase, cuts and demotions will become inevitable, and workers will actually end up making less than they made before. It’s long past time we strengthen overtime pay protections for American workers in a meaningful and effective way.” “Work in America has changed greatly in the last few decades,” Rep. Cuellar said. “Today, Americans are working longer hours and are more productive, but salaries and overtime provisions haven’t kept pace. New overtime standards are needed for American workers, but we must ensure new and established businesses have adequate opportunity to adapt to these new rules so as not to become overly burdensome with unintended consequences and slow job growth in communities across the country. This bill provides that necessary time for adjustment to make sure both workers and employers are ready to progress and make our economy stronger.” “While I believe the time has come to increase the overtime threshold, the DOL rule would put businesses in a bind and potentially lead to job loss,” Rep. Peterson said. “Both businesses and constituents in my district have expressed concern about the impact of an immediate threshold increase. A three-year phase in will provide adequate time for business to adapt to the new standard while also ensuring workers are fairly compensated.”
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today issued the following statement: “When are these senseless shootings by police going to stop? And now we have sniper attacks on police in Dallas. We should pray for the families of Alton Sterling, Philando Castile, and of the Dallas policemen who died last night. I am thankful for Chief Anderson and our well-trained Nashville policemen and women, as well as for Nashville’s pioneering role in non-violent protest. The answer is never more violence. We all must commit to working together. Our strength is in our numbers, standing as one.”
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today participated in a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing focused on FBI Director James Comey. A video of Cooper’s comments can be found here, and his full statement is below. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Director Comey. I hate to see one of America's most distinguished public servants pilloried before this committee. We're all highly partisan here. We're good backseat drivers. We're all today, apparently, armchair prosecutors. And you stated the truth when you said that you didn't know of anyone who would bring a case like this. And some of the prosecutors have had decades to do that. I hope that this committee's effort is not intended to intimidate you or the FBI or law enforcement in general or government employees. And I'm thankful at this moment that you have such a lifetime record of speaking truth to power. Because that's very important. It's also very important that apparently you're a lifelong Republican. You're just here to do your job, state the facts. I think the key issue here is whether, in fact, there is a double standard; whether some Americans are being treated differently than others. I think I can rely on my Republican colleagues to make sure that Hillary Clinton is treated no better than anybody else. There should be some attention given to make sure that she's not treated any worse than anybody else. I think we all know that we wouldn't be having this hearing, especially on an emergency basis, unless she were running for president. My colleague from Massachusetts has just pointed out the previous secretaries of state are not being called on the carpet, whether that be Condoleezza Rice or Colin Powell or others. But I think the grossest double standard here today is the fact that all of the members of this committee, every member of Congress, is not subject to the same law that Secretary Clinton was subject to. And as lawmakers, that means that we have exempted ourselves from the standard of other federal employees. My colleague from DC, Ms. Norton, referred to this. Why did we exempt ourselves from the same rules? Apparently, our chairman lists his private e-mail account on his business card. We all have access to classified information. So I would like to challenge my Republican colleagues here today. Let's work together and introduce legislation to make the same laws apply to us as apply to the executive branch under Secretary Clinton. I would be happy to join in such legislation to make sure that we're not being hypocritical on this panel, that we're holding ourselves to the same standards as Secretary Clinton. And not trying to accuse her of things that we may be guilty of ourselves. I bet my colleagues would be the first to complain if, for example, e-mails were retroactively classified. That's a situation most people in public service would object to pretty strongly. How did you know at the time if you had no idea? So I think it's very important if we want, as Congress, to have the trust of the American people, to not be hypocritical, to uphold the same standards that we want to see upheld by others. And I'm just thankful at this moment in our history that we have someone like you who is in charge of the FBI. Because too many things are highly politicized. The last thing we should do is criminalize our political system. I didn't see any of my Republican colleagues complain when former Governor Bob McDonnell was exonerated by an 8-0 vote at the Supreme Court for having done certain things I think most Americans would find objectionable, but our court -- on a bipartisan, unanimous basis -- exonerated him just a week or two ago. So I think this is a moment for committee members to reflect, to take a deep breath, to calm down, and realize exactly what you said: That no reasonable prosecutor would have brought this case. And thank you for stating that so clearly and publicly. I yield back the balance. I yield to the ranking member.
07.05.2016	The Tennessean By Rep. Jim Cooper The best way to celebrate the Fourth of July is to register to vote Tuesday, July 5. July 5 is the very last day to make yourself eligible to vote in the upcoming Democratic and Republican primaries on Thursday, Aug. 4. If you are not registered, you cannot vote. And if you do not vote, you are throwing away your most basic right of citizenship. Registering means stopping by your county election commission office, or public library, Tuesday, in order to fill out the required form with your home address and Social Security number. This is your last chance before Aug. 4. As we watched the fireworks Monday night, did we remember that they signify self-government? Those were the “bombs bursting in air” of our national anthem. Thank God our ancestors revolted against England, and fought, bled and died in order to build the greatest nation on earth. Today, 240 years later, only one in five adult Tennesseans still cares enough about the American Revolution to keep fighting for what we believe in. In other words, roughly 80 percent of Tennesseans turn over political decision-making to strangers. This is particularly true in primaries, when many fewer voters vote than in the general election in November. The result is that America is governed today not by majorities of our citizens but by the most intense partisans. Why? Because they show up to vote. The rest of us are too busy or lazy. The right of all citizens is being monopolized by the few. Our democracy is fragile and weak when most don’t participate. A pollster once asked why more Americans don’t vote in primaries. The answer was “I don’t know and I don’t care.” Such apathy only makes our nation’s problems worse. Voting makes sure your voice is heard and gets our nation back on track. The history of America is about making voting easier, with few exceptions. Once, only rich white male landowners were allowed to vote. Today, any citizen, man or woman older than 17 years of age, regardless of race, can vote. Yet voting percentages have trended downward despite increased convenience such as three weeks of early voting before election day itself. My office is proud to have worked this year with the Davidson County Election Commission to increase high school voter registration in Nashville by 83 percent, a remarkable achievement. But that story will only have a happy ending if those students cast their ballots on or before Aug. 4, and if they know who they are voting for. Tennessee is the Volunteer State because so many of our citizens volunteered to serve in our nation’s military. The least the rest of us can do is volunteer to vote by registering. Don’t let our soldiers, from the Revolution on, die in vain. Don’t let a small group of extreme partisans be the only voters during primaries. Be a full participant in our precious democracy, not a bystander. If you don’t vote, you lose much of your right to complain. Be part of America’s solutions, not its problems. Register today, celebrate this cherished right and vote in the Aug. 4 primary!"
06.12.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today released the following statement after the mass shooting in Orlando: “This is one of the worst days in American history: our largest mass murder, more ISIS terrorism on U.S. soil, and the worst hate crime ever all in the same horrific nightmare. I stand with all the victims and their families and loved ones, particularly with the LGBT community that was deliberately targeted,” Rep. Cooper said. “I wish I could be at the Nashville vigil tonight to support our great mayor, Megan Barry, in her efforts to mourn our dead and heal our nation, but I am already in Washington for votes tomorrow in Congress.”
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today issued a statement after voting against a bill that only funds one-third of President Obama’s emergency funding request to fight the Zika virus. “We need to do much more to fight Zika. We should fully fund our fight to defeat Zika,” Rep. Cooper said. “House Republicans aren't even doing as much as the Senate to keep Americans safe. We must recognize Zika as the potential epidemic that it is and stop it cold now.” The House bill would provide $622.1 million in funding. On Tuesday, the Senate approved $1.1 billion in emergency funds – nearly double what the House bill offers. Earlier this week, Rep. Cooper and 122 colleagues urged Speaker Paul Ryan to bring President Obama’s full $1.9 billion request to the House floor. President Obama’s $1.9 billion package would: Accelerate vaccine research and diagnostic development Conduct mosquito surveillance and mosquito control Educate health providers, women and partners about the disease Improve health services and support for low-income pregnant women Help Zika-affected countries better control transmission
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement after state lawmakers announced a legislative task force to address access to health care: “Tennesseans waited two years while Governor Haslam negotiated a plan with the federal government. Then the House never even got a chance to vote on it,” Rep. Cooper said. “Now we have to wait at least another year? Cancer patients don’t have that kind of time.”
04.11.2016	NASHVILLE – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) on Monday praised the news that the United States Senate confirmed President Obama’s nomination of Waverly Crenshaw for a federal judgeship in U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee. President Obama nominated Crenshaw in February 2015. “Better late than never,” Rep. Cooper said. “Waverly will be a great judge, but it shouldn’t have taken 14 months for him to be confirmed. Tennessee’s senators worked hard for Waverly, but the U.S. Senate is broken when it comes to confirming judges on time.” Crenshaw proudly calls himself “a product of the desegregated Nashville public school system.” A graduate of McGavock Comprehensive High School, Vanderbilt University and Vanderbilt University Law School, Crenshaw joined Waller Lansden Dortch & Davis in 1990, becoming the firm’s first African-American attorney. He made partner, started an expansive mentoring program and served on the firm’s Diversity Committee. Crenshaw has handled cases for clients in multiple industries, including health care, retail, manufacturing, transportation, communications, hospitality, education, public utilities and more.
03.25.2016	Published in the Tennessean Nashville is about to lose one of its few beaches, a small part of Old Hickory Lake, and even risk harming the dam itself. Why? Because a local developer wants to blast a new quarry in the wrong place, on land touching the beach and the dam. Unless we stop it, this will be a chronic nightmare. Quarry blasting lasts for decades. Dynamiting is dangerous, causing seismic shocks, airblasts and flyrock. The Army Corps of Engineers quietly warns that this quarry “will pose a likely hazard to the public” on the beach as well as boaters offshore. Will it post such signs for the public? Who wants to visit such a place? Who wants to live nearby? Say goodbye to the recreation area and its 80,000 annual visitors, but the quarry could do worse damage than that. The unknown risk is to the dam’s earthen levee, which, shockingly, is built on 15 feet of wet, loose sand. Our levee already collapsed once, in the 1970s; collapsing again could literally cost us hundreds of millions of dollars. Weakened dams are one of the most expensive things in the world to repair. We taxpayers are already paying to repair two dams further upriver from Nashville, a cost of about $550 million apiece. These dams had major problems although they were built on rock. Why even risk damaging our sand-foundation levee at Old Hickory? The worst-case scenario is, of course, breach of the levee, flooding Nashville and draining Old Hickory Lake. Remember the floods of 2010? Damages like that are in the billions of dollars. This quarry makes no sense, so almost every elected official in Davidson County is fighting it. But our system of government is failing us, despite our near-unanimity. The quarry’s lobbyists are winning. Unless we win fast, the quarry will start blasting and won’t stop. We have two basic options: 1) persuade the Corps to intervene or 2) buy the quarry. You might think that the Corps would be the first to defend its own property, but you would be wrong. Although the Texas region of the Corps won’t even allow oil and gas drilling within 4,000 feet of its dams — and won’t allow fracking within 5 miles — our Nashville Corps is not so decisive. And dynamiting is worse than drilling. One of the top Corps generals is coming to visit our dam on March 29, so we will see if he will defend his beach, his dam and our city. If the Corps cannot be persuaded, then the Metro Council may have to pay millions of dollars to buy the quarry site (155 acres) just to defend ourselves. That is probably what the quarry developer is hoping, since we paid it $10 million in the 1980s when another of its quarries had to be purchased by the public. That quarry blocked the second runway at Nashville International Airport! This developer seems to make a habit of standing in the way of Nashville’s progress. Whatever path we take, we cannot let this quarry hurt Nashville. The Corps is our first line of defense and should protect us. But if it won’t, we may have to buy out the developer … again. It paid $2 million for the land. The beach alone is worth more than that, at least to its 80,000 annual visitors. And don’t forget: Nashville needs stricter land-use and zoning laws so this predicament never, ever, ever happens again.
03.25.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today congratulated Jackie Shrago as White House officials highlighted the Nashville resident’s tireless efforts to enroll Tennesseans into health plans established by the Affordable Care Act. “Jackie represents the best of Nashville,” Rep. Cooper said. “She looks out for her neighbors. She’s a vigorous advocate for health care. And she’s selfless. The Affordable Care Act couldn’t have succeeded without heroes like Jackie.” The special projects coordinator at the Tennessee Health Care Campaign, Shrago is one of 10 Americans in the White House Champions of Change for the Affordable Care Act program. U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell is expected to speak at the White House to honor Shrago and her fellow Champions. Shrago’s advocacy included volunteer work for Get Covered Tennessee, where she assisted people as they researched and obtained health insurance. Thanks to advocates like Shrago, Tennesseans selected 268,867 plans during open enrollment season. This was an increase over 2015 by more than 30,000 plans. According to the White House, the Champions of Change program was created as an opportunity to feautre individuals doing extraordinary things to empower and inspire members of their communities.
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today issued the following statement after President Obama nominated federal appeals court Judge Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court: "President Obama made an excellent choice with Judge Merrick Garland," Rep. Cooper said. "A brilliant legal mind, Judge Garland supervised the prosecution of the Oklahoma City bombers and distinguished himself on the federal bench. I hope he wins swift confirmation.”
03.08.2016	Tennessee State House Agriculture & Natural Resources Subcommittee Hearing U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper’s Testimony on HB 2292, the Dam Safety Act March 8, 2016 JIM COOPER: Thank you Chairman Lollar, members of the committee. I am deeply grateful for your distinguished service to our state. CHAIRMAN LOLLAR: Please quote your name. COOPER: I’m Jim Cooper, Congressman from the Fifth Congressional District of Tennessee. I come to the legislature very, very rarely, and it’s a sign today of the importance of this issue that I am here. And I’m not coming complaining about some “not in my backyard” issue. This is an issue that has to do with the jurisdiction of the federal government, or really, the lack of jurisdiction. So let me explain the case. First, I personally am strongly against the proposed quarry and blasting near the Old Hickory Dam in Davidson County. Second, not only is this a bipartisan effort with Bill Beck and with Steve Dickerson, Senator Steve Dickerson, it’s a nearly unanimous effort on the part of the Davidson County delegation against this proposed blasting. I have rarely ever seen an effort that is this unified. Almost every member of the Davidson County delegation has signed a petition, as well as of course the residents in the area. The problem is this: First, and this is according to the Army Corps of Engineers letter that was written to me in December, and I believe the committee has a copy of this letter. First, the Corps says that quote, “It’s a likely hazard to the public” for anybody to be at the beach there at Old Hickory Park and recreation area due to the fly-rock and air-blasts resulting from the blasting from the quarry. This is a park and recreation area that has seen some eighty thousand visitors a year. The Corps also warns that boaters in the area are in jeopardy. So we have an already crowded, small lake that will become even smaller as a result of this proposed quarry. Second, in addition to the known damage to the recreation area, you might as well give it up right now. We risk damage to the earthen portion of the dam that is immediately adjacent to the quarry. It abuts the quarry. And the Corps also says in its letter, and this is a quote, “That the foundation of the earthen portion of the dam is fifteen feet in thickness of saturated, loose sands.” End of quote. Everybody on this committee knows that it’s much better to build on rock than on sand. But even rock in our area has not been safe. Already the tax payers of this area and this nation have had to pay 1.1 billion dollars in repair damage to dams upstream further up Old Hickory. For us to risk damage to Old Hickory dam, the closest dam to Nashville, whose earthen portion of the dam is built on sand, would be a needless and foolish risk. The Corps strictly speaking has no jurisdiction over any property-even one inch from federal lands. But the Corps is sufficiently concerned about this issue to have written me a letter, and to have pointed out these things like the fifteen feet of sandy foundation, and the known hazard to the folks on the beach. But the Corps’ approach, and the rest of the letter is basically to measure the dimensions of a disaster rather than to prevent it. I think it’s much more important for us as policy makers, whether the State or the Federal level, to prevent disasters. Now, no one on earth, not even the smartest engineer knows exactly how great a risk we face, but we do know from the damages we’ve already paid on dams upstream that it’s about a five hundred-million-dollar repair risk. And it could be as much as a two-billion-dollar flood risk because that’s what the City of Nashville faced in 2010. And the headwaters of Old Hickory Lake are sixty feet above the City of Nashville, our State Capitol. So why are we even thinking about taking a five hundred-million-dollar risk, or possibly even a two-billion-dollar risk for a two-million-dollar quarry? A quarry that reputable quarry owners rejected. This doesn’t make any sense. And I ask this committee, I plead with this committee to save the City of Nashville and not subject us to this needless risk. It’s much better to prevent a disaster than to measure its dimensions. Mr. Chairman, taxpayers should not be subjected to this risk. The sensible thing to do is to support Bill Beck’s, Representative Beck’s, Bill-and Senator Steve Dickerson’s Bill and save the City of Nashville from this needless risk. It’s a guaranteed risk to the folks on the beach, but it’s a needless risk to the private citizens, homeowners, and small business people all the way down the river. This is not a step that the City of Nashville should take. Thank you Mr. Chairman, and I’m at your disposal if you have any questions or if I can supply any materials to you. LOLLAR: Does anyone have any questions for the Congressman while he’s still here? REP. G.A. HARDAWAY: Thank you Mr. Chairman, and good morning to you Congressman. To sum up what you just told us, if we use the scenario where this was federal land and the Corps did have authority, you’re projecting that they’re opinion would be? COOPER: The Corps is deeply concerned about locating a quarry so close to their property, but they do not have any power to tell private land owners what to do with private land. They assume that there will be sensible state regulation to prevent needless hazards from being constructed so close to federal property. They even proposed in their own letter that the quarry company be required for the life of the quarry, which could be forty, sixty years to put very expensive, very sensitive monitoring equipment on the earthen portion of the dam-the earthen sandy portion of the dam at company expense. And the company is not likely to unless they are forced to by folks like you on this committee. So the Corps has acknowledged the danger. The general from the Corps is scheduled to come visit Nashville on this issue on March 29. I wish he could come sooner but the Corps’ eight-page report, single spaced is already in the hands of this committee. And no one could read that report without seeing the fifteen feet of sand foundation, no one would run a report to their folks back home that yes they allowed blasting next to something with a foundation of sand. That just doesn’t make sense, certainly not for the Capitol City of this great State. HARDAWAY: Thank you sir, thank you Chairman.
03.02.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today announced that the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure has given the green light for a new Nashville courthouse. The Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works previously had authorized the project’s funding. This was the final step in the legislative process. No further legislative action in Congress is necessary to secure funding for courthouse construction. The General Services Administration will assume future steps in the project’s development. “Due to safety reasons, Nashville has needed a new courthouse for more than 20 years. I thank the committee chairmen for recognizing this urgency,” Rep. Cooper said. “With the funding hurdle out of the way, the long-awaited building process can finally begin.” Congress initially included resources for Nashville’s courthouse in an “omnibus” spending bill late last year. Committee activity today was the final step in the funding process.
01.14.2016	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House this week passed a bill introduced by U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) and U.S. Rep. Tim Walberg (MI-7) that would require the federal government to highlight ways to eliminate duplicative programs. Cleared without opposition in the House this week, the Taxpayers Right-to-Know Act also unanimously passed the House in the last session of Congress. The bill would compel each federal agency to publish an annual report card for every program. “Congress should act like everyday Tennesseans: Use common sense and don’t waste the money you have,” Rep. Cooper said. “The House has passed our bill twice. The Senate needs to do its job and vote so our bill can become law.” Each government program would be identified and reports would outline: Total administrative costs of the program; Total expenditures for services; Total number of beneficiaries who receive assistance from the program; and An estimate of the number of staff who administer the program, including contractor staff. Each report also would include: A listing of other programs within the agency with duplicative or overlapping missions and services; The latest performance reviews for the program, including the metrics used to review the program; The latest improper payment rate for the program, including fraudulent payments; and The total amount of unspent and unobligated program funds held by the agency and grant recipients. This information would be updated annually and posted online, along with recommendations to consolidate duplicative and overlapping programs; to eliminate waste and inefficiency; and to terminate lower-priority, outdated and unnecessary programs. The bill is based on the annual report from the Government Accountability Office on government duplication, waste and mismanagement. Last year’s report found 66 actions across 24 areas where agencies may be able to achieve greater efficiency or effectiveness.
01.11.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today announced that Keenan Reynolds, a former Heisman Trophy candidate and an Antioch native, is his guest to President Obama’s final State of the Union. “I’m honored to have Keenan as my State of the Union guest,” Rep. Cooper said. “He is an awesome individual, a role model for Nashville, and the best of a new generation.” In 2012, Reynolds graduated from Goodpasture Christian School, which is located in Madison. Now a senior at the United States Naval Academy, Reynolds led Navy to a school record 11 wins this season, breaking the NCAA record for most career touchdowns from scrimmage and finishing fifth overall in Heisman Trophy voting. Earlier this month, the White House Historical Association presented Reynolds with the Stephen J. Decatur Award for leadership; late last year, The Tennessean named Reynolds its Sports Person of the Year. The State of the Union is Tuesday night.
01.08.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today issued a statement after President Obama vetoed a Republican bill that would defund the Affordable Care Act and Planned Parenthood. “The President was right to veto the Republicans’ ‘reconciliation’ bill because it had nothing to do with reconciliation,” Rep. Cooper said. “It was the latest scene in a silly congressional drama that is wasting taxpayers’ time and money. We need to improve Obamacare, but those who voted for the reconciliation bill were hoping for a presidential veto. Now that they have one, perhaps we can get back to the real business of government, namely helping America be a stronger, better, more successful nation.” In addition to his statement, Rep. Cooper sought to highlight the following figures: In the latest enrollment period, nearly 11.3 million Americans selected, or were automatically reenrolled, in a 2016 Marketplace plan. A net total of nearly 17 million people have gained health insurance since the law passed. The Affordable Care Act has increased the share of Americans with health insurance to nearly 89 percent. In Tennessee, 236,021 consumers selected plans during the first nine weeks of the enrollment period that runs through Jan. 31.
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today made the following statement: “President Obama is doing exactly what he said he would do if Congress continued to ignore mass shootings,” Rep. Cooper said. “These seem like common-sense reforms. Congress has refused to act, so I am not surprised that the President has taken the initiative.”
12.16.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) praised funding for a new federal courthouse in Nashville, culminating an effort that began when authorities deemed the existing courthouse “inadequate” more than two decades ago. Cooper applauded Sen. Lamar Alexander, a Tennessee member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, for his leadership. "Sen. Alexander was essential in our efforts, and I thank him for his leadership," Rep. Cooper said. "For safety reasons, Nashville has to have a new courthouse, and we've needed one for more than 20 years. This is a huge win for our city." Cooper also acknowledged the efforts of former Rep. Bob Clement, an early and tenacious advocate for the project. And Cooper thanked Rep. Chuck Fleischmann, a Tennessee member of the House Appropriations Committee. Congress included the funding in an “omnibus” spending bill. Votes are expected later this week. The existing Estes Kefauver Federal Courthouse was first judged “inadequate” in 1992, and Nashville tops the Judicial Conference’s national list of priorities for courthouse construction. In 2002, the federal government purchased the downtown property on Church Street as the site of the new courthouse. About $25 million has been spent on the project, but additional studies and a recession have delayed construction. This year, for the first time, the project was a priority in President Obama’s budget. Cooper was a founding member of the Congressional Courthouse Caucus, which was formed to address the urgent need for functional, secure courthouses that would be funded based on greatest need, rather than political influence.
12.07.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement after the Senate confirmed Travis McDonough as a U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Tennessee: “Travis McDonough represents the best of East Tennessee. He will make an excellent federal judge,” Rep. Cooper said. “I am glad the Senate has confirmed him. His talents are needed on the bench right now.” An East Tennessee native, McDonough graduated from Vanderbilt University Law School and served in leadership roles at the Miller & Martin law firm in Chattanooga, before leaving to serve as chief of staff for Chattanooga Mayor Andy Berke. Appointed by President Obama, McDonough will succeed Judge Curtis Collier.
11.24.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) headed a congressional effort this month to fund a new federal courthouse in Nashville. Led by Cooper, the Congressional Courthouse Caucus and much of Tennessee’s congressional delegation sent separate letters to the top Members of the House Appropriations Committee, which determines how money is allocated to federal projects. “We are all very sensitive to the funding challenges you face in tight budgetary times, but conditions have been deteriorating in federal courthouses for decades,” Cooper wrote. “Nowhere is this more apparent than Nashville, where we’ve reached a critical situation.” For the first time, Nashville’s need for a courthouse was included in President Obama’s FY 2016 budget; it also was listed in the Senate’s FY 2016 appropriations bill. The existing Estes Kefauver Federal Courthouse was first deemed “inadequate” in 1992, and Nashville tops the Judicial Conference’s national list of priorities for courthouse construction. In 2002, the federal government selected the downtown property on Church Street as the site of the new building and purchased the parcels making up the site from 2002-2005. Since then, further studies and the lack of funding have delayed construction on any new federal courthouse. Cooper was a founding member of the Congressional Courthouse Caucus, which was formed to address the urgent need for functional, secure courthouses around the country. Cooper has written to President Obama and Members of the House Appropriations Committee several times asking them to prioritize courthouse funding. Cooper has also met with the General Services Administration regarding the public safety hazard that sits atop the site designated for Nashville’s new courthouse, urging its immediate demolition. The letters are attached here and here.
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement on H.R. 4038, the American SAFE Act: “America has always welcomed refugees and should continue to do so. Today’s vote won’t change that tradition,” Rep. Cooper said. “This bill merely reinforces existing law that refugees not pose a threat to the U.S.” Earlier in the week, Rep. Cooper condemned remarks made by several Tennessee state legislators. Those Republican lawmakers said Tennessee should activate the National Guard to remove refugees already in the state and “use any means necessary” to prevent others from entering. “Panicky remarks from our state legislature do not make America safer. The Tennessee National Guard should not be used to ‘round up’ recent immigrants,” Rep. Cooper said. “Such loose talk is not only ineffective but embarrassing. The FBI and local law enforcement have done an excellent job of policing any threats.” Forty-six Democrats joined Cooper in voting for the American SAFE Act: Aguilar - CA Ashford - NE Bera - CA Bishop - GA Brownley - CA Bustos - IL Carney - DE Connolly - VA Cooper - TN Costa - CA Courtney - CT Cuellar - TX Delaney - MD Doggett - TX Gabbard - HI Garamendi - CA Graham - FL Gene Green - TX Hahn - CA Himes - CT Israel - NY Kaptur - OH Keating - MA Kind - WI Kuster - NH Langevin - RI Lipinski - IL Loebsack - IA Lynch - MA Sean Patrick Maloney - NY Murphy - FL Nolan - MN Norcross - NJ Peters - CA Peterson - MN Polis - CO Rice - NY Ruiz - CA Ryan - OH Schrader - OR Scott - GA Sewell - AL Sinema - AZ Slaughter - NY Veasey - TX Vela - TX Walz - MN
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today spoke out against remarks made by several Tennessee state legislators regarding refugees. According to The Tennessean, a Republican lawmaker said Tennessee should activate the National Guard to remove refugees already in the state. Another GOP lawmaker said officials should “use any means necessary” to stop refugees from entering Tennessee if they come from countries with ties to terrorism. “Panicky remarks from our state legislature do not make America safer. The Tennessee National Guard should not be used to 'round up' recent immigrants,” Rep. Cooper said. “Such loose talk is not only ineffective but embarrassing. The FBI and local law enforcement have done an excellent job of policing any threats.”
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today voted for the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, a bill that averts default and lessens the blow of across-the-board spending cuts. “Congress should stop playing games of ‘chicken’ like this: driving America too close to the fiscal cliff in order to scare voters,” Rep. Cooper said. “Nothing is more important than keeping America’s credit rating strong because that determines the financial strength of the nation.” Cooper supported Wednesday’s agreement, but he has long sought a bipartisan debt plan that transcends imminent deadlines and tackles America’s fiscal issues. In 2012, Cooper and former Rep. Steve LaTourette (R-Ohio) offered the only bipartisan budget on the House floor. It was based on principles outlined by the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, co-chaired by former Sen. Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles. The Cooper-LaTourette budget would trim the deficit by more than $4 trillion over 10 years, and replace the infamous, across-the-board sequestration cuts with a comprehensive, balanced plan for deficit reduction. It would put America's debt-to-GDP ratio on a downward trajectory, eventually decreasing to 67.9 percent. The effort was supported by major budget and fiscal watchdog groups. It was endorsed by newspapers across the country and hailed as "brave" by USA Today. Earlier this month, Cooper reintroduced his Stop Pay for Members Act, which would have halted congressional pay if America had defaulted on the national debt.
10.19.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) has reintroduced legislation that would stop congressional pay if America defaults on the national debt. “Risking default is like playing with nitroglycerin. Never a good idea,” Rep. Cooper said. “This is much worse than shutting down government. This would be shutting down America. If Members of Congress betray our country by forcing America to default on our debts, we do not deserve to be paid. In fact, we deserve worse punishments.” Cooper is sponsoring the Stop Pay for Members Act as America again creeps toward fiscal disaster. U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew recently warned that Congress must increase the debt limit by Nov. 3 or risk federal default. A longtime advocate of a bipartisan debt plan that tackles America’s toughest problems, Cooper considers his bill a remedy for persistent congressional misbehavior. In 2011, Congress came within hours of not raising the debt ceiling – a parliamentary procedure allowing America to pay bills it has already incurred. Citing partisan brinksmanship in Congress, Standard & Poor’s downgraded America’s credit rating. This U.S. Treasury report describes what happened, as America came dangerously close to default. Cooper first introduced the Stop Pay for Members Act during this crisis. Two years later, Cooper reintroduced the bill, and House Republicans eventually used it as the basis of an amendment to a debt ceiling bill. The amendment passed overwhelmingly, receiving 340 votes.
10.08.2015	Keep quarry near Old Hickory Dam from harming Nashville The Tennessean October 8, 2015 By Jim Cooper What would happen to Nashville if one of the dams failed up the Cumberland River? The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has already ranked two dams above Nashville — Wolf Creek and Center Hill — as two of the most dangerous dams in America. Emergency repairs are costing $1.1 billion. The Corps claims to have fixed Wolf Creek Dam after many years of work, but Center Hill Dam remains a threat. Now I am worried that a dam much closer to Nashville, Old Hickory, is in trouble. The 60-year-old dam looks solid today, but it was designed for a 50-year economic life. It will soon be shaken because a company wants to dynamite a new rock quarry on adjacent property. Having already spent $1.1 billion on dam repairs, why risk damaging a dam even closer to Nashville? All of our dams are fragile due to our geology. Karst limestone is brittle and easily eroded by water. The new fissures around Wolf Creek and Center Hill dams have already cost us a fortune; we don’t need trouble with Old Hickory Dam. Its lake rises 60 feet above the Cumberland River and is only 25 river miles from downtown. The massive concrete of Old Hickory Dam is about half a mile from the planned quarry. But the long, narrow earthen part of the dam — a dike — comes within a few feet of the quarry site. The Corps has been worried about its stability for years, installing underground sensors to monitor problems. These sensors are the “little Dutch boys” that are protecting Nashville. But guess what? Tennessee law allows quarry operators to use as much dynamite as they want. How will these explosions affect our aging concrete/earthen dam? The quarry company is racing to dig with an impressive line of bulldozers even before it gets the required permits. The quarry company has not talked to the Corps about its plans. Even if Old Hickory Dam survives the explosions, will the quarry itself be safe with a quarry wall so close to Old Hickory Lake? Sometimes quarry walls collapse unexpectedly, as we learned in 2010 on Richland Creek. That collapse created a harmless lake; a collapse at the new quarry could bypass Old Hickory Dam entirely, flooding all of Nashville. Councilman Larry Hagar and state Rep. Bill Beck are leading the fight at the local and state level. The Metro Council passed a resolution on first reading on Tuesday night to stop the quarry for traffic, noise and nuisance concerns, but it will require two more readings and a month of delay. The 2016 session of the Tennessee General Assembly is unlikely to adopt the sensible quarry regulations that other states have adopted. Even if it did act, the quarry company will claim that it is “vested” under the old law. I am fighting the quarry at the federal level. A bald eagle nests within 1,000 feet of the quarry, two ancient cemeteries are located on it, and there are wetlands issues. The Corps’ public recreation area with 80,000 visitors a year will be ruined by the quarry, but the Corps is still being reactive, reluctant to jump into what are normally state regulatory issues. What is more important: bureaucratic turf or public safety? The 2010 flood cost Nashville at least $2 billion in damage, not counting human hardship. We can’t control the weather, but we can stop man-made hazards from endangering us. If the quarry company cared, it would buy enough insurance to protect us. Of course, billions of dollars of coverage are not affordable, especially to small companies. So the risk is on Nashville property owners, not on the company trying to make money at our expense. The risk is being socialized while the profits are privatized. Quarries should be located where they are not a risk to our city.
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper and over 140 colleagues sent a bipartisan letter to House Speaker John Boehner calling for a vote on commonsense legislation to address gun violence. A reaction to the tragedies that have hit all corners of our nation, this letter represents the greatest support in Congress to fight this national epidemic. Cooper is also a cosponsor of the bipartisan King-Thompson proposal to expand background checks. The full text of the letter may be found here.
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued a statement on Speaker John Boehner’s impending retirement. “Speaker Boehner is a very honorable man who always tries to do the right thing. He understands that compromise is in our job description,” Cooper said. “Unfortunately, he had a nearly impossible job leading an increasingly unreasonable and right-wing party that refuses to work with Democrats for the good of the nation.”
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) and U.S. Rep. Mick Mulvaney (SC-05) today introduced the Earmark Elimination Act of 2015. The bipartisan bill would ban earmarks permanently from the legislative process. Earmarks are directed spending items, limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits that are targeted to a specific entity. In recent years, Congress has passed brief moratoriums on earmarks, but the bans must be renewed. Meanwhile, business as usual has continued in Washington; some Members of Congress – aiming to fund pet projects – continue to explore ways to bypass obstacles to earmarks. “Earmarks are what folks hate about politics – wasteful spending for Congress’ pet projects,” Rep. Cooper said. “There is a lot of talk about bringing earmarks back, but that’s just rewarding Congress for bad behavior. It’s time to crack down and ban earmarks forever.” “There’s been talk recently about bringing back earmarks in the House,” Rep. Mulvaney said. “That’s a slap in the face of good governance and I am proud to help lead the effort to ban earmarks for good. This bill would codify the earmark ban by making it law, not just a rule in the House.” The Earmark Elimination Act would prohibit the House from considering legislation containing earmarks, and it would strip any earmarks found in legislation being considered by the House before it may proceed. In addition to the Earmark Elimination Act, Cooper this Congress has reintroduced his No Budget, No Pay bill and the Taxpayers Right-to-Know Act, which passed the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee last week.
07.28.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) this week cosponsored a resolution expressing the sense of Congress that the victims of the Chattanooga attacks deserve to be awarded the Purple Heart. On July 16, four Marines – Gunnery Sgt. Thomas Sullivan; Staff Sgt. David Wyatt; Sgt. Carson A. Holmquist; and Lance Cpl. Squire Wells – and Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Randall Smith were killed by a gunman in Chattanooga. “These heroes made the ultimate sacrifice,” Cooper said. “It’s important we honor them.”
07.22.2015	WASHINGTON – A bill introduced by U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) and U.S. Rep. Tim Walberg (MI-7) that would require the federal government to find ways to eliminate duplicative programs today passed the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Cleared without opposition in committee this morning, the Taxpayers Right-to-Know Act also unanimously passed the House in the last session of Congress. The bill would compel each federal agency to publish an annual report card for every program. “Taxpayers watch what they spend, so why can’t Congress?” Rep. Cooper said. “The House has already passed our bill once, and I’m glad it’s picking up steam again. Now it needs to become law.” “The tentacles of duplicative, wasteful programs are far-reaching inside the federal government,” Rep. Walberg said. “This bipartisan bill will help identify and streamline those outdated programs that have lost their intended purpose or impact so we stop throwing away the American people’s hard-earned tax dollars.” Each government program would be identified and reports would outline: Total administrative costs of the program; Total expenditures for services; Total number of beneficiaries who receive assistance from the program; and An estimate of the number of staff who administer the program, including contractor staff. Each report also would include: A listing of other programs within the agency with duplicative or overlapping missions and services; The latest performance reviews for the program, including the metrics used to review the program; The latest improper payment rate for the program, including fraudulent payments; and The total amount of unspent and unobligated program funds held by the agency and grant recipients. This information would be updated annually and posted online, along with recommendations to consolidate duplicative and overlapping programs; to eliminate waste and inefficiency; and to terminate lower-priority, outdated and unnecessary programs. The bill is based on the annual report from the Government Accountability Office on government duplication, waste and mismanagement. This year’s report found 66 actions across 24 areas where agencies may be able to achieve greater efficiency or effectiveness.
07.09.2015	Nashville smart growth means guarding quality of life The Tennessean By Jim Cooper July 9, 2015 In a beautiful, peaceful corner of Davidson County near Joelton, a Texas pipeline company wants to build a huge — and noisy — compressor station. Other pipeline companies are targeting other parts of Nashville. These giant out-of-state corporations are hoping that we locals won't object. One bought full-page ads in Sunday's Tennessean to make us think they are good corporate citizens. Everyone who lives in Nashville should be concerned about inappropriate, unmitigated industrial activities coming to our county. We want more jobs, but not at the cost of ruining our quality of life. We need smart growth, not "dump-on-us" expansion. Let's not settle for temporary construction jobs. With more than $2 billion in building permits issued in Nashville last year, we have lots of those. We need more high-paying, permanent jobs. As the "it" city, we can afford to be choosy. The sad truth is that most Southern states offer very little protection to local residents against abuse by out-of-state corporations. We were once so desperate for growth that we took anything. Tennessee, for example, used to allow deep-well injection of toxic chemicals into our soil. Thankfully, we put an end to that. Today, you may think that your home or farm is zoned only for "residential" or "agricultural" use, but watch out for next-door nightmares. You are at risk if your neighbors want to sell their land to an eyesore or nuisance that harms your quality of life and lowers your property values. For example, the swingers club was able to move to Madison, across the street from a Christian school, because it claims to be a "church." I suggest two ways to judge new projects and to curb bad ones. First, apply the Golden Rule. Would the corporation's top executives want to live next to the facility they are forcing on us? If it's not OK for them, why is it OK for us? They usually live in places that would never allow the sort of facilities they are dumping on Tennessee. Second, let's do a better job of protecting our neighborhoods and farms. Local, state and federal government all have a role to play, but there is no substitute for local vigilance. Projects that can't be stopped can often be moved to more suitable areas, or prevented from polluting. For example, I was able to stop a cellphone tower from ruining a neighborhood in Donelson despite a federal law giving phone companies the power to pick their locations. Most Tennesseans are only one greedy landowner away from forcing us to live next to a garbage dump, chemical plant, incinerator, rock quarry, junkyard or other nuisance. To protect our quality of life, we need local zoning laws with teeth. Today's laws don't even have gums. Tennessee's greatness results from our ability to work together to solve problems. We are business-friendly and want to attract more jobs, but not at the price of ruining what we already have. Smart growth means progress, not regress.
07.01.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today issued the following statement: “President Obama gave another great talk in Nashville today. The Affordable Care Act is working. Now we need Insure Tennessee to help our fellow citizens and neighbors.”
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today made the following statement regarding the Obergefell v. Hodges ruling: “Love and equality win,” Cooper said. “I’m glad the Supreme Court ruled on the right side of history.”
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today praised the Supreme Court for preserving federal subsidies that help an estimated 6.4 million Americans – including nearly 200,000 Tennesseans – pay for health insurance. Cooper celebrated the ruling’s implications not only for those with federal subsidies, but also the insurance market and the preservation of benefits in the Affordable Care Act. For instance, health care insurers can no longer deny people for pre-existing conditions, and young adults can stay on a parent’s insurance plan until they turn 26. Cooper also noted that the ruling removes a stated obstacle for passing Insure Tennessee. “Tennessee legislators said they were waiting for the ruling,” Cooper said. “We now have it. They should finish the job and provide protection for all Tennesseans by passing Insure Tennessee.” On Monday, Cooper will join a coalition of state and community leaders for a press conference on what’s next after today’s positive ruling.
06.19.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today applauded the National Institute of Health’s (NIH) policy adjustment to include sex as a biological variable in future research. Cooper’s Research for All Act calls for the inclusion and separate analysis of male and female animals, tissues and cells in research conducted and funded by the NIH. A section of Cooper’s bill, first introduced last year, calls for the same change made last week by NIH. Cooper’s goal is to bring gender equality to essential aspects of medical research; animal studies typically focus on males. In a statement, he praised NIH’s fast action and urged Congress to do even more.“This is a major victory for women and the future of health research,” Cooper said. “Now let’s finish the job and make Research for All a reality.”NIH says using sex as a biological variable involves the processes of study design, data collection and analysis of results. The development is important in distinguishing differences in how new clinical products affect all people – not just men.
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) announced today that Alandis Brassel has joined his office as Counsel. Based in Nashville, Brassel will advise on policy issues, handle complex casework and represent Cooper in the community. “Alandis is an outstanding law school graduate with a strong background in music,” Cooper said. “He should be able to help everyone in the Nashville area who needs help in dealing with federal red tape." Holding a bachelor’s degree from Hampton University and a master’s degree from New York University, Brassel is a recent graduate of Vanderbilt University Law School. He is married to Thallen Brassel, an associate attorney at Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP. They live in Nashville with their young son. For several years before attending Vanderbilt, Brassel owned Go Forth Music, which provided services to musicians and television companies. While in school, Brassel interned at the American Civil Liberties Union and Warner Music Group in New York, as well as the Metropolitan Public Defender’s Office in Nashville. Most recently, he worked with the Volunteer Lawyers and Professionals for the Arts program of the Arts & Business Council of Greater Nashville. Brassel replaces Alfred Degrafinreid II, currently the Chief Deputy Criminal Court Clerk of Davidson County.
05.05.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) and U.S. Rep. Cynthia Lummis (WY-at large) have reintroduced bipartisan legislation that would bring gender equality to essential aspects of medical research.First introduced by Cooper last year, the Research for All Act would require the inclusion and separate analysis of male and female animals, tissues and cells in research conducted and funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH). While NIH has taken positive steps in this direction, current law does not require researchers to study female animals when conducting basic medical research. “‘Mad Men’ may be ending soon, but medical research is still stuck in the ‘60s,” Rep. Cooper said. “Women deserve good medicine just as men do. Science needs to serve both men and women.” “Medical research continues to progress, but as it does so, we need to ensure that we do not cut corners that could cost those being treated,” Rep. Lummis said. “Data tell us men and women react differently to varying medical treatments. The Research for All Act requires thorough research to ensure viable and effective medicines for both men and women. One sex should not be excluded from testing when it could mean the difference between effective treatment and harm to health.” As researchers at Brigham and Women’s Hospital said last year: “Medical research that is either sex- or gender-neutral or skewed to male physiology puts women at risk for missed opportunities for prevention, incorrect diagnoses, misinformed treatments, sickness and even death.” Women compose more than half the U.S. population, but most medical research focuses exclusively on men. “60 Minutes” featured the issue last year and explored the consequences. For example, the unique way women metabolize drugs was ignored when researchers determined the dosage for Ambien sleeping pills; as a result, the initial recommended dosage was double what it should have been for women. Additionally, cardiovascular disease is the leading killer of all Americans, but only one-third of subjects in cardiac clinical trials are women. Cooper’s bill would help alleviate such disparities, and it promotes men’s health, too. A recent diabetes drug study suggested that the drug may lower women’s risk of heart failure but increase men’s risk. Meanwhile, evidence suggests common blood pressure and antibiotic medication are less effective for men. In addition to requiring NIH to study female subjects and analyze sex differences in basic research, Cooper’s bill directs the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to guarantee that clinical drug trials for expedited drug products are sufficient to determine safety and effectiveness for both men and women. The Research for All Act is supported by numerous organizations, including the American Heart Association, Association of American Medical Colleges, National Center for Health Research, National Organization for Women, National Women’s Health Network and the Society for Women’s Health Research.AARP American Academy of Nursing American Association of University Women (AAUW)American Heart Association/American Stroke Association American Lung Association American Medical Student Association American Medical Women’s Association Annie Appleseed Project Association for Pelvic Organ Prolapse SupportAssociation of American Medical Colleges Association of Women’s Health, Obstetric and Neonatal Nurses Breast Cancer Action Center for Science and Democracy, Union of Concerned Scientists Center for Women Policy Studies Connecticut Center for Patient SafetyEndocrine SocietyHADASSAH, The Women’s Zionist Organization of America Jacobs Institute of Women’s Health The Mended Hearts, Inc. MRSA Survivors NetworkNational Center for Health Research National Organization for Women National Physicians Alliance National Women’s Health NetworkNorthwestern University Specialized Center of Research (SCOR) OWL – The Voice of Women 40+ Ovarian Cancer Alliance of San Diego Ovarian Cancer National Alliance Ruth Jackson Orthopaedic Society Reproductive Health Technologies Project SCAI – Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions Society for Maternal-Fetal MedicineSociety for Women’s Health Research (SWHR) The TMJ Association, Ltd. WoodyMatters Women’s Heart Alliance WomenHeart: The National Coalition for Women with Heart Disease ResearchforAll Infographic.pdfRFA Final Draft.pdfResearch for All Act One Pager.pdfResearch for All Act Section by Section.pdf
04.14.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today recognized Equal Pay Day, pushing to close the persistent pay gap between women and men. The timing of Equal Pay Day symbolizes when – more than three months into 2015 – women’s wages finally catch up with what men were paid in 2014. On average, women in America working year-round, full-time jobs still earn 78 cents for every dollar earned by men.Tennessee women earn 83 cents for every dollar earned by Tennessee men; in Cooper’s district, women earn 89 cents, the highest figure among the state’s nine congressional districts. “It’s no surprise that women do better in Nashville, but they’re still falling short,” Cooper said. “It’s 2015. We shouldn’t need a new law to ensure equal pay for women.” Cooper is co-sponsoring the Paycheck Fairness Act. The bill would provide numerous remedies to women who are not being paid equal pay for equal work. Among its key provisions, the Paycheck Fairness Act: Requires employers to show that pay disparity is truly related to job performance, not gender; Provides women with real options for seeking compensatory or punitive damages; and Requires the Department of Labor to enhance outreach and training efforts to eliminate pay disparities. A co-sponsor of the Equal Pay Day resolution, Cooper also co-sponsored and voted for the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which became law in 2009.
03.30.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced several changes to his staff. Ashley Shelton, Cooper’s Washington-based counsel and health care aide, has taken a new job as Director of Public Policy at the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials. Shelton is an Arkansas native and Vanderbilt University Law School graduate; prior to joining Cooper’s staff, she worked for former U.S. Sen. Mark Pryor (D-AR). In addition to health care, Shelton advised Cooper on immigration, child welfare and judiciary issues. “I’ll miss Ashley’s research skills, legal expertise and impressive mind,” Cooper said. “Her next move is a great step for someone with such a bright future.” Meanwhile, Lieutenant Commander Timothy Shanley has filled the position of Defense Fellow, advising Cooper in Washington on national security, foreign relations, and veterans affairs. Commissioned in 2003, Shanley’s naval deployments have taken him to Europe, Asia and Africa. In 2012, he was selected as the recipient of the U.S. Navy League’s Stephen Decatur Award for Operational Competence. More recently, he was awarded the Defense Meritorious Service Medal. A Maryland native, he, along with his father and four brothers, is a graduate of the United States Naval Academy. Shanley succeeds Cooper’s former Defense Fellow, Stephen Lee, who has begun working in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense. “I’m honored to have Tim on my staff,” Cooper said. “His military experience will be valuable in helping Middle Tennesseans understand a complex world.” Shanley comes aboard as Cooper’s role expands on the House Armed Services Committee. Cooper also has hired a new Staff Assistant, Miranda McDonald, a Nashville native who graduated from St. Cecilia Academy and Tennessee State University. A former intern with the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, McDonald will supervise Cooper’s intern program, organize Capitol tours and assume other responsibilities. “As an intern, Miranda impressed everyone at the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation and in my Nashville office,” Cooper said. “Now, she’ll be the first person visitors see in my Washington office, and I’m thrilled she’s on my staff.” McDonald’s predecessor, Christopher Jerrolds, has been promoted to Legislative Correspondent; another Cooper staffer, Vic Goetz, has been promoted to Legislative Assistant.
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) again urged the state legislature to quickly expand Medicaid as a new study revealed alarming health trends across Tennessee. Expanding Medicaid would offer health insurance to more than 200,000 Tennesseans currently without coverage. As Gov. Haslam’s “Insure Tennessee” package works its way through the committee process, a Robert Wood Johnson Foundation report released this week found the following: 29 percent of children in Davidson County live in poverty – an increase of five percentage points since 2010 32 percent of adult Tennesseans are obese 16 percent of Tennesseans under 65 are uninsured “A new report says Tennesseans’ health is even worse than we thought. This must become a top priority for the state legislature,” Cooper said. “We need Insure Tennessee more than ever. Lt. Gov. Ramsey and Speaker Harwell should allow every legislator to vote on it.”
03.10.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) and U.S. Rep. Reid Ribble (WI-8) today reintroduced two bills that would stop the secretive practice of gerrymandering by letting the public participate in the Congressional redistricting process. “Gerrymandering is a dirty secret no one wants you to know about. Voters used to choose their leaders, but now politicians choose their voters,” Cooper said. “These reforms will shed much-needed sunlight on our shady elections process. And sunlight is the best disinfectant.” "Ending gerrymandering is a good government measure that is long overdue,” Ribble said. “Gerrymandering pads districts with extra votes for incumbents and can disenfranchise millions of American voters. Making districts so heavily liberal or conservative that the only competition for a seat occurs during the primary election is dishonest, and these two bills will help bring the practice to an end.” A longtime advocate for transparency in redistricting, Cooper is sponsoring the bills as political division paralyzes Congress, and as the U.S. Supreme Court considers arguments questioning the constitutionality of an election commission established by the state legislature in Arizona. Opponents of independent commissions believe that redistricting power is limited to the legislature and cannot be carried out by commissions through the initiative process. Cooper has joined a bipartisan amicus brief that would protect the ability of states to use independent redistricting commissions. Meanwhile, only 20 percent of House districts are considered competitive by the Cook Political Report’s Partisan Voting Index, and the number of “swing seats” has fallen to a record low of 90 out of 435. Almost 60 percent of House districts are considered extremely lopsided and partisan -- an all-time high --contributing to the partisanship and gridlock in Congress in recent years. The Washington Post recently published a visual guide demonstrating how gerrymandering works. The John Tanner Fairness in Redistricting Act takes politics and partisanship out of the congressional redistricting process. Each state would be required to establish an independent, bipartisan redistricting commission to redraw congressional district lines once every 10 years that reflect contiguous communities rather than carved-out, gerrymandered districts that protect political parties. The Redistricting Transparency Act of 2015 would require states to post redistricting information online, including the data used in the process, details of the process, proposed maps and public hearing dates. It would also require that the public be allowed to comment before maps are approved. Redistricting occurs every decade after the federal census is completed. In Tennessee, the General Assembly controls the redistricting process. Three years after the most recent redistricting in 2012, eight of nine Congressional districts in Tennessee are considered non-competitive, meaning they have been mapped in a way that the population in those districts strongly favors one party over another and does not track with overall national presidential race outcomes. Cooper represents the sole competitive House seat in Tennessee. By contrast, in Iowa, where districts are drawn by a nonpartisan commission, all four Congressional districts are considered competitive for Democrats and Republicans.
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) highlighted this week’s release of the U.S. Treasury Department’s annual Financial Report of the United States, indicating $64.4 trillion in total unfunded liabilities, an increase of $2.8 trillion over 2013. The Financial Report is the only annual government financial statement published in public-company format, which accounts for unfunded liabilities such as Social Security and Medicare. Unfunded liabilities rose at a rate of nearly $8 billion per day last year. “These are the real numbers, and they are terrible. Washington is still refusing to keep up with the national credit card,” Cooper said. “Most small businesses have better accounting standards than the federal government. Folks who read or hear this should tell their elected representatives or favorite trade associations to wake up, smell the coffee and tell the truth about America.” Cooper has been a longtime advocate of the federal government using accrual (or "real") accounting instead of the cash accounting method it currently uses, which hides the true cost of our national debt. Cooper is a longtime advocate for a balanced, bipartisan debt reduction plan. In 2006, he published a foreword to the 2005 Financial Report of the United States. Six years later, Cooper and Rep. Steve LaTourette (R-OH) introduced a bipartisan budget based on the proposal from the Simpson-Bowles National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. The Cooper-LaTourette budget would have reduced the debt by more than $4 trillion over the following decade.
02.24.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced his appointment to three subcommittees within the House Armed Services Committee (HASC). “America has the finest military in the history of the world, and it’s the first duty of government to keep it that way,” Cooper said. “It’s an honor to work on the Armed Services committee and focus on issues involving strategic weapons, counterterrorism and oversight.” Previously a member of two HASC subcommittees, Cooper received a special waiver to join a third in the current Congress. As the Ranking Member of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee, Cooper is responsible for overseeing America’s vast nuclear arsenal, as well as a $30 billion annual budget. Cooper’s newest subcommittees include Emerging Threats and Capabilities, which provides oversight of the Pentagon’s $70 billion research and development budget. He’s also joining the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, which investigates allegations of waste, fraud and abuse within the Department of Defense. The House Armed Services Committee is responsible for providing the common defense and general welfare of the United States. For the last 53 years, the committee has passed annual legislation to fund budgets and authorize policies for America’s armed forces.
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) on Wednesday praised the news that President Obama has nominated a celebrated Nashville attorney for a federal judgeship in U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee. “Out of an outstanding field of candidates, President Obama is nominating a first-rate local attorney and community leader,” Cooper said. “Waverly Crenshaw will make a fine federal judge. I just hope the Senate confirms him quickly because he is needed on the bench now.” Crenshaw proudly calls himself “a product of the desegregated Nashville public school system.” A graduate of McGavock Comprehensive High School, Vanderbilt University and Vanderbilt University Law School, Crenshaw joined Waller Lansden Dortch & Davis in 1990, becoming the firm’s first African-American attorney. He made partner, started an expansive mentoring program and served on the firm’s Diversity Committee. Crenshaw has handled cases for clients in multiple industries, including health care, retail, manufacturing, transportation, communications, hospitality, education, public utilities and more.
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today issued the following statement: "Tennesseans will die and hospitals will close as a result of our cruel state legislature. Rarely in state history have we seen such a devastating lack of leadership."
02.02.2015	NASHVILLE – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) announced today that President Barack Obama’s newly released budget for FY 2016 includes funding for construction of a new federal courthouse building in Nashville. “Nashville is #1 in the nation on the list of priorities for courthouse construction. This announcement is a critical next step in getting the courthouse built, but we’re not done yet,” Cooper said. “We still need Congress to appropriate the funds, and I hope that happens this year.” Nashville has been waiting for a new courthouse since 1992, when the Estes Kefauver Federal Courthouse was first deemed “inadequate.” In 2002, the federal government selected the downtown property on Church Street as the site of the new building and purchased the parcels making up the site from 2002-2005. Since then, further studies and an economic downturn have delayed construction on any new federal courthouse. Neither the President’s budget nor Congressional appropriations has included funding for courthouses in four of the last five years, with the exception of the Mobile, Ala., courthouse in FY 2014. Federal courthouse funding is supposed to follow the Judicial Conference’s five-year plan that contains a priority list of proposed courthouses ranked by need. But for many years, the Judicial Conference’s priorities were routinely ignored in favor of political favoritism and earmarks, a process Cooper opposes. Cooper has pushed for a transparent, fair funding process and has led bipartisan efforts to award projects based on priority, not politics. Cooper was a founding member of the Congressional Courthouse Caucus, which was formed to address the urgent need for functional, secure courthouses around the country. Cooper has written to President Obama and Members of the House Appropriations Committee several times asking them to prioritize courthouse funding. Cooper has also met with the General Services Administration regarding the public safety hazard that sits atop the site designated for Nashville’s new courthouse, urging its immediate demolition.
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON – A bipartisan bill reintroduced today by Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN) and Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI) would require the federal government to find ways to eliminate duplicative programs. The Taxpayers Right to Know Act unanimously passed the House in the last session of Congress. It would compel each federal agency to publish an annual report card for all of its programs. Each agency’s list would be submitted to the Office of Management and Budget, which would determine how many identical and overlapping government programs exist and recommend ways to eliminate duplication. “I hate when taxpayer money is wasted,” Rep. Cooper said. “It’s embarrassing that we even need this bill. Congress knows what it should cut. It just needs to do the job.” “The American people deserve to know how their hard-earned tax dollars are spent, and the federal government should be accountable for its spending,” Rep. Walberg said. “It’s no secret the federal government is cluttered with wasteful and duplicative programs, and this bipartisan bill will help identify the outdated programs that should be streamlined or eliminated to save taxpayer money.” U.S. Sen. James Lankford (R-OK) plans on introducing an identical companion measure in the Senate. Each government program would be identified and reports would outline: Total administrative costs of the program; Total expenditures for services; Total number of beneficiaries who receive assistance from the program; and An estimate of the number of staff who administer the program, including contractor staff. Each report also would include: A listing of other programs within the agency with duplicative or overlapping missions and services; The latest performance reviews for the program, including the metrics used to review the program; The latest improper payment rate for the program, including fraudulent payments; and The total amount of unspent and unobligated program funds held by the agency and grant recipients. This information would be updated annually and posted online, along with recommendations to consolidate duplicative and overlapping programs; to eliminate waste and inefficiency; and to terminate lower priority, outdated and unnecessary programs. The bill is based on the annual report from the Government Accountability Office on government duplication, waste and mismanagement. Last year’s report found 64 actions across 26 areas – ranging from unemployment benefits to military contracting practices – where agencies may be able to achieve greater efficiency or effectiveness.
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) attended President Obama’s State of the Union address and issued the following statement: “President Obama gave an uplifting speech, and I’m proud he mentioned Tennessee as a model for the country. America is creating jobs at the fastest pace since the turn of the century, our gas prices are plummeting, and we’ve beaten a recession. But so much work remains, and Congress must begin behaving in ways that give hardworking Americans a chance to succeed.”
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today announced his support of a bipartisan bill that would allow the public to view Congressional research and agency reports. The Public Access to Congressional Research Service Reports Act would grant public access to taxpayer-funded research that, by law, is only available to members of Congress and their staffs. The legislation finally would let all Americans see the research Congress uses to draft bills, take votes and shape policy. Cooper also co-sponsored the bill last Congress. “Everyone should be able to read what Congress is reading,” Cooper said. “There’s a mountain of information that folks would find useful.” The Congressional Research Service (CRS) is a division of the Library of Congress. CRS is staffed by policy experts who draft nonpartisan reports and analyses that are considered authoritative and objective on a range of topics. As a dedicated Congressional support agency, CRS is joined by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) in providing Congress with objective information and analysis. While GAO and CBO reports are already publicly available, CRS reports remain shielded from public view. Rep. Leonard Lance (R-NJ) and Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL) are the bill’s lead sponsors. Numerous good-government groups and transparency watchdogs have endorsed their efforts, including the Sunlight Foundation, American Association of Law Libraries, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW), Center for Effective Government (formerly OMB Watch), OpentheGovernment.org, Center for Responsive Politics, and Project on Government Oversight (POGO).
01.07.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today introduced bipartisan legislation that would stop congressional pay if Congress doesn’t pass America’s budget bills on time. A longtime advocate for congressional reform, Cooper first introduced No Budget, No Pay in 2011 after a Nashville constituent asked why Congress can ignore budget and tax deadlines while the public has no such luxury. “Congress should pay its bills on time,” Cooper said. “Otherwise, it should work for free.” Congress overwhelmingly passed a watered-down, one-year version of No Budget, No Pay in 2013. That year, the House and Senate passed individual budgets for the first time in four years. No Budget, No Pay would halt paychecks for all House and Senate members if they miss annual deadlines for budget and appropriations bills. No Budget, No Pay would prohibit members from receiving pay for each day past Sept. 30 that budget and spending bills don’t pass. Members would not be allowed to recover the pay retroactively. Sen. Dean Heller (R-NV) and Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV) introduced the No Budget, No Pay Act in the Senate. While the House and Senate recently passed their own budgets, Congress has not adopted a budget for America in five years. Meanwhile, it has been 18 years since all appropriations bills were passed on time. Cooper today introduced No Budget, No Pay in the House with Reps. Reid Ribble (R-WI), Ami Bera (D-CA) and Ron DeSantis (R-FL).One Pager -- No Budget, No Pay.pdf BILL TEXT - No Budget, No Pay.pdf
01.06.2015	WASHINGTON – As Congress began a new session Tuesday, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) praised the Federal Aviation Administration’s announcement of a rule that protects musicians and their instruments during air travel. “I’ve been pushing hard for the federal government to protect our musicians and our musical instruments,” Cooper said. “Finally, the FAA is allowing guitars in overhead bins on airlines. You won’t have to check your instrument underneath the plane. You’ll be able to carry onboard and keep it safe.” The new rule takes effect March 1. It allows musicians to stow their instruments in overhead bins or under seats if space is available. Inconsistent policies previously had harmed musicians, whose instruments often were lost or damaged as they traveled from show to show. After hearing from the music community, Cooper and U.S. Sen. Lamar Alexander helped set standards for the transport of guitars and other instruments. They later led an effort with their colleagues encouraging speedy implementation of the law. The rule applies to scheduled and charter flights in domestic or international transportation operated by U.S. carriers, no matter the size of the aircraft. For more information, click here.
01.06.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) made the following remarks today after being sworn in as part of the 114th Congress: “Congress must come together for the good of the country. Our job is to keep America number one and to give hardworking citizens a chance to succeed. The economy is making progress, but wages are flat and living expenses are soaring. Congress should work to reverse those trends and preserve America’s greatness.”
12.15.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today issued a statement on Gov. Bill Haslam’s Insure Tennessee plan: “Gov. Haslam’s announcement is a step in the right direction,” Cooper said. “Expanding health insurance to more Tennesseans is the right thing to do for patients, hospitals and businesses.” For more information on the proposal, click here.
12.12.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today issued a statement following his vote against a $1.1 trillion spending bill. “Congress had all year to do its job. But it again waited until the final hours and made shady backroom deals. This bill is no way to govern," Cooper said. The House of Representatives voted 219-206 to pass the spending bill late Thursday night. The “cromnibus” includes 11 appropriations bills and a continuing resolution, which will fund most of the government through September 2015. The bill also includes changes to campaign finance and Wall Street reform laws. It is expected to quickly pass the Senate and be signed into law by the President.
12.09.2014	NASHVILLE – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today issued the following statement: “The U.S. Senate – including Senators Corker and Alexander – voted overwhelmingly to do what the President outlined today. House Republicans have refused to consider the Senate bill, but they have three more days to allow an up or down vote where it would pass with a large majority. Our community – including the Nashville Area Chamber of Commerce, Lipscomb University, the Catholic Church, the Southern Baptist Convention and local charitable family foundations – supports the goal of integrating immigrants into the wider community. We are a model for the country.”
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today praised President Obama’s upcoming visit to Nashville on December 9. “It’s always an honor and a thrill when a sitting president visits Nashville,” Cooper said. “I welcome President Obama to our vibrant, thriving and diverse city. Nashville is the perfect setting for his remarks.” The White House has announced President Obama will deliver remarks at Casa Azafran on the executive actions he is taking to fix America’s broken immigration system. Tuesday’s visit is President Obama’s second trip to Nashville in less than a year. In January, he spoke at McGavock High School.
12.03.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) announced today that his Counsel, Alfred Degrafinreid II, has departed to become Chief Deputy Criminal Court Clerk of Davidson County. “I’m sorry to lose Alfred,” Cooper said. “He has been a tremendous asset to my office and to Nashville, but this is a good, big step for a rising star.” As Cooper's Nashville-based Counsel, Degrafinreid coordinated community outreach and advised on housing matters, the music industry and other policy issues. In his new role, Degrafinreid will assume the top staff position for Davidson County Criminal Court Clerk Howard Gentry. A native Tennessean holding both bachelor’s and master’s degrees from Tennessee State University, Degrafinreid also is a graduate of Indiana University’s Robert H. McKinney School of Law.
10.23.2014	NASHVILLE—U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) and several community leaders on Wednesday, October 15, discussed a new government report that focuses attention on voter ID laws in Tennessee. The report, newly issued by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO), concluded that voter ID laws caused Tennessee turnout to drop 2.2 percentage points from 2008 to 2012. That translates to 88,000 lost votes, according to an estimate by The Washington Post. Young people, African Americans and newly registered voters “were the groups that were more likely to see bigger drops in turnout,” the Post wrote. “Expanding voting rights has always been on the right side of history, while efforts to deny those rights embarrass the children and grandchildren of the opposition,” Cooper said at a Wednesday morning press conference. “Whatever you do, make sure you vote. Don’t let bad laws keep you from making your voice heard.” Also at the press conference, Cooper suggested several ways to boost turnout and depoliticize the voting process. He said the state should ensure that all high schools – public and private – hold yearly voter registration drives. Such drives already are required by state law. Cooper also implored the Legislature to change the law to allow college students to use their state-issued IDs to vote; he closed by asking Secretary of State Tre Hargett to remove his name from Tennessee’s traditional “I Voted” stickers. The voting stickers were changed this month, removing the American flag. Other community leaders who spoke Wednesday morning: Debby Gould, League of Women Voters Patricia Stokes, Urban League of Middle Tennessee Matt Mullen, Tennessee Citizen Action Hedy Weinberg, American Civil Liberties Union Nicholas Alexiou, American Constitution Society Doug Johnston, Barrett Johnston Martin & Garrison, LLC Jeff Teague, Planned Parenthood Rev. Dr. Judy Cummings, Interdenominational Ministers Fellowship The nonpartisan report has resulted in national press, including the lead editorial in Monday’s New York Times and a comprehensive piece in The Washington Post.
10.23.2014	WASHINGTON – In light of the Ebola outbreak, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today signed a letter raising concerns about insufficient funding levels for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Joined by nearly 50 House Democrats, Cooper added his signature to a letter addressed to the House Appropriations Committee, which is responsible for setting funding levels for federal agencies. The letter implores the House panel to prioritize programs related to investment in medical research and response to public health emergencies. “While we understand that adequately funding the NIH and CDC is a serious financial undertaking for our nation,” the letter says, “the fact remains that increased funding could likely result in vaccines, treatments and cures that would otherwise not be discovered.” The letter cites recent remarks from NIH Director Dr. Francis Collins: “If we had not gone through our 10-year slide in research support, we probably would have had a vaccine in time for this [Ebola crisis] that would have gone through clinical trials and would have been ready.” Lawmakers also note that NIH funding has not kept up with inflation. The House Appropriations Committee is expected to address funding measures before this session of Congress adjourns in December. The full letter is HERE.
09.24.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) recently announced several changes to his staff, including the retirement of a top employee in his Nashville office, Don Majors. A former district councilman, Majors worked almost 12 years for Cooper, rising to the position of director of special projects. “Don Majors is one of the best people in Nashville,” Cooper said. “Retired from DuPont, he spends every day helping others. He knows our city from top to bottom and everyone likes him. We will miss him but know he will find other ways to serve the public.” Cooper in recent weeks also has welcomed two new fellows to his staff. Daniel Gilliam has joined as Cooper’s new fellow on veterans issues. A United States Navy veteran with combat experience in Iraq, Gilliam most recently served as a counselor at Operation Stand Down in Nashville, where he assisted in finding employment for honorably discharged veterans. Based in Cooper’s Nashville office, Gilliam is a graduate of Middle Tennessee State University and Cumberland University. Justin Tooley has accepted the position of education fellow. A former Teach for America staffer, Tooley most recently held the position of Chief of Staff to the Assistant Commissioner of the Tennessee Department of Education. Tooley has valuable experience as a teacher and administrator in high schools in Atlanta and Memphis. He is based in Cooper’s Washington office. “I’m grateful to have Daniel and Justin on my staff,” Cooper said. “Both are extremely knowledgeable in their fields, and they’re deeply committed to helping Tennessee’s Fifth District.”
09.23.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today applauded the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for awarding more than $10 million in grants to fight gender bias in medicine. Vanderbilt University will be one of the research centers chosen to study gender differences.According to The New York Times, approximately 80 scientists will receive funding to include more women in clinical trials and “to ensure that … laboratory animals, even cell lines, are representative of both genders.” Scientists also will use the money to investigate gender discrepancies in their data, the newspaper said. “This is a great first step to ensuring equality in medical research,” Cooper said. “Better science leads to better outcomes.” Current law does not require researchers to study female animals when conducting basic medical research. In June, Cooper introduced the Research for All Act, which would require the inclusion and separate analysis of both male and female animals, tissues and cells in basic research conducted and funded by NIH.
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper today voted against legislation that would extend resources to forces in Syria. A member of the House Armed Services Committee, Cooper entered a statement into the Congressional Record. In the statement, Cooper outlined seven reasons for his vote. Mr. Chairman, I rise to oppose the Amendment to H.J. Res. 124, the Continuing Resolution, that supports training and equipping the so-called Syrian Opposition. After attending briefings on the President’s proposal, I do not believe that this Amendment has a reasonable chance of achieving his goals. Worse, it could embroil America in another endless war. I hate ISIL and the other terrorist organizations that are plaguing Syria, Iraq and eventually the U.S.; the question is whether this Amendment will “degrade and destroy” them, to use the President’s words. I do not fault President Obama’s intent; I doubt this particular Amendment will work. Most obviously, it expires in 90 days, according to the very terms of the CR. And even if, under authority granted outside of this Amendment, an air strike killed ISIL’s leader, it would not stop ISIL. First, remember the budgetary context of this train-and-equip mission. Remember that military spending cuts called “sequestration” will last another seven years under current law. The readiness of our military is already threatened by these cuts. Necessary long-term investments in future weapons systems are being shortchanged. Until advocates of this train-and-equip mission are willing to fully fund the U.S. military and stop sequestration, they have no business adding extra responsibilities. America’s credit-card hawks must not continue to hollow out our military while pursuing questionable foreign ventures. Second, the Syrian Opposition is not like the Peshmerga. It is a number of disorganized, unreliable and shifting groups that face three hostile armies at once within Syria itself: Assad’s army, ISIL, and the Al-Nusra Front. Each of these hostile armies has demonstrated the ability to conduct advanced military operations. They are years ahead of any possible effective counter-attack by the Syrian Opposition, unless they start fighting each other or Assad’s entire military defects. We are not even sure that the people we train would remain loyal. Although the Amendment talks about vetting Syrian Opposition forces, it acknowledges that there will be “green-on-blue” violence against us. The Amendment also anticipates that some of the weapons we supply to the Opposition will be given or sold to ISIL. Third, we are entering a series of civil wars. They are notoriously difficult to stop without years of bloodshed. The idea that U.S. Army training, guns, and bullets will facilitate a negotiated Syrian settlement is highly implausible. Another factor is the 1,400-year-old Sunni-Shia schism, giving our Muslim allies their own religious agendas. They make excuses for their failure to commit their own forces in their own backyards, even when their inaction floods their nations with refugees. Several of these nations have large militaries with advanced weaponry, which they refuse to use except for very limited, anonymous airstrikes. They want U.S. soldiers and airmen to do their dirty work. Fourth, ISIL was created by wealthy Sunnis in nations like Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and Kuwait who wanted an attack dog, a proxy army, to fight the Shia threat posed by Iran, Syria, Hamas, and Hezbollah. They got more than they bargained for: a pit bull that might turn against its masters. Nevertheless, they are not muzzling ISIL, or even yanking its leash. How does ISIL continue to get its funding? Aside from rape, pillage, kidnapping, and taxing infidels, it is known for its slick corporate appeals, even an annual report on its atrocities. Have the Sunni nations punished ISIL’s benefactors, refused to purchase ISIL’s oil, or taken other measures to cut off its funding? No. In the case of Saudi Arabia, they offer us unused training bases for no more than 10,000 of the Syrian opposition. That is far from enough. Fifth, how many times must the U.S. try to rebuild Muslim nations? We’ve tried for years, often just inflaming them. Syria will be the eighth Muslim nation we have tried to repair in the last three decades: Kuwait, Bosnia, Kosovo, Somalia, Iraq, Afghanistan, and Yemen. In most cases, we have not succeeded. The U.S. military is ill-suited for nation-building. As General Bob Scales pointed out in the Wall Street Journal recently, the Pentagon has trouble dealing with today’s asymmetric wars. Sixth, ask yourself what your reaction will be if an American airman—God forbid—is captured and beheaded on live television. Will this Amendment, that so carefully denies authorizing military force, suddenly become the prelude to American “boots on the ground” as Gen. Martin Dempsey has already predicted? And who believes that our trainers and equippers—and special forces and intelligence officers—are not already “boots on the ground”? The language of the Amendment is surreal: it contains no “authorization for the introduction of United States Armed Forces into hostilities or into situations wherein hostilities are clearly indicated by the circumstances.” Unless our military operates entirely outside of Syria or northern Iraq, they are in imminent danger. And if they are training in Saudi Arabia, they will be working in a nation that beheads more people for minor crimes than ISIL could dream of. Lastly, is there a better way to degrade and destroy ISIL? Americans, with our wonderful optimism that all problems have a quick solution, have a lot to learn about the nature of the enemies we face. Unfortunately for us, our enemies do not measure action by the clock, but by the calendar. They outwait or outlast us. They use social media against us, to dare America to fight or to recruit the West’s disaffected youth with dreams of martyrdom. They will laugh that this Amendment lasts only 90 days, particularly when other sections of the CR extend much longer. America needs to understand the threats we face from radical jihadists and to fully fund effective strategies for dealing with them. Sadly, this Amendment does neither. Therefore, I oppose it.
09.12.2014	WASHINGTON – Tomorrow, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) will celebrate two decades since the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) became law on Sept. 13, 1994. VAWA significantly strengthens the ability of the federal government, states, law enforcement and service providers to combat domestic violence and sexual assault. “I’m a husband and father; I’m sickened that sexual assault and domestic violence exist in 2014,” Rep. Cooper said. “As the NFL has shown, so much work remains. We are failing, and we simply must do better.” In 2012, the Senate passed a VAWA reauthorization bill by a bipartisan vote of 68 to 31. But House Republicans blocked it because it granted protections to immigrant women, LGBT Americans and Native Americans. The Senate passed its strong bipartisan bill again last year. Rep. Cooper co-sponsored VAWA and proudly voted for it when House Republican leadership finally allowed it to pass and be signed by President Obama. Rep. Cooper will continue to work to champion and strengthen this vital, life-saving law.
08.27.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) made the following statement on the passing of attorney George “Citizen” Barrett: “Citizen Barrett was more than a legal giant in our community; he was a compassionate soul. George cared deeply for the poor and downtrodden, and championed their rights in court, in the media, and in his every conversation. He had the Irish zest for life, for the latest news, for persuasive argument, and for justice. No one can replace George Barrett in our community, but we should all try, because he made Nashville and Tennessee a better place to live.”
07.22.2014	Rep. Jim Cooper avoids partisan extremes By Paul C. Barton (Excerpts from The Tennessean) Cooper’s track record shows liberal views on the environment, immigration, civil rights, women’s rights and gay rights. And after the Newtown, Conn., massacre in December 2012, he and Rep. Steve Cohen, D-Memphis, were the only Tennessee members willing to look at tighter gun control laws. But he mixes all that with a hawkish determination to do something about the nation’s deficit spending and keep its military No. 1. But it is Cooper’s attention to budget issues, both the broad and the microscopic, that fuel his wonkish reputation. “If you don’t have a good budget, you don’t have an ability to solve any problem,” Cooper said. In 2012, he won praise from editorial writers for leading the “Brave 38,” a group of 38 House members who voted for a budget mixing tax increases with cuts in entitlement programs to square the nation’s finances. It was based on ideas from the 2010 National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. In 2013, Congress adopted a watered-down version of the Nashville Democrat’s “No Budget, No Pay” proposal, which called for withholding members’ paychecks if they failed to pass a budget and all major spending bills by Oct. 1, the start of the federal fiscal year.Full article published July 17, 2014.
07.16.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today devoted a House floor speech to John Seigenthaler, the late civil rights hero, Nashville giant and legendary Tennessean editor and publisher. Cooper lauded a lifetime of accomplishments and contributions to Music City: “Mr. Speaker, America lost a giant this week. John Seigenthaler, the longtime editor of the Nashville Tennessean, was buried on Monday, but his life transcended Nashville, Tenn., and became literally a part of American history. “Born to humble beginnings in Nashville, Tenn., he was first a star reporter; then a confidant of Bobby Kennedy; then a defender of the Freedom Riders; then the crusading editor of a Pulitzer Prize-winning Southern newspaper; then founding editor of USA Today; and then the founder of the First Amendment Center at Vanderbilt University. “John Seigenthaler had the Irish gift for friendship and words. He epitomized the best of journalism. He was always on the right side of history because he helped everyone, including politicians, listen to the better angels of their nature. Because of John Seigenthaler’s leadership, Nashville is one of the most dynamic and welcoming cities in the world today. “Over 4,000 people from Nashville and around the country attended his visitation. The Catholic church was packed for his funeral; it was broadcast on local television. Mr. Speaker, a truly great American has died and will never be replaced. I yield back the balance of my time.”
07.11.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) made the following statement on Friday: “John defined liberalism in the South for over half a century. He risked his life to protect Freedom Riders, epitomized the golden age of journalism, and faithfully guarded the frontiers of Camelot. His wife Dolores was his muse, his grandson Jack his delight, and no one did more to make our city of Nashville great.”
07.08.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper announced this week that a major provision of his NSA Internal Watchdog Act is set to become law. The provision corrects a longtime problem with the National Security Agency’s bureaucracy. It replaces the agency’s weak, staff-level inspector general with an independent, Senate-confirmed watchdog. The change helps assure the public that privacy is appropriately protected while maintaining the tools our intelligence and law enforcement agencies need to keep America secure. “Americans want stronger protection of Constitutional rights, and now the NSA has a real watchdog with teeth,” Cooper said. “We need to do more to ensure our privacy isn’t compromised, but this is an important step.” Cooper, with U.S. Reps. Lamar Smith (R-TX) and Jim Himes (D-CT), introduced the bipartisan NSA Internal Watchdog Act on May 1. Cooper worked to include a version of his bill in the House-passed Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 2014 and 2015, which authorized funding for the 16 components of the Intelligence Community and for national security programs. In the final bill that passed the House and Senate, lawmakers included a key provision of the NSA Internal Watchdog Act that installs an independent and Senate-confirmed inspector general. The bill awaits President Obama’s signature.
06.26.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) recently cosponsored two bills to ensure that musicians are paid fairly for the use of their work. A bipartisan bill sponsored by Rep. Doug Collins (GA-9), the Songwriter Equity Act would change two provisions of the Copyright Act in order to modernize compensation in the music industry. The outdated provisions prevent songwriters from receiving fair market value for use of their music. “Nashville wouldn’t be Music City without our terrific musicians and songwriters,” Cooper said. “We must be fair about investing in their talents so Nashville continues to thrive.” The Songwriter Equity Act would allow a rate court to consider different royalty rates as evidence when establishing digital performance rates. And the bill widens the overall scope of evidence that federal rate courts may examine when asked to set songwriter rates. Similarly, Cooper has cosponsored the RESPECT Act, which would require digital radio services – including Sirius XM and Pandora – to pay royalties to artists who made music before February 15, 1972. According to Rolling Stone magazine, nine of the top 10 greatest songs of all time were recorded before 1972. Meanwhile, 59 percent of Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductees – including Memphis native Aretha Franklin – have pre-1972 recordings and are not compensated for those hits. For example, the Queen of Soul is paid whenever digital radio plays “Freeway of Love” (1985) but not – you guessed it – “Respect” (1967).
06.25.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper on Wednesday hailed the news that a celebrated Nashville-based health care leader was appointed as a Senior Advisor to U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs (VA) Acting Secretary Sloan Gibson. Dr. Jonathan Perlin is Chief Medical Officer and President of Clinical Services for Hospital Corporation of America (HCA). He provides leadership for clinical services and improving performance at the company’s 162 hospitals, as well as more than 800 outpatient centers and physician practices. Before joining HCA, Dr. Perlin served as Under Secretary for Health at VA. Nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate as the senior-most physician in the federal government and Chief Executive Officer of the Veterans Health Administration (VHA), Dr. Perlin led the nation’s largest integrated health system.“When the big private-sector hospitals wanted to hire the best, they hired the government guy,” Rep. Cooper said. “Dr. Perlin is extraordinary, and he’s now returning the favor to a VA that needs him at this critical time.” Dr. Perlin’s appointment was announced on Wednesday afternoon by the Veterans Administration. A champion for implementation of electronic health records, Dr. Perlin led VHA quality performance to international recognition as reported in academic literature and the press and as evaluated by RAND, Institute of Medicine and others.
06.17.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) and U.S. Rep. Cynthia Lummis (WY-1) today introduced a bipartisan bill that would require the inclusion and separate analysis of both male and female animals, tissues and cells in basic research conducted and funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Current law does not require researchers to study female animals when conducting basic medical research. As researchers at Brigham and Women’s Hospital recently said, “Medical research that is either sex- or gender-neutral or skewed to male physiology puts women at risk for missed opportunities for prevention, incorrect diagnoses, misinformed treatments, sickness and even death.” Cooper’s Research for All Act requires NIH to study female subjects and analyze sex differences in basic research. It also directs the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to guarantee that clinical drug trials for expedited drug products are sufficient to determine safety and effectiveness for both men and women.“Men and women are not treated equally in health research,” Rep. Cooper said. “Science should not discriminate against women.” “Medical research continues to progress, but as it does so, we need to ensure that we do not cut corners that could cost those being treated,” Rep. Lummis said. “Data tell us men and women react differently to varying medical treatments.” Women currently make up more than half the U.S. population, but most medical research focuses on men. 60 Minutes recently featured the issue and explored the consequences. For example, the unique way women metabolize drugs was ignored when researchers determined the dosage for Ambien sleeping pills; as a result, the initial recommended dosage was double what it should have been for women. Additionally, cardiovascular disease is the leading killer of all Americans, but only one-third of subjects in cardiac clinical trials are women. Just 30 percent of cardiac studies that include women report outcomes by sex. Cooper’s bill helps alleviate such disparities, and it promotes men’s health, too. A recent diabetes drug study suggested that the drug may lower women’s risk of heart failure but increase men’s risk. Meanwhile, evidence suggests common blood pressure and antibiotic medication are less effective for men.“We should study both women and men throughout the scientific process, starting with the earliest levels of research,” Rep. Cooper said. “Better research leads to better outcomes.” “The Research for All Act requires thorough research to ensure viable and effective medicines for both men and women,” Rep. Lummis said. “One sex should not be excluded from testing when it could mean the difference between effective treatment and harm to health.” The Research for All Act is supported by numerous organizations, including the American Heart Association, Association of American Medical Colleges, National Center for Health Research, National Women’s Health Network, NOW and the Society for Women’s Health Research.American Heart Association “Without diversity in research, questions about how cardiovascular disease affects women and other populations differently will remain unanswered,” said American Heart Association President Mariell Jessup, M.D. “This legislation will be a critical help in closing that gap.”National Organization for Women “The National Organization for Women is particularly supportive of the act's widespread implications to improve the health and lives of women across the country,” NOW said in a statement. “Under the Research for All Act, more women will be enrolled in clinical trials, addressing the issues of drug effectiveness and appropriate dosage that best relate to women. With larger, well-designed trials in place to track how women and men react to different life-changing drugs, NOW is confident that women will be now able to access more effective treatments for health issues with disparate gender impacts.”Society for Women’s Health Research “This legislation represents a significant step forward towards addressing inequities in research that impact the healthcare of men and women,” said Phyllis Greenberger, President and CEO of the Society for Women’s Health Research. “We are pleased to support the Research for All Act and thank Representatives Cooper and Lummis for their commitment to improving the health of all Americans through research.” Read the summary of the bill and a section-by-section analysis.Research for All Act One Pager.pdfResearch for All Act Section by Section.pdf For a full list of supporters, please see below. American Heart Association American Lung Association American Medical Student Association American Medical Women’s Association American Stroke Association Annie Appleseed Project Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) Breast Cancer Action Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists Connecticut Center for Patient Safety Consumers United for Evidence-based Healthcare (CUE) Endocrine Society Jacobs Institute of Women’s Health, GWU National Center for Health Research National Organization for Women (NOW) National Physicians Alliance National Women’s Health Network Northwestern University Specialized Center of Research (SCOR) on Sex Differences at the Feinberg School of Medicine Our Bodies Ourselves Ovarian Cancer Alliance of San Diego Society for Women’s Health Research The TMJ Association WoodyMatters WomenHeart Please contact Chris Carroll at 202-225-4311 to speak with experts at some of the organizations listed above.
06.16.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper on Monday praised the White House’s announcement that it will prohibit federal contractors from discriminating against employees on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. The announcement is a pivotal step toward ending discrimination against LGBT employees and ensuring that they are judged based on the quality of their work. “Fairness on the job should never be an issue in America,” Cooper said. “Let’s eliminate bigotry and ensure equality for all.” Cooper proudly joined dozens of lawmakers in signing a March letter that urged President Obama to issue this important rule. Today’s announcement, when implemented, will only protect employees of federal contractors. Cooper will continue to press for a vote of the bipartisan Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), which would establish basic protections in the workplace to prevent discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. ENDA passed the U.S. Senate last year and currently has 205 cosponsors in the U.S. House of Representatives. ENDA is modeled after the Civil Rights Act of 1964. It would apply to private employers as well as local, state, and federal government employers.
06.11.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper spoke at a hearing of the House Armed Services Committee on the transfer of five senior Taliban detainees. In his remarks at the hearing, Cooper called on his colleagues to act civilly and allow justice to take its course. COOPER: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thanks to our distinguished witnesses. I wish that this committee would not be so prosecutorial in its tone. I think it's very important that this not become a political football. I don't know if my friend on the other side of the aisle's already running for majority leader or not, but it sounds like the tone here is way too political. I think at least for the audience back home, people need to understand in case some people have forgotten that our Secretary of Defense is a distinguished former United States Senator of the Republican Party with a distinguished war record in Vietnam. So, hopefully this committee will not cast aspersions on anyone, and certainly not impugn their patriotism. The chairman tried to narrow the scope of this hearing with his opening statement, and I think he essentially wanted to confine it to the 30 day notice requirement that this Congress perhaps should have received on this prisoner transfer. I think that if the committee hearing were in fact narrowed to that point, it would not be the near media circus that it's become. Not only would many members of the press not have shown up, but many members of this committee would not have shown up. So, let's try to deescalate the tensions here, let's try to focus on the substance, let's try to be fair to each other, and hopefully bipartisan, because as the chairman correctly noted, this committee is noted for its bipartisanship and its fairness. It was a great triumph for the chairman and the Buck McKeon Defense Authorization Bill, for it to be passed out of this committee unanimously and overwhelmingly on the floor. That's the way our nation should approach its national defense. In unity, there is strength. So, hopefully my colleagues will focus on what's really important here. There's been a lot of discussion about precedent. And no one wants to set a bad precedent for us, the greatest country in this history of the world. But I think that if there is any precedential effect of this decision, it is the vitally important principle that so many of our generals and admirals and others have reiterated, "leave no man behind." That's the message of this possibly politically unpopular decision. That's "leave no man behind." We can investigate what he did or didn't do once he's safely back in our custody, once he's been presumed innocent and the regular course of justice can take its place. But I'm shocked, really, that this has become such a political football. And such unfairness as the secretary of defense quite rightly pointed out, not only toward our man in uniform, but toward his family. You know, I don't know the particulars, but justice will take its course. That's the nature of this country, that's the nature of our constitutional guarantees, and as the secretary of defense also pointed out, not only is this person a U.S. citizen, he's a person who volunteered to wear the uniform. So, he should be given the benefit of the doubt. Let justice take its course. I would like to ask Mr. Preston, in a much less prosecutorial tone, some of the earlier questions, do you think that the 30 day notice requirement for Congress that was in the last NDAA was in fact a constitutional provision? You know, does the commander in chief, any commander in chief of either party, have the right to take action, you know, when time requires it, to protect the life of a service man, to perhaps circumvent 30 day notice requirements to this body? And it was my impression also that the Senate majority leader, Mr. Reid, said that he had in fact been notified. I don't know the extent of notification. PRESTON: Thank you for the question. Sir, we believe the provision is constitutional. The question was the constitutional implications of its application in the particular circumstances here. And the administration determined that it was necessary to forego the full 30 day formal notice to the eight committees under the constellation of circumstances presented in this situation in which the president was seeking to free a servicemember in captivity and in peril. And the circumstances can be described in terms of the fragility of the negotiations and concerns about delay and leaks and the impact in a premature ending of the negotiation. The circumstance of a fleeting opportunity to effectuate the exchange. The secretary mentioned that from the time it was decided to do an exchange to the actual execution was something on the order of 96 hours, the potential harm to Sergeant Bergdahl if the deal became public, all this in the context and backdrop of uncertainty as to his physical condition and the realization that this might be our last, best change to get him. It was in that circumstance, Mr. Chairman, if I could just finish, it was in that circumstance that with the deal coming together and the prospect of having a decision to transfer, the concern was that delaying, at that point, for 30 days to effectuate notice of the transfer would scuttle the deal and could possibly further endanger Sergeant Bergdahl. COOPER: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see my time has expired.
06.02.2014	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the bipartisan Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 2014 and 2015. This authorizes funding for the 16 components of the Intelligence Community and for national security programs. The Intelligence Authorization Act includes a provision authored by Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5). Cooper worked to include a version of his NSA Internal Watchdog Act in the bill. Cooper, with U.S. Reps. Lamar Smith (TX-21) and Jim Himes (CT-4), introduced the bipartisan NSA Internal Watchdog Act on May 1. Their bill creates a powerful inspector general for the National Security Agency, keeping the organization accountable to Congress and the American people. “The NSA needs a watchdog, not a lapdog,” Cooper said. “We need someone with razor sharp teeth to maintain the balance between privacy and security. A tough, independent inspector general will keep a close eye on things.” The new NSA IG will be able to: Ensure all NSA programs and activities comply with our laws and Constitution. Protect our civil rights and civil liberties. Exercise subpoena power to require contractors and former NSA employees to give testimony in IG investigations, a power that no IG other than the DOD IG currently has. Prevent personal snooping or any other misuses of NSA programs by rogue employees and contractors, such as investigating ex-spouses. Challenge, through Congress, any attempted prohibition of an IG audit or investigation due to alleged national security grounds. ### NSA Internal Watchdog Act one pager_IAA Amdt.pdf
05.28.2014	WASHINGTON – The Campaign to Fix the Debt recently named U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) one of 13 “fiscal heroes” in the House of Representatives for his longtime commitment to solving America’s financial problems. “We have to get serious about our national debt or we could permanently damage our country,” Cooper said. “Even Admiral Mike Mullen has said our debt is the biggest threat facing America.” Called everything from “the House’s conscience” to “Mr. Fiscal Responsibility,” Cooper has been a budget hawk for decades, engineering pivotal bills that have changed the way Congress does business. Recent examples include No Budget, No Pay, a bill that prohibits members of Congress from getting paid if it can’t pass a budget. Additionally, the House this year unanimously passed Cooper’s Taxpayers’ Right to Know Act, which requires a review of all federal agencies and eliminates duplicative and overlapping government programs. Cooper is the only Tennessean among the House’s fiscal heroes. According to the Campaign to Fix the Debt, fiscal heroes distinguish themselves “by taking fiscally responsible votes, pushing their party leaders to make debt a priority and leading bipartisan efforts to work through policy options to fix the debt.” “These Members have, in a variety of ways, played a leadership role in focusing national attention on the pressing issue of the debt and have been working to forge credible solutions," said Maya MacGuineas, head of the Campaign to Fix the Debt. "They are Democrats, Republicans and Independents. They all share a recognition that we will need to take a comprehensive approach to address the core drivers of the debt, and they are willing to confront the policy challenges of coming up with solutions.”
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) voted for a bill he cosponsored that would allow the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs to remove senior executives and high-ranking employees for poor performance. The House passed the bill by an overwhelming margin Wednesday evening. “Bureaucracy should never harm our nation’s heroes," Cooper said. “These problems are inexcusable." The vote followed a wave of reports of rampant mismanagement at the VA, including news that a top official in Nashville ran up $140,000 in unauthorized travel expenses while a backlog of claims piled up. Weeks ago, Cooper sent two letters that probed the case of the rogue Nashville official as well as “secret waiting lists” in Phoenix that prevented veterans from getting timely care. Cooper is awaiting responses to both letters. The bipartisan bill, the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act would give Sec. Eric Shinseki authority to quickly remove employees of the Senior Executive Service (SES) whose performance warrants removal. According to the Office of Personnel and Management, the SES includes most managerial, supervisory and policy positions classified above General Schedule positions. Under the bill, SES employees could be removed from government service completely or transferred to a lesser position within the current civil service system. The ability to remove such an employee is modeled after the same authority that Members of Congress have to remove staff members who work for them. The bill has received letters of support from top advocates for veterans, including IAVA, AMVETS, The American Legion, Concerned Veterans of America and the Reserve Officers Association.
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) joined his House colleagues Monday in passing a bill he championed that would honor 80 World War II veterans with the prestigious Congressional Gold Medal. One of the living veterans is retired U.S. Air Force Lt. Col. Robert Hite, a Nashville resident. The bill passed unanimously. Led by Lt. Col. James Doolittle, the brave Americans known as the Doolittle Raiders made history on April 18, 1942, carrying out the first U.S. air raid on the Japanese Home Islands during World War II. The successful action came only four months after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.As Cooper said in a House floor speech last year, Lt. Col. Hite and the other servicemen “epitomized the Volunteer spirit when they signed up for their death-defying mission.” “America needed to turn the tide of war after the attack on Pearl Harbor,” Cooper said Tuesday. “Lt. Col. Hite and his fellow Doolittle Raiders delivered.” The Senate has passed a version of the bill. It is expected to become law after the House and Senate reconcile differences between the versions. Since the American Revolution, Congress has commissioned gold medals as its “highest expression of national appreciation for distinguished achievements and contributions,” according to the House Office of the Historian.
05.16.2014	WASHINGTON -U.S. Representative Jim Cooper (TN-5) joined 172 of his colleagues in sending a letter commemorating the 60th Anniversary of the historic Brown v. Board of Education decision that marked the end of segregation in schools. “I am proud to join my colleagues in marking this historic occasion," Cooper said. "We must reflect on how far we have come and continue to fight for justice, equality, and opportunity for all Americans." The letter was presented to Superintendent David Smith at the 60th anniversary celebration at the Brown v. Board of Education National Historical Site, in Topeka, Kansas. BvB 60th Letter.pdf
05.08.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) bashed what he called “a zombie earmark” and helped strip money from a dead project Wednesday at the House Armed Services Committee markup of the National Defense Authorization Act. Cooper said delays and cost overruns at a mixed oxide (MOX) fuel fabrication facility in South Carolina justified his criticisms. The Department of Energy recently conducted a review of MOX – a plutonium disposal facility that has not yet been completed – and decided to cancel the South Carolina program due to unaffordability. On Wednesday, Cooper expressed dismay when committee members – including U.S. Rep. Joe Wilson, whose district includes the MOX facility – supported adding $120 million to the $196 million already in the president’s budget to eventually shut down the facility. “This isn’t just an earmark,” Cooper said. “This is a zombie earmark.” The Department of Energy has even conducted a study that identified alternatives that would cost taxpayers a fraction ($8.8 billion) of the current MOX projections ($30 billion). “The only way you can claim this is not an earmark is: It happened without anybody being involved. It just happened,” Cooper said (VIDEO). “Well, to my knowledge, there has only been one virgin birth, and that was about 2,000 years ago. I don’t think any virgin birth happened in this committee.” Ultimately, the $120 million was not allocated to the MOX facility in South Carolina.
05.06.2014	WASHINGTON –U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) was joined by 46 co-sponsors of his No Budget, No Pay Act (H.R. 310) in sending a letter to House Speaker John Boehner and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi calling for a floor vote on No Budget, No Pay. Last year, Congress passed a version of Cooper’s No Budget, No Pay Act as part of a three-month suspension of the debt ceiling. The temporary measure was limited in that it only applied for one year and did not apply to conference reports or appropriations bills. Still, both the House and Senate passed individual budgets for the first time since 2009, proving the measure is effective. “No Budget, No Pay can’t be a one-year experiment; it should be made permanent,” wrote Cooper. “We know what works, and we should continue holding Congress’ feet to the fire.” Cooper’s bipartisan, bicameral No Budget, No Pay Act requires Congress to pass both a budget and appropriations bills on time. It also says that if Congress doesn’t pass its budget and all appropriations conference reports by October 1st every year, then Congress doesn’t get paid.NBNPpermanent Letter - 5-6-14.pdfNBNP FAQ FINAL - May 2014 Update.pdf
05.01.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5), U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith (TX-21) and U.S. Rep. Jim Himes (CT-4) on Wednesday introduced a bipartisan bill that would create a powerful inspector general for the National Security Agency, placing a tough, independent watchdog inside NSA who will be accountable to Congress and the American people. The congressmen drafted the NSA Internal Watchdog Act (H.R. 4533) to help assure the public that their privacy is appropriately protected while maintaining the tools our intelligence and law enforcement agencies need to keep America secure. The NSA’s current inspector general will continue to serve until an independent IG is appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. “The NSA needs a watchdog with teeth,” Rep. Cooper said. “The first duty of Congress is to keep America safe. The first duty of the NSA inspector general is to ensure the NSA’s activities not only keep us safe, but are constitutional and lawful.” “Our intelligence community has a responsibility not only to protect our national security, but also to respect our civil liberties,” Rep. Smith said. “This bill enhances the role of the NSA inspector general and guarantees there is an independent and powerful watchdog that will ensure the activities of the intelligence community are both lawful and constitutional. Only with meaningful and independent oversight can Americans be assured that their rights and freedoms are not ignored in the name of national security.” “Only when our vigilant intelligence community is paired with equally vigilant civilian oversight can the government protect both our national security and our collective civil liberties,” Rep. Himes said. “As a member of the Intelligence Committee, I take my oversight responsibilities very seriously, and am pleased to introduce this bill to bring independent oversight to the NSA after last year’s troubling revelations.” The new NSA IG will be able to: Ensure all NSA programs and activities comply with our laws and Constitution. Recommend new NSA policies to protect our civil rights and civil liberties. Undertake, immediately after Senate confirmation, a comprehensive review of the programs involved in the Snowden leaks, including the NSA’s compliance or non-compliance with FISA court orders. Exercise subpoena power to require contractors and former NSA employees to give testimony in IG investigations, a power that no IG other than the Department of Defense IG currently has. Prevent personal snooping or any other misuses of NSA programs by rogue employees and contractors, such as investigating ex-spouses. Recommend improvements to whistleblower reporting, security clearance and background check procedures. Challenge, through Congress, any attempted prohibition of an IG audit or investigation due to alleged national security grounds. Download a NSA Internal Watchdog Act.pdf, along with aNSA Internal Watchdog Act one pager.pdf and a Section_by_Section of NSA Internal Watchdog Act.pdf
04.30.2014	WASHINGTON – In a rare floor statement Wednesday morning, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) criticized Congress in reaction to news that China is expected to overtake America this year as the world’s largest economy. “The job of a congressman is, simply put, to keep America No. 1,” Rep. Cooper said. “This Congress is failing at that job. … My colleagues should not blame anyone else for this mess.” Read Rep. Cooper’s floor statement below or watch the video here.April 30, 2014Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Speaker, the job of a congressman is, simply put, to keep America No. 1. This Congress is failing at that job. Today the Financial Times reports that for the first time since 1872, America will soon no longer have the largest economy in the world. This is the headline: ‘China to overtake the U.S. as top economic power this year.’ We are losing our position to China, which is overtaking us some three years earlier than expected. Even more important, last week The New York Times reported that our middle class, which used to be the world’s richest, no longer is. This Congress simply must take responsibility for this. This Congress must pass job-creating, pro-growth legislation. But this Congress has failed to do that. This Congress has failed to take up and pass major infrastructure legislation, immigration reform, tax reform. We know how to solve many of these pro-growth problems, but this Congress is refusing to do so. Mr. Speaker, my colleagues should not blame anyone else for this mess. We are the largest body of elected leaders in this country. All we need to do to solve these problems is look in the mirror.Thank you, Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
04.08.2014	WASHINGTON — U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper expressed support on Equal Pay Day for passing the critical Paycheck Fairness Act and closing the wage gap that still exists between women and men.The Paycheck Fairness Act strengthens and closes loopholes in the 1963 Equal Pay Act. It provides effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal pay for equal work. April 8 is Equal Pay Day to symbolize when, more than three months into the year, women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. Nationwide, women earn only 77 cents for every dollar earned by men. “Gender should never affect compensation,” Cooper said. “An honest day’s work should lead to an honest day’s pay for all.” Cooper co-sponsored and voted for the Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which became law in 2009. Currently, he cosponsors the Paycheck Fairness Act and the Equal Rights Amendment.
03.12.2014	WASHINGTON – Last week, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper spoke at a hearing of the House Armed Services Committee. The hearing allowed Members to question Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and discuss the FY15 budget request from the Department of Defense (DOD). In his remarks at the hearing, Cooper said DOD should get discretion when applying cuts from sequestration. “Why don’t we untie the hands of our own Pentagon, so that you can be all that you can be, so that you can be as effective as possible?” Cooper said. Under sequestration, DOD faces over $450 billion in cuts over 10 years. Currently, DOD must apply the cuts evenly to most programs, projects, and activities. But last year, Cooper introduced the Defense Flexibility Act, which would allow DOD to manage sequestration cuts responsibly and lessen the impact on national security. Cooper is the Ranking Member of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee. The full exchange is below.Rep. Cooper: Thank you, Mr. Chairman, to the Secretary, to the General, and Mr. Hale, we will miss you. I hope this committee will not blame the Pentagon for obeying the law, because Congress made up the budget, and all of us would like it to be larger, more flexible, but this committee so far hasn't shown it is willing to do more than to blame the Administration for budget cuts that Congress has passed. At last year's markup, we didn't even use the real budget numbers. We used the sequestration free numbers, the imaginary numbers, the fantasy numbers. It is almost like magical thinking. So I hope that this year, we will be more realistic and join with the Pentagon in trying to make the hard decisions that need to be made so that we can have a maximum warfighting capability on whatever budget Congress comes up with. Let me remind my colleagues, we could have a larger budget if we had the courage to vote for it. We could find the savings in other places. We could have additional revenues, but that is what is lacking is congressional courage. So let's not blame the witnesses. They are doing the best they can under very difficult circumstances. One of my colleagues asked questions about BRAC [Base Realignment and Closure] earlier, the extent to which the Pentagon had flexibility to make base closing decisions on its own. BRAC is one of the most visible areas in which we in Congress have tied the Pentagon's hands because there is surplus capacity in our defense establishment. Some of the Pentagon officials have been urging there would be reductions for years, and yet, in some cases, we even prevent the study of such savings. That is truly amazing. So not only can we have whatever budgets Congress is willing, brave enough to pass, we can offer more flexibility to the Pentagon so that you can make maximum effective use of the dollars that you do have. And so often, for parochial interests, this committee refuses to allow you that freedom. That is wrong. So would the witnesses be kind enough to give me an estimate, a rough estimate of the overall surplus capability that the Pentagon now has that could possibly be downsized, reduced appropriately, taken off our hands by a BRAC type process?Secretary Hagel: We can provide that, Congressman, and I appreciate your comments, and we will provide it. And Mr. Chairman, we would be very happy to provide it.Secretary Hale: I can give them to you.Secretary Hagel: We have got a bottom line number.Rep. Cooper: A bottom line number would be great from Mr. Hale, his valedictory comment.Secretary Hagel: I think you are going to want probably some sense of how we arrived at that, too, which we will provide.Secretary Hale: So we can't put it in for BRAC, but if we go back to the studies that were done just before the last round, we knew we had about 25 percent infrastructure that didn't get eliminated in the last round of BRAC. It is probably higher now. But I agree with the Secretary; we will give you a better number.Rep. Cooper: I have heard the 25 percent number for years. That is a lot of surplus capacity. And just because it is located in someone's state or congressional district doesn't mean that should be immune from a sensible process of strengthening America's defenses. I have heard from Defense contractors, as most of my colleagues have, that it is not so much the cuts they are worried about, it is the lack of flexibility in implementing the budget. So why don't we untie the hands of our own Pentagon, so that you can be all that you can be, so that you can be as effective as possible? That is really the responsibility of this committee and of the Armed Services Committee in the Senate. And we all can do better if we claim to be proponents of strong national defense, of allowing you the tools and the flexibility to have a strong national defense. We should not be the obstacle on this committee to having the Pentagon be capable of maximum effectiveness. So there are a number of issues that we could get into. I am on the subcommittee that does strategic forces. Let me remind my colleagues that just to maintain our nuclear establishment, the triad, for example, that is so beloved, that is a $355 billion obligation in the coming years according to CBO; $355 billion, just for what is considered an actually relatively small element of our Pentagon's finances. So we in Congress need to be preparing for those obligations to be met and fulfilled and possibly even exceeded. But this Congress so far does not have the ambition to do the job that I think most folks in our Nation want to see this Congress do. So if you want to blame anybody, all this committee needs to do is look in the mirror. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
03.06.2014	WASHINGTON — U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper announced today that he is cosponsoring legislation that would address an alarming increase in military sexual assaults by moving the response to such crimes outside the chain of command. A senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, Cooper is cosponsoring the bipartisan Military Justice Improvement Act, introduced by U.S. Rep. Dan Benishek, R-Mich. The bill is a response to higher rates of sexual assault in the armed services and is the House version of legislation championed by U.S. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y. Despite the military’s efforts to rectify the issue, high rates of sexual assault persist. According to The New York Times, four out of five military sexual assaults go unreported. And other reports say perpetrators often are in the victims’ immediate chain of command. “Threats to our troops should only come from the enemy,” Cooper said. “Not our fellow soldiers.” The Military Justice Improvement Act would change the law to transfer the prosecution of crimes such as rape and sexual assault from commanders to independent military prosecutors. Gillibrand has said the military is the only workplace in America where a boss decides whether or not a sexual assault occurred. Cooper agrees and believes his role as a congressman includes keeping the military strong. “We’ve waited too long for the U.S. military to solve its own sexual assault problems,” Cooper said. “It needs civilian help.”
02.25.2014	WASHINGTON — A bill introduced by Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN) and Rep. James Lankford (R-OK) that would require the federal government to find ways to eliminate duplicative programs passed the House of Representatives today. “Let’s all say no to waste,” Cooper said after a unanimous voice vote on the House floor. “When you’re already in the hole, you shouldn’t keep digging.” The Taxpayers’ Right to Know Act would require every federal agency to publish an annual report card for all of its programs. Each list would be submitted to the Office of Management and Budget, which would determine how many duplicative and overlapping government programs exist and recommend ways to eliminate identical programs. Each government program would be identified and reports would outline: Total administrative costs of the program; Total expenditures for services; Total number of beneficiaries who receive assistance from the program; and An estimate of the number of staff who administer the program, including contractor staff. Each report would also include: A listing of other programs within the agency with duplicative or overlapping missions and services; The latest performance reviews for the program, including the metrics used to review the program; The latest improper payment rate for the program, including fraudulent payments; and The total amount of unspent and unobligated program funds held by the agency and grant recipients. This information would be updated annually and posted online, along with recommendations to consolidate duplicative and overlapping programs; to eliminate waste and inefficiency; and to terminate lower priority, outdated and unnecessary programs. Last year, Cooper and Lankford introduced their bill the same day that the Government Accountability Office released its annual report on government duplication, waste and mismanagement. That report found 31 areas – ranging from federal drug treatment programs to military contracting practices – where agencies may be able to achieve greater efficiency or effectiveness.
02.21.2014	WASHINGTON—U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper has cosponsored a campaign finance reform bill designed to weaken corporate influence in politics and put everyday Americans back in charge of their government. A reaction to damage wrought by the Supreme Court’s Citizens United ruling, the Government by the People Act rejects big money in politics and returns clout to voters through strong oversight, tax credits and improved transparency. Good government advocates collaborated in formulating the bill. “The corporate takeover of American politics began when the Supreme Court said money is speech and corporations are people,” Rep. Cooper said. “This bill reverses course and empowers voters. We need more thinking like this in Congress.” The Citizens United ruling has encouraged unlimited corporate spending in American politics; misleading political ads funded by anonymous sources; and destructive legislation orchestrated by murky interest groups. Among other reforms, the Government by the People Act would: Enact a refundable tax credit for congressional campaign contributions by individuals and households; Provide candidates who reduce their dependence on special interest money with a 6-to-1 match for small-dollar contributions of $150 or less; Create funding for qualified candidates who must combat outside influence during the home stretch of a campaign; Establish a “Government by the People” Oversight Commission to periodically review the program and recommend further reforms. Cooper is joined by a bipartisan group of 133 cosponsors. He previously discussed his views on money in politics with the Nashville Scene.
02.12.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper and U.S. Sen. Lamar Alexander led members of Tennessee’s congressional delegation in demanding action that would protect musicians and their property in flight. Inconsistent airline policies fail to protect musical instruments, which are often lost or damaged when musicians travel from show to show. In 2012, Congress approved language meant to help musicians by requiring the FAA to set standards for the transport of guitars, flutes and other instruments. Suggestions included permitting passengers to stow their instruments in closets or purchase an extra seat for their musical cargo. The regulations were to be completed by Valentine’s Day – this Friday. Citing funding issues, the FAA hasn’t even started the rulemaking process. In a letter to U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx, several Tennessee lawmakers said they understand the FAA’s challenges, but urged the agency to do more with less. “We don’t expect our airlines to carry a tune, but we do expect them to carry our precious instruments safely,” Rep. Cooper said. “Any damaged guitar is a tragedy. As a banjo player, I believe the same is true of banjos (although some might disagree).” “Musicians from Nashville and other parts of Tennessee fly all over the world to perform, and they shouldn’t have to worry about not being able to bring their instruments, or having them damaged along the way,” Sen. Alexander said. “I supported the law requiring the U.S. Department of Transportation to issue regulations enabling musicians to bring their instruments aboard planes in 2012, and it’s time the federal government complies with that law.” “It’s not always easy being a musician,” U.S. Rep. Marsha Blackburn said. “When flying away, musicians shouldn’t have to depend on a wing and a prayer with their guitars, banjos, and ukuleles. I commend Congressman Cooper and Senator Alexander for taking the lead in resolving this issue.” “For any consumer, damaged or missing luggage can be a terrible inconvenience,” U.S. Rep. Steve Cohen said. “But for musicians who rely on both their instruments and travel to earn a living, damaged or missing instruments can harm their ability to succeed and be detrimental to their careers. The FAA owes guidelines that adequately protect all passengers’ cargo to these hard-working individuals, and they are past due.” Numerous other House lawmakers signed the letter to Secretary Foxx.
02.04.2014	WASHINGTON—U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper today announced several changes to his staff, including the retirements of two senior constituent liaisons in his Nashville office, Don Deering and Phil Ponder. A former Executive Director of the National Guard Association of Tennessee, Deering has contributed nearly 40 years of military service as an officer and enlisted soldier. He is a member of the National Guard Association of Tennessee and the National Guard Association of the United States, where he serves as a member of the Board of Directors and Insurance Trust. Ponder, a former Metro councilman and an acclaimed artist, is retiring after 10 years with Cooper to pursue opportunities in art. He has served as President of several community organizations, including the Donelson-Hermitage Chamber of Commerce and Greenways for Nashville. He’s a member of numerous panels, including the Metro Planning Commission, Metro Parks Board and Military Officers Association of America Board. “Due to their retirement, we are losing two Nashville giants from our staff: Don Deering and Phil Ponder,” Cooper said. “There are no more respected people in our community. We will miss their daily involvement but know that they will remain active!” Cooper also welcomed two new hires in his Washington office. Gabe Surratt has joined as Cooper’s new military legislative assistant. A Vanderbilt University graduate, Surratt was awarded a Bronze Star for his service in Afghanistan. He also served in Iraq and at the Pentagon. Surratt will assist with Cooper's responsibilities on the House Armed Services Committee. Stephen Lee has filled the position of Department of Defense Fellow. A decorated Air Force veteran, Lee has held a number of positions at the Pentagon and served in Germany as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom. He also served in Guam in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. Lee succeeds Cooper’s former Department of Defense Fellow, Tonia Walker, who has begun working in the Army House Liaison Division. “I’m delighted to have Gabe and Stephen join my staff,” Cooper said. “They know the military inside and out, and they’re deeply committed to helping Middle Tennesseans.”
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON—U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) attended President Obama’s State of the Union address and issued the following statement: “The President gave an optimistic, energetic speech urging Congress to behave and put America first. I am proud he praised Tennessee’s education reforms. He spoke well tonight and there are positive signs that Congress will do less bickering and more work.”
01.25.2014	WASHINGTON—U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today made the following statement about President Obama’s upcoming trip to Nashville. "It's always an honor to have a sitting President visit Nashville. I welcome President Obama wholeheartedly and want him to see why the Nashville area is so popular. I hope we will all treat him with Southern hospitality."
01.01.2014	Veterans' WorkshopTuesday, May 13, 201410am – 12:30pm What? *FREE Claims Assistance *FREE e-Benefits Assistance *FREE Education information/voc rehab assistance *FREE auto/ housing information *FREE business loan assistance *FREE employment assistance, including information on an upcoming Veterans Job Fair …AND MUCH MORE!! Where?The Hall of Flags Drill Hall at The Tennessee National Guard Armory 3041 Sidco Dr. / Nashville, TN 37204 All Veterans and families are invited to attend. Call (615) 736-5295 or e-mail CooperVeteransWorkshop@gmail.comThis e-mail address is being protected from spam bots, you need JavaScript enabled to view it if you plan to attend or have any questions. DIRECTIONS: The Tennessee National Guard Armory is located at 3041 Sidco Dr. The workshop will be held in the Hall of Flags Drill Hall. - I-65, take exit #79 to Armory Dr. - Follow Armory for 0.9 miles then turn RIGHT onto Sidco Dr. - After 0.3 miles, the Armory main visitor entrance gate will be on your right.PARKING: Once you arrive at the main visitor’s gate right off Sidco Drive, you will be required to present a valid photo ID to the security officer. Let them know are attending the Veterans’ event. Once you go through the gate, you will veer right through the parking lot until you reach the Drill Hall. The security guard will direct you to the parking lot, and additional National Guard members will guide you to the parking for the Drill Hall. Check out the list of service providers from previous workshops! The 2014 list will be posted later this spring. Rep. Jim Cooper's Congressional Liaison for Veterans Affairs VA Regional Office TN Valley Healthcare System TN Department of Veterans Affairs OEF/OIF/OND Transition Clinic and Program Employer Support of Guard and Reserve Employer Partnership of the Armed Forces TN Department of Labor Small Business Administration David Lipscomb University Vanderbilt University MTSU Military Center Austin Peay State University Operation Stand Down State of TN Military Order of the Purple Heart AMVETS Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) Not Alone HUD Counselors TN State Veterans Homes TN National Guard Transition Assistance Women Veterans of America Project Healing Waters Tennessee Troops to Teachers National College of Business and Technology Daymar Institute National Alliance on Mental Illness Nashville Public Library - Veterans History Project APSU - Veterans Upward Bound TRICARE/Humana Military Healthcare Services Rep. Jim Cooper's Congressional Liaison for Veterans Affairs VA Regional Office VA provides forms to file for claims assistance; e-benefits sign up; compensation/pension; education/benefits; auto and housing information; allowance; vocational rehab; home loan guarantee; forms for discharge upgrade and correction of military records. TN Valley Healthcare System VA Hospital will have staff from the VA business office to explain services, help with registration issues, etc. Specific healthcare questions will be referred to patient advocates at the facility. TN Department of Veterans Affairs Claims assistance; free license plates for certain service connected disabled vets, ex-POWs, etc.; property tax relief for Service Connected Disability; free hunting/fishing licenses; motor vehicle privilege tax exemption for 100% disabled vets. OEF/OIF/OND Transition Clinic and Program Assistance with enrolling for VA healthcare and enrolling for enhanced combat eligibility; providing information related to mental health and medical issues related to deployment; providing education related to reintegration concerns. Employer Support of Guard and Reserve Professionally-trained facilitators from the State Employment Services, Military Family Support Services, and Department of Labor contractors. Employer Partnership of the Armed Forces Job searches, career decision-making, and interview techniques. TN Department of Labor Provides job search assistance to military veterans. Small Business Administration Help with SBA guaranteed loans, including Patriot Express loans and other SBA loans, programs and services. David Lipscomb University Learn about the Yellow Ribbon Program offers qualified vets of post-9/11 to attend the university tuition-free. Vanderbilt University Provide information about the various educational programs and how VA education benefits can be applied at Vanderbilt University. MTSU Military Center MTSU's military center assists military personnel, veterans, and their families as they pursue a college education and transition to successful careers. Austin Peay State University Austin Peay State University understands the challenges that the military and veteran community faces. If you're stationed at Fort Campbell or retired in the Middle Tennessee area, you also will be able to take advantage of the many programs offered on-campus or on-line. The university also has Veterans Affairs office that can help you with your veterans needs. Operation Stand Down OSDN offers services to veterans such as employment assistance, training, housing, benefits counseling, and referrals. State of TN Military Order of the Purple Heart The Military Order of the Purple Heart is a fraternal organization of Combat Wounded Veterans of all branches of the American Armed Forces. They provide assistance to all veterans in applying for Veteran's Administration benefits, and give support to Fisher House, Operation Stand Down, and to any Veteran in need. AMVETS VA Claims assistance to veterans and their dependents. Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) A VFW service officer will be able to assist veterans with new VA claims. The VFW is a nationally chartered nonprofit vets service organization whose purpose is to ensure that veterans are respected for their service, always receive their entitlements, and are recognized for the sacrifices they and their loved ones have made on behalf of this great nation. They have been instrumental in establishing the Vets Administration and more recently fought hard to get the GI Bill of the 21st Century passed. Not Alone Online counseling for combat stress and PTSD and help to those in need of it, free of charge and confidentially. HUD Counselors Financial and housing counseling. Dominion Financial Management, Inc. Affordable Housing Resources TN State Veterans Homes Learn about nursing care facilities for TN Veterans who have honorably served our contry and are now in need of short term rehabilitation or long term care. TN National Guard Transition Assistance The one-man office is responsible for briefing all 15,000 soldiers and airmen when they return from overseas regarding their state and federal VA benefits.Will help answer questions about Vets health benefits, disability and compensation, and burial benefits. Women Veterans of America Women Veterans of America is a service organization that advocates for all women veterans to ensure that they receive the same level of healthcare and benefits as our male veterans. We also serve as an outreach and education group to assist with the transition from military culture to civilian communities. Project Healing Waters Project Healing Waters serves in the physical and emotional rehabilitation of disabled active military service personnel and veterans through the art of fly fishing. Programs are now up and running in all TN VA major medical facilities as well as the WTU at Ft. Campbell. Tennessee Troops to Teachers Information on the opportunities for transitioning military personnel and veterans as they seek a second career in education. National College of Business and Technology Regional Director of Military Affairs for National College of Business and Technology will be available to discuss military/veteran educational grants and other educational benefits. Daymar Institute Representatives from the Nashville and Clarksville offices will provide information about educational opportunities we offer at our college campuses. National Alliance on Mental Illness NAMI Tennessee offers peer counseling services to veterans and their family members. On the day of the event we will be offering information on support groups and on our stigma-busting program for veterans with PTSD called In Our Own Voice. Nashville Public Library - Veterans History Project Iraq/Afghanistan and Persian Gulf veterans from Davidson County can find out how to particpate in the Veterans History Project at the Nashville Public Library. Your story is important. APSU - Veterans Upward Bound Free educational services to qualified veterans who are planning to enroll in college or technical school or take the GED Exam. TRICARE/Humana Military Healthcare Services Assist veterans with any TRICARE questions and concerns: Prima, Standard, Tricare for Life, Claims, Enrollment. Will have brochure of all Tricare benefits.
12.19.2013	WASHINGTON—As federal agencies consider new rules for air travel, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper is taking steps to maintain the ban on in-flight cell phone calls. Cooper believes flight experience, passenger safety and general courtesy would be threatened if such calls were allowed in aircraft cabins across America. "It's one thing to blast music with headphones or earbuds; it's another to talk your head off in a crowded space," Cooper said. "There's already limited peace and quiet on airplanes. Let's keep what we have." Cooper is cosponsoring U.S. Rep. Bill Shuster's bill to ban in-flight cell phone calls. He also has joined with his colleagues in sending letters to the Federal Communications Commission and the Federal Aviation Administration opposing the proposed change. "Simply put," Cooper and 13 other lawmakers wrote the FAA, "the flying experience in the United States would be forever changed for the worse if voice calls are allowed on flights." Cooper supports the safe use of wireless data for non-voice services such as text messaging, email and Internet browsing.
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON—U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) today supported a House bill that will fund the government for the next two fiscal years, but stood firm in demanding a comprehensive budget solution for America's long-term debt and deficit problems. "This is a puny deal but it's better than no deal at all," Cooper said. "It shows that Congress can keep government open, but not fix our fundamental budget problems. I will keep working harder than ever on major reforms of Congress and American government." Earlier this week, Cooper sent a letter to Sen. Patty Murray and Rep. Paul Ryan, budget committee chairmen for their respective chambers. Joining leadership of the Blue Dog Coalition and three moderate Republicans, Cooper called for a deal "that solves our fiscal problems." Last year, Cooper and former Rep. Steve LaTourette (R-Ohio) offered the only bipartisan budget on the House floor. It was based on principles outlined by the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, co-chaired by former Sen. Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles. The Cooper-LaTourette budget would trim the deficit by more than $4 trillion over the next 10 years, and replace the infamous, across-the-board sequestration cuts with a comprehensive, balanced plan for deficit reduction. It would put America's debt-to-GDP ratio on a downward trajectory, decreasing to 67.9 percent in 2022. The effort was supported by major budget and fiscal watchdog groups. It was endorsed by newspapers across the country and hailed as "brave" by the USA Today.
12.10.2013	WASHINGTON—U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) this week urged Congressional negotiators to put aside their differences and find agreement in crafting a budget. Joining leadership of the Blue Dog Coalition and three moderate Republicans, Cooper sent a letter to Sen. Patty Murray and Rep. Paul Ryan, budget committee chairmen for their respective chambers. By Jan. 15, Congress must pass a bill that would fund federal agencies for the rest of fiscal year 2014, which began Oct. 1. "It is our duty to put the needs of our country ahead of any political party," the letter states. "We stand ready to work with you on a bipartisan solution that solves our nation's fiscal problems." The group sent the letter just days before lawmakers are scheduled to leave town and begin a lengthy holiday break. Cooper also recently cosponsored "No Budget, No Vacation," which would stop Congress from adjourning for the holidays unless the House approves a budget plan. "Deadlines work," Cooper said. "Congress should, too." No Budget, No Vacation is just the latest in a series of reform efforts Cooper has supported in the House. Those include his successful No Budget, No Pay proposal, which became law earlier this year, albeit in a weaker form than the original bill. Cooper also supports the Stop Pay for Members Act, which would prevent Members of Congress from getting paid if lawmakers default on the nation's debt.
12.09.2013	WASHINGTON—U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) made the following statement on the passing of former South African President Nelson Mandela. "Nelson Mandela was one of the towering giants of the 20th century. He leaves a legacy of racial healing and reconciliation."
12.05.2013	WASHINGTON—The Science Coalition recognized U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper with its Champion of Science Award this week, honoring the congressman's enduring commitment to scientific research that benefits Tennessee and the nation as a whole. "I'm honored to be recognized as a champion of science," Cooper said. "From cancer treatments to environmental breakthroughs, scientific research sparks the American imagination and makes miracles happen." The Science Coalition praised Cooper's Golden Goose Award as an example of the lawmaker's advocacy. Launched in 2012, the award demonstrates the human and economic benefits of federally funded research by highlighting examples of seemingly obscure or unusual studies that have led to major breakthroughs and significant impacts on society. "The recognition of Congressman Cooper's commitment to science is long overdue," Science Coalition President Tim Leshan said. "Congressman Cooper is passionate about science and is keenly aware of its importance to society and the economy. He has made it one of his priorities to share this passion and encourage his Congressional colleagues to appreciate the value scientific research no matter how seemingly obscure it might seem to the layperson." Cooper supports strong funding for key federal agencies including the National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation, National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the Department of Energy. According to the Science Coalition, the Champion of Science Award honors members of Congress whose actions match their belief that scientific research is essential to America's ability to tackle issues in health, security, energy and the environment. Cooper joins a distinguished group of more than 60 current and former members of Congress who have received the award since 1999.
11.22.2013	Stuck in the Middle: U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper, punching bag of hardcore liberals, puts up his dukes in a wide-ranging Scene interview By Steve Cavendish and Steven Hale (Reprinted from the Nashville Scene) We've lost track of how many times we've heard it from Democrats over the years: Jim Cooper's a great guy and really smart and ... he's a Republican, right? Actually, he's not. If you comb through his voting record, you find that he's a solid Democrat who tends to differ with his party mostly on fiscal issues. And while the Scene, with tongue planted firmly in cheek, named him Nashville's best conservative in our Best of Nashville issue this year, you'll find him hanging out somewhere in the middle of the political spectrum. It's that middle ground that can drive some Democrats nuts. He voted against aid for Hurricane Sandy victims. He voted against a bill that would have restricted the NSA's activities. He's a critic of President Obama's health care plan. In a largely Democratic town, some of those votes have riled his base of support. So we asked the congressman to talk about those votes and more. Be warned: The picture of Washington he painted when he sat down recently with Scene staffers Steve Cavendish and Steven Hale ain't pretty. Click here to read the full interview.
11.21.2013	WASHINGTON—U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) has cosponsored a bill that will curb federal payments to deceased individuals. As reported in The Washington Post, the nation's capital is "bedeviled by ... the living dead." The newspaper said that over the last few years, the government has paid $133 million to Social Security beneficiaries who were deceased and $400 million to federal retirees who had died. Cooper said the commonsense bill saves the government money by improving information collection and curbing fraud. "It's embarrassing in the Internet age that government doesn't know which of its citizens has died," Cooper said. "Information should be almost instantaneous so that taxpayers are protected." Improving federal databases of deceased beneficiaries has the potential to save the government hundreds of millions of dollars. The Improper Payments Agency Cooperation Enhancement (IPACE) Act includes more than a dozen cosponsors from both parties. It incorporates several steps to stop improper payments: Improves the government's recordkeeping; Requires use of death data to curb improper payments; Coordinates federal agencies' access to data; and Ensures that agencies managing retirement programs share best practices. To read the bill, click here.
10.24.2013	WASHINGTON—U.S. Reps. Jim Cooper (TN-5) and Aaron Schock (IL-18) recently introduced the Intergenerational Financial Obligations Reform (INFORM) Act, a bipartisan bill that would require the government to show the long-term consequences of its tax, spending and economic policies. On Tuesday, more than 1,000 economists – including 15 Nobel laureates – endorsed the INFORM Act in a full page ad in the New York Times, which touted Cooper's role. The praise came as The Can Kicks Back, a millennial-led campaign devoted to reducing the national debt, toured the country promoting the bill. The tour included an Oct. 14 stop at Vanderbilt University. "Today's estimated costs are tomorrow's record deficits," Cooper said. "The INFORM Act gives Congress a reality check on the generational costs of important legislation." The INFORM Act would require the Congressional Budget Office, Government Accountability Office and Office of Management and Budget to weave fiscal gap and generational accounting into the annual budgeting process. These steps would allow Americans to assess the sustainability of fiscal policy and quantify the obligations facing their children and grandchildren. The fiscal gap refers to the present value difference between total future projected government spending and revenue, plus our current debt. Generational accounting calculates the net taxes of each living generation and future generations. Both accounting methods will provide better transparency and show young people how fiscal decisions will impact their pocketbooks over time. The INFORM Act also would apply to any proposed bill that would impact revenues or spending by greater than 0.5 percent of gross domestic product. To read the bill, click here.
10.18.2013	NASHVILLE – On Saturday, Oct. 19, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) will host an information session for middle and high school students interested in America's service academies. Cooper's annual Academy Day presentation is designed to connect prospective students and their families with educational opportunities available at the service academies. Representatives from the following will be in attendance: • U.S. Military Academy • U.S. Naval Academy • U.S. Air Force Academy • U.S. Coast Guard Academy • U.S. Merchant Marine Academy • U.S. State Department • National Guard • ROTC The service academies offer full scholarships, leadership training, internship opportunities and the chance to travel the world. Registration begins at 9:30 a.m. at the Nashville Public Library at 615 Church Street. The program will begin at 10 a.m. Academy Day is open to 8th-12th grade students in the 5th District, which includes Cheatham, Davidson and Dickson counties. Cooper will be available for media interviews. For more information, visit Cooper's website or call Kathy Buggs at (615) 736-5295.
10.16.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today joined a bipartisan group, led by Reps. Charlie Dent (PA-15) and Ron Kind (WI-03), in issuing the following statement in response to the deal to reopen the government and avoid a default on the nation's debts: "On day one of the government shutdown, we joined together not as Democrats, not as Republicans, but as Americans deeply committed to resolving this impasse and avoiding a self-inflicted economic wound that would devastate families across the country. As it became clear that partisanship – and not problem solving – would dominate the discussion in Washington, we were joined by pragmatic, like-minded leaders on both sides of the aisle. In informal talks, we were able to put our differences aside and develop a potential solution. We applaud our Senate colleagues for working together to come up with a solution. Now it is time for Congress to act to get the government open and avoid further roiling the markets. We look forward to continuing our bipartisan discussions with the goal of putting forth a long-term deficit reduction agreement to get our fiscal house in order and finding other areas of cooperation." Cooper endorsed the bipartisan proposal outlined by the working group on Thursday, October 3. Since that announcement, the working group has expanded and continued to work to break the impasse. Members of the working group endorsing the above statement include: House Republicans: Rep. Lou Barletta Rep. Mike Coffman Rep. Charlie Dent Rep. Mike Fitzpatrick Rep. Jim Gerlach Rep. Chris Gibson Rep. Michael Grimm Rep. Richard Hanna Rep. David Joyce Rep. Pete King Rep. Leonard Lance Rep. Frank LoBiondo Rep. Pat Meehan Rep. Jon Runyan Rep. Glenn "GT" Thompson Rep. Don Young House Democrats: Rep. Ron Barber Rep. John Barrow Rep. Ami Bera Rep. John Carney Rep. Gerry Connolly Rep. Jim Cooper Rep. John Delaney Rep. Tulsi Gabbard Rep. Janice Hahn Rep. Jim Himes Rep. Ron Kind Rep. Rick Larsen Rep. Dan Lipinski Rep. Dan Maffei Rep. Jim Matheson Rep. Mike McIntyre Rep. Jim Moran Rep. Bill Owens Rep. Scott Peters Rep. Jared Polis Rep. Mike Quigley Rep. Brad Schneider Rep. Kurt Schrader Rep. Kyrsten Sinema
10.09.2013	WASHINGTON— Co-chairs of the fiscally conservative, Democratic Blue Dog Coalition—Reps. Jim Cooper (TN-05), Kurt Schrader (OR-05), John Barrow (GA-12) and Jim Matheson (UT-04)—today sent a letter to House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) reaffirming the Coalition's commitment to tackling our nation's long-term debt and deficit problems and offering support for a comprehensive budget solution. "Congress cannot continue to approach long-term deficit reduction in piecemeal fashion," the letter read. "We simply must stop living from crisis to crisis. It is no way for a superpower to govern and continues to cause permanent economic damage to our country. "Blue Dogs are committed to working with our leaders to end the government shutdown and prevent defaulting on our nation's debt for the first time in history. "It's time for governing, not gridlock. Let's seize this opportunity to break this unhealthy cycle." The full text of the letter may be found here. ###
10.07.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Jim Cooper (TN-05) and Ron Kind (WI-03) today sent a letter to House Speaker John Boehner pledging their support for a "clean" continuing resolution (CR). In the letter, Cooper and Kind assert that there is "more than enough bipartisan support in the House to pass a clean CR and reopen the government." One hundred ninety-seven Democrats have committed to supporting a CR, free of conditions, in order to get the federal government up-and-running again following a weeklong shutdown. "But we also are willing to work together to reopen the government, avoid a default of our nation's debt obligations and fully implement the Affordable Care Act. In fact, we have been talking with our colleagues about how to end the current impasse," wrote Cooper and Kind. The full text of the letter may be found here. Cooper is a member of the Blue Dog Coalition and New Democrat Coalition. Kind is the Chair of the New Democrat Coalition
10.03.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper today joined a group of moderate Democrats and Republicans in outlining a proposal to reopen government, returning 800,000 federal employees to work. "In a weak economy, even a few days of government shutdown weaken America," Cooper said. "Congress needs to fund government now and stop partisan bickering." Frustrated by congressional leadership's inability to keep government open, or even to engage in serious talks with the other political party, the bipartisan coalition led by Democratic Rep. Ron Kind (WI) and Republican Charlie Dent (PA) agreed to a proposal that would fund government for at least six months at current levels, and modify one small part of the Affordable Care Act. Discretionary spending would be at $986 billion until March 31, 2014, and the medical device tax of 2.3% would be repealed and replaced by other revenues. "Tennesseans deserve better than the sort of congressional misbehavior they have been getting," Cooper said. "Democrats and Republicans should work together for the good of the country. This proposal is a good start." Cooper is a member of the Blue Dog Coalition and New Democrat Coalition.
10.02.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today issued the following statement about the government shutdown: "Members of Congress should be punished for the shutdown of government. Therefore I am foregoing my own salary for the duration of the shutdown, and I will be making a contribution to Second Harvest Food Bank of Middle Tennessee for that amount. "I have been working hard to avoid shutdown, and have been willing to compromise in order to keep government open. Unfortunately, too many of my colleagues have been unwilling to keep government operating. For our collective failure, we should all be punished. "In addition, because my congressional staff members cannot be expected to work for free, I will begin furloughing most of my staff, and ask that the public be patient with those who will remain on duty. "I am the author of No Budget, No Pay and Stop Pay for Members but these bills do not go far enough to punish Congress for poor performance. I am working to bring an end to this crisis, and on even tougher legislation to punish Congress for poor performance."
10.01.2013	How Will a Shutdown Affect You? A government shutdown for many federal agencies began Oct. 1. You may wonder what this means for you. Please see below for information released by specific agencies that may affect you. Some government agencies will remain open and functional to protect life and property. These include the armed forces, border patrol agents, air traffic controllers and federal workers who provide medical care on the job. The Postal Service, which is self-funded, will also continue to operate. Regardless of what happens in Washington, I am working hard to make sure that everyone in our area gets the service they need. My Nashville and Washington offices will remain open to continue assisting you. If you have any questions, please contact my office. FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Q: What happens when the federal government shuts down? A: About 800,000 federal workers are furloughed, and more than a million others will be asked to work without a guarantee of pay. The National Institutes of Health will stop action on grant applications. The NIH Clinical Center will not admit new patients or initiate new clinical trials. The Environmental Protection Agency will almost entirely shut down. Numerous services for veterans will be delayed or disrupted. Social Security checks will be mailed to current enrollees, but some services won't be offered. America's national parks are closed. All Smithsonian institutions, museums and zoos are closed. Public tours of the U.S. Capitol are suspended. Mail Q: Will mail continue to be delivered? A: Yes. The Postal Service is not affected by a government shutdown. Social Security Q: I'm enrolled in Social Security. Will I get my check? A: Yes. Social Security and Supplemental Security Income payments to beneficiaries will continue with no change in payment dates. However, during a government shutdown, the Social Security Administration will not be able to issue new or replacement Social Security cards, replace your Medicare card, or issue a proof of income letter Medicare Q: Does Medicare still work? A: Benefits for Medicare are exempt from the shutdown, so current participants shouldn't notice an interruption. Veterans Q: Will VA hospitals be open? A: Yes. Congress Q: Will Congress get paid? A: Yes, the Constitution requires it. But Jim has introduced two bills that would stop Members of Congress from being paid if Congress doesn't pass a budget or America defaults on its bills. Q: Does Congress shut down? A: No, Congress is in session. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION & RESOURCES How are Government Agencies Affected During a Shutdown? To view a link to all government agency contingency plans, click here. To view the Washington Post's breakdown by agency, click here.
08.27.2013	Browse our infographics below, and let us know if you have an idea for a new #infographic! Sequestration: What programs are affected? - Over $1 trillion in cuts over 10 years. - A large majority of government spending is completely exempt. Federal Spending: 1970 vs 2013 - What programs consume the most federal dollars? - How has spending changed over time? The Affordable Care Act and Tennessee - How has ACA impacted Tennesseans? - Do you qualify for any of the changes from ACA? Cash vs. Accrual Accounting: What's the difference in measuring our nation's deficit? - No, it's not "cruel" accounting. It's real accounting that measures our deficit based on all of the government's liabilities. - Where can I find the "real" numbers? The Financial Report of the United States is printed annually.
08.16.2013	Voting Record on Park Issues Earns National Friends AwardWASHINGTON—Congressman Jim Cooper has been honored with the Friend of the National Parks Award from the nonpartisan National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA) for his contribution to protecting and enhancing America’s national parks. The award was presented to 157 representatives currently serving in the 113th Congress for their support of legislation during the 112th Congress that upheld the standards and integrity of the National Park System.“I’m honored to be recognized for conservation. It’s a responsibility we owe our children, grandchildren and planet,” Congressman Cooper said. “From Yellowstone to the Great Smoky Mountains, America’s beautiful parks showcase the best of our national landscape.”NPCA’s “Friend of the National Parks Award” was established in 1999 to track and publicize congressional members’ votes on significant park issues. This year, NPCA compiled votes for seven national park-related bills in the House. To receive the award, representatives had to vote correctly at least four out of seven times.“We are grateful that our members of Congress have demonstrated a solid commitment to preserving America’s national parks,” said NPCA Acting President Theresa Pierno.Recipients of the award receive a framed reproduction of an art-deco color poster of Sequoia National Park in the style of those produced in the 1930s for the National Park Service by the Federal Art Project of the Works Progress Administration.To view a complete list of the award recipients and a list of the national parks-related bills, visit: https://www.npca.org/assets/pdf/Vote_Descriptions_and_List_of_Winners_112.pdf.
08.15.2013	Use these sources compiled by the Congressional Research Service to track federal funding to states, counties, congressional districts and other recipients. Federal Spending Data: How Do I Find Info? USAspending.gov provides retrospective data from FY2000 to today.-The majority of federal funding is awarded to states, which then "subaward" or "subcontract" to eligible recipients. This website includes subaward data from December 2010 to the current fiscal year. -If you want to compare data by Congressional district, remember that redistricting changed the composition of districts for the 113th Congress. Use caution when comparing old vs. new district data. Search by zip code or county for the most accurate comparison. Census Bureau Reports-Federal Aid to States (FAS) Lists federal government expenditures to state and local governments from FY1998 to FY2010.* - Consolidated Federal Funds Report (CFFR) Summarizes the geographic distribution of federal monies to states and counties, whether grants, contracts, or appropriations. CFFR includes payments both to state and local governments and to nongovernmental recipients.**Due to FY2012 budget cuts, FAS and CFFR reports and data for FY2010, issued in September 2011, are the last.-Federal Audit Clearinghouse: Annual reports from all states, local governments, and nonprofits (including universities) that spend $500,000 or more in federal grants during their fiscal year. Federal Procurement Data System (FPDS)-Statistics on federal contracting. Includes data on contracts over $25,000 and summary data of procurements less than $25,000.- Provides selected searching capabilities by state (includes aggregate county statistics), contractor name, and product/service category. How Are Most Federal Funds Awarded and Spent? The majority of federal funding is awarded to states, which then "subaward" or "subcontract" to eligible recipients. Federal grant or procurement awards may have a "where awarded/where spent" component that is not always fully identified in grant or procurement records.- For example, a grant award may "pass through" different hands (in different congressional districts) before it reaches the final beneficiary of the program. Federal grant monies may first go to the state, then may be distributed to a city or county government, which then may pass the money to an organization that spends the money. Federal Spending: A changing landscape Check out Cooper's infographic below to see how federal spending has changed since 1970.
08.06.2013	OverviewNews & UpdatesLinks & Additional Resources OverviewTennessee has a strong history of promoting civil rights and equality for all Americans. In 1920, the state of Tennessee cast the deciding vote for women’s suffrage in Nashville. Forty years later, Tennesseans helped to advance the Civil Rights movement. Martin Luther King, Jr. said he came to Nashville “not to bring inspiration, but to gain inspiration from the great movement that has taken place in this community.’’If you have the chance, be sure to visit the Civil Rights Collection at the Nashville Public Library. It’s a remarkable collection of Nashville’s history during the Civil Rights movement, and I hope you’ll also stop by my office while you’re here. Our nation would be a better place if we remember both how far we’ve come, and how much work we have yet to accomplish. Our laws today do not overlook all of our differences. That’s why I support legislation and ideas in Congress that strengthen our civil rights and promote equality for all Americans.Equality Under the Law America has been slow at times to expand protections for everyone. But I believe that regardless of race, gender, ethnicity, national origin, religion, age, disability, and sexual orientation, everyone deserves equal protection from the government. I’m pleased with the Supreme Court’s ruling on the Defense of Marriage Act. Equality under the law should apply to all Americans, and now we're one step closer towards fulfilling this promise. I’ve also co-sponsored the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act and the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA). I supported the repeal the military’s “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy in 2010 which is now the law of the land.Voting RightsAfter the first ten amendments to the Constitution, the Bill of Rights, seven of the seventeen remaining amendments are related to expanding voting rights. No other part of the original Constitution was so broken or so hard to fix. And more repairs are still needed because citizens still do not have an explicit right to vote. I recently offered a proposal to give Americans, for the first time in our history, a Constitutional right to vote. My text for the 28th Amendment could not be simpler. The right of adult citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or any State. This proposed amendment bans voter suppression; any future restriction on voting would have to survive “strict scrutiny” by the judiciary. For more about this proposal, click here. ImmigrationAmerica is a nation of immigrants, and I support comprehensive immigration reform. We can find the right balance to fix our broken system and protect our nation. The creation of an earned path to citizenship is good for America, and I’m encouraged by the significant progress in the Senate of a comprehensive bill. In 2010, I voted for the DREAM Act which also a part of the Senate proposal, because I believe that those young people who are willing to serve in our military and get an education should be encouraged to pursue the American dream of citizenship. They came to America through no fault of their own; many are now top students, hard workers and brave soldiers. America needs their talent.Although the path forward in the House in unclear, comprehensive reform is supported by most Americans and a unique coalition of faith, business and education leaders including the Evangelical Immigration Table and the Tennessee Chamber of Commerce.News & UpdatesAugust 2, 2013 • Cooper, New Dems Request Vote on Comprehensive Immigration Reform June 20, 2013 • Cooper Statement on DOMA and Prop 8 RulingsJune 10, 2013 • Cooper and New Dems call for High-Skilled Visa Reform in House Immigration BillMay 28, 2013 • Cooper Calls For Fairness For Pregnant Workers, Co-Sponsors H.R. 1975May 01, 2013 • Cooper Proposes New Constitutional AmendmentApril 09, 2013 • Equal Pay DayFebruary 28, 2013 • Cooper Supports Bipartisan VAWA ReauthorizationJanuary 24, 2013 • Cooper Statement on Lifting of Military Ban on Women in CombatSeptember 17, 2010 • Cooper Hosts Reception Honoring 90th Anniversary of 19th AmendmentLinks & Additional Resources
08.05.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) announced three new additions to his Washington office. Chris Carroll, a Tennessee native and most recently the Washington correspondent for the Chattanooga Times Free Press, will join as Cooper's new press secretary on August 5. At the Times Free Press, Carroll reopened the Capital Hill bureau and won several awards for his reporting. He is a graduate of East Tennessee State University's Honors Program. Carroll replaces Katie Hill, who has taken a job as press secretary for former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords' organization, Americans for Responsible Solutions. Cooper also announced the addition of a new staff assistant, Vic Goetz, a Nashville native and former intern, who graduated from Bucknell earlier this year. Goetz replaces another Nashville native, Kathleen Ambrose, who joined the staff of Rep. Mike McIntyre (NC-7) this spring. Cooper is also pleased to welcome a new health care legislative fellow, Paul Shorkey. Shorkey is a Rhodes Scholar and current candidate for M.Sci. in Global Health Science at the University of Oxford with a focus on U.S. health policy and health systems. He also holds a M.Sc. in Neuroscience from the University of Oxford and is a graduate with highest honors from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Shorkey will work with Cooper on health care issues until the end of the year. Shorkey succeeds Ruth McDonald, Cooper's senior legislative aide, who will begin graduate school this fall.
08.02.2013	WASHINGTON: U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper and 38 members of the New Democrat Coaltion ask House Speaker John Boehner to allow a vote on a comprehensive immigration reform bill that includes a pathway to citizenship. Read the letter here. From the Huffington Post: New Democrat Coalition Issues Ultimatum On Immigration Reform August 2, 2013 WASHINGTON -- Moderate Democrats working to gather support from Republicans for comprehensive immigration reform sent an ultimatum Friday to Speaker John Boehner: introduce a bill by Sept. 30 or they'll introduce their own. "[W]e are frustrated that there was not a bipartisan immigration reform bill introduced prior to the August recess," reads the letter from 39 members of the New Democrat Coalition, a 53-member group, including co-chairmen Reps. Joaquín Castro (D-Texas) and Jared Polis (D-Colo.). "Therefore, we write to inform you that if a bipartisan immigration reform package is not introduced in the House of Representatives -- one that includes a pathway to citizenship, helps grow American jobs, and fixes our immigration system once and for all -- by September 30th, we as New Democrats will consider introducing a comprehensive immigration reform bill," the letter continues. Read the letter here. Boehner, an Ohio Republican, has said he will not bring up any immigration bill -- particularly the one that passed the Senate in June -- unless a majority of House Republicans support it. Democrats and pro-reform activists think they could get the 218 votes needed for passage of comprehensive immigration reform, if Boehner would allow for a vote, by keeping most Democrats and winning over some Republicans. Members of Congress leave town Friday for the August recess, a month-long break during which they will hear from constituents. Meanwhile, the clock is ticking closer to primaries and the 2014 election year. Democrats have said immigration reform should include a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants, but many Republicans have said it's a no-go. Instead, House Republicans are pursuing a number of smaller bills, such as border security legislation. Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.) and Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) are working on a bill to legalize undocumented young people who came to the U.S. as children, but there aren't GOP-led efforts to deal with their parents. A seven-member bipartisan group in the House is working on comprehensive legislation with a path to citizenship, though it has not yet come to a final agreement on legislative language. The New Democrat Coalition letter says Boehner "can rely on" its members for support if he brings up a bill with a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants. "We have the support of the American people," it concludes. "We hope we can count on your support."
08.01.2013	Bill gives the Department of Defense flexibility to manage cuts from sequestration WASHINGTON—U.S. Reps. Jim Cooper (TN-5) and Paul Ryan (WI-1) introduced H.R. 2883, a bipartisan bill to give the Department of Defense (DOD) discretion when applying cuts from sequestration. The Defense Flexibility Act will allow DOD to manage these cuts responsibly and lessen the impact on national security. Under sequestration, DOD faces over $450 billion in cuts over 10 years. Currently, DOD must apply the cuts evenly to most programs, projects, and activities. As a result, DOD projects a decrease in the overall size of the armed forces; significant cuts to training, readiness, and modernization; and continued furloughs for over 650,000 civilian employees. "It's one thing for the Pentagon to go on a diet," said Cooper. "It's another for the Pentagon to wear a straitjacket while dieting. This bill removes the straitjacket so that the Pentagon can better defend itself and defend America." "We should replace these arbitrary cuts with better reforms," Ryan said. "But if the sequester remains the law of the land, then we need to give DOD the flexibility to manage these cuts in a responsible way. Our troops shouldn't pay the price for Washington's failure to budget responsibly." Yesterday, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel released his Defense Strategic Choices and Management Review, which illustrated the impact for the remaining eight years of sequestration. Cooper is the ranking member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, and Ryan is the chairman of the House Budget Committee. Click here for the full text of the bill. Click here for a one-page summary.
07.30.2013	NASHVILLE - Congressman Jim Cooper's website, WWW.COOPER.HOUSE.GOV, is under construction, and he is asking for your help. Beginning in August, the website will undergo a series of changes to the design and content. Cooper is seeking input from residents of Cheatham, Davidson and Dickson Counties. The final site will be unveiled later this fall. Cooper said: "This website belongs to the people of Middle Tennessee; it only exists to serve their needs. There's always room for improvement, and I look forward to hearing creative ideas from our talented community." During the previous session of Congress, Cooper's website was one of only fourteen House websites to receive a "Gold Mouse Award" from the Congressional Management Foundation.Additional guidelines for submission are listed below.Who Can Enter? The challenge is open to current residents of Tennessee's Fifth District (Cheatham, Davidson and Dickson counties) only.Submit Your Favorite Pictures! Whether it's a stroll at one of our many beautiful parks or your favorite skyline, send us your favorite pictures from Cheatham, Davidson and Dickson Counties. The minimum resolution required for pictures is 1024x768. The photography must be your own. By submitting a photo, you verify the material is your property and you are willing for it to be displayed on Congressman Cooper's website. Although we love pictures of family and friends, we can only use background and landscape pictures on the website. Please no political pictures.Do you have other suggestions? What else would you like to see? Send us your ideas, and we'll do what we can to incorporate them into the new content.How do I enter a submission? Please e-mail your pictures and suggestions along with your contact information to repjimcoopertn@gmail.com.But HURRY! The deadline for submissions is August 15.
07.18.2013	Group Unveils a Comprehensive Package of Nine BillsWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-5) joined over seventy colleagues and the No Labels organization to announce a major reform effort. The legislative package, Make Government Work!, includes nine bills designed to make government more efficient, effective and less wasteful. Cooper said:“Congress is broken. But it’s not beyond repair. We need real problem solving in government so that America can live up to its potential. This reform package is no cure-all, but it’s a good start.”All nine bills have been introduced in the House and Senate. Cooper’s “No Budget, No Pay” bill is included in the package. He is a co-sponsor of the other eight bills. A full list can be found here.No Labels is a group of Republicans, Democrats and Independents dedicated to promoting a new politics of problem solving in America. Cooper, a longtime reform advocate, is a founding member of the organization. In January, No Labels launched a Congressional Problem Solvers group of 24 that has now grown to 81 members.Click here for more information about No Labels and a complete list of Problem Solvers.
07.16.2013	FISA Court Accountability Act has Bipartisan Support WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) announced his support of the FISA Court Accountability Act to amend the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978. The bill would divide FISA Court appointments between the Chief Justice and the bipartisan leadership in Congress. It also would provide better oversight and transparency to the appeals process and require that all decisions be disclosed to Congress. "We need to keep our country safe, but our privacy also has to be protected," said Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05). "It's a difficult balance, and this bill is important and necessary to strengthen government accountability." Congress established the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court in 1978 as a special court to review applications for warrants related to national security investigations. The Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court is responsible for all appointments to the FISA Court. All 11 judges currently serving on the court were appointed by Chief Justice John Roberts.
07.15.2013	Bill would tie Congressional pay to sequestration-related furloughsWASHINGTON, D.C – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) has joined as an original co-sponsor to legislation that would apply furlough cuts from sequestration to Congressional salaries. Cooper joined with a bipartisan group led by Rep. Mike Coffman (CO-06) to introduce the Sequestration Tied to Member Pay (STOMP) Act of 2013. Cooper said:“It’s irresponsible to allow sequestration to continue. When thousands of government workers lose their pay, Congress should too. We’re all in this together.”With more than two million federal employees across the nation including nearly 30,000 in Tennessee, many furloughs have already begun. Over 650,000 civilian employees at the Department of Defense are scheduled to begin furloughs this week. These drastic cuts will worsen as sequestration is implemented over the next nine years. The STOMP Act requires the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to apply salary reductions from furloughs to Congressional salary. The 27thAmendment to the U.S. Constitution prohibits a law changing the compensation for Members of Congress from taking effect u ntil after the next election. As a result, the STOMP Act would take effect at the beginning of the 114th Congress to ensure an intervening election has taken place.Cooper is a longtime advocate of cutting Members’ pay due to Congressional inaction. The main principles behind his “No, Budget, No Pay” bill were adopted by House leadership earlier this year. He also introduced “Stop Member Pay” to prevent Congress from getting paid if the nation defaulted on its bills.Read the full bill here.
07.10.2013	WASHINGTON -- Congressman Jim Cooper announced his support as an original co-sponsor to H.R. 2510, the "Helping Veterans Exposed to Toxic Chemicals Act" to address the health crisis among veterans who were exposed during their service overseas. The bill would direct the Department of Defense and the Veterans Administration to designate three Centers of Excellence to study and treat the effects of burn pits and other environmental exposures on veterans. Cooper issued the following statement: "These centers are desperately needed for our military heroes who have been exposed to toxic fumes during their service. It's our duty to understand their health conditions, provide the best treatment and implement preventive measures for the future." While the specific number of veterans with affiliated illnesses is unknown, some estimates range as high as tens of thousands. The Centers would be established at existing facilities with expertise of respiratory issues associated with military service. A competitive process would be used to determine the designations, and Vanderbilt University would be a highly-qualified applicant based on its current program. Cooper joins with colleagues and a broad coalition to support this bill including leading veteran advocacy groups, physicians and family members of veterans. H.R. 2510 has been endorsed by IAVA (Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America), The Sergeant Sullivan Center, and BurnPits360. To read the full text of the bill, click here.
07.01.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Representatives Jim Cooper (TN-5th), Carolyn Maloney (NY-12th), Peter Roskam (IL-6th), and Charlie Dent (PA-15th) announced the formation of a bipartisan Congressional Member Organization that will focus on addressing a growing epidemic of skin cancer among Americans. The caucus was established through a collaborative effort led by Representative Cooper and the American College of Mohs Surgery (ACMS), with support from the American Academy of Dermatology Association (AADA). "Members of Congress, doctors and skin cancer advocates must work together to halt the significant increase in skin cancer cases," said Rep. Cooper. "I'm looking forward to collaborating with colleagues on both sides of the aisle so that Americans have the information they need to prevent, detect and treat skin cancers." The Congressional Skin Cancer Caucus will serve as a forum and resource for Members of Congress working to address the growing skin cancer epidemic. The group will support legislative activities and promote public policies that raise awareness about skin cancer, foster effective skin cancer prevention outreach and education, increase screening and early detection of skin cancer, and improve access to skin cancer care and treatment. "Mohs surgeons are excited to see the skin cancer epidemic taking a more prominent place in the eyes of our federal policymakers," said Brent Moody, MD, FAAD, chairman of the ACMS Public Policy Committee. "The Mohs College, in partnership with the AADA and other advocates, including federal agencies, will work with the caucus to identify opportunities to further the mission of this new organization." "As dermatologists on the front lines fighting skin cancer — diagnosing and treating more than two million cases each year — we are delighted to see this new caucus come to fruition," said Dirk M. Elston, MD, FAAD, president of the American Academy of Dermatology Association. "This bipartisan group has the potential to not only save lives but decrease skin cancer-related health care costs in the future, and we are thrilled to be a part of it." According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), skin cancer is the most common form of cancer in the United States. In fact, Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) data on skin cancers from the National Cancer Institute (NCI) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) show that the incidence of skin cancer increases every year and the lifetime risk of developing the most deadly skin cancer, melanoma, is 1 in 50.
06.20.2013	WASHINGTON – Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) praised today’s Supreme Court rulings on DOMA and Prop 8 and issued the following statement:"I'm pleased with today's Supreme Court rulings on DOMA and Prop 8. Equality under the law should apply to all Americans, and now we're one step closer towards fulfilling this promise."
06.19.2013	WASHINGTON – Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) praised today’s nuclear weapons announcement by the President and issued the following statement:“The President’s proposal is to get Russia to reduce its nuclear weapons from 1,550 to 1,000 in a verifiable way. That is in America’s interest, and in the interest of a safer planet. We will match the Russian reductions if they comply, saving the Pentagon and the Department of Energy lots of defense dollars. Even after these nuclear reductions, we will still have plenty of nuclear capability to defeat all conceivable threats.”Cooper is a member of the House Armed Services Committee, serving as Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces which oversees our nation’s strategic weapons, ballistic missile defense, space programs, and Department of Energy national security programs.A fact sheet on the new guidance from the White House can be found here.
06.10.2013	WASHINGTON - On Friday, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper and the New Democrat Coalition sent a letter to Darrell Issa and Bob Goodlatte urging that growth, efficiency, fairness and inclusion are the focus of any final immigration legislation from the House. Read the letter here.
06.06.2013	Markup of FY2014 National Defense Authorization ActHouse Armed Services Committee June 6, 2013WASHINGTON – Today Rep. Jim Cooper offered an amendment to FY14 NDAA to give the Department of Defense flexibility with spending cuts from sequestration. Although it received support from Democrats and Republicans, the amendment failed to pass the full committee 16-45. His full remarks are below.CHAIRMAN: The Chair now recognizes the gentleman from Tennessee for the purpose of offering and explaining his amendment.MR. COOPER: If sequestration has been imposed on us by a foreign power, we would view it as an act of war. Now, our first choice should be to lift the cuts. We have the ability to do that in this Congress if we had the guts. But failing that, we should at least give the DOD and Pentagon flexibility. Every witness we have heard from this year has told us we are facing a hollow force. The General Shelton of Space Command said he was already facing chaos, and he was not exaggerating.Secretary of Defense Panetta, all of the SecDefs have warned us about this. And what have we done?Sixteen hours into this markup, we are finally facing the real issue before this committee. It’s not just up to me to come up with a response. There’s got to be positive action taken by this committee to at least give our troops, our men and women in uniform, some flexibility.What I am proposing in this amendment could not be a simpler amendment; it’s really just one sentence. It gives the SecDef discretion in the national interests to cumulatively move $20 billion. The effect of sequestration in one year is $40 billion. This would allow him to alleviate half of that arbitrary stupidity. Because, as many of you know, each Navy ship is a program, project and activity. How do you cut each ship eight to twelve percent? This is insanity, and so far, this Committee has not done anything about it.I’m not saying this is a perfect solution, but it is a start. It could not be more completely bipartisan.If this Committee does not stand up for the Armed Services, who is going to do it?If others can suggest a better means, please let me know. In the meantime, this is all you’re going to be allowed to vote on in this whole markup of sixteen hours to save our troops.As you know, due to sequential referral rules, amendments have to be crafted in a wily way so that you can get it accepted procedurally in this Committee. And we will have to work with others in Congress in both houses to get this job done.But let’s begin that job tonight. Let’s not swallow sequestration whole. Let’s not accept a hollow force.America deserves better than that. I’ve been complaining about this in hearings since February. This is our chance. This is our only chance. If not us, who? If not now, when?And I am sorry it is 1:30 in the morning before we faced the elephant in the room – the serious question that this Committee faces.How are you going to answer the reporters’ question when they ask you, sometime over the next year or two? Sequestration, unless we stop it, is a nine year deal?How are you doing to answer that question – what did you do to protect our military from sequestration?This is your answer. Please vote for this amendment.
05.28.2013	Rep. Jim Cooper recently signed on as a co-sponsor to the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act to ensure that pregnant women are treated fairly on the job.While most working pregnant women do not encounter discrimination at work, some are faced with work environments that put their pregnancies at risk. This bill would encourage employers to make reasonable and temporary accommodations, like letting a pregnant worker use a stool rather than stand for hours, to allow pregnant women to continue working safely.“Women are vital to our nation’s workforce and our economic stability. A woman shouldn't be forced to choose between following her doctor's orders or losing salary, especially when she has a baby on the way. This bill would allow common-sense accommodations so that pregnant workers can protect their families and not risk losing their jobs,” Cooper said.This bill has been introduced in the House and the Senate and has the support of a broad coalition of civil rights and women’s advocacy organizations, unions, and business associations, including: A Better Balance; the AFL-CIO; the American Association of University Women; the American Civil Liberties Union; the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; California Women’s Law Center; Equal Rights Advocates; Hadassah; the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights; Legal Aid Society-Employment Law Center; Legal Momentum; the Main Street Alliance; the National Partnership for Women & Families; the National Organization for Women Foundation; the National Women’s Law Center; and many others. A letter of support from 138 organizations can be found here.Several states – Alaska, California, Connecticut, Louisiana, Hawaii, Illinois, Texas – already have laws to ensure that pregnant workers have on-the-job protections. Maryland will soon join their ranks.
05.21.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed the Freedom to Fish Act (S.982). Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) is a co-sponsor of the bipartisan bill, which would ensure that the public can access tailwaters below dams for fishing on the Cumberland River. Video of Cooper Speaks on Freedom to Fish Act “This is a magnificent recreational resource that has been unfairly harmed by proposed Corps actions,” said Cooper. “We’ve heard from hundreds of fishermen across the country who agree: The waters are safe, the fishing is good. If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.” In 2012, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers announced a plan to restrict access to certain waters for fishing along the Cumberland River. Rep. Cooper and his staff have met with Corps officials in Nashville and Washington numerous times, asking them to reconsider these restrictions. The Freedom to Fish Act bans the Corps from enacting these restrictions for two years. Cooper spoke on the House floor this afternoon about his support for the bill. The bill passed the Senate by unanimous consent last week, and now heads to President Obama for his signature.
05.15.2013	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, co-chairs of the fiscally conservative, Democratic Blue Dog Coalition – Reps. Barrow (D-GA), Cooper (D-TN), Matheson (D-UT) and Schrader (D-OR) – sent a letter to President Obama condemning the inexcusable behavior by the IRS in targeting outside conservative groups, and urging him to initiate an investigation immediately.“As co-chairs of the Blue Dog Coalition, we are very concerned the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allegedly targeted certain groups based simply on the perception of partisanship in their names,” the letter read. “The IRS should never target Americans for their political beliefs. It goes against everything we stand for as a country. We must investigate who broke the law and punish them.”The fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition was formed in 1995 with the goal of representing the center of the House of Representatives and appealing to the mainstream values of the American public. The Blue Dogs are dedicated to a core set of beliefs that transcend partisan politics, including a deep commitment to the financial stability and national security of the United States.
05.08.2013	Bill Would Withhold Congressional Pay if Debt Ceiling Isn’t Raised Video of Cooper&amp;#039;s Floor Remarks About the Stop Pay for Members Act WASHINGTON – A proposal first introduced by Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) to keep members of Congress from getting paid if the U.S. defaults on its debt passed the House today with 340 votes. “Defaulting on our debt is not an option, but if we do, then a paycheck for Members of Congress also shouldn’t be an option,” Cooper said. “The last time we played ‘chicken’ with the debt ceiling, our credit rating was downgraded as a result. Congress should be paid for performance, not failure.”Earlier this week, Cooper introduced the bipartisan Stop Pay for Members Act (H.R. 1884), which formed the basis of an amendment to a Republican debt ceiling bill that passed the House today. Cooper spoke on the House floor yesterday about his bill as a remedy for persistent Congressional misbehavior.Cooper voted for the amendment to stop paying Members in the event of default, but joined all Democrats in voting against the overall Republican debt ceiling bill because, in the event of default, it orders the Treasury Department to pay Chinese and other foreign bondholders first before paying seniors, veterans and members of the military.“It’s unimaginable that Republicans are already making plans to default on our debt,” Cooper said. “Default would be a disaster for America, and this bill would make it worse by rewarding Chinese creditors while punishing innocent Americans.”In February, Congress suspended the debt ceiling until May 19, but the U.S. Treasury Department is expected to use extraordinary measures to pay bills beyond that date, likely until the fall. At that point, Congress will need to raise the debt ceiling again or face defaulting on our national debt.During the summer of 2011, Congress came within hours of not raising the debt ceiling, which historically has been a mundane parliamentary procedure allowing the U.S. to pay bills it has already incurred. Citing Congressional gridlock and brinksmanship, Standard & Poor’s downgraded America’s credit rating. Cooper first introduced the Stop Pay for Members Act during that crisis.
05.01.2013	28th Amendment Would Guarantee the Right to Vote NASHVILLE – In a speech at the Nashville Bar Association's annual Law Day luncheon, Rep. Jim Cooper proposed a 28th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution that would guarantee voting rights to Americans. While the Constitution has been amended repeatedly to expand voting rights to groups such as African-Americans and women, it does not explicitly grant the right to vote. "How many of you realize that, after the first ten amendments to the Constitution, the Bill of Rights, seven of the seventeen remaining amendments were necessary to expand voting rights? No other part of the original Constitution was so broken or so hard to fix," said Cooper. "And more repairs are needed ... Lincoln told us that government was supposed to be 'of the people, by the people and for the people.' Recognizing that everyone has something valuable to contribute to society will help us improve elections and society as a whole. Voting rights can turn equality-under-the-law into reality." The amendment will be introduced in the near future, and the proposed text is simple: "The right of adult citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or any State."The full text of Cooper's speech can be accessed here: Law Day Equality Speech FINAL.pdfMedia coverage of Cooper's proposed amendment is below. Rep. Cooper pushes for 'right to vote' constitutional amendmentThe Tennessean May 2, 2013 By Joey Garrison https://www.tennessean.com/article/20130502/NEWS02/305020055/Rep-Cooper-pushes-right-vote-constitutional-amendment Convinced that the right to vote for all citizens isn't fully protected under law, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper, D-Nashville, is planning a long-shot proposal to add a 28th amendment to the United States Constitution. "What it would do is grant, for the first time in American history, a constitutional right to vote," Cooper said Wednesday after announcing the proposal at a Nashville Bar Association luncheon during a strikingly personal speech that evoked race, discrimination and equality. "Many people think we have this already," he said. "We do not. Some states have a right to vote. But we do not have it nationwide." Cooper said he's working with congressional colleagues on drafting the amendment, which he predicted could be introduced in "weeks or months." He cited new "barriers to voting" nationwide, calling it a "high probability" that recent voter-identification laws passed in several states, including Tennessee, would not be constitutional were this amendment to exist. "My text for the 28th Amendment could not be simpler," he said. " 'The right of adult citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or any State.' "The enduring principle here is a judge would subject any restriction of voting to the harshest possible scrutiny." Amending the constitution is no small feat, requiring votes from two-thirds of the Senate and House and three-fourths of all states. The last amendment, the 27th, was enacted in 1992. "It would be hard," Cooper acknowledged. "It will probably take a visible national scandal to get enough people behind it to pass. But if we have more Florida elections, that could happen." Cooper delivered his push for a new constitutional amendment at the conclusion of a 20-minute speech that diverted from the norm for the wonkish Blue Dog Democrat, who has built his national reputation as a budget hawk. It was also personal and blunt as he reminded a room of Nashville attorneys of the nation's history of racism — and how he believes it manifests itself today. "My father was racist," Cooper said, referring to former Tennessee Gov. Prentice Cooper, who allowed the state to discriminate against blacks. "Of course, he did not think of himself that way — no respectable person does." Candor was on full display when he read off the lexicon of derogatory words to prove a point on hate speech and protection. "As civilization advances, the list of protections grow," Cooper said. "We need protection against blood libels like ..." 'Direct and blunt' He concluded the sentence by uttering eight epithets, including the n-word and derogatory terms for women, Mexicans, homosexuals, Native Americans and the disabled. Then he added: "Equality under the law is the slow triumph of hope over history." Attorney Gregg Ramos called the speech "direct and blunt" and said it hit the right tone. "I said, 'That's exactly right.' " But some in the audience were taken aback by Cooper's word choices. Alex Lee, an African-American attorney who was watching Cooper speak for the first time, said the speech was eloquent and that she appreciated its intent. But she said she was "shocked" by the use of epithets, which she found "difficult and uncomfortable" to hear. The right to vote is generally assumed because the United States holds elections coupled with constitutional protections for certain groups. The 15th Amendment of the Constitution prohibits denying the right to vote because of race; the 19th Amendment because of gender; and the 26th Amendment prevents denying the right to vote to citizens 18 years or older. Years of case law have supported the right, while the Voting Rights Act of 1965 outlawed discriminatory practices at the polling place. "He's right, there is no affirmative right to vote," said James Blumstein, professor of constitutional law at Vanderbilt University. "But there's a right to vote for senator, a right to vote for the House of Representatives. Most state constitutions have some enfranchisement provisions. And there's a lot of limitations on discrimination. "If you say, 'Thou cannot, thou cannot, thou cannot,' and you say it enough times, then you can't."Rep. Jim Cooper proposes amending U.S. Constitution to protect voting rightsThe Nashville City Paper May 1, 2013 By Andrea Zelinski https://nashvillecitypaper.com/content/city-news/rep-jim-cooper-proposes-amending-us-constitution-protect-voting-rights U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (D-Nashville) is crafting a proposed 28th amendment to the U.S. Constitution aimed at protecting citizens' right to vote, he told the Nashville Bar Association Wednesday. The Nashville congressman told the legal community he wants its help drumming up support for the amendment, pointing to voting discrepancies in Davidson County. "Remember that Lincoln told us that government was supposed to be of the people, by the people and for the people. He did not mean some of the people," said Cooper at the bar association's "Law Day" luncheon, working off the theme of "Realizing the Dream: Equality for All." Cooper's proposal, which he plans to introduce later this year, would grant a nation-wide constitutional right to vote, a right he said is not now protected nationwide. The measure would require a two-thirds vote in the Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives, then ratification by three-quarters of the states to pass. The key, according to Cooper, is for judges to subject changes to voting laws to the "harshest possible scrutiny," also known as "strict scrutiny" under the law. His constitutional amendment would have probably taken up recent changes to voting laws in Tennessee by the state's GOP-led legislature, such as those that require voters show certain types of government-issued IDs to cast a ballot, he said. He also pointed to issues within the Davidson County Election Commission, which is reeling over concerns of its mismanagement of the election process. "People who want to tamper with the vote or mess up elections would know that a federal judge would be on their case stopping that," Cooper said. "Today, we don't really have that guarantee. Sometimes they intervene, but after the fact when it's too late." Cooper said his constitutional amendment would likely need to ride the wave of a visible national scandal to gain enough support to pass. "Right now it's impossible, but things change," he said. Longtime attorney George Barrett blames Tennessee's GOP legislature for bringing the issue to the forefront by passing strict laws that require voters use a state or government-issued ID to vote. He is now awaiting a Tennessee Supreme Court ruling on his challenge to the state's new voter laws requiring such IDs to vote. "There's been a concerted drive by the Republicans to diminish access to the ballot. This state, every state, (since) the Republicans took over the legislature and the governor's office, they've had these horrible, repressive laws to mitigate against the right to vote," he said. In setting up his pitch for a new constitutional amendment, Cooper touched on racial tensions, including the high infant mortality rate here among minorities, last year's uproar over Gov. Bill Haslam's administration employing a Muslim woman, and the racism of the congressman's own father, former Tennessee Gov. Prentice Cooper. "Here in Nashville, TSU student Wilma Rudolph was able to win gold medals in the World Olympics in 1960, yet she could not eat at a Nashville lunch counter, ride a Greyhound bus, go to the hospital, sleep in a hotel or use a women's restroom. She lived under American apartheid. And my father, a former governor, a Harvard-trained lawyer, did nothing about it. As did many members before him," Cooper said. "The acid test for your support for quality under the law involves voting rights, because voting offers power over the law. Should every adult citizen be allowed to vote for our lawmakers? For most of Americans, the answer has been a resounding 'no' due to the fear that that wrong kind of people would vote. It's one thing to protect local populations, it's another to share power with them. You might end up giving your country away."
04.30.2013	Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) and Sen. Dick Durbin (R-IL) held a roundtable yesterday in Nashville to discuss recent voting issues in Tennessee, the Senate immigration proposal, and the Marketplace Fairness Act. Durbin is the Senate Majority Whip and a member of the influential, bipartisan “Gang of Eight” Senators who recently introduced a proposal to overhaul our broken immigration system. Media CoverageCooper and Durbin talk immigration and sales taxAssociated Press/Nashville City Paper April 30, 2013 By Travis Loller https://nashvillecitypaper.com/content/city-news/cooper-and-durbin-talk-immigration-and-sales-tax U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin was in Nashville with U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper Tuesday to drum up support for Internet sales tax collection and an immigration overhaul. Durbin is an Illinois Democrat who is sponsoring the Marketplace Fairness Act with Tennessee U.S. Sen. Lamar Alexander and others. He said Internet businesses have an unfair advantage over brick and mortar shops. He said consumers are using local stores as showrooms to pick a product that they then go buy on the Internet. Cooper emphasized that this is not a tax increase. "I hope people look at the substance of the bill. This is not a new law. People already are supposed to be paying this tax," Cooper said. Consumers are legally obligated to pay sales tax on Internet purchases in states that have the tax, but most do not. The bill would require Internet retailers to collect the tax and send it back to the state where a shopper lives. Durbin said the money would provide "needed revenue for state and local governments." Durbin also is one of a bipartisan group of eight senators who crafted a bill to overhaul the U.S. immigration system. Among other things, the bill would strengthen border security, allow tens of thousands of new high- and low-skilled workers into the country, require all employers to check their workers' legal status and provide an eventual path to citizenship for some 11 million people now in the country without permission. "It really tries to address the immigration problem in an honest and comprehensive way," Durbin said. On Tuesday he and Cooper were cautiously optimistic about the bill's prospects. "The national Republican Party knows they are locked out of the White House unless they change their position on immigration," Durbin said. Cooper said strong support in the Senate would send a signal to the House that "we finally have a chance to break the gridlock."Illinois senator leading charge on immigration bullish on prospects in SenateThe Tennessean April 30, 2012 By Joey Garrisonhttps://www.tennessean.com/article/20130430/NEWS/304300120 A key member of the United States Senate's bipartisan Gang of Eight, in Nashville with Rep. Jim Cooper in on Tuesday, predicted that the group's immigration reform bill could clear the Senate by a wide margin. His House ally and host, meanwhile, suggested that the real challenge may lie in the lower chamber. Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Illinois, said the group's goal is to garner votes from 49 or 50 Democratic senators and half the body's 45 Republicans, a bar that would get the legislation over the magic 60-vote threshold needed to avoid a filibuster, offering a path to citizenship for some 11.5 illegal immigrants. "Anything over 60 is acceptable, and we'll build on it," Durbin said at a "reporters' roundtable" talk at the new Casa Azafran Community Center on Nolensville Pike. "We know that those who are against this bill have already started. I heard them on the Sunday morning talk shows." The markup on the 848-page bill slated to begin May 9. Yet a showdown is on the horizon in the Republican-controlled House, where immigration is being subdivided into separate legislative offerings, the first addressing an agriculture worker program and targeting employers of undocumented immigrants. Many House Republicans remain reluctant to support a bill with a path to citizenship. "It's a different dynamic, but I think you're seeing great pressure," Cooper said. "Especially if there's a big Senate vote — if they can get over 60 (votes), the fact that they can reach 69 — that would be an amazingly powerful sign that gridlock is finally breaking in Washington." Though some opponents have suggested the recent bombings in Boston, an act allegedly carried by two ethnic Chechens, should give pause for moving quickly on immigration reform, Durbin had the opposite take. He said the bill would actually "make America safer," in part by having millions of people step forward. "We'll know who they are. We'll know what they do for a living. And they'll go through a background check." Durbin's quick trip through Nashville to discuss his top legislative items came a year and a half after he held a similar gathering with media here to denounce Tennessee's new voter-identification law and others like it across the nation. On Tuesday, the two revisited the topic: "I'm troubled by the constant efforts of many legislatures, including this state, to try to make it more difficult for people to vote in American," said Durbin, who chairs the Senate Judiciary Committee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Human Rights. In Tennessee, plaintiffs are waiting on a decision from the state Supreme Court after they appealed a lower court's decision that found library cards in Memphis couldn't be used as identification. Cooper, meanwhile, took a shot at the Davidson County Election Commission, which is the subject of a new scathing state report that found a "pattern of serious errors" in recent elections. "That's an embarrassment to our great county," Cooper said. Asked whether the county's embattled Election Administrator Albert Tieche should retain his position, Cooper deferred to the judgment of local officials. Durbin also discussed the Marketplace Fairness Act, a proposal he, U.S. Sen. Lamar Alexander, R-Tennessee and others support to help the state collect sales tax revenue from online retailers. Anti-tax proponents have called the proposal an unfair new tax on businesses, a theme Durbin challenged. He said the current system puts brick-and-mortar store owners at a disadvantage. "These poor folks that are paying their property taxes, their sales taxes to the government as required are turning out to be showrooms for people on the Internet," he said. The bill, which Durbin called a "fundamentally fair" proposal that would bring needed revenue to states, is expected to come up in the Senate on Monday. Durbin rejected the notion that it represents new taxation. "We're simply collecting taxes already owed."
04.22.2013	Nashville student's letter on energy legislation garners resultsThe Tennessean April 20, 2013 By Andy HumblesFiona Murphey wanted to do something to improve the environment.So the 13 year-old student at West End Middle School took the very American step of writing her congressman.She wrote a five-page letter as part of an eighth-grade English assignment and she really didn’t expect a reply from U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper. She never dreamed the Nashville Democrat would show up at her school to surprise her in front of all her classmates.But that’s what happened Friday morning.“I wasn’t sure he was going to read it,’’ Murphey said of her letter. “I never thought I’d get to meet him.’’Cooper presented Murphey with a certificate and announced that he would co-sponsor the renewable energy bill she asked him to support in her letter.“On a day and time when there is so much bad news, it’s remarkable what people can do, including young people,’’ Cooper said.The bill would allow the federal government to lease public land for wind and solar development. Fifty percent of the money received by the federal government would go to states and counties where the project is located, 25 percent toward a conservation fund, 15 percent for permit processing and 10 percent to federal deficit reduction.“I want to start helping the planet right here and now, but in order to do it I need your help,’’ Fiona wrote in the letter.Her father, Ryan Murphey, said Fiona’s passion for the environment has most likely been fueled by the time she has spent observing it.Fiona was born with osteogenesis imperfecta, often called brittle bone disease. She uses a wheelchair and has had more than 100 broken bones during her lifetime, but she has not allowed her health challenges to suppress her positive attitude.“She watched nature because she couldn’t interact with it as much,’’ Ryan Murphey said. “And she developed a visual sense in her writing. A lot of her engagement through the world is through her mind.’’Fiona has been accepted into Hume-Fogg Academic Magnet School next school year. She eventually wants to be an environmental engineer, develop affordable renewable energy sources and ultimately open her own energy company.“It makes me really sad seeing pictures of these cities with all this smog, and I’d think ‘I just don’t want that to happen everywhere,’ ’’ Fiona said. “If there is anything I can do about it, I’m going to do it.’’
04.15.2013	In 2012, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers announced a plan to restrict access to certain waters for fishing along the Cumberland River. U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper issued the following statement about these restrictions:"I think these new restrictions are a bad idea, and that’s why I’m co-sponsoring the Freedom to Fish Act to stop the Corps from restricting access to these waters."Since last October, my staff and I have met with Corps officials both in Nashville and Washington urging them to reconsider these restrictions. We’ve heard from hundreds of fishermen across the country who agree: the waters are safe, the fishing is good. If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it."We should promote safe use of our resources, and we can do that without implementing unreasonable restrictions.Timeline & UpdatesMAY 21, 2013: Freedom to Fish Act Passes House UnanimouslyAPRIL 15, 2013: Cooper sends a letter to the Assistant Secretary of the Army, the Honorable Jo-Ellen Darcy, urging reconsideration of the regulations.APRIL 15, 2013: Cooper announces his support for the Freedom to Fish Act.MARCH 4, 2013: Cooper office meets with Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works), Sen. Alexander, and Rep. Whitfield to express concerns about the economic impact of new regulations. FEBRUARY 5, 2013: In Washington, Cooper meets with Major General Michael Walsh (Deputy Commanding General), Rep. Ed Whitfield, and Sen. Alexander to express concerns. In Nashville, a member of the Cooper staff attends a public hearing.DECEMBER 6, 2012: Cooper meets with Lt. Col. DeLapp, Commander of the Nashville District, and requests local hearings to allow for public discussion and debate.NOVEMBER 2012: Cooper’s office contacts the office of Sen. Alexander to begin coordinating a response.OCTOBER 2012: A local fisherman presents a petition with over 100 signatures against the Corps’ proposed fishing changes. Cooper staff meets with the fisherman and submits an inquiry to the Corps of Engineers. The Corps confirms it is “considering” this issue, but has not made an official decision. Cooper encourages Corps officials to reconsider this proposal and evaluate need for action.
04.15.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) released the following statement today on the explosions in Boston:“I ran the Boston Marathon years ago and have special sympathy for the victims of these unspeakable acts of terror. Though we still don’t know all the details, I have faith that we will find those responsible and bring them to justice.”
04.11.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement in response to today’s announcement that First Lady Michelle Obama will be the commencement speaker at Martin Luther King Magnet School’s graduation in May:“I’m sorry I couldn’t attend today’s announcement because of votes in Washington, but it’s wonderful that the First Lady will be speaking at one of our best schools. This is a testament to MLK, its teachers and its students. I am very proud of and excited for them.”Cooper invited the First Lady to give the commencement address in a Sept. 2012 letter, noting that the school’s stellar record of achievement and embrace of community health initiatives align with Mrs. Obama’s successful “Let’s Move” initiative.
04.10.2013	Bipartisan Cooper-Lankford Bill Would Cut WasteWASHINGTON – Our government is cluttered with unnecessary programs. Our government is cluttered with unnecessary programs. Our government is cluttered with unnecessary programs. Our government is cluttered with unnecessary programs.Those identical sentences aren’t typos, but a demonstration of how Congress works today, often creating new federal programs that duplicate existing ones, partially because most federal agencies are unable to account for, or even list, every program under their purview. To remedy this, Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN) and Rep. James Lankford (R-OK), have introduced bipartisan legislation requiring federal agencies to produce a list of their programs and submit it to the Office of Management and Budget, which will determine how many duplicative and overlapping government programs exist and recommend ways to eliminate identical programs.“When you’re in a hole, the first rule is to stop digging,” said Cooper. “We shouldn’t create programs when they already exist.”“I am proud to continue our bipartisan effort with the Taxpayers’ Right to Know Act to shed sunlight on how, when, where and on what the federal government spends hard-working Americans’ tax dollars,” said Lankford. “As taxpayers, we deserve accountability and efficiency in federal spending, and with the help of the GAO’s report on duplication each year, this bill brings us a step closer to addressing the problem of waste, fraud and abuse within the federal government.” The Taxpayers’ Right to Know Act would require every federal agency to publish an annual report card for all of its programs. Each government program would be identified and would outline: Total administrative costs of the program; Total expenditures for services; Total number of beneficiaries who receive assistance from the program; and An estimate of the number of staff who administer the program, including contractor staff. The report would also include: A listing of other programs within the agency with duplicative or overlapping missions and services; The latest performance reviews for the program, including the metrics used to review the program; The latest improper payment rate for the program, including fraudulent payments; and The total amount of unspent and unobligated program funds held by the agency and grant recipients. This information would be updated annually and posted online, along with recommendations to consolidate duplicative and overlapping programs; to eliminate waste and inefficiency; and to terminate lower priority, outdated and unnecessary programs.Cooper and Lankford introduced their bill on the same day that the Government Accountability Office released its 2013 report on government duplication, waste and mismanagement. That report found 31 areas – ranging from federal drug treatment programs to military contracting practices – where agencies may be able to achieve greater efficiency or effectiveness.
04.09.2013	EQUAL PAY: THE GENDER GAPGender should never affect compensation; most Americans believe in equal pay for equal work and an honest day's pay for an honest day's work. Unfortunately, women today make only 77 cents for every dollar earned by men, and in some states the discrepancy is worse. Here in Tennessee, women earn on average 80 cents for every dollar earned by men. Women and men need to be compensated fairly and equally. That's why I co-sponsored and voted for the Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which became law in 2009. I am also a cosponsor of both the Paycheck Fairness Act and the Equal Rights Amendment to help end discrimination in this country on the basis of gender, race and sexual orientation.We’ve made progress, but we still have a lot of work to do. I hope you’ll review the information below for updates on where we stand.Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay ActThe Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act in 2009 restored employees’ rights to challenge pay discrimination based on sex, race, national origin, age, religion and disability. It was the first bill to be introduced and signed into law during the 111th Congress.Named after a woman who discovered she had been paid 20 percent less than her male counterparts for 19 years, the law rectified the Supreme Court decision in Ledbetter v. Goodyear that made it harder for women and other workers to pursue pay discrimination claims. Now, workers are no longer confined to file discrimination claims in a short period and can fairly address discrimination no matter when it happens. Paycheck Fairness ActThe Paycheck Fairness Act builds on the Equal Pay Act of 1963 to strengthen the concept of “equal pay for equal work” by forcing employers to show greater justification for paying men more than women for the same work. The bill would also make it easier to file class action suits against employers who have been participating in gender-based discrimination.EQUAL RIGHTS AMENDMENT (ERA)This amendment would establish in the United States Constitution the standard of equality and non-discrimination between men and women. Currently, the U.S. Constitution only affirms the equality of men and women in the right to vote. Equality among the genders is important and basic enough to put in our Constitution. I am again a cosponsor of the Equal Rights Amendment.
03.29.2013	“It’s a shame that most Americans don’t know what they’re missing”WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) announced that he is an original co-sponsor of two recently introduced, bipartisan bills that would make Congressional research and agency reports available to the public.The Congressional Research Service Electronic Accessibility Act (H.Res. 110) would grant public access to taxpayer-funded research that, by law, is currently available only to members of Congress and their staffs. It would ensure that the public can view the nonpartisan research used by members of Congress to shape policy decisions.“Folks back home should have access to the same information as members of Congress. After all, they’re the ones paying for it,” said Cooper. “It’s a shame that most Americans don’t know what they’re missing, because members of Congress rely heavily on this respected, rigorous, nonpartisan research.”The Congressional Research Service (CRS) is a highly regarded division of the Library of Congress. CRS is staffed by issue experts who draft nonpartisan policy reports and analyses that are considered confidential, authoritative, objective and nonpartisan. Recent CRS reports have examined topics ranging from President Obama’s executive order on cybersecurity, to Hugo Chávez's death and its implications for U.S.-Venezuelan relations, to inflation and minimum wage. As a dedicated Congressional support agency, CRS is joined by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) in providing Congress with unparalleled objective information and analysis. While GAO and CBO reports are already available to the public, CRS reports are not.Rep. Leonard Lance (R-NJ) and Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL) are the bill’s lead sponsors and have introduced it in previous Congresses. Numerous good-government groups and advocates for Congressional transparency have endorsed it, including the Sunlight Foundation, Society of Professional Journalists, American Library Association, Association of Research Libraries, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, Government Accountability Project, OpenTheGovernment.org, Federation of American Scientists, American Association of Law Libraries, and Investigative Reporters and Editors.Cooper is also an original co-sponsor of the Access to Congressionally Mandated Reports Act (H.R. 1380), which would require the creation of a single website where the public can easily search, sort and download all Congressional reports from agencies.Each year federal agencies submit thousands of reports to Congress that enable the public to better understand how well federal agencies are (or are not) fulfilling their respective missions, from ensuring the safety of our drugs and food supply, to protecting the environment, to monitoring the soundness of our financial institutions. Unfortunately, many of these reports simply collect dust in the Committees to which they are delivered, or are scattered between dozens of agency websites, rarely to be seen. The only comprehensive list of Congressionally mandated reports is printed in paper format each year by the Clerk of the House and available only by request – provided you even know it exists.Introduced by Rep. Mike Quigley of Illinois, the bill is supported by 30 organizations dedicated to government transparency and accountability, including, but not limited to: American Association of Law Libraries, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW), OMB Watch, OpentheGovernment.org, the Project on Government Oversight (POGO), and the Sunlight Foundation.
03.26.2013	Tax Day is less than a month away, and Rep. Cooper’s office wanted to share some resources that may be helpful.Free File: A free tax filing service available to those making $57,000 or less annually, Free File is a public-private partnership between the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and commercial tax software companies.The software is easy to use and you can fill out forms online at no cost. Nearly 36 million Americans have already used Free File.Visit www.freefile.irs.gov to access the software. VITA: Those with annual income less than $57,000 may be eligible to receive free help through the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Program (VITA). The United Way has partnered with the IRS to offer free tax preparation at more than 40 locations across Middle Tennessee. VITA even offers help filing from home.Call 2-1-1 to find a location near you, or visit United Way Nashville’s VITA website.Tax Counseling for the Elderly: Tennesseans ages 60 and older may also qualify for help. AARP and the IRS have partnered to provide free assistance to seniors at more than 25 locations in Middle Tennessee. Call 2-1-1 to find a location near you.
03.19.2013	WASHINGTON – Today U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper delivered the following opening statement at a hearing of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee. The hearing, entitled “The U.S. Nuclear Deterrent: What Are the Requirements for a Strong Deterrent in an Era of Defense Sequester?,” explored the effects of defense cuts on our nation’s nuclear arsenal. Cooper is the Ranking Member of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee.Strategic Forces Subcommittee HearingThe U.S. Nuclear Deterrent: What Are the Requirements for A Strong Deterrent In an Era of Defense Sequester? Ranking Member Jim CooperMarch 19, 2013I would like to join Chairman Rogers in welcoming Dr. Payne, Dr. Krepinevich and Dr. Blair to this hearing on the U.S. nuclear deterrent.On the original date of this hearing, March 6, the Wall Street Journal published the latest opinion piece by four of America’s most distinguished defense and foreign policy experts: George Schultz, Bill Perry, Henry Kissinger and Sam Nunn. Their article is entitled, “Next Steps in Reducing Nuclear Risks.” Their article was well-timed for this hearing, and contained several valuable lessons for this subcommittee.First, the article is bipartisan. Two top Republicans and two Democrats have joined together to advocate for a better, safer world. They have set aside their differences for the common good. The House of Representatives should learn from their example.Second, the article is balanced. The authors think that “Washington should carefully examine going below New Start levels of warheads and launchers,” but are quick to cite the need for reciprocity, verification, and stable funding. Instead of sloganeering, they seem to be offering a responsible path, if not encouragement, for reducing America’s warheads from 1,550 to a lower number such as 900.Third, they are bullish on the prospect that today’s leaders can act responsibly to reduce nuclear risk in the world. They believe that today’s leaders can and will do a better job of securing nuclear materials, changing deployments and hair-trigger launch protocols, and engaging in global and regional dialogues. This optimism is not from starry-eyed idealists but from four hard-nosed realists.What worthier challenge could this subcommittee, or this Congress, have than to do what we can, in the legislative branch, to promote a safer, saner world? Perhaps our chief goal should be, mindful of our limitations, to do no harm. We should not treat any of these issues as political footballs, or stand in the way of responsible efforts to reduce nuclear risk.Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
03.15.2013	Washington – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) joined 48 colleagues in sending a letter to Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, asking him to lower the precedent of the newly created Distinguished Warfare Medal (DWM). The DWM recognizes extraordinary service that directly impacts combat operations, while not being physically present in a combat zone. The Department of Defense placed it above the Bronze Star and Purple Heart in the order of precedence.A bipartisan group of lawmakers sent a letter to Secretary Hagel, asking him to reverse the decision:“While we applaud the intent of the medal, we do not agree with placing the DWM above the Bronze Start and Purple Heart in the order of precedent …“The current order of precedence for the DWM is a disservice to Purple Heart recipients who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our Country or were wounded while serving in combat. The imminent danger area requirement of the Bronze Star historically means that a service member has been deployed overseas for a military operation involving conflict with an opposing armed force. Our service members who are deployed in support of such military operations are separated from their families for extended periods of time and face the possibility of death or grievous bodily harm. Without any such requirement for the DWM, we also feel it is a disservice to our service members and veterans who have, or who currently are, serving overseas in hostile and austere conditions.”Secretary Hagel sent an initial letter of acknowledgment to Cooper, and on March 12 announced that the production of the medal would be suspended while the Dept. of Defense reviews the matter.Cooper is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, serving as Ranking Member of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee and also sitting on the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee.
03.05.2013	Measure Would Help Taxpayers Understand Their Share of the National DeficitWASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today voted in support of a bill requiring that the President’s annual budget submission to Congress include the cost per taxpayer of the deficit. H.R. 668 passed the House by a vote of 392-28, with one voting present and 10 not voting.“Our debt and deficit are the greatest threats we face to our economic security,” said Cooper, a longtime fiscal hawk. “Before we can cure an illness, we have to diagnose it; this is a good first step toward helping every American understand the gravity of our financial woes.”Cooper has introduced similar measures in the past to shed light on taxpayers’ share of federal government spending, including the Taxpayer Receipt Act, which would provide each American with an itemized tax receipt, showing how an individual’s tax dollars are spent and their share of the national debt.
03.01.2013	40 Members Send Letter to President and House LeadershipWashington, D.C. – 40 Members of the New Democrat Coalition sent a letter to President Barack Obama and congressional leadership, urging them to take swift, balanced action to avert this self-inflicted wound on our economy. In the letter, led by New Democrat Coalition Chair Ron Kind (WI-03), Vice Chairs Representatives Jim Himes (CT-04), Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Allyson Schwartz (PA-13), the New Dems expressed a desire to pick up where prior efforts left off to identify specific spending reductions and revenue options in a formal, bipartisan process. The letter encouraged leadership to follow in the footsteps of American businesses and families by taking a serious look at our expenses and eliminate those things we can do without, identify opportunities for new revenue and invest in those programs that do create jobs and spur innovation. The New Dems wrote, “The cuts scheduled to take effect in the second half of the current fiscal year alone will significantly reduce America’s investments in the very things that help create jobs and grow our economy…We must avoid the sequester and put in place a balanced, long term fiscal plan that puts our federal budget on a responsible course. The country simply can’t afford more budget games and brinksmanship. It is no way to conduct the nation’s business.” To see a copy of the letter, please click here. Statement supported by New Dem Leadership Members, led by Chair Representative Ron Kind(WI-03), and Vice-Chairs Representative Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Jim Himes (CT-04), Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), and Representative Allyson Schwartz (PA-13).The New Democrat Coalition is dedicated to maintaining America’s standing as the world’s strongest, most successful nation. Founded in 1997, the New Dems believe firmly in the power of American ingenuity and innovation, and are focused on finding ways to foster and harness this creativity to grow our economy, create new American jobs, and ensure a safer and more secure future for our country.
02.28.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) today praised House passage of a bipartisan reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (S.47).“It’s good that House Republicans finally brought the bipartisan Senate version of VAWA to the floor for a vote,” said Cooper. “Sexual assault and domestic violence are terrible problems in this country, and I’m glad we have bipartisan agreement to help protect women.”VAWA expired more than 500 days ago, and the bill passed by the House – which was recently passed by the Senate – significantly strengthens the ability of the federal government, the states, law enforcement and service providers to combat domestic violence, sexual assault and stalking.Unlike a House Republican substitute that was rejected, S.47 will strengthen protections for the LGBT community, Native American women and immigrant women. Cooper co-sponsored H.R. 11, a VAWA reauthorization bill that was co-sponsored by every House Democrat and was a companion bill to S. 47.VAWA now heads to President Obama, who is expected to sign it into law.
02.19.2013	What is sequestration? Severe, automatic, across-the-board spending cuts to government programs. About half of the cuts are to the Department of Defense, and the rest are to non-defense programs. Many programs are protected from the sequester and will not be cut. When do these cuts begin? The cuts were supposed to begin in January, but Congress passed a two-month delay, so now they are scheduled to begin on March 1. How did we get here?The debt ceiling debate in the summer of 2011 was a near-catastrophe for our country because we almost went into default for essentially refusing to pay the bill for items we’d already bought. We avoided defaulting on our debt with the bipartisan Budget Control Act (BCA): the debt ceiling would be raised until December 2012 in exchange for $2 trillion in spending cuts. The BCA also established the so-called Super Committee to recommend a deficit reduction package. In the event the Super Committee failed, the BCA provided for brutal across-the-board cuts – known as “sequestration” or “the sequester” – to cut an equal amount of spending. Sequestration was never supposed to happen. The Super Committee could not agree to the bare minimum of cuts that the BCA required. The Super Committee failed America. The sequester was only set up to force action, not as good fiscal policy. But now because of political games it may actually go into effect. We have a fiscal crisis. Aren’t spending cuts good? Yes, but the sequester is like a lawnmower that cuts both your grass and your garden. We need thoughtful spending cuts. These are ugly, indiscriminate cuts that no one wants. What do these cuts impact? 1. Defense: The Department of Defense is set to receive about half of the cuts - $460 billion.Cooper recently criticized Congress' inaction in a hearing of the House Armed Services Committee. What military leaders have said… "Cuts of this magnitude would be catastrophic to the military” - Gen. Ray Odierno, Army Chief of Staff “Sequestration will cause irreversible damage." - Adm. Jonathan Greenert, Chief of Naval operations 2. Everything else: Other programs will be cut by $460 billion over 10 years. Most mandatory programs, such as Social Security benefits, Medicaid, and food stamps are protected from the sequester. Spending on highways, Pell grants, and most veterans programs will also be spared from the cut. But dozens of other programs will face ugly cuts, things like NIH funding (on which Vanderbilt researchers rely), funding for the Centers for Disease Control (to help fight the flu), our national parks, important environmental health and safety programs, our airport traffic controllers, funding for our children’s schools, and countless other programs. Read more for examples.Will we feel the impact in Tennessee? In addition to the programs listed above, these cuts will hit close to home here in Tennessee. Some of the effects will be felt immediately, while others may be noticed as cuts continue. More than forty percent of the State of Tennessee’s funding is federal. Federal money is used for our schools, agriculture, roads, law enforcement and many other vital programs. Many Tennessee programs that rely on federal dollars are protected from the sequester, but state and local officials have already begun preparing for the cuts to appropriate programs. The State's budget faces $112 million in cuts in federal money. In addition, $250 million in defense spending could be lost in our state, and our researchers could lose $24 million in NIH funding. What will be affected? EducationTennessee is scheduled to lose more than $47 million in education money including $27 million in Title 1 and IDEA initiatives. Over 200 teacher and aide jobs will be at risk. Over 32,000 fewer students would be served and approximinately 60 fewer schools would receive funding. DefenseTennessee will receive $249 million in cuts to Department of Defense programs in our state. These programs include wages for employees, grants, and operating expenses for defense facilities. Over 7,200 civilian employees will be furloughed. Family Services2,590 fewer children will receive access to vaccines for diseases such as measles, mumps, rubella, tetanus, whooping cough, influenza, and Hepatitis B. Head Start and Early Head Start will be eliminated for approximinately 1,200 children. Up to 800 disadvantaged children could lose child care. Victims of domestic violence - up to 500 from Tennessee - would lose support from lost funds to the Violence Against Women Program. Jobs Thousands of federal employees in Tennessee will be furloughed and lose income. NIH FundingWe will see $24 million in cuts to projects such as cancer and diabetes research at Tennessee facilities. This could cost jobs at universities and medical centers, and limit growth of research opportunities. Army Corps of EngineersThe Corps is closing recreation areas and sites in more than 230 locations including some in Tennessee. Oak Ridge National LaboratoryMajor user facilities and construction at national labs will be shut down, including at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory.Maritime and Border Security, Law Enforcement, and First Responders U.S. Coast Guard: Air and surface operations would be curtailed by nearly 25 percent, jeopardizing maritime safety, drug interdiction, migrant interdiction, navigation, and safe flow of commerce along U.S. waterways. U.S. Customs and Border Protection: Border Patrol agents and CBP officers would be furloughed for up to two weeks. In addition, CBP may also need to reduce more than 7,000 officers and agents, increasing wait times at our nation’s busiest airports by three hours or more and jeopardizing security between points of entry. Federal Law Enforcement: DOJ would be forced to issue furloughs equivalent to the loss of thousands of positions, including approximately 1,000 federal agents and 1,300 Bureau of Prisons correctional officers, potentially compromising prison security. State and Local Law Enforcement: FEMA’s state and local homeland security grants would be reduced by more than $120 million and DOJ’s state and local law enforcement activities grants would be cut.Air Traffic Control 10 percent of FAA’s workforce of 40,000 would be furloughed on any given day, resulting in reduced air traffic control, canceled flights and travel delays. Food Safety USDA would furlough federal meat and poultry inspectors for weeks. Since plants cannot operate without inspectors, thousands of establishments would be forced to shut down or operate fewer hours—costing the industry, grocery stores and restaurants billions of dollars. Food and Medical Product Safety Furloughs could result in the FDA conducting 2,100 fewer food and medical product inspections at domestic and foreign facilities. Center for Disease Control Funding would be cut for disease monitoring and responding to outbreaks.Cuts to Mental Health Up to 373,000 seriously mental ill adults and seriously emotionally disturbed children could go untreated. This could lead to increased hospitalizations, involvement with the criminal justice system, and homelessness for some of these individuals. Resources Budget Comittee FAQs on “sequestration.” White House Fact Sheet: Sequestration in Tennessee Bipartisan Policy Center: PowerPoint presentation Pew Research Third Way ReportsWhy Spending Cuts Alone Won’t Fix the DeficitWhy Taxing the Wealthy Can’t Fix the Deficit Congressional Budget Office Related ArticlesNPR: Will economic contraction affect debate over sequester? Washington Post: Dumb budget cuts would slow promising research on flu, cancer, other diseases Associated Press: Get ready for slew of budget cut warnings New York Times: The Real Cost of Shrinking Government CNN Money: Spending cuts: What you need to know The Washington Post: Understanding the sequester — in 4 great infographics
02.15.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) has introduced legislation to curb the practice of gerrymandering by letting the public participate in the Congressional redistricting process. The Redistricting Transparency Act of 2013 (H.R. 337) would require states to post redistricting information online, including data, details of the process, proposed maps and public hearing dates, and would require that the public be allowed to comment before maps are approved. “In 77 percent of districts nationwide, we usually know who will win before the first vote is even cast. Voters used to choose their politicians, but now politicians choose their voters,” said Cooper. “Both parties are guilty of crafting maps in secret, and that’s wrong. We must shed some sunlight on this process so folks know how these maps are drawn. Redistricting should be about electing, not protecting, candidates.”The Blue Dog Coalition endorsed Cooper’s bill last week along with the John Tanner Fairness in Redistricting Act (H.R. 223), which was introduced by Rep. John Barrow (D-GA). H.R. 223 takes the politics out of redistricting by requiring each state to establish an independent, bipartisan redistricting commission to redraw Congressional districts. It also prohibits a state that has been redistricted after an apportionment from being redistricted again until after the next apportionment, unless ordered by a court to comply with the U.S. Constitution or enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and sets minimum standards for states when redrawing Congressional maps. Cooper is a co-sponsor of this bill.Redistricting occurs every 10 years after the federal census is conducted. In Tennessee, the General Assembly controls the redistricting process. After the most recent redistricting in 2012, eight of nine Congressional districts in Tennessee are now considered non-competitive, meaning that they have been drawn in such a way that the population in those districts strongly favors one party over another and does not track with overall national presidential race outcomes. Cooper represents the only competitive House seat in the state.Gerrymandering is not solely to blame for increased partisanship and gridlock in the House, but clearly plays a role. The chart below from the Cook Political Report shows the decline of swing seats and increase in strongly partisan House districts since 1998. After the latest decennial redistricting, only 99 of 435 House districts are rated as competitive by the Cook Political Report’s Partisan Voting Index.By contrast, in Iowa, where districts are drawn by a nonpartisan commission, all four Congressional districts are considered competitive.Another exception in 2012 was California, which adopted a new nonpartisan redistricting process in which district maps aren’t drawn by politicians, but by a citizen-only commission. Afterward, the number of competitive districts jumped from 8 to 14, a 75 percent increase.For more information, view a one-pager on Congressional gerrymandering.
02.13.2013	Video of Cooper tells House Armed Services Committee that &amp;quot;America deserves better&amp;quot; "Impacts of a Continuing Resolution and Sequestration on Defense" House Armed Services Committee Full Committee Hearing February 13, 2013 COOPER: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a sad day for this committee, a sad day for Congress, a sad day for America. The witnesses have basically told us of a military emergency that’s going to be facing this country, but I don’t sense that we feel like there’s a Congressional emergency. This is one of the largest, if not the largest committee in the House of Representatives, and apparently we don’t have the ability to force a vote between now and March 1 when sequestration kicks in. Maybe there’s one scheduled that I’m not aware of, but basically the House has been doing trivial pieces of legislation for the last several weeks. We’re about to go on a district work period next week. So as our nation faces a crisis and this is the Armed Services Committee, we are doing almost nothing. In fact, there’s not even good attendance at this hearing. To hear the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs and all of the Chiefs, this is amazing. There’s a disconnect here. As Dr. Carter said, this is all a result of collateral damage from political gridlock. And a lot of the Members’ statements, we’re hearing more signs of political gridlock. This is a congressional responsibility and this is the Armed Services Committee. What are we doing about it? We have the power to fund a short fall. Let’s use that power. If we refuse to do that, we at least have the power to give yall the flexibility to minimize the damage. We’re not even doing that because we insist on micromanaging the Department. So let’s take some responsibility here. As General Dempsey said, if we won’t fund the mission, let’s have the courage to admit a smaller mission. We’re refusing to do that. So why does this Committee exist if we don’t take responsibility, if we don’t do our job? Our men and women in uniform are doing their jobs. We in Congress are not. And we’re about to take a week’s vacation right as sequestration is about to hit. How does that make sense? We do not even curb our CODELS much less take salary reduction as a result of shared sacrifice principles like Dr. Carter and others are doing who are political appointees. We are political appointees. We’re lucky enough to get elected by our folks back home. What are we doing to help our military? Mr. Chairman, best I can tell, this Committee is doing little or nothing except talking about it. And yet we are about the largest committee in Congress. We presumably have enough votes, enough clout with both parties to get something done, shake something loose before it’s too late. As you all know, as a practical matter, it’s already way late. Fourth quarter growth last year was negative partly as a result of defense drawdowns already anticipating problems. And we’re about to make that worse due to Congressional inaction and Congressional gridlock? America deserves better. Mr. Chairman, I think it’s up to this committee to do better. And we have precious few days left to do it. I would urge my colleagues and I would urge Congressional leadership. Let’s at least have a vote on this before sequestration happens. Let’s go on record. Let’s not just duck and dodge as Congress has been doing for too long. America deserves better, and America deserves a vote. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. MCKEON: Thank you, Mr. Cooper. It is – this is the largest Committee in the Congress. We have 62 members. We have 34 Republicans and 28 Democrats. I’ll just point out that this is a bipartisan committee and we do strive always to work in a bipartisan way. 31 of the 34 Republicans are here in this hearing today or have been here. I agree with you. I don’t know why everyone isn’t here. And we have introduced bills as Mr. Thornberry said. He introduced one, I’ve introduced one. And we’ve tried to move things in this but the problem of funding that you’re talking about generates from other committees so within the jurisdiction of our committee, we got our bill passed last year, we got our bill passed the year before and we’ve the done the things that – if you have other things that we can – could do within our jurisdiction, I would be happy to see that we have a vote in this committee. COOPER: If the Chairman would yield, how about flexibility for the Department of Defense? So that at least they have the discretion to manage within their means? MCKEON: Good suggestion.
02.08.2013	Blue Dogs Want to Get Back Into the HuntRoll Call February 8, 2013 By Alan K. OtaBlue Dog Democrats are hunting for the middle ground in the partisan fight over spending and taxes, and they are looking at centrist Republicans as potential allies.To help the effort, they will soon start meeting with members of The Tuesday Group, a lineup of centrist Republicans, looking to build cooperation on a range of issues. And if they’re successful, they can make up an important bloc in a House that has needed ad hoc coalitions of Democrats and Republicans to enact major legislation in recent months and likely will need such alliances to pass future measures, such as a new continuing resolution or a bill to replace the sequester.The short-term debt limit extension enacted Feb. 4 included a fiscal conservative Blue Dog triumph: the “no budget, no pay” provision. Patterned on a Cooper bill, the measure would suspend salaries of lawmakers in either chamber if their chamber fails to adopt a budget resolution by April 15.Cooper’s bill would have suspended the salaries unless both chambers adopted a budget conference report and completed all the fiscal 2014 appropriations bill. But he said he’s satisfied with the result, and he predicted that lawmakers will be under heavy pressure to adopt budget resolutions.“Pay will stop. Your spouse won’t excuse you just because it’s held in escrow,” Cooper said.Last week, Blue Dogs backed a contentious GOP proposal sponsored by Tom Price of Georgia aimed at pressuring Obama to submit a budget proposal that would include a description of when the budget would balance. The House passed the measure, 253-167, on Feb. 6. with Blue Dogs providing many of the 26 Democratic “yes” votes. Schrader unsuccessfully pushed an amendment — backed by 75 lawmakers in both parties — that would have added a requirement for Obama to use the recommendations of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform in developing a deficit reduction plan. That was well short of the majority needed for adoption, but it was about double the number of votes a similar proposal got in the last Congress.With both parties deeply divided on fiscal priorities, Schrader and Cooper say Blue Dogs are promoting a conciliatory approach that would allow new tax revenue raised from closing loopholes to help Republicans push for lower tax rates and to help Democrats finance part of the cost of reducing the deficit.The idea of using tax revenue to meet priorities of both parties has run into opposition on both sides, but Cooper says he will continue to push for a tax overhaul that ultimately could raise $400 billion to $600 billion by eliminating tax breaks for individuals and companies. If a tax overhaul plan takes shape, Cooper said Blue Dogs could help build consensus for a compromise that would allow the proceeds to be split, with some going to lower tax rates and some to deficit reduction.Cooper and Rep. Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania, a leader of The Tuesday Group, said centrists in both parties share an interest in pushing for a grand bargain on the debt and cultivating compromises on a range of other issues, including immigration and gun control.The Blue Dogs and The Tuesday Group plan to talk about their shared interests in joint meetings that will start this month.Another potential shared priority could be legislation to require more transparency in the redistricting process, including a proposal by Cooper to require advance posting on the Internet of draft redistricting maps.“In the gerrymandered world, which we will have for the next eight years, we are the only people that can help Democrats win back the majority,” Cooper said. “We are the only ones, who are proven winners in swing districts. We are the only survivors.”Click here to see the article at RollCall.com
02.06.2013	WASHINGTON – Four members of Congress – two Republicans and two Democrats – have introduced an amendment to H.R. 444 that will be considered for a vote today on the House floor. The Schrader-Wolf-Cooper-Gibson Amendment suggests that the President use the bipartisan Simpson-Bowles framework as a guide in drafting his budget.“To get anything of substance done in this partisan Congress we must reach across the aisle and find common ground with our like-minded Republican counterparts,” said Rep. Kurt Schrader (OR-05). “This bipartisan amendment asks the President to heed the advice of his Debt Commission and take an all-of-the-above approach in getting our long-term cost drivers under control, promoting economic growth and providing certainty for our nation’s businesses to grow and create jobs.”“I am disappointed that an amendment is even necessary, as I would hope that the President would have done this on his own initiative,” said Rep. Frank Wolf (VA-10). “The looming sequestration deadline should make resolving the fiscal crisis the most important item on his agenda.”“The debt is a bipartisan problem so we need a bipartisan solution,” said Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05). “Most budget experts agree that Simpson-Bowles, or something like it, is where we’ll eventually end up. It should be the foundation for any serious plan to reduce our debt in a balanced way.”“In an era of divided government, I believe a plan modeled after the Simpson-Bowles Deficit Reduction Commission is a reasonable approach both parties can get behind. It is my hope that the President comes to the table to do what is right for our country. At a time such as this, we need leadership and an ability to accept less than our ideal if we want to ensure our best days are still in front of us,” said Congressman Chris Gibson (NY-19). “2013 must be the year we act, and the President can take the first step by submitting a budget based on these bipartisan principles.”This is the only bipartisan amendment to H.R. 444 and has garnered support from former White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles and former Senator Alan Simpson, the Blue Dog Coalition, The Concord Coalition, Fix the Debt, and the Republican Main Street Partnership.All four members voted for the Cooper-LaTourette budget substitute in March 2012, which was based on the framework set forth by the Simpson-Bowles fiscal commission. It was the only bipartisan budget resolution offered last year and would have reduced the debt by more than $4 trillion over the next 10 years.Statement from Senator Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles“We are very encouraged that members of both parties are working together on a bipartisan amendment calling on the President to put forward a budget based on the recommendations of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform (Simpson-Bowles). It is our strong belief that the basic framework and principles set forth in the Simpson-Bowles plan represent the best hope for achieving the broad, bipartisan support necessary to enact a plan to put our nation on a solid path towards fiscal responsibility and reform.”“The amendment echoes the findings of our report that addressing our fiscal challenges will require a bipartisan plan to reform spending programs and the tax code in order to stabilize and reduce the debt as a share of the nation’s economy. No plan is perfect, including ours, but it can serve as the starting point for the discussion necessary to produce an agreement that is equally bold and comprehensive and that can get the broad bipartisan support needed to ensure enactment.”“We commend Representatives Schrader, Wolf, Cooper and Gibson for the bipartisan amendment they have put forward and urge their colleagues in the House and Senate to follow their leadership in pushing for a bold, bipartisan plan to bring our debt under control.”Statement from The Concord CoalitionThe Concord Coalition today applauded the efforts of a bipartisan group in the House of Representatives to encourage a long-term balanced budget plan based on the principles of the 2010 National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform (Simpson-Bowles). “This is a simple idea with a powerful message. As we enter into another round of contentious budget negotiations, it will be tempting for elected leaders in both parties to produce one-sided plans that may appeal to their core constituencies. But unless compromises across party lines can be struck, there is little hope of enacting the kind of comprehensive long-term plan we need,” said Robert L. Bixby, executive director of The Concord Coalition.“In that regard, Representatives Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Frank R. Wolf (R-VA), Jim Cooper (D-TN), and Chris Gibson (R-NY) are setting a positive example of bipartisan cooperation in pursuit of fiscal responsibility,” Bixby said. The Concord Coalition, like the bipartisan group in the House, supports the principles of the Simpson-Bowles Commission. Reasonable arguments can be made on when a balanced budget can, or should, be achieved. However, any plan to deal with our long-term fiscal challenge should recognize that it will take a mix of spending cuts and revenue increases to produce a realistic plan. Moreover, we must deal with the major cost-drivers and not be afraid of tackling needed tax reform. These were among the major conclusions of the Simpson-Bowles Commission and should be guiding principles in future budget negotiations.Blog Post from Fix the DebtBudget Bipartisanship, is that you?Why yes, it is.This week, the U.S. House of Representatives will debate a bipartisan amendment that calls for the President to submit a budget resolution that would stabilize the debt in the long term, consistent with the principles established by the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform—also known as the Simpson-Bowles.This amendment, sponsored by a bipartisan group of House members led by Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR-5), Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-VA-10), Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN-5), and Rep. Chris Gibson (R-NY-19) is a glimmer of sunlight in what has been an otherwise gloomy and partisan beginning of the annual budget season. Partisan budgeteering and fiscal face-offs so far have failed to produce the types of structural reforms and compromises needed to truly put our nation on a path to stabilize the debt. The Schrader-Wolf-Cooper-Gibson amendment highlights the need to address our fiscal challenges in a comprehensive and bi-partisan manner.Although the amendment may not be enacted in the end, let’s hope that this effort is just one of many bipartisan acts of leadership that will be needed over the upcoming months to enact a plan to put our nation on a solid path towards fiscal responsibility. Let’s hope that the rest of the House, Senate, and the White House follow this example and that the American people take notice.Statement from Steve LaTourette, Republican Main Street Partnership President and former U.S. Congressman (R-OH)“The bipartisan amendment being offered by Reps. Wolf (R-VA), Schrader (D-OR), Gibson (R-NY) and Cooper (D-TN) is a common-sense approach to an issue we can no longer afford to ignore.“We are on the precipice of an unprecedented fiscal crisis. We are approaching $16.5 trillion in debt. We cannot continue to operate on the basis of short-term ‘fixes’ that simply delay the next ‘crisis’ we face for a few weeks or few months. No successful businessperson would ever consider operating their business like this, no family would ever consider planning their personal finances in this manner, it is absolutely governmental malpractice to run our nation in this manner.“It is time to bridge the partisan divide, it is time to take a break from the endless campaign cycle, and it is time to find real solutions to the serious challenges we face as a country.“The Republican Main Street Partnership praises this bipartisan effort and urges members of both parties to vote for this important amendment.”
01.29.2013	By Rep. Jim CooperAbout 90 percent of Americans dislike Congress, and for good reason. We’re less popular than cockroaches. But a funny thing happened on the House floor last week: My colleagues supported an idea that has a 90 percent public approval rating and could start fixing Congress.I’m talking about the No Budget, No Pay Act, which I introduced last year and wrote about in The Tennessean in March. The idea is simple: If Congress doesn’t do its work on time, it doesn’t get paid.The idea came from a Nashvillian who told me, “Congressman, I don’t get paid if I don’t do my job, and do it on time. Why should you be any different?” The answer to his question is No Budget, No Pay.I worked my colleagues, and the nonpartisan citizen group No Labels mobilized its grass-roots network. By the end of 2012, my bill had 79 co-sponsors, both Republicans and Democrats. Most of Tennessee’s congressional delegation signed on in support, including both U.S. senators. Democrats from California to New York signed on. Diane Black ran television ads supporting my bill. This was a truly bipartisan effort.At the start of 2013 and the new Congress, we had to begin finding cosponsors all over again. Neither political party liked my bill, so the odds of passage were long. Many of my colleagues hated the idea of not getting a paycheck. Even the rich ones hated it because they like money the most.My response: Don’t give up on the idea of Congress passing a budget on time. If we meet our deadline, no one’s pay will be docked. Just the threat of stopping paychecks will be enough to get the job done, especially when an angry spouse is waiting at home.When the new Congress was sworn in early this month, I re-introduced my bill, and after a week, it had 59 co-sponsors; in 2012, it had taken us nearly a year to hit that number.Republican leaders noticed the growing strength of our idea and announced that they would attach a watered-down version of my bill to their debt-ceiling bill. I am not responsible for their drafting. This surprise combination bill passed overwhelmingly, 285-144. Eighty-six Democrats supported the bill, including moderates, liberals, freshmen and old-timers.Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid has said the bill will pass this week, and the White House has indicated the president will sign it into law. Despite these assurances, I won’t rest until it’s done.No principle is more basic to Tennessee values than “no work, no pay.” As our state’s beloved former Gov. Ned Ray McWherter used to say, “If you don’t want to work, you ought not to hire out.”Congress’ unpopularity is its own fault, but I’m encouraged that this new Congress was quick to support a new type of reform, one that aligns the interests of politicians with taxpayers. No Budget, No Pay is no cure-all, but it’s a good start.
01.28.2013	AMERICANS are fed up with Congress.Just a couple weeks into the new congressional term, disapproval ratings for both chambers have reached a high of 82 percent.For years now, lawmakers have been mired in bitterly divisive politics. They’ve also failed to fulfill their basic job of setting and balancing the nation’s pocketbook.Would we tolerate our state lawmakers leaving Olympia without setting a proper budget? Never. Why should Congress get a pass?Last week, the House adopted a plan to increase the debt limit for three months. HR 325 also requires both chambers to set a budget by April 15 or its members will not get paid.The measure had bipartisan support — 43 percent of Democrats voted for it, including all three new Democratic members of Washington’s congressional delegation, Suzan DelBene, Derek Kilmer and Denny Heck. Also voting yes were Washington’s GOP Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Doc Hastings and Dave Reichert.Sure, the “no budget, no pay” provision is a gimmick.But what else can be done?Setting such a low bar speaks to the high level of frustration the American people feel toward their elected officials.The No Labels movement — a bipartisan, grass-roots network comprising thousands of politicos and citizens dedicated to problem-solving over party loyalty — has pushed for the No Budget No Pay Act since 2011.Congress has a long-standing tradition of passing spending bills late, if at all. The Senate hasn’t passed a budget since 2009. Instead, lawmakers have relied on temporary spending measures.They’ve kicked the can down the road long enough.Washington’s senior senator, Democrat Patty Murray, is the new chair of the Senate Budget Committee. She pledges to pass a budget this year that can be compared with the House GOP’s plan.That’s a start.Murray has signaled the era of brinkmanship is coming to an end.We hope she’s right.If not, then “no budget, no pay” should take effect.Congress should do its job.Or be ready to make some personal financial sacrifices.
01.24.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) released the following statement after the announcement today by Defense Secretary Leon Panetta and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Martin Dempsey removing the ban on women serving in combat:“I’m glad that President Obama and Secretary Panetta are lifting the ban on women serving in combat positions. Women have fought for our country since the American Revolution. It’s time to bust through the glass ceiling.”Cooper is a member of the House Armed Services Committee, serving as Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces and also serving on the Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces.
01.24.2013	House's debt ceiling extension bill includes Cooper's 'no budget, no pay' ideaThe Tennessean January 24, 2013 By Paul BartonWASHINGTON — Rep. Jim Cooper’s “no budget, no pay” idea for Congress was included Wednesday in a House-passed bill to extend the ceiling on the national debt through May 18.Cooper, D-Nashville, last year got 79 House members and more than a dozen senators to endorse his idea that lawmakers should stop receiving their salaries if they do not resolve the federal budget for the next fiscal year by Oct. 1 of every fall.In the measure extending the debt ceiling Wednesday, House Republican leaders included a version of Cooper’s idea that calls for pay to lawmakers to stop if both chambers do not adopt a budget resolution by April 15.It has been almost four years since both chambers agreed on a budget resolution.The proposal linked to “no budget, no pay” passed 285-144, with 86 Democrats voting for it, including Cooper. Tennessee’s other Democrat in the U.S. House, Rep. Steve Cohen of Memphis, opposed it.“The idea behind ‘no budget, no pay’ came from a Nashvillian who approached me two years ago,” Cooper said in a prepared statement.“He said, ‘I don’t get paid if I don’t do my job, and do it on time. Why should Congress be any different?’ I agree, and this bill makes Congress follow the same rule that every American understands: Do your work if you want to get paid.”'Right direction'Cooper said he agreed with President Barack Obama that the debt ceiling extension should be longer than three months and unconditional.“But this bill is a step in the right direction to get Congress to take its duties seriously,” Cooper added.Opposing the increase was Rep. Scott DesJarlais, R-Jasper.“I have made my position clear from the beginning: Any increase in the debt limit needs to be offset with an equal amount of spending cuts,” DesJarlais said in a prepared statement. “Unfortunately, today’s legislation did not contain a single spending cut or reform in return for giving this president an open-ended three-month debt limit increase.“At this administration’s spending levels, that would mean an extra $250 billion of new debt. The debt crisis we have been warned about is here.”Republican Reps. Marsha Blackburn of Brentwood, Diane Black of Gallatin and Stephen Fincher voted for the debt-ceiling extension.“While the Republican-led House has passed a responsible budget each of the past two years, the Democrat-controlled Senate has refused to pass any budget at all for nearly four years. Since then, the national debt has increased by more than $5 trillion,” Black said.“As every hardworking American family knows, fiscal responsibility starts with establishing a budget. Honest, responsible budgeting is absolutely necessary to restore fiscal sanity in Washington and prevent a full-blown debt crisis.”In the Senate, where the increase is also expected to pass, Republican Sen. Lamar Alexander on Wednesday signed on as an original co-sponsor of the “no budget, no pay” idea.“The Senate majority hasn’t passed a budget in three years — you wouldn’t get paid at the Grand Ole Opry if you showed up late and refused to sing, and Congress shouldn’t be paid for refusing to do its job,” Alexander said.
01.23.2013	WASHINGTON – An idea first introduced by Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) last Congress – to withhold lawmakers' pay if they don't pass a budget on time – was a key part of a bill passed by the U.S. House today (H.R. 325) to suspend the debt ceiling by four months. That bill gained support on a bipartisan basis and from members of the Congressional Black Caucus, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, the Progressive Caucus, the New Democrat Coalition, the Blue Dog Coalition, and the freshman class of Democrats. "The idea behind No Budget, No Pay came from a Nashvillian who approached me two years ago," said Cooper. "He said, 'I don't get paid if I don't do my job, and do it on time. Why should Congress be any different?' I agree, and this bill makes Congress follow the same rule that every American understands: do your work if you want to get paid. "The President is right that the debt ceiling increase should be longer than four months and unconditional. But this bill is a step in the right direction to get Congress to take its duties seriously." The bill passed by the House today would withhold Congressional pay for members of the House and/or Senate should either chamber fail to adopt a budget resolution by April 15. Congress has not adopted a budget in more than 1,300 days. Before House consideration of today's debt ceiling bill, Cooper re-introduced a standalone No Budget, No Pay Act (H.R. 310) on Friday with Reps. Reid Ribble (R-WI), Ami Bera (D-CA), and Ron DeSantis (R-FL). That bill has 56 cosponsors and has been endorsed by the nonpartisan citizen group No Labels and by the Blue Dog Coalition. Cooper testified about No Budget, No Pay before the Senate in March 2012. He also submitted a floor statement today into the Congressional Record about No Budget, No Pay.
01.23.2013	Rep. Jim Cooper, others watching how Tennessee deals with DCSThe Tennessean January 23, 2013 By Tony GonzalesU.S. Rep. Jim Cooper calls the inability of the Tennessee Department of Children’s Services to protect children and meet federal standards “embarrassing” and “tragic.”Cooper, a Nashville Democrat, said DCS has not released enough information about the deaths of children with whom the agency had prior dealings. Nor has the department sufficiently responded to the state’s Citizen Review Panels, which recommend measures for protecting children.“So many have died and we’re not even allowed to know about how or why,” Cooper said.Yet he and others in Tennessee’s congressional delegation said they’re waiting to see how state lawmakers address DCS problems before acting. That’s partly because they’re not confident federal oversight and mandates can truly help the state’s children.Leaders of the Tennessee General Assembly announced last week that they will probe the work of DCS, the $650 million state agency that investigates child abuse, runs the state’s foster care system and oversees juvenile delinquents.Until state officials act, Republican U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander and Bob Corker won’t act, each said in a written statement.“We will continue to monitor this issue to determine if there is an appropriate federal legislative role to be played,” Corker said.DCS must adhere to the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (CAPTA) to receive an annual federal allotment of more than $500,000. But DCS didn’t respond to citizen review panel recommendations within six months — a CAPTA requirement.“For citizens to participate and not hear anything for two years, that’s very disturbing,” Cooper said. “This is not paperwork for paperwork’s sake. When a special panel is called like this, you should pay attention.”State lawmakers have voiced similar concerns. Still in question in two separate lawsuits is whether DCS has provided the kinds of child fatality information required under CAPTA.The Tennessean and a coalition of media organizations sued for the records in Davidson County court. In federal court, a watchdog group asked a different judge to require DCS to provide similar fatality records. The judges haven’t ruled.Training fundedIn its newest plan for spending CAPTA money, DCS said at least $300,000 would go toward three areas: training child protective services’ front-line workers, coaching for regional workers, and creating a medical consultation network so DCS employees can talk to trained doctors about whether abuse or neglect has taken place.Funding can be withheld from states who don’t meet mandates, but a spokesman for the Administration of Children and Families did not respond to questions about whether Tennessee has been under such a threat.DCS also has received more than $70 million in federal funds each of the past two years to care for foster children who come from low-income homes, DCS officials said.That money, which is separate from CAPTA grants, was not always properly spent in Tennessee, a 2009 federal review found. But a new 2012 review found that improvements had been made and the requirements were being met.“The state will definitely be deemed compliant,” this time, said Sandra Wilson, DCS executive director of child permanency.State lawmakers are pressing for more information.Speaker of the House Beth Harwell and Lt. Gov. Ron Ramsey announced last week that hearings on the subject are coming. Sen. Jim Summerville, R-Dickson, plans to make sure the review isn’t cursory.“The investigation itself will be watched by members of the General Assembly,” Summerville wrote in an email to The Tennessean. “A rush to judgment, an exoneration in advance of any public official, or a superficial inquiry will be brought to public attention.”Separately, Republican leaders of the Civil Justice Committee, which would handle DCS-related bills, will meet face to face today with DCS Commissioner Kate O’Day. DCS spokeswoman Molly Sudderth said O’Day has made a concerted effort to meet lawmakers.
01.22.2013	Passing a budget and appropriations bills are basic responsibilities of Congress. But Congress has not adopted a budget for America in 5 years. And it’s been 18 years since all appropriations bills were passed on time. Congress shouldn't get paid if it can't finish its work. That's why I have introduced the "No Budget, No Pay Act" to stop congressional pay if Congress fails to pass all of its budget and spending bills on time. Support has grown significantly since we first introduced the bill. In fact, in 2013, Congress overwhelmingly passed a watered-down version of my No Budget, No Pay Act. That year, both the House and Senate passed individual budgets for the first time in four years. The 2013 law was only a one-year fix and wasn’t strong enough. This was a good first step, but it needs to be permanent. Recent News & UpdatesJanuary 7, 2015 • Cooper Introduces No Budget, No Pay in 114th CongressJanuary 29, 2013 • Cooper op-ed: No Budget, No Pay Act finally finds support in CongressJanuary 28, 2013 • Seattle Times Editorial: ‘No budget, no pay’ — a gimmick that might workJanuary 23, 2013 • No Budget, No Pay Passes HouseJanuary 18, 2013 • Cooper Introduces No Budget, No Pay in 113th CongressJuly 26, 2012 • Cooper Op-ed in the Atlantic: How to Get Congress on Good BehaviorJune 22, 2012 • Cooper Talks about NBNP and Congressional Reform on MSNBCMarch 30, 2012 • Cooper Op-Ed in the Tennessean: Grab Congress by its Purse StringsMarch 15, 2012 • The Tennessean: Rep. Jim Cooper's 'no budget, no pay' bill gains momentumMarch 14, 2012 • Cooper interviews on CNN, FOX and FOX Business about No Budget, No PayMarch 14, 2012 • Cooper Testifies about No Budget, No Pay ActFeb. 29, 2012 • Blue Dogs Endorse Cooper's No Budget, No Pay ActDec. 30, 2011 • MSNBC: Cooper Talks about No Budget, No Pay and Why Congress is so UnpopularDec. 13, 2011 • Cooper Introduces No Budget, No Pay Act in 112th Congress
01.17.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) highlighted the release today of the U.S. Treasury Department’s annual Financial Report of the United States, indicating a $59.5 trillion long-term budget shortfall, an increase of $6.3 trillion over 2011. The Financial Report is the only annual government financial statement published in public-company format, which accounts for unfunded liabilities such as Social Security and Medicare.“It’s even worse than it looks, and our cost of inaction on the debt has increased to $17.3 billion each day,” said Cooper. “Washington is the last accounting-free zone in America. This report is the only accurate accounting of what’s on the national credit card, including some of our most sacred programs. Once we diagnose the problem, we can start to cure it.”Cooper has been a longtime advocate of the federal government using accrual or “real” accounting instead of the cash accounting method it currently uses, which hides the true cost of our national debt. In 2006, he published a foreword to the 2005 Financial Report of the United States.Cooper is also a longtime advocate for a balanced, bipartisan debt reduction plan. In March 2012, Cooper and Rep. Steve LaTourette (R-OH) introduced the only bipartisan budget, based on the proposal from the Simpson-Bowles National Commission On Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. The Cooper-LaTourette budget would reduce the debt by more than $4 trillion over the next 10 years.The Treasury report and a citizen guide to the report can be found online.
01.16.2013	Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement today in response to President Obama’s proposals to reduce gun violence:“The President is generally on the right track. We need background checks and we need to keep weapons of war off our streets and out of our schools and workplaces. Armor-piercing bullets and large-capacity magazines are also deeply troubling. We also need to do more to improve mental health and reduce violence in the media.“Bottom line: We are obligated to defend the right to bear arms, while also doing a better job of keeping our children and our families safe.”
01.16.2013	WASHINGTON – Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement today in response to questions about his Hurricane Sandy aid vote:“I have great compassion for the victims of the Sandy disaster, which is why I voted ‘yes’ on the first $9.7 billion bill that passed earlier this month.“Congress should make at least some effort to pay for a portion of disaster relief. I voted for federal aid for Nashville flood recovery in 2010, and that bill was partially paid for. So were the Hurricane Katrina bills I supported. And Hurricane Rita, and Hurricane Wilma, and Hurricane Ivan, and Hurricane Isabel. Why can’t we find even partial offsets for Sandy?“Yesterday’s votes came during a national budget crisis while America is officially out of money.”Cooper also recommends reading today’s Washington Post editorial, which states, “Americans have all sorts of reasons to be shocked” by this bill, including that “lawmakers still haven’t reformed the slapdash way Congress deals with disasters.”
01.14.2013	Congressman Stands with 23 Other Members of Congress to Build Trust Across the Aisle Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) has joined the newly formed No Labels congressional problem-solvers, a group of 24 members of Congress – Democrats and Republicans from both the House and Senate – who have committed to meeting regularly to build trust across the aisle. Cooper is a co-founder of No Labels, a nonpartisan citizen movement started in 2011 to encourage bipartisanship and problem-solving inWashington. The problem-solvers group within No Labels is growing rapidly, and was unveiled in its entirety today at No Labels’ Meeting to Make America Work! in New York City. “America is the greatest nation on Earth, and our job in Congress is to keep it that way,” said Cooper. “We need more people like these problem-solvers who will vote their country and their conscience first.” “By joining the problem-solvers, Congressman Cooper is proving his commitment to working across the aisle to do what’s best for the country,” No Labels Honorary Co-Chair Governor Jon Huntsman said. “This group is truly patriotic – its members are putting the country first to solve problems.” “The problem-solvers group is a big deal,” No Labels Honorary Co-Chair Senator Joe Manchin said. “They can help break the gridlock and blame game that have become so pervasive in Washington, where people have developed an attitude that you’re only worth talking to if you’re on my team – the Ds or the Rs. We’ll prove that ultimately, we’re all on the same team – America.” To learn more about the problem-solvers group or No Labels, visit www.nolabels.org.
01.04.2013	WASHINGTON – Our government is cluttered with unnecessary programs. Our government is cluttered with unnecessary programs. Our government is cluttered with unnecessary programs. Our government is cluttered with unnecessary programs.Those identical sentences aren’t typos, but a demonstration of how Congress works today, often creating new federal programs that duplicate existing ones. Yesterday, however, in unusually fast action, members of the 113th Congress approved a rules measure based on a bill introduced by Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) that will require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to provide a “duplication score” for each new bill explaining whether it creates federal programs identical to existing ones.“When you’re in a hole, the first rule is to stop digging,” said Cooper. “This will help Congress do our homework so that we don’t create a new program if a good one that does the same thing already exists.”Key GAO findings and examples of duplication, mismanagement and waste in 2012 include:• Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education. There are 209 federal STEM education programs, administered by 13 different federal agencies, costing taxpayers more than $3 billion annually.• Financial Literacy. There are 56 financial literacy programs across 20 federal agencies, according to a March 2011 survey of federal agencies. However, a subsequent analysis by GAO found that there were 15 financial literacy programs across 13 federal agencies, costing taxpayers more than $30 million annually, if a narrower definition of financial literacy is used.• Support to Private Sector on Green Buildings. There are 94 federal initiatives to encourage green building in the private sector, run by 11 different federal agencies.
01.03.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) made the following remarks today after being sworn in as part of the 113th Congress:“America’s problems aren’t small; Congress must respond with big solutions. I hope that we can put the gridlock of the last Congress behind us. The House and Senate are the board of directors for the most powerful country in history, and Americans deserve members who will vote their conscience and their country. That’s what I’ve always done, and will continue to do.”
01.01.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) voted against a $900 pay increase for Members of Congress for 2013. The increase was to take effect as part of a scheduled pay increase for all federal employees. President Obama issued an Executive Order in Dec. implementing the pay increase for all federal employees.Cooper also joined several of his colleagues in sending a letter to House leadership urging them to bring legislation to the House floor to stop the pay increase.Language halting the pay increase was included in the final fiscal cliff deal that passed the House and Senate (H.R. 8) and will be signed into law by President Obama.
01.01.2013	“Today’s fiscal Band-Aid may feel good now, but its relief will not even last until spring.”WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement today after voting against H.R. 8, the American Taxpayer Relief Act, which adds nearly $4 trillion to the debt over the next 10 years:“No real spending cuts. No real deficit reduction. No acknowledgement of America’s out-of-control national debt. This is a popular vote today, but it will harm America in the long run. It is good to see a return to bipartisanship, but not when it makes our fiscal problems worse.“Congress is missing the chance of the decade to adopt a large, balanced deficit reduction plan such as Simpson-Bowles that combines tax relief with controlling federal spending.“In just a few weeks, America will face another debt-ceiling crisis as well as sequestration. Today’s fiscal Band-Aid may feel good now, but its relief will not even last until spring.”Cooper has long favored a balanced, bipartisan approach to tackling the national debt and fiscal cliff. He and U.S. Rep. Steve LaTourette (R-OH) introduced the only bipartisan budget last spring, based on recommendations from the Simpson-Bowles fiscal commission.The Cooper-LaTourette budget was the only budget plan to receive bipartisan support in the House last year, and was widely praised by editorial boards across the country. Cooper and LaTourette were honored by the Concord Coalition in September 2012 for their political leadership and work to reduce the debt.
12.14.2012	NASHVILLE – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) released the following statement in response to the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School today:“I’m appalled that a season of joy has turned into one of horror for the community of Newtown. Children and teachers should be safe when they’re in school. I hope we all will hold our kids closer tonight and think about what we, as adults, can do to stop tragedies like this.”
12.13.2012	Bipartisan Measure Would Save $125 Billion AnnuallyWASHINGTON – The U.S. House today overwhelmingly passed H.R. 4053, the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act (IPERIA). The bipartisan bill, co-sponsored by Rep. Jim Cooper and endorsed by the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Democrats, would reduce waste and fraud in government spending, and identify and prevent erroneous, improper payments within federal programs.“The government needs to slim down, and it’s common sense to ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent correctly. Every household in America pays bills by sending a check to the right person for the right amount; our government should be no different,” said Cooper.According to the U.S. Government Accountability Office, federal agencies reported an estimated $125.4 billion in improper payments in the fiscal year 2010. Among its provisions, IPERIA would identify a list of high-priority federal programs for review of improper payments, and establish a government-wide “do not pay” list to block improper payments before they go out and to stop payments to deceased individuals, such as for Social Security.A similar bipartisan bill, S.1409, passed the U.S. Senate by unanimous consent in August.
12.12.2012	September 1, 2009 Cooper Announces Honorees for Angels in Adoption
12.12.2012	May 5, 2009 Celebrating School's Green Initiative My visit to Southside Elementary School in Lebanon was inspiring. The teachers, students and parents have embarked on a journey to be the first public elementary school in Tennessee to receive its“green flag” from the Tennessee Department of Education. April 3, 2009 Energy Reform Op-Ed from the Tennessean How can energy reform strengthen our nation? Read my op-ed from the Tennessean explaining how reform can strengthen theeconomy and save our environment.
12.12.2012	December 14, 2009 • Support for the Performance Rights Act • In the last two weeks, two major interest groups have come out in favor of the Performance Rights Act, the AFL-CIO and the American Bar Association. October 26, 2009 • It's Time to Correct a Creative Injustice • Read the my recent Roll Call Op Ed that I co-wrote with several other Members. October 15, 2009 • Performance Rights Act • Today the Senate Judiciary Committee approved the Performance Rights Act with strong bi-partisan support. The Committee made some important changes to the bill which brings it largely in line with the House version that I co-sponsor. October 8, 2009 • H.R. 650 • It was an honor to co-sponsor the Resolution recognizing that country music has made a tremendous contribution to American life and culture and declaring country music to be a uniquely American art form. July 7, 2009 • Relations between online music companies and record labels take a step in the right direction. May 29, 2009 • H.R. 476 • Today, I co-sponsored a resolution celebrating the 30th Anniversary of June as "Black Music Month." May 13, 2009 • H.R. 848 • The Performance Rights Act took a major step forward today; it was approved by the House Judiciary Committee by a vote of 21-9. April 20, 2009 • When the Music Industry Suffers, We All Suffer • Read the article Jim wrote for The City Paper February 20, 2009 • H.R. 848 • Today at the Music FIRST town hall meeting in Nashville, I announced my support as a co-sponsor of the Performance Rights Act, H.R.848.
12.12.2012	September 11, 2009 Cooper Op-Ed: Lessons of Tragedy There are at least four lessons that we should learn from the unspeakable tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001. June 7, 2009 Joint Purchasing Puts the Nation First An op-ed in Politico describes some of the problems with our current defense purchasing system. September 8, 2008 Cooper Returns from Official Visit to Middle East Says training Afghan military must be primary focus March 2008 Request for Proposals Op-ed on Roles and Missions Report in the Armed Forces Journal February 6, 2008 Cooper Talks Roles and Missions with Joint Chiefs Chairman Asks Adm. Michael Mullen why budget shares have remained static over a half-century of war and peace
12.12.2012	December 1, 2010•Cooper Comments on Fiscal Commission Report November 18, 2010 •Dark Days for a Deficit Fighter A Boston Globe article in which I discuss the state of our national deficit.November 14, 2010 •Cooper on Earmarks moratorium November 10, 2010• Fiscal Commission Report September 23, 2010 • Cooper Co-sponsors the Small Business Job Act (H.R. 5297) May 23, 2010 • Cooper Supports Reduce Unnecessary Spending ActApril 27, 2010• Cooper: "Cancel the Congressional Pay Raise" April 20, 2010•President's Debt Commission Frank Wolf (R-VA) and I weigh in on the President's Debt Commission. April 15, 2010 • Cooper writes about The Simple Return Act in The Tennessean March 15, 2010• "Sense of the House" Resolution Rep. Mike Quigley (IL-05) and I introduced a "Sense of the House" resolution that establishes fiscal goals for reigning in the national debt and the annual deficit. March 15, 2010 • Cooper Introduces Simple Return Act February 26, 2010 •Financial Report Demands Urgent Congressional Action The Treasury Department noted in its annual Financial Report that our long-term fiscal shortfall has worsened by 5.5 trillion dollars in the past year. February 17, 2010• The Recovery Act in Middle Tennessee Check out the map of the Recovery Act at work in Middle Tennessee. February 4, 2010• PAYGO Passes "Middle Tennessee families are tightening their belts and living on a budget. The Federal Government needs to do the same." January 28, 2010 • DOE Investment in Local Nissan Factory Stephen Chu, the U.S. Secretary of Energy, announced a $1.4 billion loan to Nissan. The investment is expected to bring 1,300 jobs to Tennessee.December 11, 2009•Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act I believe this act is the first step in bringing meaningful regulatory reform to Wall Street and protecting consumers from confusing and unfair financial institutions.June 9, 2009•Pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) PAYGO is not perfect, but it is a proven tool of budget discipline. It makes Congress to prioritize, paying for new spending programs or tax cuts with reciprocal spending cuts or revenue raisers elsewhere. Simply put, PAYGO forces Congress tostop digging.March 24, 2009 • Ten Trillion and Counting PBS Frontline Cooper is interviewed in a documentary exploring the national debt and its origins.March 18, 2009•SAFE Commission Cooper introduces SAFE Commission with Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA) to address the long-term budget imbalance between growing entitlement programs, such as Social Security and Medicare, and projected revenue.February 18, 2009• We Need “Swift Action” to Solve Economic Crisis Op-ed from Christian Science MonitorDecember 15, 2008• The Financial Report The Treasury Department's real, audited numbers for our government. This document is in the same format as a public company’s annual report, and uses private sector accounting. October 23, 2008•Cooper Demands Answers from Greenspan, Cox, Snow about Coming Fiscal Crisis “Have you done anything…to highlight the real numbers for America?”
12.12.2012	November 18, 2010 · Cooper Talks Deficit Crisis and Earmarks Reform November 15, 2010 · Cooper on Earmarks Ban April 21, 2010 · Cooper, Tanner Work to Stop Gerrymandering March 10, 2010 · Cooper Praises Appropriations Committee for Banning For-Profit Earmarks February 28, 2010 · Tennessean Op-Ed: Only Winner is Public that Got to See Process April 2009 · Cooper: No Earmarks for FY 2010 September 2008 · Cooper IG Reform Bill Passes Congress, Awaits President's Signature June 2008 · Subpoenaed Witnesses Evade House Oversight Committee
12.11.2012	Barrow, Cooper, Schrader to Lead Coalition in 113th Congress WASHINGTON – Members of the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition have elected their new leadership team for the 113th Congress:§Rep. John Barrow, D-Ga., Co-Chair for Administration§Rep. Jim Cooper, D-Tenn., Co-Chair for Policy§Rep. Kurt Schrader, D-Ore., Co-Chair for CommunicationsThe Coalition also formally welcomed Rep.-Elect Pete Gallego, D-Tex., into the ranks of fiscally conservative Democrats who have renewed their pledge of working in a bipartisan manner to solve the extraordinary challenges facing the nation.“I’m proud to announce that Congressmen Barrow, Cooper and Schrader will be leading the Blue Dogs in the 113th Session of Congress,” said Rep. Heath Shuler, D-N.C., current Blue Dog Co-Chair for Administration. “Each of them is a strong fiscal conservative with a history of working with both Democrats and Republicans to find balanced and bipartisan solutions. Now, and in the next Congress, the Blue Dogs will be at the negotiating table – ready and willing to work with both sides to address the fiscal cliff and the fundamental budgetary problems that face this country.” “The American people insist on a more bipartisan approach to addressing the problems we face as a nation,” said Barrow. “People are tired of the ‘all-or-nothing’ strategy of both parties in Washington. I’m honored to continue my work with the Blue Dog Coalition, and I'll continue to promote bipartisan, commonsense legislation that restores fiscal responsibility and promotes job creation across the country.”“Never have America’s challenges looked so big, and Congress looked so small,” said Cooper. “That’s why the Blue Dogs will remain an important voice in a deeply divided House, as we face our mounting national debt and looming debt ceiling.”“I am honored to serve the Blue Dog Coalition in this capacity and appreciate the trust my colleagues have instilled in me to help lead in our policy efforts,” said Schrader. “I look forward to continuing to build the Blue Dog brand by working with both Democrats and Republicans to find the most commonsense solutions to restoring our nation's fiscal health and encouraging economic opportunities here at home.”The new slate of leaders will succeed Rep. Heath Shuler, D-N.C., Rep. Mike Ross, D-Ark., and Rep. Dan Boren, D-Okla., in their posts as co-chairmen for the Coalition.
12.04.2012	Change in Water Heater Standards Will Benefit Local Manufacturers WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) and U.S. Rep. Marsha Blackburn (TN-07) both praised overwhelming passage today of H.R. 6582, a provision of which directs the U.S. Dept. of Energy (DOE) to update its energy efficiency standards to cover a broader range of water heaters manufactured in America.“This is a good example of smart regulation,” said Cooper. “Ashland City is home to A.O. Smith, the world’s largest dedicated water heater plant and the largest private employer in Cheatham County. I’m glad Middle Tennesseans can benefit from energy-efficient products made right up the road.”“This legislation finally corrects a broken regulatory system that even DOE has acknowledged needs to be fixed,” Blackburn said. “It will help put our domestic water heater manufacturers on a level playing field with their foreign competitors and has the potential to add upwards of 1,000 jobs for domestic manufacturers, many of whom call Tennessee home.”Before a rule change by the Environmental Protection Agency last February, energy standards did not cover the full range of water heaters, inadvertently driving American consumers to buy foreign-made water heaters. In order to level the playing field permanently, Rep. Cooper and Rep. Blackburn introduced the Water Heater Rating Improvement Act of 2011, which was included in H.R. 6582, a larger energy efficiency bill that passed overwhelmingly on the House floor today.
11.29.2012	What is the fiscal cliff? Congress faces over $7.5 trillion in decisions, commonly known as the "fiscal cliff," that must by made by the end of the year. If Congress does not act, in January 2013, we will face a combination of severe budget cuts (known as “sequestration”) and tax increases from expiring provisions. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said this massive fiscal cliff could completely derail our economy. For a good overview, I recommend reading the Washington Post’s “The Fiscal Cliff: Absolutely everything you could possibly need to know, in one FAQ." The brutal, across-the-board cuts are known as sequestration. These cuts are like using a lawnmower to cut your grass – and your garden. Last year’s bipartisan Budget Control Act established the Super Committee to recommend a deficit reduction package. In the event that the Super Committee failed, the Budget Control Act provided for brutal across-the-board cuts – called sequestration – to reduce the deficit by over $1 trillion. This was only set up as a mechanism to force action, not as good fiscal policy. Very few federal programs would be exempt, and the Department of Defense would receive the brunt of the cuts. The expiring provisions include, among other things, extended unemployment insurance; the “Bush” tax cuts of 2001 and 2003; the payroll tax cut enacted by President Obama in 2009; and various tax provisions such as the research and development tax credit and the state and local sales tax deduction. How would you be affected by the indiviual tax changes? Check out the Wall Street Journal's interactive graphic, Falling Over the Fiscal Cliff. Why is this important?The Congressional Budget Office has said that without a plan to avoid the fiscal cliff, our country could fall back into a recession in 2013. Credit agencies have issued warnings that the U.S. credit rating will be lowered if Congress fails to act. NPR recently ran a story about "How the Fiscal Cliff Would Hit the Economy." Links & Additional Information Fiscal Cliff Costs Fiscal Cliff Timeline Fiscal Cliff Components CRFB’s Budget Simulation Exercise Breaking Down the Sequester Report: Why Spending Cuts Alone Won’t Fix the Deficit Report: Why Taxing the Wealthy Can’t Fix the Deficit
11.28.2012	Says Congress Must Act Quickly to Avert Fiscal CliffWASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) met today with leaders of the Fix the Debt campaign, calling for swift action on a balanced, bipartisan debt reduction plan.“It would really damage our economy to go over the fiscal cliff,” Cooper said. “I’m encouraged because both President Obama and Speaker Boehner have said they are open to a balanced plan to reduce the debt. I am more confident than ever we can get a deal and think we should stay in session as long as it takes, because we lose $11 billion each day we delay.”Along with former White House chief-of-staff Erskine Bowles and former Sen. Alan Simpson, two dozen bipartisan members of Congress heard from business leaders and community advocates who support a debt deal based on spending cuts, entitlement reform, and revenue increases.In March 2012, Cooper and Rep. Steve LaTourette (R-OH) introduced the only bipartisan budget, based on the proposal from the Simpson-Bowles National Commission On Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. The Cooper-LaTourette budget would reduce the debt by more than $4 trillion over the next 10 years.Without a comprehensive debt reduction plan from Congress, in early 2013 the U.S. will face a combination of tax increases and severe budget cuts called sequestration, known collectively as the “fiscal cliff.”“This is a planned crisis,” said Cooper. “Congress has had several chances to avoid the cliff, and now we’re teetering on the edge. The debt is a bipartisan problem, and we need a bipartisan solution like Simpson-Bowles. I will keep working hard to fix this, and I hope that Americans will ask all their elected officials to do the same.”
11.27.2012	VIDEO: Cooper and the New Democrat Coalition urge immediate action on a bipartisan agreement Video of CNN 11-15-12: Cooper urges action on &amp;quot;fiscal cliff&amp;quot;
11.15.2012	Everything should be put on the table to reach a bipartisan agreement.Washington, D.C. –Today, at this critical juncture for our nation, in the midst of a fragile economic recovery, New Democrat Coalition Chair Ron Kind (WI-03), Vice Chairs Representatives Jim Himes (CT-04), Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Allyson Schwartz (PA-13) and other New Dem Members are reaching out to President Barack Obama, Speaker John Boehner, and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to work with them to secure agreement on a plan for the fiscal well-being of our economy.“We must act now. As the largest group of moderates in Congress, we are the key to bridging the gap between Republicans and Democrats. We stand by the President in support of a balanced deal that averts severe economic consequences, and we do not support calls to delay or put off the difficult decisions that are necessary for the fiscal well being of our nation. We believe everything should be put on the table—an open discussion about spending cuts and revenue. The time is now.”Earlier today, Members of the coalition and Members-Elect sent a letter urging President Obama, Speaker Boehner, and Democratic Leader Pelosi of the important role their coalition will play in reaching a comprehensive deal. “Our coalition will work with you to secure agreement on a plan of significance. Now is the time to act. Americans are ready for pragmatic solutions to address our pressing fiscal issues… Congress has a responsibility to address the fiscal situation in a way that inspires confidence in the markets and avoids further damage to our credit. That means being deliberative, responsible, and thoughtful about any short-term spending cuts that could adversely affect economic growth and job creation. We cannot have a full debate that allows us to address the multitude of issues facing our country if either side takes a potential solution off the table,” Members stated in the letter. To see a copy of the letter, please click here.Statement supported by New Dem Leadership Members, led by Chair Representative Ron Kind(WI-03), and Vice-Chairs Representative Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Jim Himes (CT-04), Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), and Representative Allyson Schwartz (PA-13).The New Democrat Coalition is dedicated to maintaining America’s standing as the world’s strongest, most successful nation. Founded in 1997, the New Dems believe firmly in the power of American ingenuity and innovation, and are focused on finding ways to foster and harness this creativity to grow our economy, create new American jobs, and ensure a safer and more secure future for our country.
11.13.2012	Lame Duck Must FlyRoll Call November 13, 2012 Rep. Jim Cooper A lot of history will be made in this lame-duck session of Congress. We are the history-makers. Campaigns are over; it’s time to act.Urgency: Every day that we wait to craft a 10-year deficit reduction plan costs America another $11 billion. That’s right, every week of delay results in a fiscal gap that is $77 billion larger. Waiting until January makes our problems $660 billion worse. Our annual deficits don’t tell the whole story; the fiscal gap is much larger.Lame Duck Must Fly: The faster we act, the easier our fiscal problems are to solve. Waiting until January—the next session of Congress—will only make our jobs more difficult, and our chance of success lower.Think Big: Our entitlement programs need reform, just like our tax code. These are huge issues that Congress is not used to dealing with. As a great architect once wrote,“Make no little plans. They have no magic to stir men’s blood and probably themselves will not be realized. Make big plans, aim high in hope and work, remembering that a noble, logical [plan] will never die.”Put America First: Don’t make any pledges other than the Oath of Office. If you have already pledged, realize that America is facing an economic emergency that voids other pledges. CBO has already said that congressional gridlock means another recession. We don’t need higher unemployment or another downgrade of our Treasury bonds. Voters will never forgive us if we keep bickering.Our retiring and defeated colleagues are obviously free to put their country first. But all of us should know that the best way to help our voters back home is to strengthen America. We must all show courage.We Are the Leaders: Understand your power as a backbencher. You elect your party leaders in Congress, and they are afraid of you. When you duck, they duck. Cut them some slack. Give them a chance to negotiate. Give them the leeway to cut deals that we, individually, might not like.If your leaders are not willing to lead, get new leaders. The time for small-ball, tactical politics is finished.Campaigns Are Over: Delete your talking points. Stop thinking in sound bites. Putting America back on track will be much more popular with voters two years from now than any grandstanding is today.It is hard to get out of the campaign mindset, especially when we House members run permanent campaigns. But you will never be further from the next election than you are today, and voters want results.Time to Govern: How do you start cooperating? It is hard to respect colleagues in the other party whom we have spent so much time and money bashing, but now we must. Voters are demanding that we work together.You don’t have to like your colleagues to negotiate with them. You do have to realize that we are all in the same boat, and that our boat is taking on water—and that millions of Americans think that Congress is the problem!Compromise Is Not a Dirty Word: Compromise is not surrender. Finding an acceptable, principled answer to our national problems is our job description. Playing the blame game is not.Elected to Congress, Not Parliament: Members of Congress vote with their political party 80% of the time. Members of Parliament vote their party 95+% of the time. Over the last decade or two, more and more members have been voting the party line too much. When you do that, you don’t need a brain; you need a leash.The final days of the 112th Congress must deal with the economic emergency that we face. A balanced, bipartisan, 10-year deficit reduction plan must pass Congress, not just the House or Senate, very soon in order to save America.If not now, when? If not us, who?Link to article in Roll Call
10.11.2012	Mark McKinnon, founder of No Labels, sent the following press release today naming Jim Cooper a problem-solver.No Labels Gives Problem-Solvers Seal to Rep. Jim CooperNo Labels Commends Tennessee Lawmaker's Commitment to Problem Solving This week No Labels gave the Problem-Solvers Seal of Approval to Rep. Jim Cooper of Tennessee's 5th Congressional District. The Problem-Solvers Seal is awarded to candidates or legislators who agree to join No Labels' emerging "Problem-Solvers Bloc," a group of lawmakers who are dedicated to working across the aisle to discuss effective, principled and pragmatic solutions to our country's problems. Cooper has committed to join the bloc. "Throughout his career in Congress, Cooper has made problem solving one of his top priorities as a lawmaker. We need more elected officials like Cooper who believe that working together and solving problems are signs of leadership, not weakness," said No Labels Co-Founder Mark McKinnon. "His continued efforts to reduce gridlock in Congress are much needed in today's Washington, and his attitude will make him a valuable addition to the No Labels' Problem-Solvers Bloc." The Problem-Solvers Bloc represents No Labels' effort to jumpstart constructive debate in Congress around America's most pressing issues. In today's Washington, Republicans and Democrats rarely meet with one another to discuss issues. With No Labels' new bloc, members will have a banner to gather under to work together to develop real solutions. No Labels began constructing this bloc in mid-2012 and has already had tremendous success recruiting current and prospective members of Congress to join. "Cooper's critical leadership on the No Budget, No Pay Act in the House and on deficit reduction has shown once again his dedication to problem solving and working across party lines to get things done," said No Labels Co-Founder Lisa Borders. "He has earned a full seal of approval from No Labels for his willingness to work across the aisle to find long-term solutions to the issues facing the American people."No Labels is a grassroots movement of Democrats, Republicans and independents dedicated to the politics of problem solving. To learn more about No Labels, please visit www.NoLabels.org.
09.21.2012	Cooper Receives Non-Partisan Award for Budget ‘Courage’WPLN September 21, 2012 By Blake Farmer Rep. Jim Cooper received an award from the non-partisan Concord Coalition Thursday night for proposing the only budget plan to gain bi-partisan support in the current Congress.’ The Nashville Democrat co-sponsored a budget based on recommendations from the Simpson-Bowles fiscal commission with Republican Steve LaTourette of Ohio. While bi-partisan, the plan received only 38 votes in the U.S. House. The duo appeared on MSNBC Thursday saying they will re-introduce their budget bill after the November election. “I’m hoping for bravery and wisdom. I hope we’ll avoid gridlock because that would be an accomplishment for this Congress. With a closer majority, we’ll have to reach out to the other party.” Concord Coalition director Robert Bixby says it salutes the courage need for members of congress to face a “wide range of powerful special interests.”
09.20.2012	Rep. Jim Cooper and Rep. Steve LaTourette discuss the fiscal cliff and the fate of their bipartisan budget proposal on MSNBC's The Daily Rundown with Chuck Todd. Interview Transcript:CHUCK TODD: You heard of it before. Simpson-Bowles, Bowles-Simpson. The commission put together by President Obama to find a solution to the country's fiscal problems containing a mix of spending cuts and tax increases designed to reduce the budget deficit to 2.2% of GDP.Everyone praised it and then everyone ran away from it. Two congressmen stepped up and introduced a plan in the House. Their efforts got them a total of 38 votes including themselves. Joining me now are the two congressman who introduced the Simpson-Bowles based budget. 38 votes. 38 votes.Congressman Cooper, how frustrating was that moment? I remember when you introduced it. I thought for sure there would be 80. I think we knew it wouldn't pass. What happened?REP. JIM COOPER: Everybody likes to talk brave. There are few people that want to be brave. We had almost 100 people indicate strong interest and 100 people had showed up at a previous press conference.But there's a big difference between that and voting. What happened on the afternoon of the vote, a lot of interest groups in America on the left and right totally hammered us. Since a lot of folks thought it wasn't going to pass any way, they cut and ran.TODD: Congressman, that does seem everyone was thinking about re-election. If you're a republican you were worried about Grover Norquist and democrats were worried about AARP or someone else bashing you over the social security provisions. It just -- I still -- all of this praise to Bowles-Simpson. Paul Ryan praised Bowles-Simpson, but voted against it.REP. STEVE LATOURETTE: Just to correct you, we never call it Bowles-Simpson. That's bs. We call it Simpson-Bowles, if we could. We had a lot of people interested in this - a lot of people are interested. The President says he's open to it, but never set up any Simpson-Bowles to Capitol Hill. You know, in that six hours between when they announced the schedule and we had the vote at 9:00 in the afternoon, people were pounded.TODD: Who was doing it? Who was whipping? Was this Eric Cantor whipping on one side and Steny Hoyer on the other? I mean, McCarthy is the Whip.LATOURETTE: No. The Whip organizations weren’t involved at all. It was outside groups. On the republican side, you had Grover Norquist. I talked to Grover that evening. He said there's a huge tax increase - $2 trillion tax increase. I said I don't think so. Groups like that, Club for Growth, Heritage Action, so on. And then on the left you had labor and AARP and variety of others.TODD: Congressman Cooper, isn't the irony here that lame duck is the only time you can do it because it's the actual furthest away from an election you can get? It’s that sort of 60-day period between the November elections and the new Congress being sworn in?COOPER: Chuck, you’re right Chuck. You know politics better than anybody. That is farthest from the next election, but it’s also an illegitimate Congress. I’m calling it the zombie Congress because at least…TODD: You think it’s an illegitimate Congress?COOPER: Well, at least a hundred Members will be unelected but they’ll still have a voting card. So, they might be braver, but they’ve also been unelected. They’ll be a big push to kick all of the problems down to next year, the real Congress, the 113th Congress.TODD: What’s your opinion on it? Should it or shouldn’t it the lame duck deal with this?COOPER: I’m for action now even before the election. We’ve got to face these problems.TODD: Aren’t you guys in recess? The House is already gone, right?COOPER: We only have three more days of Congress before we leave for the November 6 election. That’s ridiculous. We’re not even passing a Farm Bill. After the worst drought in half a century, we’re not even allowed to vote on a Farm Bill. So this is the way the modern Congress is acting. It’s not even a congress, it’s a parliament, and a very poor parliament.TODD: Alright, pick up on what Congressman Cooper said. Are you an illegitimate voter now? You’re not running for reelection, and you’re going to be in this lame duck.LATOURETTE: With all due respect to my friend, Jim, I will not have been unelected. I will not have been reelected because I chose not to run. I think if the Super Committee had been made of retiring Members, we would have had a deal. If you have a lame duck session on an issue as important as this, I think people will find the courage.TODD: What’s the election result that’s needed to force this to happen before December 31st?LATOURETTE: You know, I hate to speculate on that. My opinion would be at odds for what I wish would happen to tell you the truth.TODD: So that means, and I’ve heard this, that it’s an Obama reelection, a tie in the Senate, and a narrower House Republican majority where everybody feels as though they don’t have full-fledged power.LATOURETTE: Yes, I think that’s right. I think that scenario would embolden our Speaker Boehner to go back to the President and try and recreate that big deal they were so close to about a year and a half ago.TODD: Congressman Cooper, what do you expect to actually happen in this lame duck? I’ve heard speculation of the rejigger the sequester for a year, punt everything for six months to a year. Is that the reality here?COOPER: Well, I’m hoping for bravery and wisdom. I hope we’ll avoid gridlock because that would be an accomplishment for this Congress. With a closer majority, we’ll have to reach out to the other party and hopefully be sensible about the fiscal cliff that is rapidly approaching.TODD: And you’re going to introduce your bill, when?LATOURETTE: The day after the election.TODD: The day after the election. Congressman Cooper, Congressman LaTourette, we’ll be watching. Tennessee and Ohio together? We’ll see.
09.20.2012	Cooper to Receive Prestigious Fiscal AwardMembers of Congress Honored for Supporting Bipartisan, Deficit-Reducing BudgetWASHINGTON – The Concord Coalition, a nonpartisan organization dedicated to fiscal responsibility, announced that Rep. Jim Cooper (D-Tenn.) and 37 Congressional colleagues will receive the 2012 Paul E. Tsongas Economic Patriot Award at a ceremony tonight. Rep. Cooper and Rep. Steve LaTourette (R-Ohio) will accept the award on behalf of their House colleagues who voted in March for the Cooper-LaTourette budget based on recommendations from the Simpson-Bowles fiscal commission.“This award honors 37 brave colleagues who voted for a real solution the first time around. I have faith that number will grow,” said Rep. Cooper. “Second chances are rare and we shouldn’t pass them up. Our solution must be as big as our problem, and Simpson-Bowles fits that bill.”The Cooper-LaTourette budget was the only budget plan to receive bipartisan support in the House this year, and was widely praised by editorial boards across the country. The bipartisan duo appeared together this morning on MSNBC’s “The Daily Rundown with Chuck Todd” to discuss the fate of their budget and the looming fiscal cliff.“This is what responsible budgeting is all about,” said Robert L. Bixby, Concord’s executive director. “It is also what political leadership is all about. We salute the courage it took for these 38 members of Congress to vote for this plan in the face of strong opposition from many congressional colleagues and a wide range of powerful special interests. We will need more such courage and leadership in the months and years ahead.”In addition to Reps. Cooper and LaTourette, the Congressional honorees are: Rob Andrews (D-N.J.)Charlie Bass (R-N.H.)Dan Boren (D-Okla.)Leonard Boswell (D-Iowa)Ann Marie Buerkle (R-N.Y.)John Carney (D-Del.)James Clyburn (D-S.C.)Jim Costa (D-Calif.)Henry Cuellar (D-Texas)Charlie Dent (R-Pa.)Robert Dold (R-Ill.)Chaka Fattah (D-Pa.) Chris Gibson (R-N.Y.)Jim Himes (D-Conn.) Tim Johnson (R-Ill.)Ron Kind (D-Wis.)Rick Larsen (D-Wash.)Dan Lipinski (D-Ill.)Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.)Pat Meehan (R-Pa.)Ed Perlmutter (D-Colo.)Collin Peterson (D-Minn.)Tom Petri (R-Wis.)Todd Platts (R-Pa.)Jared Polis (D-Colo.)Mike Quigley (D-Ill.)Tom Reed (R-N.Y.)Kurt Schrader (D-Ore.)Allyson Schwartz (D-Pa.)John Shimkus (R-Ill.)Heath Shuler (D-N.C.)Mike Simpson (R-Idaho)Pete Visclosky (D-Ind.)Mel Watt (D-N.C.)Frank Wolf (R-Va.)Don Young (R-Alaska) The Paul E. Tsongas Economic Patriot Award, named for one of Concord’s founding co-chairmen, honors those who have demonstrated a commitment to fiscal and generational responsibility. Over the years it has been given to individuals of varied backgrounds and political affiliations for their lasting contributions to America’s economic health. Past winners include President Bill Clinton, former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, Senator Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), and former Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin.About the Concord CoalitionThe Concord Coalition is a nonpartisan, grassroots organization dedicated to fiscal responsibility. Former U.S. Senators Warren B. Rudman (R-N.H.) and Sam Nunn (D-Ga.) serve as Concord’s co-chairs.
09.17.2012	NASHVILLE – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) has become the first elected official this election cycle to sign a pledge promising not to lobby once he leaves Congress. "The power of money is overwhelming in Washington. I've said for years that Congress has become a farm league for K Street. Serving the public used to be considered the highest calling; now, many see it as a stepping stone to lucrative lobbying careers," said Rep. Cooper. "I'm proud to be the first elected official this cycle to pledge not to lobby after I leave Congress, and I hope others will join me." The pledge is sponsored by Rootstrikers, a national network of activists fighting the corrupting influence of money in politics, founded by Harvard Law School professor Lawrence Lessig. "A committed reformer of Congress, we could imagine no better member to be the first to take the pledge" than Rep. Cooper, said Lessig in a Huffington Post op-ed. Pledge signers promise that if they are elected, they will not profit from lobbying for 10 years after serving in Congress. Visit www.rootstrikers.org/the_no_lobbying_pledge for more information.
09.13.2012	First Annual Golden Goose Award AnnouncedOdd-Sounding Research Recognized for Benefitting Society WASHINGTON – Eight scientists, including four Nobel Prize winners, were honored today with the first annual Golden Goose Award, celebrating researchers whose seemingly odd or obscure federally funded research turned out to have a significant impact on society. The Golden Goose Award is the longtime brainchild of Rep. Jim Cooper. "We should honor, not mock, scientists. Like the fabled golden goose, today's awardees gave unexpected gifts to mankind. Budget cutbacks must be made, but science should be spared," said Rep. Cooper. The winners were honored at a ceremony on Capitol Hill, where they received their awards from a bipartisan group of members of Congress. The scientists are: Charles Townes, a physicist whose work in the 1950s led to the invention of laser technology, which at the time had no known application, but without which much of modern technology would be impossible. His work earned him a Nobel Prize in 1964. Eugene White, Rodney White, Della Roy, and the late Jon Weber, whose study of tropical coral in the 1960s led serendipitously to the development of an ideal bone graft material that is used commonly in surgery today. Martin Chalfie, Roger Tsien, and Osamu Shimomura, whose research, following Dr. Shimomura's work on how certain jellyfish glow in the dark, led to numerous medical research advances and to methods used widely by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. They won the Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 2008. The purpose of the Golden Goose Award is to demonstrate the human and economic benefits of federally funded research by highlighting examples of seemingly obscure or unusual studies that have led to major breakthroughs and have had a significant impact on society. Such breakthroughs may include development of life-saving medicines and treatments; game-changing social and behavioral insights; and major technological advances related to national security, energy, the environment, communications and public health. It was created and jointly launched by a coalition of organizations, listed below, which believe that federally funded basic scientific research is the cornerstone of American innovation and is essential to our economic growth, health, global competitiveness, and national security. The award recipients were selected by a panel of respected scientists and university research leaders, also listed below. Speaking on behalf of the sponsoring organizations, Dr. Alan Leshner, CEO of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, added, "The unexpected benefits of basic research have been huge, a point well-demonstrated by the work of the first Golden Goose awardees." Rep. Cooper and Dr. Leshner co-authored a recent op-ed in The Washington Post about the premise behind the Golden Goose Award. For more information and a list of founding organizations, visit Cooper's Golden Goose website.
09.10.2012	It's time to get serious about scienceThe Washington Post September 10, 2012 By Jim Cooper & Alan I. Leshner Some policymakers, including certain senators and members of Congress, cannot resist ridiculing any research project with an unusual title. Their press releases are perhaps already waiting in the drawer, with blanks for the name of the latest scientist being attacked. The hottest topics for ridicule involve sex, exotic animals and bugs. The champion of mocking science was the late William Proxmire, whose Golden Fleece Awards enlivened dull Senate floor proceedings from 1975 until 1988. His monthly awards became a staple of news coverage. He generated good laughs back home by talking about a "wacko" in a lab coat experimenting with something seemingly stupid. Proxmire did not invent the mad-scientist stereotype, but he did much to popularize it. The United States may now risk falling behind in scientific discoveries as other countries increase their science funding. We need to get serious about science. In fact, maybe it's time for researchers to fight back, to return a comeback for every punch line. Toward that end, we are announcing this week the winners of the first Golden Goose Awards, which recognize the often-surprising benefits of science to society. Charles H. Townes, for example, is hailed as a primary architect of laser technology. Early in his career, though, he was reportedly warned not to waste resources on an obscure technique for amplifying radiation waves into an intense, continuous stream. In 1964, he shared the Nobel Prize in Physics with Nikolay Basov and Alexander Prokhorov. Similarly, research on jellyfish nervous systems by Osamu Shimomura, Martin Chalfie and Roger Y. Tsien unexpectedly led to advances in cancer diagnosis and treatment, increased understanding of brain diseases such as Alzheimer's, and improved detection of poisons in drinking water. In 2008, the trio received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for this initially silly-seeming research. Four other Golden Goose Award winners — the late Jon Weber as well as Eugene White, Rodney White and Della Roy — developed special ceramics based on coral's microstructure that is now used in bone grafts and prosthetic eyes. Across society, we don't have to look far for examples of basic research that paid off. Larry Page and Sergey Brin, then a National Science Foundation fellow, did not intend to invent the Google search engine. Originally, they were intrigued by a mathematical challenge, so they developed an algorithm to rank Web pages. Today, Google is one of the world's most highly valued brands, employing more than 30,000 people. It is human nature to chuckle at a study titled "Acoustic Trauma in the Guinea Pig," yet this research led to a treatment for hearing loss in infants. Similar examples abound. Transformative technologies such as the Internet, fiber optics, the Global Positioning System, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computer touch-screens and lithium-ion batteries were all products of federally funded research. Yes, "the sex life of the screwworm" sounds funny. But a $250,000 study of this pest, which is lethal to livestock, has, over time, saved the U.S. cattle industry more than $20 billion. Remember: The United States itself is the product of serendipity: Columbus's voyage was government-funded. Remember, too, that basic science, the seed corn of innovation, is primarily supported by the federal government — not industry, which is typically more interested in applied research and development. While some policymakers continue to mock these kinds of efforts, researchers have remained focused on improving our quality of life. Scientific know-how, the engine of American prosperity, is especially critical amid intense budgetary pressures. Federal investments in R&D have fueled half of the nation's economic growth since World War II. This is why a bipartisan team of U.S. lawmakers joined a coalition of science, business and education leaders to launch the Golden Goose Awards. Federal support for basic science is at risk: We are already investing a smaller share of our economy in science as compared with seven other countries, including Japan, Taiwan and South Korea. Since 1999, the United States has increased R&D funding, as a percentage of the economy, by 10 percent. Over the same period, the share of R&D in the economies of Finland, Germany and Israel have grown about twice as fast. In Taiwan, it has grown five times as fast; in South Korea, six times as fast; in China; 10 times. In the United States, meanwhile, additional budget cuts have been proposed to R&D spending for non-defense areas. If budget-control negotiations fail, drastic across-the-board cuts will take effect in January that could decimate entire scientific fields. Columbus thought he knew where he was going, but he didn't know what he had found until many years later. He was searching for the Orient, but he discovered something even better: the New World. Let's honor our modern-day explorers. We need more of them. They deserve the last laugh.- Jim Cooper, a Democrat, represents Tennessee's Fifth Congressional District in the U.S. House. Alan I. Leshner is chief executive of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and executive publisher of the journal Science.
09.04.2012	WSMV Video of Congressman Cooper at the Democratic National Convention TRANSCRIPT:Congressman Jim Cooper says improving the economy remains the main focus of the convention and the president’s campaign."The key is to get your basic party message across. And Democrats are trying to say that they’re for middle class jobs. It's all about jobs in this weak economy. We want the economy to be stronger. The Nashville area is doing much better than the national average, so we should be proud of that. We need to lift the nation up though{C}{C} and make sure everybody has the opportunity to have the American dream.”
08.02.2012	From the Associated Press:"Congress is beginning its summer recess with low approval ratings and partisan gridlock. But this is not stopping the Fix Congress Now caucus, starting out with four members, out of 435. The AP's Lee Powell looks at their chances." Video of As Congress Leaves, a Cry for a Fix
08.01.2012	July 31, 2012NASHVILLE – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement after U.S. Rep. Steve LaTourette (R-OH) announced his plans to retire after the 112th Congress:"Rep. Steve LaTourette will be sorely missed in Congress, since we're increasingly devoid of calm voices from the center of the aisle. I was proud to work with him on the only bipartisan budget introduced this year, and I will be sorry to see him go."Rep. Cooper and Rep. LaTourette introduced the only bipartisan budget this past spring, modeled on the Simpson-Bowles commission's recommendations for balanced debt reduction.# # #
07.11.2012	July 11, 2012East Nashville Agency Named a Winner of First Lady's Video Contest WASHINGTON - U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) congratulated the Martha O'Bryan Center today after First Lady Michelle Obama announced that the East Nashville community agency won honorable mention in her "Let's Move! Communities on the Move" video challenge. "I hope Nashvillians will join me in applauding the Martha O'Bryan Center," said Rep. Cooper. "We're lucky to have such a dedicated organization answering the First Lady's call to action and helping families lead healthy lives, especially when our city and nation face an obesity epidemic." Martha O'Bryan's video, "Highway to Health," highlights the organization's programs focusing on food, exercise and health, and its work promoting healthy living in the Nashville area, specifically within the public and low-cost housing communities. Their video shows the Center's use of USDA's Child and Adult Care Food Program for their "Kid's Café," which serves approximately 50,000 healthy meals to children in Nashville each year. The Martha O'Bryan Center has also partnered with Fizeek, a group that teaches fitness and health education to children each week. The video can be viewed here. The Let's Move! Communities on the Move video challenge invited faith and community leaders to share their stories about their efforts to promote wellness and solve the problem of childhood obesity in their communities. Videos were submitted from 21 states, and nine winners were selected.
06.28.2012	June 28, 2012 WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement today in response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “Most American lawyers aren’t surprised by today’s Supreme Court decision, nor am I. It turns out that Obamacare, Romneycare and Robertscare are the same thing – and constitutional.” Rep. Cooper voted for the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in 2010. Long considered a health care expert, he has advocated for health care reform for two decades and has taught health policy at Vanderbilt’s Owen Graduate School of Management since 1995.
06.27.2012	June 27, 2012 WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement today about the House resolution holding Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress. “I will vote against the contempt resolution concerning Attorney General Eric Holder. “In my opinion, the House is rushing to judgment on this important issue. After hearing testimony and reviewing documents, I am not convinced a case has been made to hold an Attorney General in contempt for the first time in our nation’s history. These are serious charges and I’m concerned that my colleagues will base their votes solely on the findings of a flawed investigation by the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. As a Blue Dog Democrat who has opposed both parties when I think they are wrong, I think Congress should wait for the Dept. of Justice’s Inspector General report, which is nearing completion. The IG has had the opportunity to dig much deeper than the Committee has been able to, and is doing so in an apolitical fashion.” Rep. Cooper is a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, and voted against finding the Attorney General in contempt during a recent committee hearing.
06.22.2012	June 22, 2012 TRANSCRIPT MSNBC – Daily Rundown Speakers: Luke Russert, host Congressman Jim Cooper Congressman Reid Ribble Russert: No Budget, No Pay. That’s a new bill a bipartisan group of lawmakers is trying to push through the house. The premise: hold lawmakers to a simple work ethic. If you don’t get the budget passed each October, then you don’t get your salary. Joining me now is lead sponsor Congressman Jim Cooper, Democrat of Tennessee, and cosponsor, Republican Congressman Reid Ribble. They are here joining me now and he’s in Milwaukee. They are also a part of the Fix Congress Now Caucus. Gentlemen, welcome. Thanks so much for being here. Cooper: Good morning Luke. Ribble: Good morning Luke. Good morning Jim. Russert: Mr. Cooper, I will start with you. No Budget, No Pay. Essentially if the Congress cannot get a budget passed by October 1st, you guys don’t get paid, and you had a great quote. You said, “We’ll have engaged the most powerful lobbyists on earth to get it done, namely our spouses. They will get angry if we’re not paid.” Talk about your bill. Cooper: That’s right Luke. The idea is very simple. No work, no pay. The idea is very powerful because Congress has not been held responsible for its collective behavior. We really haven’t passed budget and appropriations bills on time in 14 years. You just talked about how 15 banks had been downgraded yesterday. America could be downgraded very shortly if we don’t get our work done on time. The deadline is October 1st. This is one of the laziest Congresses in American history. We only worked 7 days during the month of May, and we’re barely working more than that in the month of June. We’ve got no highway bill. Other essential pieces of legislation have not been passed, so it is time to take action. Russert: Mr. Ribble, this is obviously a bipartisan measure. Do you think we could see bipartisan ideas in a large scale budget? Democrats would like to see a revenue increase. Ribble: Well yeah, I think it can be done. The house has spoken. I’m a freshman member. I was in Congress about 110 days and we passed our first budget. My second year we passed it again and we passed it on time. And so on the house side as far as the Senate goes, but the Senate hasn’t acted. I think historically if you look back, almost every time there is an election year, it is not 100 percent this way, but almost every time there is an election year, the Senate and the House doesn’t come together to pass a budget, and Jim spoke a little bit about the appropriations process. We are not even getting our appropriations bills done on time, and so Jim and I and others, both Republicans and Democrats, decided that we wanted to fix this, and we are going to start to apply pressure. Coming on your show this morning will help, and the American people begin to speak up if they hear about it. Russert: Realistically speaking, what are some areas of agreement that you guys could come to in this type of bill. Could you have significant entitlement reforms? Could you have revenue increases or could you have some smaller things that might be beneficial to the citizenry? I’ll give that to Mr. Cooper. Cooper: We really need to have everything on the table. I like the Simpson-Bowles approach, but it has to be hashed out by Congress. It is not enough for the House to do its thing and the Senate to do its thing. We have got to come together as a Congress with responsibility because we live in the greatest nation on earth. We have to keep it that way. Right now we are dangerously close to not only losing our credit rating but also other forms of national weakness. I hope Congress can get its act together. Congress according to most experts on a bipartisan basis has really never been this broken. So let’s fix it, and let’s fix it now. We’ve got a few weeks left in this session. There are really only about 23 days left according to the Congressional calendar before the election we’ve got to move fast. Russert: I will ask you where do we fix it though? Where can we agree? Both of you, where can we find something we can agree and take home and sign into law? Cooper: I offered two months ago the Simpson-Bowles budget with entitlement reforms and taxes. It’s got to be done with both, but we only got 38 votes in the house. Russert: Mr. Ribble… Ribble: Well I think you’ll see it here in a few days maybe. There has been a conference committee working on the highway bill, transportation bill. We have made quite a bit of progress over the last 30 days. I think we might be able to get some things wrapped up maybe if we need an extension we’ll get it, but there has been a lot of progress on the highway bill. That has been done in a bipartisan fashion both in the Senate and in the conference committee, and I think you might actually see some things happen, but it does take pressure and it takes a certain dent of will by members of Congress to say that the American people are more important than these political careers that people have been protecting, and it is time to move some things forward. I know as a freshman member, I am pretty frustrated with the process, but I also recognize the founders set up a system that requires us to move towards consensus. We have to start talking with one another, and we have to stop demonizing ideas that the other side has. Russert: I will pose this question to both of you, and Mr. Ribble, you can go first. How much do you think Grover Norquist’s tax pledge has to do with the gridlock that we see today in Congress? Ribble: I think it is overstated. The fact of the matter is, members of Congress are going to move to do what they have to do to get this situation rectified. Obviously we can’t move at all until the Senate passes something as it relates to a budget. If they would at least pass one we could begin to talk about it together and find out where the common ground is. I think the no tax pledge has been a little bit overstated as far as how much power it has on Capitol Hill. Russert: Mr. Cooper… Cooper: Luke, I think the only oath of office that anybody should take is to the Constitution because we owe our duty to this nation, to our people, to the greatness of this nation. These other pledges really just get in the way. When 95% of one party has pledged to take one huge thing off the table, that makes negotiations really difficult. So let’s put our country first. We must do that because America is slipping, and it is slipping badly. Congress is part of that unless we fix Congress. It is really a question of like with veterinary medicine. How do you get the animal to take the pill? It has to be strong enough to work, and it has to be tasty enough for them to swallow it. Will Congress swallow this? Right now the leadership of both houses and both parties is against our proposal. We need a grassroots effort here to build support for this to get it passed in this Congress. Russert: Well I suspect you will have a difficult time this Congress, but perhaps 2013. Jim Cooper, Reid Ribble, thanks so much for joining us this morning. Cooper: Thank you Luke. Ribble: Thanks Luke.
06.19.2012	June 19, 2012 Congressman Cooper joined Rep. Berman in introducing the following statement into the Congressional Record, honoring Frances Preston. STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD– TRIBUTE TO FRANCES PRESTON Mr. Speaker I am joined by my colleagues Congressmen Steve Cohen, Jim Cooper, Marsha Blackburn, Jerrold Nadler, Howard Coble, Lamar Smith, Barney Frank, and John Conyers to honor the life and memory of one of the First Ladies of American music, Frances W. Preston, the former president and Chief Executive Officer of Broadcast Music Inc., (BMI). Frances Preston was a trailblazer who opened up doors of opportunity for a new generation of female executives in the music and entertainment industries. No barriers stopped Frances in advocating for songwriters’ rights, and on Capitol Hill, her tireless advocacy was critical in protecting the music industry. Her counsel was indispensible and we sought it often. The business acumen of Frances Preston was exceeded only by her charisma and charm, and by the respect, affection and admiration her colleagues and peers had for her. She was lauded for her empathy and for the gracious manner in which she treated every person, from the hottest star to the humblest worker. She was an exceptional executive, leader, role model and friend. With Frances at its head, BMI grew to represent over 300,000 American and foreign songwriters, composers and music publishers in licensing music, and collecting and distributing royalties from play on radio and in television, films, ads and other media. Its artists represent all types of music and its catalog contains 4.5 million works. During her 18 years as president, its revenue grew more than three times to more than $625 million. BMI has become an internationally respected leader and a unique success story as the entertainment industry has been transformed by digital technology and globalization. Sensitive to the changing world of music, Frances focused on domestic licensing, foreign performing rights, legislation for fair compensation for writers and publishers, and copyright protection. Frances joined BMI in 1958 after working in music and broadcasting in Nashville. She opened BMI’s regional office there, and led her company to preeminence in the South, signing writers and publishers with roots in both country and other types of music. In 1964, the year the Nashville BMI building opened on Music Row,Frances became a vice president of BMI – reportedly, the first woman corporate executive inTennessee. She has often been called a trailblazer in the music business but Frances was also a trailblazer among women. She was the first woman Rotarian in the state of Tennessee. She was the first woman to work with the National Chamber of Commerce. She was one of the first four women – and the first businesswoman – to be invited to join the Friars Club in New York and the first woman to serve on their board of governors. Frances was an industry pioneer and a compassionate humanitarian who touched the lives of many people, and she will be sorely missed.
05.16.2012	WASHINGTON – Today U.S. Reps. Jim Cooper (D-TN), Scott Rigell (R-VA), Reid Ribble (R-WI), and Kurt Schrader (D-OR) appeared together in front of the U.S. Capitol to send a clear message to America: Congress is broken, and they’re ready to fix it. At a press conference Wednesday, they formally launched the Fix Congress Now Caucus, a committed body of like-minded, reform-driven members, both seasoned and new to Congress.“Diagnosis is the first step to treatment,” said Cooper, who has long advocated for Congressional reform. “So I’m glad my colleagues are recognizing that Congress is broken. By tackling reform, this caucus will push for medicine – like No Budget, No Pay – that Congress could actually swallow.”The Caucus’ top priorities are reforming the benefits of Congress, addressing the inefficient and unaccountable budgeting process that leaves the country without a budget year after year, and finally, elevating the debate from the bitter partisanship now rampant in Washington.As the first practical expression of that goal, the founders, flanked by other members who have signed on to support their efforts, announced their unanimous support for HR 3643, the No Budget, No Pay Act, a bipartisan bill introduced in the House by Cooper and in the Senate by Dean Heller (R-NV). It would prohibit members of Congress from collecting pay for each day beyond Oct. 1 they’re late in passing a budget and annual spending bills. No Budget, No Pay has been endorsed by the nonpartisan citizen group No Labels, and has 49 co-sponsors in the House and 10 in the Senate. Cooper testified about the bill before the Senate in March.“The American people recognize that Washington is broken,” said Congressman Scott Rigell, a Republican from Virginia Beach. “This is underscored by the fact that the 112th Congress has an underwhelming 12 percent approval rating. It is a sobering reality that Congress is, indeed, in need of reform, and it’s time we do something about it.”Ribble, a Wisconsin freshman who sits on the House Budget Committee, said, “I ran for office for the same reason that I helped start the Fix Congress Now Caucus. I want to ensure that my children and grandchildren can experience America as it should be: the land of opportunity.“We want the Fix Congress Now Caucus to be a vehicle to correct the systemic dysfunction that has plagued Washington - regardless of party affiliation.” Ribble continued. “If our colleagues on both sides of the aisle stand with us and work toward commonsense solutions, then we can make sure that generations to come have a chance at the American dream.”Schrader, a Democrat from Oregon agreed: “One of the fundamental responsibilities of Congress is to designate a fiscally responsible budget for which the Federal government has to operate. If we cannot perform this most basic task, we have no right to be collecting a paycheck from hardworking American taxpayers who rely on us to do so.”Rigell also stressed the importance of elevating the tone of the debate in Washington from partisanship rhetoric to a more civil debate.“We must strive for a civil tone in Washington. In all debates we have here, we must seek the true facts and not question each other’s motives,” Rigell said. “But do not mistake civility for weakness. Each of us is firmly rooted in our principles, but we are also committed to seeking the common ground that Americans expect us to find to address this nation’s great challenges.”For a full list of Fix Congress Now Caucus Members and more information visit https://rigell.house.gov/FCNC.
05.10.2012	May 10, 2012 By Jim Cooper Almost every economist agrees that the American health care system is unsustainable. Medical care is so expensive that it is busting all of our budgets -- government, business, and personal. Eventually, the medical price bubble will pop. What, then, are the alternatives? In 2010, the federal government started implementing a new approach that will cover virtually everyone with health insurance while encouraging doctors and hospitals to deliver care more efficiently. Health providers are getting some 30 million more paying customers in return for agreeing to waste less money. It's called, of course, the Affordable Care Act (ACA), or Obamacare. Drafted by congressional Democrats, it bears a striking resemblance to Governor Mitt Romney's state-level reform in Massachusetts, Romneycare. Despite the popularity of most of its components, the ACA is highly controversial (constitutional issues aside) -- and also poorly understood and needlessly partisan. I like to tell opponents of the ACA that before you criticize the law, state your preference for an alternative, because -- remember -- the status quo is not an option. Republican talk of "repeal and replace" is very heavy on "repeal" and light on "replace." Repeal is great politics, because it ignites public hatred. It will not automatically lead to improvement, however, because passing major health-care reform takes many years -- even decades, if history is any guide. Repeal will almost certainly return us to the status quo, with all of its dangers. Replacement has become virtually impossible now, after the 2012 Republican primaries, because no candidate has offered a constructive alternative. The Supreme Court should also be wary of overturning the ACA, because, as even Justice Scalia noted, how can you surgically remove parts of a 2,700-page bill without killing the overall reform? Justices can only subtract, not add: their proper restraint in legislating from the bench prevents the construction of a coherent alternative. So let's cool the rhetoric. As we say in Tennessee, "Any mule can kick a barn down -- it takes a carpenter to build one." Where are the carpenters in either political party? I am the Democrat who wrote the alternative to Clintoncare (Cooper-Breaux), championed the leading alternative to Obamacare (Wyden-Bennett), and who often votes for Band-Aids that Republicans pretend are alternatives to genuine reform -- association health plans, health savings accounts, interstate insurance sales, malpractice reform, and premium support. Almost all of these centrist and Republican proposals have failed to become law, except for a few demonstration projects, even when Republicans controlled the White House and Capitol Hill. Most of these proposals never had a chance. Nevertheless, I am proud of working hard for bipartisan health-care reform. As Jefferson said, "Great innovations should not be forced on a slender majority." This is particularly true in health-care reform, because health issues are so intimate and existential. I have the battle scars to prove that there are precious few plans that could conceivably pass Congress, other than the one that recently defied the odds, the ACA. To the dismay of passionate advocates, single-payer has no chance, nor does herding Americans into high-deductible plans. Ideologues on the left and right should put their dream scenarios on hold -- let's make the ACA work. America's greatest strength has always been pragmatism. Failure to produce more workable alternatives to the ACA is probably one of the worst policy voids in American history. Like Sherlock Holmes' dog that did not bark, this dearth of alternatives is an important clue, at least to our modern political gridlock (if not our permanent decline). Why does an urgent societal problem have so few publicly offered and publicly acceptable solutions? Do we lack imagination, or is Congress unable to embrace good ideas? Don't underestimate the staying power of the status quo. As Princeton University's Paul Starr has pointed out, the $2.6 trillion that Americans spend on health care annually exactly equals $2.6 trillion in incomes. No recipient will admit to wasting any of that money. Making 17-plus percent of the nation's economy more efficient is very, very difficult. Most of my centrist reforms were borrowed from Alain Enthoven, the Stanford economist who invented "managed competition." (Don't confuse this with managed care.) Enthoven wants everyone to shop for health insurance the way federal employees have done for 40 years: by paying large-group rates for any private insurance plan that you pick from an annual menu. The sales pitch is "Buy health insurance like a congressman." Under managed competition, market forces hold government regulation and subsidies to a minimum. Clintoncare proposed and Obamacare contains many elements of managed competition, but not enough to attract major Republican support. In the meantime, at the urging of the parties' more partisan elements, health care has become the main fault line in politics. Nevertheless, despite these large and growing obstacles, people who think that bipartisanship in health care is impossible haven't tried very hard. I called my 1993 alternative "Clinton Lite" and still attracted dozens of Republican cosponsors. Before the ACA was drafted in 2009, I had recruited top liberal Democrats to lead the House version of Wyden-Bennett, along with a significant number of Republican cosponsors. Several Democrats like me have also supported Republican Band-Aid reforms. I've nearly dislocated my shoulder reaching across the aisle. In hardball politics, however, bipartisanship is never rewarded -- it simply means that you failed to negotiate hard enough. True partisans draft legislation that gives themselves everything and their enemies nothing. They love bills that repulse and even disgust the other side. Today's politics have become an all-or-nothing, black-or-white, zero-sum game -- it's not a contact sport but a blood sport. Bipartisanship is a necessary but not, of course, sufficient criterion for good legislation. Republicans forced the 2003 Medicare drug bill through Congress with the help of dozens of Democratic supporters, but not me. That bill added a record $7 trillion in unfunded liabilities to the national balance sheet despite being less costly than projected, making the ACA look fiscally responsible in comparison. Bipartisanship should never result in collusion to buy votes. The ACA is like an overdue software upgrade: painful but vital. Ideal operating systems do not exist and, even if they did, could not be installed in time. The truth is that health-care reform will always be a nuisance, with version 2.0 followed by next year's 2.1. As long as it boosts productivity, it's worth it. Remember, our old operating system is crashing. Without a feasible alternative, anyone who stands in the way of making the ACA work -- and fast -- bears an existential responsibility.
05.06.2012	May 8, 2012 Says bill would clarify law so that "we can have healthy forests and legal guitars" WASHINGTON - U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) testified before a House subcommittee today about his bill to clarify a broad federal law so that musicians, instrument retailers and resellers would no longer be subject to penalties for unknowingly possessing illegal woods. Cooper introduced the Retailers and Entertainers Lacey Implementation and Enforcement Fairness (RELIEF) Act in Oct. 2011 with Reps. Marsha Blackburn (TN-07) and Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) to clarify the Lacey Act. The Lacey Act has been effective in targeting illegal logging but threatens musicians, antique dealers, instrument manufacturers, and anyone else whose products contain rare plant materials or wood. In his testimony before the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Fisheries, Wildlife, Oceans and Insular Affairs, Cooper said: "Helping musicians like Vince Gill and Ricky Skaggs is the primary impetus of our legislation because all Americans have the constitutional right to travel. Musicians are denied that right if they cannot travel with their old instruments. "... not only are musicians and music stores in jeopardy, but other legitimate businesses such as antique dealers and lumber importers. We can help these innocent people without harming the worthy environmental goals of the Lacey Act. We can have healthy forests and legal guitars." The RELIEF Act (H.R. 3210) has drawn support from music, hardwood, business, retail and environmental groups; a full list of supporters is attached. More information about the RELIEF Act is attached and available online, including Cooper's full testimony, a one-page summary and FAQs.
05.02.2012	May 4, 2012 By Joshua Greene Representative Jim Cooper, the Tennessee Democrat, worries that zombies will destroy Washington come December. He’s identified 55 of them, and feels certain that more will be lurching around after the November election. They’ll be easy to spot, since they’ll all wear suits and gather at the Capitol. “After November 6, we’ll have a zombie Congress,” he explains. “We’ll have the 55 members who have already announced they’re retiring or seeking a different office, and we’ll have everybody who loses reelection. So they’ll literally be the living dead, except they’ll be back in Washington and have voting cards.” What concerns Cooper is that this zombie Congress will be called upon to solve a looming fiscal crisis set to strike on Jan. 1, when two huge changes are due to take place. Unless Congress acts, the Bush tax cuts that President Obama extended in 2010 will expire. And $1.2 trillion in automatic cuts to military and domestic spending — the “budget sequester” agreed to under last summer’s deal to raise the debt ceiling — will also kick in. All told, this will cause $7.5 trillion in tax hikes and spending cuts, enough to halt the fragile recovery and possibly plunge the economy back into recession. Hill staffers have dubbed this scenario “Taxmaggedon.” Perversely, the sheer horror of Taxmageddon is a source of comfort to many in Washington: They cannot imagine that the two parties will fail to strike a deal and avert disaster. In theory, there’s a plausible case for why they might be right. Last summer’s negotiations over a “grand bargain” to cut the deficit failed, at least in part, because Republicans wouldn’t accept higher taxes and didn’t have to. This time, they’ll have no choice but to negotiate in earnest, because they’ll be staring down the double-barreled threat of tax hikes on the rich and a shrunken military — a “forcing mechanism,” in Washington parlance. For Democrats, the need once again to raise the debt ceiling and prevent higher taxes on the middle class will get them to the table. And no one wants another recession. Most political insiders believe that once the election has safely passed and everyone can quit posturing, a deal will be worked out during the lame-duck session of Congress in December. But that scenario doesn’t factor in zombies. “Think ahead to what that’s going to look like,” Cooper says. “We’ll have all these goners [in Congress]. We’ll have the most divided America in our lifetime because billions of dollars will have been spent [in the campaign] making us hate each other. You can almost guarantee half the country will be sore losers. Congress isn’t going to suddenly come together and see the good in each others’ hearts.” Still, what if somehow they do? Or, more likely, are motivated by their own self-interest? The parties did manage to raise the debt ceiling and extend the Bush tax cuts during the 2010 lame duck session. Cooper has grave doubts. “That only happened because we were giving out goodies,” he says. “This time, we’re expecting a lame-duck Congress to miraculously impose extraordinary fiscal discipline to solve our long-term problems without hampering the recovery. It’s the worst possible way to make major decisions.” But his real fear is that any decision will be seen as illegitimate, so none will be made. Since the size of the zombie battalion could easily triple the Republican margin in the House (25 votes), Republican “constitutionalists” might insist on waiting for the new Congress, whose new members, though legitimate, would be powerfully disinclined to cast their first votes on the unpopular measures necessary to clean up the mess bequeathed to them by their predecessors. “They’ll view it as a death sentence!” he says. Cooper is the rare congressman willing to act now. Last month, he and Steve LaTourette, a Wisconsin Republican, forced a vote on a budget amendment modeled on the Bowles-Simpson commission’s plan to reduce the deficit, which would have prevented Taxmaggedon. It failed 38-382. As Cooper often points out, politicians have an unrivaled ability to put off tough decisions while convincing themselves, and many others, that everything will eventually work out for the best. Even so, it’s striking how few people share his alarm. If you take the recent level of congressional ineptitude and project it through December, the faith that pundits are showing in a lame-duck miracle does seem wildly misplaced. Were Taxmaggedon indeed to bite, the lone consolation would be that it would almost single-handedly solve the country’s deficit problem by doing what Congress will not: raising taxes and cutting spending. But not even Cooper, an ardent deficit hawk, relishes this scenario. “It would be the ugliest thing you can imagine,” he says. “Thoughtless, across-the-board cuts that would take a lawnmower to the budget and wouldn’t preserve investments in growth. It’d be government on autopilot. You might as well have robots in charge.” Or zombies.
05.01.2012	May 8, 2012 - In honor of the World War II veterans on the Music City Honor Flight, Congressman Jim Cooper entered the following statement into the Congressional Record. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor the World War II veterans who are flying to Washington D.C. today from Nashville, TN with Music City Honor Flight. This Honor Flight is part of a nation-wide effort to bring as many World War II veterans as possible to the memorial created here in honor of their service and in honor of the fallen. Through their selflessness, these brave men and women who served in World War II saved our country and changed the course of history. We can never adequately repay them for their sacrifice. Whether Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, or Coast Guardsman, they heroically served their Nation during our time of greatest need. It is my high privilege to welcome them to the Nation’s Capital and to honor them here today. I am proud to read into the Congressional Record the names of these distinguished veterans so that they can be recognized for their brave service and so my colleagues and I can express our gratitude. Orville Jerome Aasen, Lyttleton C. Anderson Jr., Clarence Arand, James L. Bass, James B. Batey, Jr., Douglas Beard, Dempsie G. Binkley, Winston Bowling, Eugene W. Brock, Charles J. Brown, Edward L. Buquo, Roger L. Burgess, Hugh Lafayette Callens, Russell M. Campbell, Frank A. Cantwell, James W. Carroll, Francis A. Centimole, Robert E. Chadwell, James Robert Clower, Alfred Damon Corley, James D. Craig, Fred M. Creasy, Rayford H. Danley, James L. Davis, Gerald Alvin Davis, Lloyd F. Driver, James W. Duke, Edward Eugene Durham, Lloyd C. Fisher, David Ray Fussell, Murray O. Fussell, Charles H. Gannon, Gerald Allen Gilman, Harry R. Guttridge, Herald D. Hackett, Thomas Hall Jr., Jones B. Hamlett, Wesley W. Harmon, Jackson Harris, Samuel A. Harris, William J. Harvey, Eldon H. Hatcher Jr., Harley Walter Heilman, Irvan Hardeman Hendon, Wayne Hill, Vernard E. Hixson, Leonard Hollender, Edward L. Holton, Lawrence H. Horn, Edward W. Hudson, Robert W. Hull, Nathaniel B. Johnson Jr., Robert C. Jones, Clinton D. Keel, John W. King, James Fowler Lancaster, Earl Eugene Lerch, George Lukon, Nelson Lyne, Dock H. Lyons, Joseph O. Maddux, Harry Eugene Margrave, Carl M. Martin, Henry C. McCall, Jr., Carl E. Meeks, Ledlie J. Miller Jr., Charles A. Mitchell, Dr. John Myers, Robert M. Nabors Jr., James J. Panipinto, Andrew S. Parker, Baxter Lewis Perry, David M. Pettus, Carlos F. Plott, W H Reeves, Samuel Ralph Rehorn, Eugene R. Rhue, Clarence Richards, Robert McCulloch Rock, Elmer Julius Sager, David Y. Sharpe, Milton Shearer, Robert Love Simpson, William Paul Sitton, Fred L. Stacey, John E. Stephens, Robert Merrill Stoops, Harry Richard Sturm, Glenn Swanson, James F. Tacker, Jr., Denison Taylor, W. Glenn Tinsley, Jess Titus, Glenn Tompkins, Eddie G. Wall, James E. Waugaman, Robert Conway Wilhite, Ross Williams, William E. Wingo, Henry C. Winstead, Talmadge R. Woodall, Charles Richard Zartman.
04.30.2012	April 30, 2012 The NY Times editorializes in support of Rep. Cooper’s ‘Golden Goose Award’ to recognize the return on investment of federally funded scientific research. It has been more than two decades since Senator William Proxmire issued his monthly Golden Fleece Award that often lampooned scientific projects for supposedly wasting taxpayer money. The research he singled out — to determine why prisoners want to get out of jail or document the sex life of screwworms — were easy targets, although usually there was a serious purpose. Leading scientific organizations have now announced plans for their own annual Golden Goose Award to honor seemingly frivolous research that produced big dividends. The goal is to make clear that financing for science should not be cut recklessly in pursuit of deficit reduction. They noted that research on the screwworm, a deadly cattle pest, saved the American cattle industry billions of dollars — and that Senator Proxmire eventually apologized. The idea for the Golden Goose came from Representative Jim Cooper, a Tennessee Democrat, who says he was “offended that politicians were making fun of science for their own gain.” It is being administered by such organizations as the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the Association of American Universities, representing 60 public and private research universities. While Senator Proxmire and his award are gone, the tradition lives on. Last year, Senator Tom Coburn, an Oklahoma Republican, issued a report deriding “questionable” research financed by the National Science Foundation, including a study that put shrimp on an underwater treadmill to measure their endurance when healthy and when under attack from bacteria. As silly as that may sound, it is important to aquaculture. The Democratic staff on a House science committee later sent questionnaires to the researchers whose work had been criticized, all 40 respondents said they had not been contacted by Mr. Coburn’s office to learn what the research entailed, and 34 said their work had been inaccurately portrayed. Mr. Coburn and others are right to raise concerns about waste and abuse, but they need to do their homework to ensure that projects being criticized really deserve it. Congress needs to remember that sound research is an investment in the future.
04.25.2012	April 27, 2012 WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 4628, which would extend current subsidized student loan interest rates by cutting a critically important fund for chronic disease prevention and public health. "Keeping student loan interest rates low is really important. Doubling of those rates this summer would be a disaster. We should be able to keep rates low without adding to the deficit and without harming American health care. It's up to Congress to find better budget offsets fast in order to keep student loan rates low." # # #
04.25.2012	April 25, 2012 Bipartisan Members of Congress Join Innovation-Focused Organizations to Honor Seemingly Obscure Scientific Research Leading to Major Breakthroughs WASHINGTON - U.S. Representatives Jim Cooper (D-Tenn.), Charlie Dent (R-Pa.), and Robert J. Dold (R-Ill.) today joined several business, university, scientific and public policy organizations at a Capitol Hill press conference to announce the creation of the Golden Goose Award. The new award will highlight the often unexpected or serendipitous nature of basic scientific research by honoring federally funded researchers whose work may once have been viewed as unusual, odd or obscure, but has produced important discoveries benefitting society in significant ways. Other members of Congress supporting the Golden Goose Award include Representatives Jason Altmire (D-Pa.), Rush Holt (D-N.J.) and Paul Tonko (D-N.Y.). "We've all seen reports that ridicule odd-sounding research projects as examples of government waste," said Rep. Cooper, who had the original idea for the award. "The Golden Goose Award does the opposite. It recognizes that a valuable federally funded research project may sound funny, but its purpose is no laughing matter. I hope more of my colleagues will join us in supporting, not killing, the goose that lays the golden egg." The name of the award is based on the fable about the goose that laid the golden egg. Its sponsors view America's federally funded research enterprise as an extremely valuable goose whose golden eggs are the innovations and discoveries born from basic research that transform lives and fuel the economy. It also references the "Golden Fleece Award," bestowed by the late Senator William Proxmire (D-Wisc.), on examples of what he considered to be wasteful spending. Sen. Proxmire often targeted federally funded research with his award. "Federal support for basic scientific research creates jobs, fosters innovation, and improves the American people's quality of life," said Rep. Dent. "As the Golden Goose Award will demonstrate, research supported by the federal government has led to remarkable breakthroughs and valuable scientific developments that affect our lives on a daily basis. As winners of the Golden Goose are determined by the Selection Committee, I look forward to learning more about the incredible achievements made possible by federal investment in research." "The need for productive scientific research is something that we can all agree on. Providing the tools necessary to support innovative research is an important investment for the health of our country and the world," said Rep. Dold. "Science plays an important role in our economy, as many jobs in this field go unfilled. We must continue to invest in this field and similar fields so that more people have the resources they need to find a job." Building from Rep. Cooper's original idea to highlight seemingly obscure research that has led to major breakthroughs and significant societal impact, a coalition of scientific, business, university and public policy groups have organized to launch the Golden Goose Award. These groups share the belief that federally funded basic scientific research is the cornerstone of American innovation and essential to the nation's economic growth and global competitiveness. They include: the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), the Association of American Universities (AAU), the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities (APLU), the Breakthrough Institute, the Progressive Policy Institute (PPI), The Science Coalition (TSC), and the Task Force on American Innovation. "Research is the seed corn of technology development, innovation, and economic growth. Indeed as much as half of U.S. economic growth since World War II has been the result of advances in science and technology," said Dr. Alan Leshner, CEO of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. "Yet there is an urgent need to inform policymakers and the public about the nature of basic scientific research and about the relationship between that research and the economy - we can't grow our economy if we don't fund the scientific research that supports it. This is why the message behind the Golden Goose Award is so important." The Golden Goose Award will honor federally funded researchers whose work, though seemingly obscure or odd-sounding when it took place, contributed to an important discovery or breakthrough, including development of life-saving medicines and treatments; game-changing social and behavioral insights; and major technological advances related to national security, energy, the environment, communications, and public health. Such breakthroughs may also have resulted in economic growth through the creation of new industries or companies. All of the work will have occurred in the past as the Golden Goose Award is not intended to honor current research that might lead to future breakthroughs. The first Golden Goose Awards are expected to be announced in September 2012. Awardees will be selected by a panel of outside experts. These individuals bring a broad range of perspectives to the task of assessing the significance of work done by the nominees. They include: Bruce Alberts, editor-in-chief, Science; Wendy Baldwin, President/CEO, Population Reference Bureau and former Deputy Director for Extramural Research, National Institutes of Health; Mel Bernstein, senior vice provost for research and graduate education, Northeastern University; Steve Fluharty, senior vice provost for research, University of Pennsylvania; Dennis Hall, vice provost for research and dean of the graduate school, Vanderbilt University; Sharon Hays, Vice President, Office of Science and Engineering at CSC and Associate Director for Science in the Office of Science and Technology Policy under George W. Bush; Burton Richter, Nobel Prize-winning physicist; and Leslie Tolbert, senior vice president for research, University of Arizona. About the Golden Goose founding organizations: American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS): The American Association for the Advancement of Science is an international non-profit organization dedicated to advancing science around the world by serving as an educator, leader, spokesperson and professional association. In addition to organizing membership activities, AAAS publishes the journal Science, as well as many scientific newsletters, books and reports, and spearheads programs that raise the bar of understanding for science worldwide. Association of American Universities (AAU): The Association of American Universities is an association of 59 preeminent U.S. research universities and two Canadian counterparts organized to develop and implement effective national and institutional policies supporting research and scholarship, graduate and professional education, undergraduate education, and public service in research universities. Association of Public and Land-grant Universities (APLU): Founded in 1887, the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities (A?P?L?U) is an association of public research universities, land-grant institutions, and many state public university systems. Its 219 members enroll more than 4.7 million students, award nearly one-million degrees annually, and conduct nearly two-thirds of all academic research, totaling more than $34 billion annually. As the nation's oldest higher education association, A?P?L?U is dedicated to excellence in learning, discovery and engagement. Breakthrough Institute: The Breakthrough Institute is a paradigm-shifting think tank committed to modernizing liberal thought for the 21st Century. Our core values are integrity, imagination and audacity. Our goal is to accelerate the transition to a future where all the world's inhabitants can enjoy secure, free, prosperous, and fulfilling lives on an ecologically vibrant planet. Progressive Policy Institute (PPI): The Progressive Policy Institute is an independent, innovative and high-impact D.C.-based think tank founded in 1989. As the original "idea mill" for President Bill Clinton's New Democrats, PPI has a long legacy of promoting break-the-mold ideas aimed at economic growth, national security and modern, performance-based government. Today, PPI's unique mix of political realism and policy innovation continues to make it a leading source of pragmatic and creative ideas. PPI is a non-profit, 501(c)(3) organization. The Science Coalition (TSC): The Science Coalition is a non-profit, nonpartisan organization of the nation's leading public and private research universities. It is dedicated to sustaining strong federal funding of basic scientific research as a means to stimulate the economy, spur innovation and drive America's global competitiveness. Task Force on American Innovation: The Task Force is a coalition of businesses and business organizations, scientific societies, and higher education associations founded in 2004 to advocate for greater federal investments for basic research in the physical sciences and engineering. The group focuses on the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy Office of Science, the Department of Defense research budget, the National Institute of Standards and Technology labs at the Department of Commerce, and NASA. Read media coverage of the Golden Goose Awards in The New York Times, The Washington Post, Science Insider, Inside Higher Ed, and The Chronicle of Higher Education.
04.17.2012	April 19, 2012 (WASHINGTON, D.C.) – Today, U.S. Senators Tom Coburn, M.D. (R-OK) and Mark Udall (D-CO), and House Representatives Sue Myrick (R-NC), James Lankford (R-OK), and Jim Cooper (D-TN) introduced legislation to change House and Senate rules to ensure members of Congress are informed of all existing federal programs before creating new ones. This reform would require the Congressional Research Service (CRS) to provide a “duplication score” for all legislation before consideration in Congress. Similar to a CBO estimate, which provides members of Congress with the potential cost of legislation, this duplication score would explain if the legislation to be considered creates new programs duplicative of existing federal programs. Earlier this year, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a report detailing $100 billion in possible savings by eliminating duplicative programs. A year later, the GAO released a second report as well as a follow-up report on Congress’ progress given the 2011 recommendations. Congress continues to shirk its oversight duty and create even more overlapping federal programs. The country is on the verge of bankruptcy and can no longer afford a Congress ignorant of existing federal programs that continues proposing new duplicative government efforts costing taxpayers billions of dollars we are forced to borrow from China. “It’s disappointing, to say the least, that the Senate continues to sit on the sidelines of an election year. Instead of addressing real problems facing the country, we are allowing bills that duplicate existing law to pass resulting in billions in potential savings lost each year. The only way we can restore confidence in Congress is to make hard choices and solve real problems by doing things like reforming our tax code, repairing our safety net and reducing our crushing debt burden. Doing anything less will further alienate the American people, and rightfully so,” Dr. Coburn said. “I take very seriously Congress’s role in overseeing and reforming laws to ensure that the federal government is more accountable and efficient. This amendment will allow us to go a step further in making certain that new federal programs don’t duplicate old ones. In the long run, we will save taxpayer dollars, cut government waste and redundancies, and change the culture in Washington,” said Senator Mark Udall. “The solution to every problem isn’t another government program. Spending hundreds of billions of dollars on duplicative federal programs equals waste, and we can’t get our economy on track if we keep it up. I thank my colleagues for their leadership on these resolutions, and hope they find quick passage in the House and Senate,” said Rep. Sue Myrick. “We can’t just keep throwing money at a problem and hope we can purchase a solution. Creating a surplus of duplicate federal initiatives only adds to the maze of federal bureaucracy and detracts from overall goals,” said Rep. Lankford. “By engaging the Congressional Research Service in any discussion of new federal programs, we can thoroughly assess whether legislation is adding to the litany of government programs already in existence to prevent duplication before it’s created.” “Our government is cluttered with unnecessary programs. It’s time for Congress to clean house and stop wasting taxpayer dollars,” said Rep. Cooper. Key GAO findings and examples of duplication, mismanagement and waste in 2012: • Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education. There are 209 federal STEM education programs, administered by 13 different federal agencies, costing taxpayers more than $3 billion annually. • Financial Literacy. There are 56 financial literacy programs across 20 federal agencies, according to a March 2011 survey of federal agencies. However, a subsequent analysis by GAO found that there were 15 financial literacy programs across 13 federal agencies, costing taxpayers more than $30 million annually, if a narrower definition of financial literacy is used. • Department of Justice Grants. Since 2005, Congress has spent $30 billion in overlapping Department of Justice grants for crime prevention police and victims services from more than 200 DOJ grant programs, and $3.9 billion in grants just in 2010. • Housing Assistance. In 2010, the government spent roughly $170 billion on housing related programs, of which $132 billion was forgone revenue from tax expenditures related to housing. GAO found “twenty different entities that administer 160 programs, tax expenditures, and other tools, that support homeowners and renters.” GAO also found “39 programs, tax expenditures, and other tools provide assistance for buying, selling or financing a home,” and eight programs and tax expenditures provide assistance for rental property owners.” • Support to Private Sector on Green Buildings. There are 94 federal initiatives to encourage “green building” in the private sector, all run by 11 different federal agencies. • Diesel Emissions. There are 14 programs and three tax expenditures that sole or joint purpose is to reduce diesel emissions. Thirteen of the programs provide grants and one is a loan program. GAO also identified three tax expenditures that provide incentives for owners and operators of diesel engines and vehicles. • Overseas Defense Posture. Approximately 400,000 American soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines are stationed overseas on a given day. However at least half of these military service members are in nations other than Iraq and Afghanistan. GAO recommends re-examining our overseas deployments to nations such as South Korea and Japan as well as territories such as Guam. The Concord Coalition has called this bill "a fiscally responsible proposal" that could help tackle government waste. Read the text of the House bill here. Read the 2012 GAO report here. Read the 2011 GAO report here, and a 2012 progress report on actions taken to address duplicative programs here.
04.09.2012	USA Today praises the “brave 38” who voted for the bipartisan budget.The Chicago Tribune laments the failure of the “only bipartisan budget resolution to reach the floor in more than a decade.”New York Daily News calls the budget debate “tragicomic, bipartisan dysfunction.”The Tennessean says the Simpson-Bowles budget proposal “would actually work.”The Statesman Journal explains why a Simpson-Bowles budget would be tough but necessary.The Paris Post-Intelligencer wonders why more lawmakers don’t join in doing the “right thing.”The Plain Dealer says Congress must face reality and come to a bipartisan solution.The Dallas Morning News gives the lawmakers who supported the bipartisan plan a “red badge for courage.”The Orlando Sentinel calls the plan a “budget worth backing.”The Sentinel and Enterprise pieces together the evidence and calls the House not very serious about deficit reduction.The Anniston Star denounces “Congress’ unreality.”The Spokesman Review calls the proposal “the lone legitimate compromise being offered.”The Wisconsin State Journal applauds those who “voted for progress over politics.”The Albany Times Union wonders if politicians are merely using the deficit as a talking point. The Akron Beacon Journal says the criticism from both sides indicates that Cooper and LaTourrette were on the right track. The Florida Times-Union says, “If something like the Cooper-LaTourette budget is not passed soon, America is likely to face a financial panic.”
04.02.2012	April 4, 2012 USA TodayEditorial One of the surest ways to lose all hope that Congress will ever solve the nation's toughest problems is to watch the annual debate over the federal budget, which took place in the House last week. Remember, this comes at a time when budget deficits (about $1 trillion a year) and the national debt ($15.6 trillion, counting what the nation owes itself for programs such as Social Security) constitute an increasingly urgent national crisis. What did the House do? Nothing. Democrats offered a budget that got no Republican votes. Republicans offered a budget that got no Democratic votes, but passed because the GOP controls the House. It will go nowhere in the Democratic Senate, which has no plans to take up a budget this year anyway. If that's what passes for Congress doing its job, voters will be justified in thinking they need a new Congress. But voters are just as feckless and irresponsible. They keep electing politicians who promise not to raise their taxes or cut their benefits, and they tell pollsters they don't want their representatives to compromise. What do they expect? There aren't many heroes in this soul-destroying process, but we found a tiny band of 38 — the 22 Democrats and 16 Republicans who voted for a bipartisan alternative budget based on the proposal from President Obama's fiscal commission in 2010. The budget proposed by Reps. Jim Cooper, D-Tenn., and Steven LaTourette, R-Ohio, backed a combination of the tax increases most Republicans won't vote for and the cuts in entitlement programs such as Social Security that most Democrats won't support. This, or something very much like it, is where every non-partisan budget expert and every realistic politician in Washington knows Congress will have to go to solve the budget problem. Entitlements in their current form are unsustainably expensive, and tax cuts have left revenues at historic lows, inadequate to pay for the government services Americans demand. Cooper and LaTourette both say about 100 members said they'd be with them, but then conservative and liberal organizations — groups LaTourette colorfully called "bloodsuckers" — began an unusually aggressive effort to pressure Republicans and Democrats to vote no. By the final 382-38 vote, two-thirds of Cooper's and LaTourette's allies had slunk away. Some came around afterward to sheepishly apologize. One member, says Cooper, told him that if he hadn't voted no, his favorite lobbyist would have been fired. In case you wondered how budget policy gets made in Washington, there's a clue. Fixing the budget problem will only get harder, especially at the end of this year, when the debt limit will run out again, the Bush tax cuts are set to expire and punishing spending cuts will go into effect. The belief that this fall's election will clarify voter sentiment and make the job easier is naive. Voters almost always send mixed messages. The job of representatives in a democracy is to govern, which requires compromise. The fact that only 38 members of the House did so is shameful. The Brave 38 •16 Republicans: Charles Bass, N.H. Ann Marie Buerkle, N.Y. Charlie Dent, Pa. Robert Dold, Ill. Chris Gibson, N.Y. Timothy Johnson, Ill. Steve LaTourette, Ohio Cynthia Lummis, Wyo. Patrick Meehan, Pa. Tom Petri, Wis. Todd Platts, Pa. Tom Reed, N.Y. John Shimkus, Ill. Mike Simpson, Idaho Frank Wolf, Va. Don Young, Alaska •22 Democrats: Robert Andrews, N.J. Dan Boren, Okla. Leonard Boswell, Iowa John Carney, Del. James Clyburn, S.C. Jim Cooper, Tenn. Jim Costa, Calif. Henry Cuellar, Texas Chaka Fattah, Pa. Jim Himes, Conn. Ron Kind, Wis. Rick Larsen, Wash. Dan Lipinski, Ill. Ed Perlmutter, Colo. Collin Peterson, Minn. Jared Polis, Colo. Mike Quigley, Ill. Kurt Schrader, Ore. Allyson Schwartz, Pa. Heath Shuler, N.C. Pete Visclosky, Ind. Mel Watt, N.C.
04.02.2012	April 4, 2012 The New York TimesBy Jonathan Weisman WASHINGTON — As the House moved toward a vote last week on a bipartisan budget plan modeled on the deficit reduction blueprint of a White House commission, Washington’s conservative and liberal influence machines swung into action. Within hours, Grover Norquist’s Americans for Tax Reform joined Heritage Action for America, the Club for Growth, the Heritage Foundation and assorted conservative bloggers in coming out hard against the plan as an unacceptable tax increase. On the left, the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, and research groups like the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities denounced the effort as a sham, disguised as the Bowles-Simpson commission report but tilted to the right. But the plan that its sponsors, Representatives Steven C. LaTourette, Republican of Ohio, and Jim Cooper, Democrat of Tennessee, swore would get at least 100 votes across party lines got just 38, and the prospects for compromise on the nation’s yawning deficit took a major step backward. “There are only two things in the middle of the road,” said Mr. Cooper, “yellow lines and dead possums.” The beating the Cooper-LaTourette budget took last Wednesday shined a bright light on the difficulties Congress faces of defusing the budgetary time bomb before it explodes on Jan. 1, 2013. If Congress does nothing, that is when nearly $8 trillion in tax increases and automatic spending cuts over 10 years will go into force — salvation perhaps for the nation’s budget deficit but potential disaster for its delicate economy. The Bowles-Simpson deficit plan - named after the former Clinton White House chief of staff Erskine B. Bowles and former Senator Alan K. Simpson, the Republican who was chairman of President Obama’s deficit reduction commission — is regarded by the Washington cognoscenti as the compromise both sides will have to eventually accept before the end of the year. “When the two parties get serious about compromise and getting something done that reduces the deficit by $4 trillion over the next decade, they will turn to something substantive that is very similar to what we have proposed,” Mr. Bowles said in an e-mail exchange. “There just aren’t that many other viable options.” But last week’s blowout showed the opposition to any such compromise is far more organized than the forces of conciliation. The conventional wisdom that a major deficit deal will be worked out in a lame-duck Congressional session after the November election is making a dangerous leap of faith, Mr. Cooper said. It assumes that after a bruising election, the defeated political party will limp back to Washington ready to give in to the victor. If not, the victorious side will quickly undo the most onerous automatic deficit reduction measures early next year. “They’re going to lose the Senate, and they’re going to lose the White House, and the Republicans are going to fix this problem,” Mr. Norquist said. The need for compromise is “nonsense,” he said. “It won’t happen. It doesn’t need to happen.” But that scenario depends on a clean win by one side or the other and once-in-a-generation changes to programs like Medicare and Medicaid done through parliamentary procedures to avoid a Senate filibuster. “The traditional political cure-all is just elect more Democrats or Republicans,” Mr. Cooper said. “They’ll stick to that until Nov. 6. Then they’ll wake up and realize it won’t work.” The Cooper-LaTourette budget was proposed auspiciously last Tuesday morning in a closed-door meeting of House Democrats. Initially, only the proponents of the Democratic leadership’s budget plan, as well as the budget proposals by the Congressional Black Caucus and the Progressive Caucus, were to make their case, but Mr. Cooper’s bipartisan plan was given a chance at the last moment. He implored his colleagues to vote for the Democratic leadership plan, as well as one other that reflected the views of their district. Many members gave him their word they would vote for the only bipartisan budget on offer, he said. Mr. Norquist said conservatives began focusing on the issue the day of the vote. He personally called Mr. LaTourette as well as Representative Charles Bass of New Hampshire, a once moderate Republican who came back after his 2006 defeat with a swing to the right. Both Heritage Action and Club for Growth announced their opposition and said a vote for the Simpson-Bowles budget would count against members in their conservative vote ratings. The groups had voiced concern about the Republican budget drafted by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the House Budget Committee chairman, but they were rallying to it. “We wanted to unify Republicans around Ryan, handle the ‘Mediscare’ attacks from left, and force the conversation to be between right and left,” said Michael A. Needham, chief executive of Heritage Action. “Bowles-Simpson would muddy the message.” With support draining away, Mr. LaTourette went to the House floor with a pointed message to Mr. Norquist, who enforces the “no tax increase” pledge signed by almost all Republican lawmakers. “We’re asking that members tonight stand up, that they stand up to the bloodsuckers in this town who take 5, 10, 15, 25 dollars from our constituents to pretend to defend causes on their behalf,” Mr. LaTourette said. “We’re asking people to stand up to pledges that they made 20 years ago when we didn’t have a 15 trillion deficit owed to China.” It didn’t work. Republicans stayed with their leadership. Even Democrats who were publicly pledged to back Bowles-Simpson voted no. If only Democrats joined Mr. Cooper and Mr. LaTourette, that budget would not be the final compromise but the Democratic starting position for future negotiations, aides said. “I wasn’t surprised at the attacks from the left and right. I was surprised at the ferocity of the attacks,” Mr. LaTourette said. “I got clobbered by some real pros.”
04.01.2012	March 30, 2012 The Tennessean By Rep. Jim Cooper I’ve been trying to get Congress to behave better, and that’s a frustrating job. There are so many areas for improvement that it’s hard to know where to start. So I thought I’d start simple, real simple. Congress should pay its bills on time. That principle should be obvious but, at least on Capitol Hill, very few people believe it. Many colleagues in Congress think that deadlines don’t apply to them. They act like they are above the law, because they write the laws. In fairness to my colleagues, their disdain for deadlines used to be harmless. After all, Congress has not passed a budget and all its 12 appropriations bills on time since 1995. Key agencies have often been funded month-by-month, or week-by-week. Start/stop government is no way to run a superpower, yet hardly anyone noticed until the delays threatened total government shutdown. Finally, America’s patience snapped. Congressional delays got so bad last summer that America neared default for the first time in our history. After months of watching partisan wrangling, bond markets got tired of waiting for Congress to pay its bills. Some investors even worried that the national debt was so large that Congress couldn’t pay its bills. Delay breeds larger fears. We lost our historic AAA credit rating. Despite congressional misbehavior, we got a lucky break. Instead of being punished, interest rates on Treasury bonds improved. In a normal market, worse risks pay higher rates. But America’s role as safe haven of the world saved us. We were bad but other nations were worse. Investors still wanted to loan us money. Will we be so lucky next time? No one knows, but most experts doubt it. We certainly don’t have room for error like we used to. We’re running out of excuses for being late and reckless. Next time, interest rates could spike. That’s why I have authored legislation to force Congress to start meeting its key financial deadlines. Congress would be required to pass a budget and all appropriations bills by Oct. 1 of each year, or not get paid. This would start in 2013, the first year that such a law could be constitutional. Will this law work any better than existing ones? How do you keep lawmakers from becoming lawbreakers? The key is to align congressional interests with the public’s interest. Here’s a dirty congressional secret. Some colleagues benefit from today’s delays. Mundane tasks like bill-paying suddenly become exciting, at the risk of damaging our national credit. Congressmen have the chance to be heroes by championing interests or coping with crisis, even when the crisis is self-created. Publicity is gold in politics. My bill not only drains the excitement from delay, it also enlists the most powerful lobbyists to persuade Congress to do the right thing. The spouse of every congressman will suddenly start demanding that they get the job done on time once they know that their paychecks are threatened. When these interests are aligned, Congress will get in line. Threatening congressional pay is a new approach to disciplining Congress. Critics call it a gimmick. I think it’s because they are afraid it will work. I’m always interested in a better solution, but America is running out of time and patience. Congress simply cannot shirk its duties any more. We already have 40 cosponsors on my bill, H.R. 3643, “No Budget, No Pay,” including some members of the Tennessee delegation, but we need more. Please contact members outside Tennessee to get them to cosponsor. Deadlines work. Congress should, too.
03.30.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement upon House consideration of the budget alternative he and Rep. Steven LaTourette (OH-14) introduced yesterday, which follows principles outlined by the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, co-chaired by former Sen. Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles. “The bipartisan Simpson-Bowles plan had been vetted, but never tested. Powerful special interests and the leaders of both parties opposed it tonight, but 38 brave souls were willing to do the right thing for the country. When we eventually solve our nation’s deficit problem, the final blueprint will look like this.” A number of budget experts issued statements in support of the Cooper-LaTourette budget amendment:Erskine Bowles, Co-Chair, National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform and former Sen. Alan Simpson, Co-Chair, National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility “We strongly and enthusiastically support the bipartisan budget alternative being offered by Congressmen Jim Cooper and Steve LaTourette. The amendment they have put forward is very consistent with the principles, policies and framework in the plan recommended by a bipartisan majority of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform ("Simpson-Bowles Commission") updated to reflect actions taken by Congress and the President since the report was released. “Because the Cooper-LaTourette budget follows the approach of putting everything on the table, it is coming under attack from partisan interests from both ends of the spectrum. We hope that Members of Congress will ignore these scare tactics and look at the substance of the recommendations in our report. Those recommendations, which are reflected in the Cooper-LaTourette budget, demonstrate that it is possible to raise revenues for deficit reduction through pro-growth tax reforms that reduce tax rates for individuals and businesses. Likewise, our plan demonstrates that it is possible to reform entitlement programs to make them fiscally sound for future generations in a way that preserves and strengthens protections for the most vulnerable in society. “Congressmen Cooper and LaTourette and the other members sponsoring this bipartisan budget alternative - Kurt Schrader, Charlie Bass, Mike Quigley, Robert Dold and Jim Costa -- have put partisanship aside and stepped forward to make the tough decisions our nation needs to put our fiscal house in order. They are brave leaders who deserve the thanks of everyone who cares about our nation’s future.”Former U.S. Sen. Pete Domenici and Dr. Alice Rivlin, co-chairs of the Bipartisan Policy Center’s Debt Reduction Task Force “The budget resolution proposed by Congressmen Jim Cooper and Steven LaTourette becomes the first truly bipartisan budget effort in the House of Representatives to recognize the need for both spending reform and a tax reform initiative that increases revenues for the future … We hope that the full House of Representatives recognizes the breakthrough contained in the Cooper-LaTourette budget and passes their budget. “The courage of the members who are supporting the Cooper-LaTourette budget shows that a vital middle can exist in Congress, despite the deeply polarized ideological atmosphere of the recent past …”Maya MacGuineas, President, Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget “These courageous lawmakers have shown that debt reduction need not be a partisan and divisive issue, and that we can put the national interest above all else. In a time of so many partisan proposals for dealing with rising debt, it is truly a breath of fresh air to see these leaders working together on a bipartisan solution - one that makes the tough choices to set the country on the right path.”Robert Bixby, Executive Director, Concord Coalition “This budget amendment is a major breakthrough. It gives House members a chance to consider a bipartisan deficit-reduction plan that achieves significant savings from all parts of the budget. More than any other plan under consideration, it puts results ahead of ideological purity. “We commend the House members in both parties who are supporting this effort to follow up on the commission’s recommendations, and we encourage other members of Congress to join them in pushing for comprehensive and balanced deficit reduction … We hope that this week’s bipartisan budget plan in the House will encourage renewed efforts to follow up on Simpson-Bowles in the Senate as well. This will of course be difficult in an election year. But our fiscal challenges are so large that we simply cannot afford to wait.”Michael A. Peterson, Vice Chairman, Peter G. Peterson Foundation “Representatives Cooper and LaTourette have displayed courage and leadership by putting party ideology aside and working together to foster a bipartisan approach to our long-term fiscal challenges. “In an era of divided government, the only viable fiscal plan is a bipartisan fiscal plan. The House Republican Budget and the Administration Budget reflect the priorities of their own parties, but to address this critical national imperative successfully, both parties will need to make concessions from their preferred positions. “The Cooper-LaTourette amendment illustrates the types of choices that must be considered if we are going to get our fiscal house in order. Though this first vote was unsuccessful, Representatives Cooper and LaTourette and their supporters have demonstrated a constructive model of the type of bipartisan legislative framework that is necessary to solve our nation’s fiscal challenges.”Stephen Ellis, Vice President, Taxpayers for Common Sense “Simpson-Bowles … revealed that even in the hyper-partisan budget resolution debate, there were members of both parties willing to come together to figure out a way forward out of our fiscal mess. These votes showed courage and leadership. We look forward to working with these lawmakers and others to get our spending, revenue and entitlement house in order.” Read the budget proposal here:Cooper-LaTourette Amendment.pdf A one-page summary may be found here: Simpson-Bowles Budget Summary.pdf
03.29.2012	TRANSCRIPT Mr. COOPER. I thank the gentlelady for yielding. Unfortunately, this is one of the most partisan weeks in Washington as each side presents its own budget. I urge Members to weigh these budgets very carefully. Unfortunately, we have very little time to do so. The entire debate for the Republican and Democrat budgets is some 4 hours. There will be many alternative budgets presented. The one that I am most interested in, the Simpson-Bowles-endorsed budget, will come up later tonight, which is a big schedule change since it hadn't been expected until tomorrow. We will have a total of 10 minutes to explain the only bipartisan budget that will be offered. There are six or seven budgets being offered, but there is only one that is bipartisan. There are many excellent features in the Democratic budget and in the Republican budget, but there is only one that has the support of folks on both sides of the aisle. I hope that Members choose carefully even in this, the most partisan of weeks, because it's almost a David versus Goliath situation when you have 10 minutes versus 4 hours. I hope that Members will look at the details of these budgets and will realize that hidden in the details are lots of massive changes to lots of massive programs. Yet, if we don't let ideology control, if we look at the basics and realize that America does have a deficit and debt problem, as the White House acknowledges and as our Republican friends acknowledge, if we respect each other and understand that we have to have real revenues and entitlement reform, there is still really only one plan that offers both. I did not originate it, but I'm thankful that Simpson and Bowles, with their report of a year and a half ago, introduced such a plan. Tonight, later in the debate, in an hour or two, Members will have the first opportunity in either the House or the Senate to consider that. So these are very important issues that we're facing. I wish it were not a David and Goliath sort of situation. It's almost like David versus two Goliaths, because the institutional infrastructure in Washington supporting either the Republican budget or the Democratic budget is massive. I think that once you look at the fundamentals, you see that there has got to be a way in which Americans can work together. The folks I hear from back home – and I assume it's true in every state – want us to stop the partisan bickering and want to us work together. I am thankful that our Republican friends allowed the Simpson-Bowles bipartisan budget to be considered, but for Members to only have 10 minutes of debate to consider it is going to be very difficult. So I'm hopeful that Members, as they're sitting in their offices tonight, as they're interrupting their dinners, as they're contemplating these issues, will focus not only on the important Joint Economic Committee issues that have been raised by both sides this evening but that they will also focus on the details of the budgets they're about to vote on. We had anticipated that the vote on the Simpson-Bowles alternative would be tomorrow morning, which is what we had been told, but an hour or so ago, they suddenly had a change of plans. We feel that we're gaining momentum, and I think that's evidenced by the fact that most folks of the interest groups in Washington are gearing up to either support us or to oppose us, so I think that Members should weigh their decisions tonight very carefully. Mr. COOPER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume. I have the honor tonight of representing the budget that is endorsed by Simpson and Bowles. This is the only bipartisan budget that the House of Representatives will be able to consider in this budget cycle. This is the first time that a Simpson-Bowles budget has been allowed on the floor of the House or the Senate. This is a historic night, and I hope that Members will appreciate this opportunity. This is one of the most partisan weeks in Washington, and this is the only bipartisan way to solve the Nation's problems. This is the only budget that has a chance of getting through both the House and the Senate. I hope Members will appreciate this opportunity. Members have expressed interest, but in this partisan week, we've been hammered by forces on both the left and the right, people who do not want America to solve its problems in a sensible and fair manner. To illustrate what we're doing here, the Wall Street Journal today had a graph of the different budget alternatives. The top line here is assuming current policies. It is clear trouble for the Nation because we're not reducing the deficit. The blue line here is the White House budget, which makes considerable progress in solving our problems. The bottom line here is the GOP plan, which is tough and completely partisan. There's not a single Democrat in the country that will support that. So it's a budget to nowhere. It's a bridge to nowhere. In between the White House budget and the GOP plan is the bipartisanship proposal, the Simpson-Bowles-endorsed budget. It's very tough on deficits, it gets the job done, and it gets the job done in a bipartisan fashion. I hope my colleagues will focus on this budget alternative. We have precious few minutes to debate this, a total of 15 minutes, when the other side had 4 hours. This is a David versus Goliath situation. But I hope not only Members of this body will pay attention, but the public back home, because they want us to solve our problems in a peaceable and fair fashion. They're tired of political bickering. We have the chance in this House tonight to stop the political bickering and pass a good, tough, and fair budget for America. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. Mr. COOPER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the balance of my time. On November 2 of last fall, 100 of our colleagues signed a letter, the so-called “go big” letter, urging the Super Committee to do the right thing. And let me quote: To succeed, all options for mandatory and discretionary spending and revenues must be on the table. In addition, we know from other bipartisan frameworks that a target of some $4 trillion in deficit reduction is necessary to stabilize our debt as a share of the economy. This is what the Simpson-Bowles budget does, and only the Simpson-Bowles budget. For those of my colleagues who are worried about certain features of this, do not confuse the Simpson-Bowles report with a budget. A budget is just a framework. It's an outline. It instructs the committees to come up with certain savings, and the committees have the discretion to come up with those savings in whatever way they choose. It's true that the Simpson-Bowles report is one way of achieving those savings, but this is a guide, a target for the committees of jurisdiction. That's what we must do tonight and do on a bipartisan basis. We must come together for the good of the country. We must put our Nation first. We must set partisanship aside. This is the only way that we can pass a budget in the House and Senate this year, which we must have. It's easy to be critical; it's hard to perform. Let's make it happen for America tonight. We have an opportunity within our hands to give the United States a budget. All of the other plans are purely partisan and they don't have a prayer. Let's build a bridge to the future. Let's build a real budget that can pass both Houses of Congress. I urge my colleagues to support the Simpson-Bowles-endorsed alternative budget. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
03.29.2012	TRANSCRIPT TODD: Finally, So much for Bowles-Simpson’s popularity. The plan finally got a real vote last night in the House. Boy, and it was not pretty. The House dealt a crushing blow to this bipartisan budget based on findings by the President’s fiscal commission. It failed 38-382. Just 16 Republicans and 22 Democrats voting for. We’re scrolling it on the screen if you want to pause and see every member. In November, more than a hundred lawmakers from both parties endorsed the idea of “going big,” and sponsor Ohio Congressman LaTourette told reporters earlier in the day, he hoped to match that number. The bill’s sponsors gave an impassioned appeal on the floor: COOPER: We must come together for the good of the country. We must put our nation first. We must set partisanship aside. LATOURETTE: The mood in the country is “throw the bums out. Throw ‘em all out and replace them with new people.” Americans are screaming for us to take off our red jerseys on this side, to take off the blue jerseys on that side. I’ve heard a lot of people say that this is hard work. That, “not now.” Well if not now, when? And if not this, what? Ever? TODD: Last night, lawmakers went out of their way to praise the two men and the bill’s sponsors, and then they voted against it. RYAN: Amen for bringing a plan to the table. I have tremendous respect for Erkine Bowles and Alan Simpson, and Jim Cooper and Steve LaTourette. I just don’t like the substance of it. TODD: He’s voted against Bowles-Simpson now twice. And Democratic Whip, Steny Hoyer, an original “let’s go big” backer said in a statement, “to achieve a big and balanced deficit reduction package, we must build a broad consensus. The budget substitute offered tonight came to the floor before that broad consensus could be achieved, which is why I voted against it.” Ok, then. Whatever. By the way, 14 Republicans who signed Grover Norquist’s tax pledge did buck Norquist and vote for the bill. Last night the House also defeated a political document that was based on the President’s budget 0-414, but there’s a caveat: it wasn’t the President’s budget. The House voted on a summary of the numbers in an amendment offered by Republican Congressman Mick Mulvaney. Bottom line: it was a gimmick.
03.27.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) and U.S. Rep. Steven LaTourette (OH-14) announced today that they have filed a federal budget alternative based on principles outlined last year by the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, co-chaired by former Sen. Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles. They are joined by U.S. Reps. Charlie Bass (NH-2), Mike Quigley (IL-5), Tom Reed (NY-29), and Kurt Schrader (OR-5). The Simpson-Bowles budget alternative, which has been endorsed by the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, would trim the deficit by more than $4 trillion over the next 10 years. It would put our debt-to-GDP ratio on a downward trajectory, decreasing to 67.9 percent in 2022. Two-thirds of the deficit savings would come from spending cuts and one-third from tax reform. The budget alternative would repeal the sequester enacted by the August Budget Control Act, replacing the automatic, across-the-board cuts due to begin in Jan. 2013 with a comprehensive, balanced plan for deficit reduction. "The budget debate so far has been completely partisan, and our proposal is the only one with support from both parties,” said Cooper. “Republicans and Democrats need to get serious about our deficit and this is the only real plan that will restore America’s financial strength.” “The bipartisan budget I support is based on the sound, sober recommendations of the Simpson-Bowles budget where everything is on the table and we trim more than $4 trillion off the deficit,” said LaTourette. “I’m tired of passing bills in the House, watching them die in the Senate and pretending that counts as success. Americans want us to work together like adults, pass a budget with bipartisan support in both Houses and have it signed into law. A partisan budget is not the way to go, and the budget modeled after Simpson-Bowles is the only vehicle to get us there.” “I am so very encouraged to see members of both parties working together to put forward a bold and comprehensive budget plan that looks at all parts of the budget and leave no sacred cows out on the range,” said Simpson. “I believe that if members of Congress step up and agree to a bold plan like this, they will have the true respect and support of the American public.” “Congressmen Cooper and LaTourette, and all members who support their budget alternative, should be commended for having the courage to support a comprehensive fiscal plan that accepts the difficult truths about the size and scope of the problem and represents the kind of broad based reform we are going to have to adopt to avoid a crisis,” said Bowles. “The approach they have put forward represents the best hope for achieving the broad, bipartisan support necessary to enact a serious fiscal consolidation package.” Like all budget proposals, the Simpson-Bowles alternative provides a blueprint for the committees of jurisdiction, which must determine how spending cuts should be made. Read the budget fact sheet Simpson-Bowles Summary for Website.pdf and the budget amendment Cooper-LaTourette Amendment.pdf.
03.22.2012	March 20, 2012 The Hill By Rep. Jim Cooper Everyone inside the Beltway knows that Congress is in dire need of strong medicine, and 90 percent of Americans agree. Congress as a whole is less popular than it’s been since polling was invented. Unfortunately, too few of my colleagues are listening and focusing their efforts on healing the sick branch of government. I’ve been working on fundamental reforms in Congress for many years, including a book published in 2006 and a major speech at Harvard last year. I am delighted that we have a rare chance this year to turn reform ideas into reality. Last week, I joined my colleague Sen. Dean Heller (R-Nev.) in testifying before the Senate Homeland Security & Governmental Affairs Committee about our No Budget, No Pay Act. This bill would keep members of Congress from getting paid if we don’t pass a budget and spending bills on time. Pay could not be recouped retroactively. Why such a drastic measure? Congress has missed so many budget and appropriations deadlines over the years that no one takes these deadlines seriously. For far too long, we have run government by continuing resolutions instead of annual appropriations. We often fund programs on a short-term basis, sometimes month-to-month or even week-to-week. Political standoffs have even led to complete government shutdowns. This is inexcusable. We no longer have “one nation, under God, indivisible,” but "one nation, yet again, interrupted.” Our start/stop government is giving everyone whiplash. America is the injured victim. Congress used to be able to get away with it, but no more. For the first time in history, Standard & Poor’s downgraded U.S. Treasury bonds last summer because of our budget deficits and political bickering. S&P’s negative outlook on congressional management continues. We face further downgrades unless Congress begins acting responsibly. I am encouraged, however, because the Senate hearing was the first institutional indication that Congress knows it is sick. No Budget, No Pay is unpopular with some members, but we have a growing list of several dozen co-sponsors. In a normal year, reform efforts like No Budget, No Pay would have zero chance of becoming law. Business-as-usual would prevail. This year, however, is different. The public is tired of our blame games. The nonpartisan citizen group No Labels is strongly supporting the legislation with its national advocacy network. Our cause is gaining momentum, even with our most stubborn colleagues. Will Congress be able to heal itself? I hope so. I revere Congress as an institution, and I love it enough to tell the truth, even when it is difficult to hear. Our challenge is to find reforms that Congress will swallow. The best medicine won’t work if Congress gags, but more palatable reforms must be strong enough to work. Congress is its own doctor; neither the President nor the Supreme Court can save us. This election year, many of our colleagues will be choosing either reform or defeat; I am hoping that they will choose reform.
03.19.2012	Cooper Touts “No Budget, No Pay” Proposal To Senate Panel WPLN March 15, 2012 By Matt Laslo A surprised Jim Cooper was met by cheering activists Wednesday before he testified about reforming the congressional budget process. The Nashville Democrat was invited to a Senate committee to speak about his “No Budget, No Pay” bill. A crowd of government reform activists welcomed Congressman Cooper with rally-like applause. He, in turn, was startled by a request to address the group minutes before the hearing began. Cooper obliged, but then sat down before senators to deliver a serious message about tackling the national debt. Congress hasn’t passed a budget in more than one thousand days. And Cooper wants his lawmakers to forego their pay until they carry through with that constitutional responsibility. “I’m afraid that our start-stop government is giving everybody whiplash. America is the victim, and Congress is simply not able to get away with this reckless driving anymore.” But Cooper’s proposal did receive some push-back from one congressional scholar. Donald Wolfensberger of the Wilson Center says the bill is unrealistic – both politically and practically. He says it would only continue to paint a picture of Congress as being completely gridlocked, when serious, and often appropriate, disagreements occur over the budget. Cooper’s “No Budget, No Pay” legislation is supported by six Senators and 34 House members, including Tennessee Republicans Diane Black and Scott DesJarlais. Cooper made his appearance at the request of Senators Joseph Leiberman and Susan Collins.
03.19.2012	Cooper's 'no budget, no pay' bill gains momentum The Tennessean March 15, 2012 By Elizabeth Bewley WASHINGTON — A long-shot proposal by Democratic Rep. Jim Cooper to cut off lawmakers’ pay when they miss budget deadlines is gaining traction in Congress. The Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee held a hearing Wednesday on the measure, which would cut off lawmakers’ pay if they fail to pass an overall budget and all 12 spending bills financing government agencies before the Oct. 1 beginning of each fiscal year. Lawmakers couldn’t be paid retroactively, either. Cooper introduced the bill in December after one of his Nashville constituents asked him why Congress could miss its deadlines while the public had to pay taxes on time, he said. Tennessee Republican Reps. Diane Black and Scott DesJarlais are among the bill’s 34 House co-sponsors. Republican Sen. Dean Heller of Nevada introduced a similar bill in the Senate with six co-sponsors. Critics see the proposal as an election-year gimmick that won’t go anywhere on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers miss budget deadlines far more frequently than they meet them. It’s been three years since Congress passed a full budget measure through the normal legislative process, and 14 years since it passed all spending bills on time. Congressional budgets aren’t strictly necessary because they are non-binding resolutions that set targets for later spending bills. But delays in passing spending bills have led to threats of government shutdown and uncertainty about funding levels for popular programs. “Congress has missed so many budget and appropriations deadlines that really no one takes these deadlines seriously,” Cooper testified at Wednesday’s hearing. “We run government on a month-to-month, even week-to-week basis. This is no way to run a superpower.” Cooper said his proposal would stand “zero chance of passage” in a normal year, but it’s gaining momentum as congressional approval ratings hover near single digits. “I think this year is different,” he said. “I think the public is so tired of our blame games that we’re going to act.” Idea is popular Eighty-eight percent of people polled think members of Congress should not be paid unless they pass budgets on time, according to a recent survey by the centrist group No Labels. Cooper’s proposal is one of the 12 steps the 500,000-member group recommended to reduce gridlock in Congress. “We’re at one of those junctures in American history where good judgment and good politics coincide,” said Tom Davis, a former Republican congressman from Virginia who co-founded No Labels. But other lawmakers aren’t crazy about the “no budget, no pay” idea, including the chairman of the committee holding Wednesday’s hearing, independent Sen. Joe Lieberman of Connecticut, and its top Republican, Sen. Susan Collins of Maine. Lieberman questioned whether the measure would solve the fundamental problems of partisanship and a broken budget process, while Collins said rank-and-file members don’t control the budget process and shouldn’t be penalized for missed deadlines. “The power to negotiate a budget through committee and bring it up for a vote on the Senate floor is not equally shared by all members, no matter how forcefully those of us who are not in the leadership may advocate for a budget,” Collins said. Some critics argue that wealthy members of Congress might not care whether they’re paid. Others say the bill could force lawmakers to pass spending bills hastily, without proper consideration. But Cooper and Heller said spending bills can and should be passed on time — and the proposal would give lawmakers one more incentive to do so. “These deadlines have been met before, and now is the time to start meeting those deadlines again,” Heller said. Other congressional reform proposals discussed at the hearing included passing budgets that cover two fiscal years instead of one and requiring senators who filibuster to actually remain talking at length on the Senate floor — in keeping with how filibusters were originally designed to work as a delaying tactic. Currently, senators can delay legislation merely by signaling an intent to filibuster.
03.19.2012	At wits’ end, lawmakers debate cutting their pay as penalty for budget gridlock Associated Press/Washington Post March 14, 2012 By Andrew Taylor WASHINGTON - Even the top sponsor of a bill that would cut off lawmakers' pay if they can't - or won't - pass a budget blueprint admits many of his colleagues think it's just a political talking point instead of a serious idea. And the measure doesn't have support from the bigwigs running Capitol Hill or even the top members of a Senate panel that held an official hearing on the measure Wednesday don't support the idea. But frustration over Congress' failure to perform some of its most basic tasks - like not passing a budget for almost three years - has lawmakers giving serious thought to outside-the-box ideas like "no budget, no pay." The idea is simple. If Congress doesn't pass a budget and all 12 of the accompanying spending bills setting annual agency budgets on time, every lawmaker's paycheck would get cut off. No exceptions. "This proposal is like a legislative scream," said Sen. Joe Lieberman, I-Conn, chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee, as he opened the hearing. "As everybody knows, the public's estimation of Congress is at historic lows. And there's ample reason why that is so. Congress is just not fulfilling some of the basic responsibilities that the Constitution gives us." The frustration is evident on both sides. "Congress has missed so many budget and appropriations deadlines over the years that no one takes these deadlines seriously," Rep. Jim Cooper, D-Tenn., said. "We often fund programs on a short-term basis, sometimes month-to-month or even week-to-week. Political standoffs have even led to complete government shutdowns. This is inexcusable. We no longer have ‘one nation, under God, indivisible,' but ‘one nation, yet again, interrupted.'" No budget, no pay is backed by No Labels, an almost 500,000-member group started a little more than a year ago by both Democrats and Republicans in hopes of easing the partisanship and gridlock that has engulfed Washington. "The parties have organized themselves into warring clans that value defeating the other side over even the most basic acts of governing, like passing a budget on time," a statement on the group's website says. The last time Congress passed a budget was 1,050 days ago, way back in 2009. That's not the end of the world since the annual congressional budget resolution is a nonbinding measure that mostly sets goals for follow-up legislation like the annual appropriations bills. If there isn't a budget resolution in place, such legislation - or bills like last month's extension of payroll tax cuts - can still go forward. Since Congress' budget often doesn't have much of an impact, congressional leaders sometimes cancel the debate altogether - especially in election years, when votes on it can expose rank-and-file lawmakers to political risk. But the failure of Congress to pass a budget is symptomatic of the broader failure of the institution to accomplish feats that not long ago were considered relatively routine. And there's a simple, powerful political appeal to the idea that if members of Congress don't do their most basic job, they shouldn't get paid. The top Senate sponsor is Sen. Dean Heller, a Nevada Republican who, not surprisingly, is embroiled in a difficult re-election campaign. He says the inability of Congress to tackle the debt or figure out what to do when the Bush-era tax cuts expire at the end of the year is contributing to the weak economic recovery. "Too many in Congress have come to expect an honest day's pay whether or not they've actually accomplished the work of the people," Heller said in testimony on Wednesday. "Members of Congress are indeed out of touch with the American people if they believe they should be rewarded for a job poorly done, or not done at all." Other lawmakers, however, aren't so keen on the idea, starting with the chairman and top Republican of the panel holding Wednesday's hearing, Sens. Joe Lieberman, I-Conn, and Susan Collins, R-Maine. The panel has jurisdiction over Cooper and Heller's legislation, but the hearing focused on other ideas as well, such as requiring senators who filibuster bills to actually stay on the floor and talk the legislation to death, banning filibusters of presidential nominees and requiring monthly bipartisan get-to-know-you sessions among lawmakers. Heller acknowledged that some of his colleagues think the idea is just a "talking point" aimed at impressing voters rather than a measure that's worth serious consideration. Collins is among those opposed to the "no budget, no pay" measure. She points out that there are many rich people in the Senate who might not care whether they get paid or not. A lot of them are liberal Democrats. "Given how many wealthy members there are - of which I am not one, regrettably - I wonder whether it would really have the kind of impact that its sponsors believe it would," Collins said Tuesday. A related idea by Sen. Ben Cardin, D-Md., to prevent the House and Senate from taking up any legislation - of any kind - if it hasn't passed a budget by the April 15 deadline has support from Sen. Kent Conrad, D-N.D., the chairman of the budget panel. And both Democrats and Republicans have rallied behind the idea of doing a budget every two years instead of annually.
03.16.2012	TRANSCRIPT 3-14-12 - Fox Business Speakers: Charles Payne Congressman Jim Cooper Payne: Congressman Jim Cooper is fed up with the ways of Washington, saying today, quote, "neither party is willing to compromise for the good of the nation. Both political parties pander to the base and blame each other for policy failures. Meanwhile the nation suffers." Joining me now with his plan to actually fix the problem is Congressman Jim Cooper himself. Congressman, or as some call you, Mr. fiscal responsibility, welcome to the show. Cooper: Thank you, Charles. Good to be with you. Payne: You're known as a fiscal hawk. Someone who believes in a balanced budget and you're trying to get the other folks down in Washington to sort of get on this same band wagon. How is it going? Cooper: We still have a lot more folks to persuade. I hope Fox viewers will help us do that. We have several dozen cosponsors in the house - bipartisan - but we need a lot more to get this thing moving. In normal political year a bill like this wouldn't have a chance but I think we could pass it this year. Payne: Today you spoke to the Senate but the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. Is it just that you will go to any committee out there to spread the word? Are you like Johnny Appleseed, you don't care where it is? Cooper: I will go almost anywhere, but that committee in the Senate actually has jurisdiction over this. They're in charge of government reform, and in most years Congress is not interested in reform. But this year folks who are up on the ballot will be looking at either reform or defeat. Payne: Let's talk a little bit about your proposal. From what I understand it is pretty simple. If Congress doesn't pass a budget you guys don't get paid. By the way if you ever do pass a budget, the pay you miss is not retroactive, you lose it forever? Cooper: Exactly right. We're trying to align interests of every Congressman and Senator to get their work done on time. Nothing is more fundamental than passing budget and the appropriations bills. Congress has been so slack and lazy in getting this done over many past years it has really been embarrassing. Now it is critical, because after we lost the credit rating last year after S&P downgraded us, it really is a matter of national security. We have to make sure Congress works together, and the best way to do that is to align interests. Payne: There is difference, obviously, between budget and spending. How does Washington, D.C. continue to spend so much money, trillions of dollars, money they don't even have, without a budget for three years? Cooper: I'm afraid that has been true over decades, it's just that the public hasn't noticed. Most election years we've had trouble passing a budget regardless who has been running Congress or the White House. This is the kind of dirty little secret has come out in the open. It is time to fix it, because we don't have the cushion or the margin of air we have had in the past. Our bonds have already been downgraded. We need to make sure they don't go down again. Payne: You are a Democrat but a lot of people refer to you as a Blue Dog Democrat. Where does the President stand on this? What is his responsibility for making this happen? Cooper: This is really a job for Congress to clean up its own act. Neither the President nor the Supreme Court can fix what is wrong in Congress. We have to do it ourselves or I think the voters will do it for us. I'm hoping Congress will take action and do the appropriate thing and resolve to do better in the future. If we don't, then the voters should take action. Payne: You're part of a group now, you guys actually put together a group, s bipartisan group called the No Label group, Republicans, independents and Democrats. How much sway does this group have and do you see there is more interest in participating or are politicians going to put a finger in the air and if the wind is not blowing hard enough they will blink and skip this one? Cooper: I think No Labels is very interesting group. I hope people look them up on the web, nolabels.com. It is a nonpartisan group. It just wants good government. They've proposed a list of 12 reforms of Congress. These are things that would really help Congress clean up its act. They are long overdue. No Labels is a way of approaching these issues that's nonpartisan. It's not going to get us involved in gridlock. Democrats are not fighting Republicans and vice versa. I think it is a very interesting way to reform Congress when it is in critical need of reform. Payne: Well, sir, I agree with you. I hope viewers are adamant, and go and talk, this an affront this is an atrocity. And you're right: no one should get paid if they're not doing their job. This is certainly one of the first, most important jobs of Congress. Congressman Jim Cooper. Thanks a lot, and we appreciate the work you're doing. Cooper: Thanks, Charles.
03.16.2012	TRANSCRIPT 3-14-12 - Fox News Speakers: Jim Cooper Jenna Lee Jon Scott Lee: You know what? You don't get paid if you don't do your job, so why should members of Congress get a paycheck if they don't do theirs? That is the thinking behind the No Budget, No Pay Act. It keeps lawmakers from getting paid if they don't pass a budget, and the spending bills go along with that budget, in a very timely fashion. Democratic Congressman Jim Cooper introduced this bipartisan legislation in the house. He just testified before a Senate committee on his new push and he was good enough to talk to us after that. Congressman, nice to have you today. Cooper: Good to be with you. Lee: So, why do you think this is going to work? Cooper: Well, the idea is very simple, and it's very fair. As you just stated, if you don't work, you shouldn't get paid. Congress should live by the same rules. I think if we don't pass our budget and appropriation bills we shouldn't get paid, and those are simple, clear, enforceable deadlines. Lee: Congressman, if I don't do my job I get fired. I usually see the big hook, there's a big hook by the door. Jon and I do something wrong, and we're gone, sayonara, outside the studio. Why do you think new legislation is key here? Why shouldn't it be just if you don't do your job in Congress you get fired and we vote somebody in who can do the job? Cooper: Well, why wait two years? As fragile as our economy is, we should be able to discipline Members of Congress more promptly than that. Unfortunately, our Constitution says only voters can fire Congressman, and that is only every two years. We need prompter action than that. Lee: Would this change the Constitution in any way? Cooper: It would not. We could not cut member pay this year, but we can right after the November election. So I think that what we really want is prompt budget action. We do not want the nation to default. We do not want the nation to be a slow payer. And I think, actually if you see this reform, you will see Congress be very prompt indeed because it would align the interests of all members of Congress. Today, there are actually some members of Congress who benefit from these delays. Lee: Interesting. I was looking at what your salary is and representatives and senators get paid $174,000, as of January 1st, 2009. But half of the members of Congress, just about half, are actually millionaires. And I'm curious, if you keep part of the pay away from a millionaire how much of a motivation this is really going to be? Cooper: Well, everybody wants to earn a paycheck, but we should only get the paycheck if we do the work of the nation. I think what you will see here with aligned interests, with every Congressman behaving the same we'll get the job done on time. We don't get smarter after October. The fiscal year starts October 1st. we should have completed our work by October 1st. We can do this. Lee: Real quick here, Congressman, what's next? Where does this go from here? Does the Congress have to approve it to make actually happen? Cooper: We had an excellent hearing in the Senate today under Senator Lieberman and Senator Collins. We need a house hearing on the bill as well. We need to build a groundswell support. The No Labels movement nationwide is helping to promote this reform as well as 11 other key Congressional reforms. This is nonpartisan. It's not Democrat or Republican. This is for the good of the country. And I hope the good people will stand behind it. Lee: we'll see if it works. It's an interesting idea, and we appreciate you coming on to talk to us more about it, Sir. Cooper: My pleasure, thanks. Scott: Be interesting to know what his fellow members of Congress think about that. Jenna: Yeah.
03.14.2012	TRANSCRIPT 3-14-12 CNN Speakers: Rep. Jim CooperRep. Tom DavisSoledad O'BrienCatherine CrierBrett O'Donnell O'Brien: If you talk about Congress people, $174,000 a year is what you get as a paycheck. It's the minimum that you will make if you work in Congress. That's at a time when Congress' approval rating among Americans is at an all-time low. I believe it's at 9%. It was at 10%. Down to 9% now. This morning, though, we are hearing, there are hearings in Congress to try to change that. It's a No Budget, No Pay bill that would cut off paychecks for all Members of Congress if they can't pass a budget by the beginning of the fiscal the year. Congress has not passed a budget since 2009. It's the latest idea from the group called No Labels and has bipartisan support. Democratic Representative from Tennessee, Jim Cooper proposed the House version of the bill. He and Tom Davis, who's a former Republican Congressman from Virginia are co-founders of No Labels and they're going to be testifying at a hearing today. Good morning, gentlemen. It's nice to see you both. Congressman Davis, always nice to see you and even have you in person when you have the chance to come visit with us. I know what is behind the bill is a frustration, and I'll get to that in a moment. First, I want you to walk me through the specifics of the bill that's proposed. Cooper: All it would do is say that Congress has to pass its budgets and its appropriation bills on time. And on time means by the beginning at fiscal year, which is October 1st every year. Congress has largely failed to do this in the past. We think it's high time that Congress did its job this year. O'Brien: Or what? Cooper: Or Congress would not be paid. And the signs are that Congress could, you know, be a few days late or even a week late, but I think eventually Congress would do the job on time, because Congressmen want to get paid. O'Brien: So, Congressman Davis, you have co-sponsors, 34 in the house, 6 in the senate. Which is a nice number that brings you up to 40, but there are several hundred people who have a vested interest in the bill who may not be so inclined to sign on. What's the likelihood a bill leak this would pass? Davis: Well, it's got a hearing in the Senate. I suspect there will be hearings in the House at this point. Look, the key here -- Congress has not passed its appropriation bills on time since 1996. That means that government agencies can't start doing their work because they don't know what budget they're going to have for the year. It means contracts aren't let, people aren't hired, innovations don't take place. This is really borne out of frustration. The Senate passed a resolution last year that said if there was a shut down senators wouldn't get paid. So there, I think, is a frustration even among the Members that they want to get this stuff done. They just haven't been able to do it. A year ago it was May before you got the appropriation bills done for a fiscal year that started October 1 O'Brien: Catherine, is this legal? Crier: Sure. You've seen governors do this, and it's occurred in state houses. Absolutely the legislature should do it and they should do other things this organization is talking about. The notion that we're not getting a five-day workweek. The notion these guys can show up on a Tuesday afternoon and go home on the Thursday afternoon and take the kind of recesses they get. O'Brien: And we've talked about insider trading. Crier: Insider trading, and we won't even get into the manipulation of rules and how they're stymieing the processes but I think this is a great step. If you can get a bipartisan passage of this, more power, that would be absolutely extraordinary, but we've got to do something because they're stalemating the entire process. O'Brien: Ultimately, gentlemen, I'm sure this is really about frustration and trying to stave off the public frustration with this system. Internally is there frustration in Congress as well? You must be embarrassed and horrified by those low approval numbers, right? Cooper: It's tremendously frustrating because Congress right now is not doing the job the American people expect and demand. So what this bill is about is about aligning interests. Today there are some members of Congress who benefit from these delays. We want to make sure that no one benefits from these delays. O'Brien: How so? Tell me how they benefit? Cooper: Well, they get publicity, and publicity in politics is like gold. Some of them are able to favor certain special interests by not having a cut taking place as soon as it would have. There are other ways that you can manipulate the system. But we've got to do our work on time. Everybody back home understands if you don't do the work, you don't get paid. The same should be true of Congress. O'Brien: But, you know, the medium net worth of a Congress person is just under a million dollars. I'm surprised to read that, that sounded super super high. Do you think really, ultimately withholding a salary at the end of the day is going to be a huge disincentive to sit around and basically run to open mikes and hold press conferences? Davis: Well you know I've been out for three years. Retired undefeated, unindicted. Just happy to get -- O'Brien: We love when you say that, by the way. Davis: But there's tremendous frustration among rank in file members who come to Washington to get things done only to find out they don't always get the choices they want on this. And I think the theory behind this is, if the members are saying let's get it done on time, they will prevail on the leaders to bring the votes up in a timely manner. O'Donnell: I think it's a great idea. Why not add the word balanced to the word budget, too? Pass a balanced budget and then you get your pay. O'Brien: Whoa, Brett - don't go crazy. All right. Nice to see you. Thanks for talking with us. Obviously we're going to follow up and see how this goes when you do your testifying today.
03.14.2012	Tells Senate committee we no longer have “one nation, indivisible” but “one nation, interrupted” Read more about Congressman Cooper's testimony in The Washington Post, The Tennessean, and WPLN. March 14, 2012 WASHINGTON - U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (Tenn.-05) testified today before the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee about the No Budget, No Pay Act, which he and Sen. Dean Heller (R-Nev.) introduced in Dec. 2011. The bill (H.R. 3643) would prohibit members from receiving pay for each day past Sept. 30 that they fail to pass budget and spending bills; pay could not be recouped retroactively. It has 34 co-sponsors in the House, evenly divided between Democrats and Republicans, and has been endorsed by the Blue Dog Democrats and Citizens Against Government Waste. During the hearing, "Raising the Bar for Congress: Reform Proposals for the 21st Century," Rep. Cooper joined Sen. Heller and Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) on the first panel of witnesses. An excerpt of Rep. Cooper's testimony follows: "Congress has missed so many budget and appropriations deadlines over the years that no one takes these deadlines seriously. For far too long, we have run government by continuing resolutions instead of annual appropriations. We often fund programs on a short-term basis, sometimes month-to-month or even week-to-week. Political standoffs have even led to complete government shutdowns. This is inexcusable. We no longer have ‘one nation, under God, indivisible,' but ‘one nation, yet again, interrupted' ... "The idea of deadlines with consequences came from a constituent of mine in Nashville, Tennessee. He was fed up with Congress and asked me why congressmen were so shameless in being late. I didn't have a good answer, but I seconded his questions. Why must the public pay taxes on time when Congress is so slow and erratic in paying bills? When is Congress going to take responsibility for its own misbehavior?" Rep. Cooper is a founding member of No Labels, a nonpartisan citizen organization proposing 12 reforms, including No Budget, No Pay, in its "Make Congress Work!" plan. Rep. Cooper's full written testimony submitted to the committee is attached and available online. # # #
03.08.2012	Congressman Jim Cooper writes in The Atlantic about the obsolete laws that are harming Congress and the nation. This article is part of The Atlantic’s new ongoing series, “America the Fixable.” Outdated Laws and Subsidies—How Did it Get so BadThe AtlanticBy Jim CooperMarch 8, 2012 Would you be surprised to hear that our government is just like a middle-aged American who, having eaten fast food for decades, now faces heart trouble in his golden years? Aging nations have arteries clogged with obsolete laws, slowing blood flow and preventing oxygen from reaching all parts of the body politic. Physicians call this arteriosclerosis; historians see decline of empire. It happens so slowly and naturally that no one notices. Legislators want to prove that they care about children, seniors, veterans, etc. by creating programs to benefit them. Elected officials are so busy campaigning that they (and their staffs) don't review the statute books to see which programs already exist. They certainly don't check to see which ones are working, and which are not. As a result, each new generation of politicians simply adds another layer of spending and bureaucracy. Immortality awaits the legislator fortunate enough to have a significant law named after him. Think of Pell grants or Stafford loans for students, Sarbanes-Oxley to regulate Wall Street, or the Hyde Amendment on abortions. Conversely, there's little or no reward in repealing laws, only the risk of offending people who benefit from the existing programs. Any politician who's ever been re-elected knows that friends come and go; enemies accumulate. This is why there are dozens, sometimes hundreds of overlapping and duplicative programs for favored constituencies, as opposed to one or two programs that really deliver. This also explains why our laws are so complex that they are becoming almost impossible to understand. A small but classic example from my jurisdiction on the House Armed Services Committee is the mohair subsidy, which originated post WWII out of concern about the future availability of wool for military uniforms. Today, more than a half century later -- when military uniforms are largely composed of synthetic material -- the program still benefits goat herders in Texas, now under the friendly jurisdiction of the Agriculture Committee. The subsidy was seemingly killed in the mid-90s and again in 2001, but it was resuscitated each time by the loving care of special interests. And while it was defunded again last year, the underlying authorizing legislation remains on the books, ready to revive the subsidy at any moment. Due to the accumulation of increasingly creaky laws, Congress has lost control of budgeting itself. The vast majority of federal spending is now on automatic pilot, either in the form of mandatory spending ($2.3 trillion, annually) or tax expenditures ($1.3 trillion). Congress could adjourn for a year without slowing spending growth. When in session, we spend 90 percent of our time on the remaining 30 percent of the budget, discretionary spending -- what most people think of as government. Congress has been on autopilot for so long that we have forgotten how to fly the plane with our own hands. Worse yet, the Ways & Means and Finance Committees have become such leaky buckets that federal revenues have drained to levels not seen since 1950. Congress intended to control spending when it created the first Appropriations Committee in 1865. Congress never dreamed that appropriations would one day be eclipsed by tax loopholes, and direct spending by indirect spending. But because of blinkered, outdated committee jurisdictions, Congress' right hand does not know what its left hand is doing. Congress seems comfortable with this reduced role. We don't realize that by authorizing entitlement programs -- perpetual mandatory spending -- and hiding some of our biggest expenditures in unaccountable tax loopholes, we have diminished our constitutional duty to appropriate funds (Art. I, Sec. 9). In fact, we hide our biggest problems by keeping them off-budget, exempting ourselves from normal accounting rules. Congress has legalized its own budget blindness. Very few legislators have ever had to eat their own cooking, to run a business governed by the cumulative weight of the laws and regulations they supported. The most famous example is George McGovern who, after years as a liberal U.S. Senator from South Dakota and an unsuccessful presidential campaign, retired to run an inn in Connecticut. He wrote an article for The Wall Street Journal decrying all the useless regulations that burdened his business. This, of course, delighted his conservative critics but did nothing to lighten the regulatory burden. How can we force Congress to clean house? Absent a crisis -- the only proven prod to congressional reform -- voters must get tough. Not only should constituents be suspicious of new initiatives and refuse to be seduced by "new and improved" bureaucracies, they should demand that their elected officials be diligent and competent in framing legislation. But today, Congress is a part-time job, with about 90 days a year spent in Washington and 270 days back home, mostly time spent campaigning and fundraising. It is difficult to know what's in your committee's jurisdiction with so little time for hearings and research. It is impossible to be conversant with all the issues facing the nation. Washington has become so unpopular that, if current trends continue, congressional candidates will run on the platform of never visiting the District of Columbia. Politicians are terrified of losing touch with folks back home but content to be clueless about government's failure to fix real problems. Congress must reform itself. Why isn't there a committee whose sole purpose is to clean up the federal code -- to repeal or modify the mess that its predecessors have left behind? A few watchdog groups are totaling the cost of measures that today's legislators are co-sponsoring in an effort to curb their appetite, but such efforts should be more comprehensive and visible. Some legislators favor higher-fat legislation more than others, laws that are sure to clog the national arteries for years to come. Wouldn't it be great to know who they are, and to bust their pork chops?
02.29.2012	February 29, 2012 Today, Congressman Jim Cooper’s No Budget, No Pay Act picked up the official support of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition. The bill, which was introduced by Cooper in December, would stop pay for Members of Congress if they fail to pass a budget and appropriations bills on time. The Blue Dogs believe the legislation will be an important step toward their goal of getting Congress on a path of fiscal responsibility. The bill has 30 House co-sponsors and will receive a hearing in the Senate on March 14. Click here to watch Congressman Cooper talk about No Budget, No Pay. The full release follows below. WASHINGTON - The fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition in the U.S. House of Representatives has endorsed a bill by Blue Dog Rep. Jim Cooper, D- Tenn., that would require Congress to pass a budget before Members of Congress could get paid. The No Budget, No Pay Act, H.R. 3643, would require Congress to pass its budget and all appropriations bills by October 1st of every year, the start of the nation's fiscal year. If Congress fails to pass both a budget and all of its appropriations bills on time, then Members of Congress will not get paid until they do so. The law would also prohibit retroactive pay for missed paychecks. The No Budget, No Pay Act would take effect February 1, 2013, thereby only applying to future Congresses and not violating the 27th Amendment. The bill currently has 30 cosponsors split almost evenly between Democrats and Republicans. Sen. Dean Heller, R-Nev., has introduced similar legislation in the Senate, and the Senate Homeland Security & Governmental Affairs Committee has scheduled a hearing on the bill on March 14. Congress has not adopted a budget for more than 1,000 days. Over the past 36 years, Congress has passed its appropriations bills on time only four times, and it has failed to pass its appropriations bills on time for the 15th straight year. "Americans don't get paid if they don't do their jobs, so why should Congress? The Blue Dogs have endorsed my bipartisan bill because it's a step toward restoring Americans' faith in our government," said Cooper, who also serves as Vice Chair of the Blue Dog Task Force on Fiscal Responsibility. "In the last six decades Congress has passed a budget a mere four times," said Rep. Kurt Schrader, D-Ore., Chair of the Blue Dog Task Force on Fiscal Responsibility. "If this body can't find a way to do what we have been sent here to do by the American people, which is to cut spending and reduce our nation's outrageous $15 trillion deficit, then we don't deserve to get paid." "This bill is about accountability, fiscal responsibility and commonsense. If Congress can't work together and do its job, then it shouldn't get paid," said Rep. Mike Ross, D-Ark., Blue Dog Co-Chair for Communications. "We can't keep operating on continuing resolutions and short-term fixes and we can't keep pointing fingers at the other side. The Blue Dogs stand ready and willing to work with both parties to get the job done in a fiscally responsible way and to hold Members of Congress accountable to their actions." "Developing a budget that can pass the House, Senate, and be signed into law by the President is the most basic part of our job in Congress, and we shouldn't get paid if we don't do our job," said Rep. John Barrow, D-Ga., Blue Dog Co-Chair for Policy. "The No Budget, No Pay Act will force Congress to make the tough choices necessary to build a bipartisan budget - rather than revert to the blind partisanship that's failed to produce a budget for the American people year after year." "Families and small businesses across the country operate on a budget, and it is time for Congress to start doing the same thing if we are serious about getting our fiscal house in order," said Rep. Heath Shuler, D-N.C., Blue Dog Co-Chair for Administration. "The American people have elected us to do the job of governing this country, and that includes passing a full budget and appropriations bills on time. If we are not doing our jobs, we should not be rewarded with a paycheck. It's that simple." "The Congress has failed its obligation to the American people by not passing a budget," said Rep. Dan Boren, D-Okla., Blue Dog Whip. "We need to follow the example of families across the nation who have to balance their checkbooks and pay their bills on time. To get on this path of fiscal responsibility, we must have a framework. This legislation will force members of Congress to do the right thing and pass the budget." -###-
02.17.2012	February 17, 2012 Creates National Do Not Pay List – Builds on Blue Dog Bill Signed into Law Last Year to Reduce Waste, Fraud and Abuse in Government WASHINGTON – The fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition in the U.S. House of Representatives has endorsed a bipartisan bill to better protect taxpayer dollars by reducing waste, fraud and abuse within federal spending. On Friday, Reps. Edolphus “Ed” Towns, D-N.Y.; Todd Platts, R-Pa.; Gerald Connolly, D-Va.; and, Kurt Schrader, D-Ore., Chair of the Blue Dog Task Force on Fiscal Responsibility, introduced H.R. 4053, the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act (IPERIA), a bipartisan effort to better identify, prevent and recover payment error, waste, fraud and abuse within federal spending. This legislation builds on a similar improper payments law passed last year, the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act of 2010, which was part of the Blue Dogs’ Blueprint for Fiscal Reform – a 15-point plan to balance the budget and lay the groundwork for sound fiscal policies over the long term. According to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), federal agencies reported an estimated $125.4 billion in improper payments in FY2010. Among many other provisions, this new bill will help federal agencies cut down on wasteful spending by creating a government-wide Do Not Pay List to block improper payments before they go out and to stop payments to deceased individuals, such as for Social Security. “In an era of trillion dollar deficits, it is inefficient and irresponsible for the government to only be recovering improper federal payments after the fact,” said Schrader, Chair of the Blue Dog Task Force on Fiscal Responsibility. “This legislation takes a proactive approach in saving taxpayer dollars by giving federal agencies the tools they need to prevent improper payments. I thank Ranking Member Towns and Chairman Platts for working with the Blue Dogs to introduce this legislation to help us further balance our budget and get rid of the waste, fraud and abuse that plague government spending.” “The government needs to slim down, and it’s common sense to ensure taxpayer dollars are spent correctly. Every household in America pays bills by sending a check to the right person for the right amount – our government should be no different,” said Rep. Jim Cooper, D-Tenn., Vice Chair of the Task Force on Fiscal Responsibility. “We don’t need more government, we need smarter, more efficient government,” said Rep. Mike Ross, D-Ark., Blue Dog Co-Chair for Communications. “The government is stuck in a 20th century way of doing things. We need to give federal agencies the resources to be more responsible with taxpayer dollars and that’s exactly what this bill does. The Blue Dogs helped pass a law last Congress to reduce waste, fraud and abuse and we’re continuing that work by backing this bipartisan effort to cut wasteful spending. The Blue Dogs will continue to work with both Democrats and Republicans as we find commonsense solutions to make this nation more fiscally responsible and more accountable to the American people.” “This common sense legislation simply requires federal agencies to make sure the federal government sends the correct amount of money to the correct people,” said Rep. John Barrow D-Ga., Blue Dog Co-Chair for Policy. “That way we stop wasteful spending before it happens, instead of wasting more money to recover wasteful spending after it’s already happened.” “With our exploding $15 trillion national debt, we simply cannot afford to allow tens of billions of taxpayer dollars go to waste because of poor financial management practices by federal agencies,” said Rep. Heath Shuler, D-N.C., Blue Dog Co-Chair for Administration. “By creating a more effective system to prevent and recover improper payments, this commonsense legislation will help protect taxpayer dollars and improve accountability in the federal government.” “This legislation is an important step towards bringing our fiscal house back under control,” said Rep. Dan Boren, D-Okla., Blue Dog Whip. “In 2010, the Federal Government reported nearly $125.4 billion in improper payments. This is unacceptable given our current deficit levels. This bill will help us better detect and prevent these improper payments so that taxpayer dollars go where they are intended.” -###-
02.17.2012	February 17, 2012 Says Congress must shrink, not increase, deficit WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement today upon House passage of H.R. 3630, which extends the payroll tax cut but does not pay for it, adding more than $100 billion to the deficit in 2012: “This is only a 10-month law, but a yes vote will increase the deficit by $100 billion, or $10 billion a month for the rest of 2012. That’s outrageous and that’s why I voted no. Congress should be shrinking the deficit, not increasing it.” # # #
02.09.2012	February 9, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement today upon House passage of the bipartisan Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge (STOCK) Act, which would ban insider trading among members of Congress. Cooper is a longtime co-sponsor of this bill to prohibit members from using non-public information regarding current or potential legislation to buy or sell stock for personal gain. The bill also establishes stricter disclosure rules for members’ financial transactions. “It’s good that the House passed this bill, but terrible that some of my colleagues were apparently using their jobs for personal gain. Americans are understandably fed up with Congress, and I hope this bill will help restore citizens’ faith in our government.” ###
02.08.2012	February 9, 2012 WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep Jim Cooper (TN-05) released a statement in response to a report from the majority members of the House Armed Services Committee regarding detainees at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base. Cooper’s statement was signed by the other minority members of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee – Rep. Rob Andrews (D-NJ), Rep. Mark Critz (D-PA), and Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI) – and follows below. To read the full rebuttal signed by all minority members of the Oversight and Investigations subcommittee, click here. Dissenting Statement of Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) Rarely in the history of the House Armed Services Committee has so much time and money been spent with so little result. This report contains no news and certainly no fireworks. You will find some smoke and mirrors. It could have been, and should have been, a much better product. The majority, however, has turned a deaf ear to our suggestions. Not even the Departments of Defense and State were allowed sufficient time to review the report. The report was supposed to be a comprehensive and bipartisan look at former GTMO detainees, but fails at both objectives. Much of the failure is due to the majority’s insistence on releasing a public report during an election year. The majority is well aware that most of the relevant material is classified and politically sensitive. To their credit, committee staff did do a workmanlike job on the classified annex, which we recommend to all members. But the public report uses a highly problematic “methodology” in order to write ghost stories designed to scare voters. Americans deserve better. Reports on terrorism should not further the terrorists’ goal of spreading fear. After all, terrorism is a double-barreled attack on civilization: violence is one weapon and publicity of that violence is another. Without publicity, the terrorist can never succeed. Regrettably, this report gives former GTMO detainees publicity by making them seem more numerous and dangerous than they are. Reengagers will like their image in the report. The reality is that the surest way to die is for a former GTMO detainee to reengage in terrorism. We know who they are, and we are coming to get them. Why the majority is so interested in reviewing press clippings and interviewing a handful of officials about mistakes made during the Bush Administration is hard to understand. All three of the case studies in the report are from the Bush era, although the majority tried, in an earlier draft, to twist the dates of one story in an effort to blame the Obama Administration. Fortunately, that deliberate distortion has been omitted from the final report. Unfortunately, the report still fails to make it clear that U.S. courts ordered two of the five problematic transfers under the current Administration. The report concludes that, despite the admitted improvements in the Obama Administration’s handling of detainee issues, the number of former detainees who return to terrorism will be as high or higher. This is purely speculative, and seems politically motivated. Time will tell, but the current rate of confirmed reengagement of transferees under the Obama Administration is closer to 3%, not the report’s cover graphic of 27%. The lower figure does not, however, make headlines. In order to produce a better gloss on the classified information, it would have been helpful, in addition to time for full DoD and State input, for the House Intelligence Committee to have reviewed the report prior to publication. After all, one of the report’s key criticisms of the executive branch is failure to coordinate among agencies. But the majority refused to allow our colleagues with expertise in this area—including those on the Foreign Affairs Committee—to read the report. Surely, on issues of importance to national security, the majority should look beyond its bureaucratic turf. The report does mention that President Bush, Senator McCain, and then-Senator Obama all agreed in 2008 on the need to close the GTMO prison—and therefore on the need to do something with the detainees—but that bipartisan policy agreement is buried deep in the report and mentioned with regret. Many other important topics are either barely mentioned, given short shrift, or cannot be mentioned without disclosing classified material. The Armed Services Committee is not accustomed, and should not lower itself, to wearing blinders, dumbing down information, and hinting darkly, all in order to attempt a partisan advantage. This report is simply not in the tradition of honor, discipline, and bipartisanship of the House Armed Services Committee. ###
02.07.2012	February 7, 2012 Cooper Says Measure will Help ‘Trim the Fat’ in Federal Budget U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) today joined his fellow Blue Dog Democrats in urging Congress to pass H.R. 3521, the Expedited Legislative Line-Item Veto and Rescissions Act of 2011. The bill is scheduled to be considered in the House this week. It would allow the President, upon signing a spending bill into law, to send any proposed "line-item" cuts back to Congress, where they would then receive an expedited, up-or-down vote. "This bill would allow us to target wasteful spending. Our government needs to go on a diet, and this is a good way to trim excess fat," said Cooper, the vice-chair of the Blue Dog Task Force on Fiscal Reasonability. The full news release follows below. WASHINGTON - Leaders of the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition in the U.S. House of Representatives today urged their colleagues to pass H.R. 3521, the Expedited Legislative Line-Item Veto and Rescissions Act of 2011, which is scheduled to be considered this week in the House. Expedited rescission is a key component of the Blue Dogs' 2010 Blueprint for Fiscal Reform - a comprehensive, 15-point plan to balance the budget and lay the groundwork for sound fiscal policies over the long term. The Blue Dog Coalition officially endorsed H.R. 3521 in March 2011, arguing the measure was needed to help restore some fiscal discipline back to the federal government by forcing Congress and the President to target, reduce and eliminate specific pork projects and wasteful government programs that continue to drain the federal pocketbook. Under the leadership of Chair Kurt Schrader, D-Ore., and Vice-Chair Jim Cooper, D-Tenn., the Blue Dog Task Force on Fiscal Reasonability applauded the bipartisan nature of the bill and urged the House to pass the measure right away. One of four Blue Dog task forces, the Task Force on Fiscal Responsibility is charged with building on the Coalition's recognized leadership and record of accomplishment in addressing the nation's fiscal challenges. "This bill gives the President and Congress the tools they need to root out earmarks and programs that are wasteful, duplicative, inefficient or outdated in our federal budget," said Schrader, Chair of the Blue Dog Task Force on Fiscal Responsibility. "Expedited rescission has been a long-held, key component of the Blue Dogs' plan to cut spending and balance the budget, and I urge its passage." "The Blue Dogs have long supported this bill because it would allow us to target wasteful spending. Our government needs to go on a diet, and this is a good way to trim excess fat," said Cooper, Co-Chair of the Blue Dog Task Force on Fiscal Responsibility. Since 1952, Congress has only passed its appropriations bills on time four times and has failed to pass its appropriations bills on time for the 15th straight year, while the national debt has topped $15 trillion. Within 45 days of the enactment of an appropriations bill, H.R. 3521 authorizes the President to transmit a special message to Congress proposing to cancel any amount of discretionary budget authority. Legislation implementing the proposed cancellations would receive expedited floor consideration and an automatic up-or-down vote without amendment. This bill devotes all savings from the Expedited Legislative Line-Item Veto and Rescissions Act to deficit reduction and requires the statutory discretionary spending caps to be adjusted downwards to reflect the savings. Click here to read the 2010 Blue Dog Coalition's Blueprint for Fiscal Reform. -###- The fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition was formed in 1995 with the goal of representing the center of the House of Representatives and appealing to the mainstream values of the American public. The Blue Dogs are dedicated to a core set of beliefs that transcend partisan politics, including a deep commitment to the financial stability and national security of the United States. Visit the Blue Dog website at https://ross.house.gov/BlueDog to learn more. You can also get up-to-the-minute news updates on Twitter at https://www.twitter.com/BlueDogPress.
02.06.2012	February 6, 2012 WASHINGTON – In a Feb. 3 joint hearing of the House Armed Services Subcommittees on Military Personnel and Oversight & Investigations, Rep. Jim Cooper called for more accountability during the ongoing investigation of mishandled remains at Arlington National Cemetery: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The title of this hearing is an “Update on Accountability at Arlington National Cemetery.” I am worried that we are hearing a whole lot more about accounting and bureaucracy than we are hearing about accountability. When I talk to folks back home, they think accountability means that someone is in charge, and they had to account for what they did or did not do while they were in charge. And, we are not hearing much about that. … We are years into this, and to my knowledge not one person, either military or civilian, has been punished in any way for one of the worst scandals in the 150-year history of Arlington National Cemetery. … As the years click by, shouldn’t there be not just an accounting, but accountability? I think we have more work to do in this area. To watch a video of the hearing, visit the House Armed Services Committee website.
02.06.2012	February 6, 2012 NASHVILLE, Tenn. – U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper is inviting local students to put their creativity to the test by making valentines for veterans at the Nashville VA Medical Center. “Most people get valentines, but some vets don’t,” said Cooper. “I hope our students will brighten Valentine’s Day for the men and women who keep our country safe.” A member of the House Armed Services Committee, Cooper has organized a Valentines for Veterans project for the last six years, delivering scores of handmade valentines from area students to hospitalized Middle Tennessee veterans. Valentines for Veterans was launched in 1996 by the U.S. Dept. of Veterans Affairs and advice columnist Ann Landers, and is part of the weeklong National Salute to Veteran Patients. The deadline is Feb. 10. Participating schools should call Rep. Cooper’s district office at (615) 736-5295 to arrange pickup. # # #
02.03.2012	February 1, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C - U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) today joined his fellow Blue Dog Democrats in sending a letter to Majority Leader Eric Cantor, asking him to bring H.R. 1148, the Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act, or STOCK Act, to the House floor for a vote. Every member of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition is a cosponsor of the bill, which is intended to curb insider trading among members of the House. The bill would prohibit members from using non-public information regarding current or potential legislation to buy or sell stock. It also establishes stricter disclosure rules for members' financial transactions. Cooper first became a co-sponsor of the STOCK Act when it was introduced in 2006. President Obama urged Congress to pass the STOCK Act in his recent State of the Union address, and the Senate overwhelmingly voted 93-2 on Tuesday to move forward on debate with a companion bill. Click here for the full text of the letter. For more information on the bill, click here.
01.06.2012	January 6, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C – U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement after the Tennessee legislature released its proposed redrawn congressional districts: “Thank you for keeping Nashville together. The ‘Andrew Jackson District’ is intact! I regret losing any of my friends in Wilson County but I hope to make new friends in Dickson County and the parts of Cheatham that I do not already represent.” # # #
01.05.2012	TRANSCRIPT Klein: Joining me now is Congressman Jim Cooper, a Democrat from Tennessee, who's had actually a few ideas about how to fix Congress's record on popularity. Congressman, welcome to the show. Cooper: Thank you. Always good to be with you. Klein: So let me ask you about the big picture first. Are the American people right to be this frustrated with Congress? Or are they just missing all the good work you guys are actually doing? Cooper: (laughs) The public is right. This is one of the worst Congresses in all of American history. And that says a lot, because we've had some really bad ones. But this does set a new record low in terms of popularity, but also in terms of incompetence, which is even worse. Klein: One thing that's striking about this is that we in the media, most of us, and frankly a lot of folks out in the country, spend most of our time talking about the president and not about Congress. We talk about, you know, is Barack Obama doing enough or isn't he on the economy, or on healthcare, or on jobs, but the Constitution actually gives you folks a lot more power on these issues. Congress can decide tomorrow to pass a 2 trillion dollar stimulus, and it can override Obama's choice to veto them. Obama can't decide to do that tomorrow. So when you guys don't act, nothing big can get done, right? Cooper: You're exactly right. We are not only the coequal branch of government, in many ways we're superior because all laws, all legislation really has to come from Congress. Now, the president has a bully pulpit, but Congress has a lot more power than we can acknowledge, and we are not using that power in a responsible fashion. Klein: You just came out with a proposal, working with the No Labels group to stop paying Congress if they don't get the budget done on time. Why don't you tell me a little but about that and why you offered it. Cooper: Well, this summer when we saw that our credit rating as a nation was threatened, largely by Congressional misbehavior. I thought it was time to consider new and bolder measures to make Congress act better. This idea - if you stop paying Congress if they don't meet certain fiscal deadlines like for budgets and appropriations - is the only thing I can think of to get Congress to shape up. Because, congressmen want to be paid. If they are threatened with no pay, they are much more likely to get the job done on time. I wish we didn't have to come to this, because there are many good people in Congress, but the institution as a whole is really behaving irresponsibly, and we've got to fix that. We're the greatest nation on earth, but we're not acting that way. And it takes a good solid Congress to make America live up to its potential. Klein: And you've also broached the idea of taking that and going wider, of paying congressmen not just a straight salary, but trying to pay them actually based on productivity. Can you tell me a little bit about how you've thought about that and how it might work? Cooper: Well the idea of pay for performance has gotten into many areas of our lives. You know, schoolteachers are increasingly paid that way, sports figures, doctors, lawyers, lots of folks. Why not pay Congress on the same basis? When you think about it you discover, that really, special interests have been paying Congress that way for many years. The special interests have been getting good results for that, because they can increase their campaign contributions. Sometime with retired or defeated congressmen, they give them good jobs after they've served in Congress. The tax payer turns out to be the only person who's not allowed to pay Congress on a pay for performance basis. I think there's got to be a way to change that. Just think about this as a thought experiment: If you paid us to repeal bad laws, the suddenly Congress would do a spring cleaning of the statute books and clean things up. What if you paid us to reduce the deficit? That would incent Congress to focus on those issues that traditionally, Congress has not paid attention to. There are many areas, and probably the most egregious one is, what if a Congressman does a terribly bad thing and goes to prison? Why is he still able to draw a pension? Things like that. There are different ways you can use the pocket book to make Congress behave better. Klein: Those are interesting ideas. Well, Congressman Jim Cooper, thank you for joining us and a very happy new year. May next year be a more popular one for your institution. Cooper: (laughs) It couldn't be worse! It's got to be better. Thank you, Ezra.
12.29.2011	TRANSCRIPT PAYNE: Our next guest is so fed up with Congress's last minute bill passing that he wants to hit them where it hurts: in the wallet. Democratic Congressman Jim Cooper of Tennessee is sponsoring the No Budget, No Pay Act, which would freeze lawmakers' paychecks if they don't pass budget bills on time. And he joins us now from Nashville. Congressman, welcome to the show. Tell us about - COOPER: Good to be with you, Charles. PAYNE: Tell us about H.R. 3643 COOPER: It's a very simple bill. It's based on private sector principles: if you don't do the work, you don't get paid. Congress is not used to that. Congress is used to missing almost every deadline it's ever had but these times are more serious than before; we don't have the cushion, we don't have the leeway that we've had before. We saw our credit rating get hurt this summer due to Congressional incompetence. So in order to curb that incompetence we've got to hit them where it hurts, as you said: hit them in the pocketbook. PAYNE: You've been banging the fiscal responsibility drum for a very long time. You are considered a Blue Dog, fiscally conservative Democrat. What makes you think that, despite the fact our debt is now 100% of GDP, that your colleagues are going to listen to you now? COOPER: When we're at single digits in the polls, most congressmen want to get more popular, and I think they're going to be forced to accept a reform like this. In ordinary years, they'd not only not look at this, they'd laugh at it. But this year, in order to get out of the ditch, I think my colleagues are going to have to take this seriously. Because the truth is that only the taxpayers have not been able to pay us on a performance basis. The special interests on the other hand have been paying us on that basis for a long, long time. Campaign contributions, post-retirement job opportunities, and things like that. This time the taxpayer is able to hit us where it hurts, which is the pocketbook. PAYNE: It almost sound like you're saying that Congress is not necessarily on the take, but certainly more beholden to special interests than their constituents. COOPER: Well, I think the special interests figured it out a long time ago. They know that if they like what you're doing they can contribute a whole lot more money, and they can even offer you a job after you've quit being a congressman. The taxpayer on the other hand is more limited in what he or she can do. They're only able to pay us a fixed salary no matter how good or bad we are. And I think we need to move to a sort of pay for performance approach for Congress, because we're clearly not getting good performance today. We've got to figure out a way to improve Congressional behavior, because Congress is actually a threat to the nation right now. PAYNE: Representative Cooper, I looked at your website after this payroll tax cut debacle was finished, and you said you were happy that the House Republicans caved to the Senate Republicans. Your final line though, is interesting. Now the job is to get the economy growing and start paying our bills. Would that suggest that this payroll tax cut, while it was full of drama, really isn't going to do much to help the economy? COOPER: Certainly a two month extension of a tax cut isn't going to do much. We need to have more stable policies than that. We also really need to look at fundamentals, and really, both parties are off base on this, because neither party really wants to pay the bills. During this Christmas season, everybody like to act like Santa Claus. And sooner or later, you've got to pay those bills. And as you know, we're more in debt than we've ever been as a nation. We've got to get that right again because we don't want to act like Europe. PAYNE: On that note, are you now getting traction - obviously, there's so many different things. We've got a presidential election coming up. I think it's hard all the time for you guys to get focused down there, but how can you get some more traction, how can you get some cosponsors and really get this through, because I've got to tell you, in the midterm elections, Blue Dog Democrats became something of an endangered species. COOPER: Well we have tremendous bipartisan support for the bill already. It was introduced with Republican Senator Dean Heller of Nevada. We have the No Labels coalition behind it. No Labels is a fascinating group - it's nation-wide, it's in all fifty states, and theses are folks who are sick and tired of the misbehavior of both political parties. They're not their own third party, they're trying to get both Democrats and Republicans to improve their behavior. So No Labels is a key supporter behind us, we have some 38 cosponsors already, I think if the timing is right you could see it work like the STOCK Act. That bill stops Congressional insider trading. This, I think, could be as popular as that. PAYNE: There was that big 60 Minutes piece that kinda propelled that into the national conscience. Would it take something to propel this into the national conscience, like maybe the United States losing its triple A rating? Really losing it across the board, all the ratings agencies - like that? Would it take something dramatic maybe to jar Washington into understanding how dire this is and stop giving it just lip service? COOPER: I think Congressional behavior this week should prompt the passage of this bill because look how close we came to nearly hurting 160 million American workers with a payroll tax increase of 47%. We're about to cut all doctors in America 27%, and then take away everything, pretty much, from the unemployed. That's outrageous that we came that close to such a horrible policy outcome. There's no real reason for that, and that's why you saw that Republican civil war going on - the fight between McConnell and Boehner, the Senate Minority Leader and the Speaker - this was an amazing thing when McConell finally came out yesterday and said, "enough is enough. You House members have to learn how to behave." And he laid down the law to them. PAYNE: He laid down the law, and I gotta tell you something. Pay for performance is an idea whose time has come. And I thank you, personally as a citizen, for fighting this good fight. Congressman Jim Cooper of Tennessee, we appreciate it. COOPER: Thank you, Charles.
12.27.2011	December 23, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C - U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) today called on Congress to take action following the news that the nation's long-term fiscal shortfall worsened by $4.2 trillion this year. The number was released by the Treasury Department in its Financial Report of the United States, an audited accounting statement released annually. "America's debt problems are mounting so rapidly that our costs of inaction increase by more than $11 billion every day we wait. That's $132,000 a second," Cooper said. "America's credit rating has been downgraded for the first time in our history, which is a serious embarrassment. Today's report shows our financial situation is getting worse, and Congress needs to get serious about our long-term debt and deficits." Cooper has joined with 99 of his colleagues from both parties in support of a $4 trillion deficit reduction plan. The "Go Big" Coalition urged the so-called Super Committee to "go big" and stabilize the nation's debt by producing a $4 trillion package that put all options on the table - discretionary and mandatory spending and revenues. "It's time to stop ignoring our problems," said Cooper. "Congress needs to start making tough choices and start paying our bills." The just-released 2011 Financial Report of the United States can be found online at the Treasury Department website. Cooper's website also links to the report. ###
12.23.2011	December 23, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C – U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass a bipartisan Senate bill granting a two-month extension on payroll tax cuts, unemployment benefits, and Medicare reimbursements for physicians: “I’m glad House Republicans caved to Senate Republicans because this will save Tennesseans a lot of hardship. Now the job is to get the economy growing and start paying our bills.” # # #
12.20.2011	December 20, 2011Congressman says "Tennesseans are facing real financial pain" WASHINGTON, D.C – U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) had the following to say about the U.S. House of Representatives’ vote to reject a bipartisan Senate bill that would extend payroll tax cuts, unemployment benefits, and Medicare reimbursements for physicians: “Once again, Congress is embarrassing America. While Congress is playing the blame game, Tennesseans are facing real financial pain. Without prompt House action, by New Year’s Day, payroll taxes will increase 48 percent, doctors will face 27 percent Medicare cuts, and unemployed people could lose everything. I am ready to work all through Christmas to make sure this does not happen.” # # #
12.19.2011	December 19, 2011Earmarks Have No Place in Congressional Spending Process Going Forward Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) and Congressman Jeff Flake (AZ-06) today introduced the Earmark Elimination Act of 2011, H.R. 3707, which would ban earmarks permanently. The Earmark Elimination Act would eliminate earmarks permanently from the legislative process. It would prohibit the House from considering legislation containing earmarks, and would strip any earmarks found in legislation being considered by the House before it may proceed. “I’ve called for an end to earmarks for years. Americans know their tax dollars are being wasted, and it’s about time my colleagues got serious about reform,” Cooper said. An earmark is a directed spending item, limited tax benefit, or limited tariff benefit that is targeted to a specific entity. Currently, there is only a temporary moratorium on earmarks, which expires at the end of the 112th Congress in Jan. 2013. “This legislation is the next step to ensuring that earmarks are permanently banned,” said Flake. “If Congress can’t stop earmarking, taxpayers will have no confidence that Congress can tackle larger spending items and get our fiscal crisis under control.” Cooper has foregone earmark requests since 2008, supporting a Congress-wide moratorium and bipartisan review of directed spending. Last week, he introduced the No Budget, No Pay Act (H.R. 3643) to stop congressional pay if Congress fails to pass its budgeted appropriations bills on time. The Earmark Elimination Act was introduced in the Senate (S. 1930) by Sen. Pat Toomey (R-PA) and Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-MO). Read the bill here and frequently asked questions here. ###
12.13.2011	December 13, 2011 Bill would stop pay for Members of Congress for failing to pass budget on time WASHINGTON, D.C - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) and Sen. Dean Heller (R-NV) introduced legislation today that would stop congressional pay if Congress fails to pass its budgeted appropriations bills on time. The bill, which Cooper introduced in the House on Tuesday, would prohibit members from receiving pay after missing deadlines for budget and appropriations bills, and it would not allow for that pay to be recouped retroactively. "Because America's credit rating is threatened, Congress cannot afford to be late paying its bills," Cooper said. "Threatening to stop paying Congress is the surest way to make sure we beat the annual Oct. 1 deadline. Congress must get its work done, or get no paycheck." Sen. Heller introduced the No Budget, No Pay Act in the Senate. "Year after year, Congress has failed to meet its basic budgeting responsibilities. If Nevadans don't complete the tasks their jobs require, then they don't get paid. Congress should be no different. If Congress does not do its job, then Congress should not get paid," Senator Heller said. "I'm pleased to join Rep. Cooper and No Labels in this bipartisan effort to break political gridlock in Washington." According to the Congressional Research Service, Congress has not passed all its appropriations bills on time since 1997. It has done so a mere four times since 1977. This summer, Cooper introduced the Stop Pay for Members Act (H.R. 2653), which would halt congressional pay if the country defaults on the national debt. The bill would prohibit members from receiving pay during a default, and would not allow for that pay to be recouped retroactively. The bill, which was referred to the Committee on House Administration, currently has 38 co-sponsors. Cooper and Heller are both involved with No Labels, a citizen-based organization seeking ways to reform Congress. The No Budget, No Pay Act is one of a dozen proposals the group unveiled today. Read the bill here and some frequently asked questions here. # # #
12.12.2011	December 9, 2011 Watch Congressman Cooper on the PBS show, “Need to Know,” discussing how to fix Congress. Or read the transcript below. PBS: "Need to Know-Fixing Congress" 12/9/11 Jeff Greenfield: So finish the sentence, please. Congress today is Congressman Mickey Edwards: Well, Congress is dysfunctional because it is not one Congress. It is two rival Congresses sitting in the same chamber fighting with each other Congressman Jim Cooper: It is broken, and endangering the country Norman Ornstein: Even worse than it looks. Jeff Greenfield: You had the experience Congressman Cooper of you were there, you left, and eight years later you came back. Did you come back to a different institution? Congressman Jim Cooper: I came back to a much worse institution. Congress has never been perfect. In past periods of American history, it was worse than it is today. But, that is no excuse. When Tip O'Neil was Speaker and Bob Michael was Minority Leader they got along. They fought during the day and got along at night. Today, it is not only a contact sports, it is a blood sport. People hate each other all day long and all night long. They are not compromising, they are not doing the nation's business and as a result we saw the nation's credit rating lowered for the first time in history. We saw the Super Committee fail. It really never had a chance. Other significant failures are really threatening the prosperity of the country. Norman Ornstein: We have a different culture now. And it is one where a small sliver of the parties that dominate the process and so you intimidate members. There are 40 or 50 Republicans in the House who I think in their hearts would love to work out some of these issues maybe a few more. You look at the number of Republicans who signed the letter for the Super Committee who said please put everything on the table, but they can't, they simply can't move. Or they will be ostracized and probably removed. Jeff Greenfield: Now, let me turn to some reforms. Here is one suggestion by very one well known commentator, cut to Elmo clip. Elmo Clip: In Washington, everyone hates each other. No one will do anything together. Really? And it is hurting America. How do you fix that, Elmo? Play dates. Play dates? Ya, everybody has play dates. Like a Democrat and a Republican have play dates? Ya, play dates. Harry Reid and John Boehner have play dates? Ya play dates and everybody brings their own food. Jeff Greenfield: Elmo suggesting play dates. You talk a little about the fact that Members do not cross party lines perhaps not to have play dates but to dine together, to have lunch together, to hang out together. Again, you have an institutional memory here from when you first entered Congress. Is that a change, and would it help if you think that we could get back to that? Jim Cooper: It is true that most Members of the House don't really know each other. They often don't know their names; they certainly don't know their families or their backgrounds. The good news is most backbenchers are gregarious and we get along, and we can bridge these gaps with play dates or other ways of getting to know each other better. But, I think it is going to take deeper reforms than that. Mickey Edwards: When I was sworn in as a Member of Congress, I discovered here are the Democrats on one side of the aisles and here are the Republicans on the other side. And the first time, I gave a speech on the House floor; I wanted to talk my friends who were Democrats. I thought I could persuade them. I went over to the lectern that is in front of the Democrats, and everybody just gasped. And they told me no, Democrats speak at that lectern. Republicans speak at this lectern, and every single thing you do in the House is divided whether it is the cloak rooms or whether it is, you know. Everything about it is divided into these rival camps so you really have to change some things about the way the Congress operates. Jeff Greenfield: Norm, you have been looking at this institution for? Norm Ornstein: Forty-two years, I have been here. I would say flatly that this is worst than I have seen it in forty-two years. It began to deteriorate in some ways, right after Newt Gingrich came in 1979 with a full blown theory and strategy at that point on how to create a Republican majority in the House, and after that point they have been shut out for 24 straight years and went on for 40 years. It was how to destroy this institution to save it kind of of attitude. It was not Newt, but it started an era of populist anger, of polarization, it moved us right into the permanent campaign. It created divisions that continued for a long time. I look back at the interaction with Mickey being there. A strong conservative, but a strong institutionalist. Someone who has really believed throughout his entire lifetime in the role of Congress as the first branch of government. Seeing basically the denigration of the institution by many of his colleagues. It has taken us down a path where you have very few people like these two who think about the regular order, how you operate the legislative process, what politicians are supposed to do. That has gone into tribal warfare. Jeff Greenfield: Let me just visit the past for a second then bring it back. It seems to me that the other argument that the republican minority was content to be in the minority forever and when Newt Gingrich came in and said look we are going to engage, we are going to draw very sharp lines, and that is how we are going to win a majority. We are going to take on the majority by showing that they have bad ideas, that they are bad folk. Was that really what started bringing this congress down? Mickey Edwards: That isn't what happened. It didn't start with Newt. Jim Wright when he was the Speaker instituted a lot of closed rules that shut out the Republicans from offering amendments so they chafed at that so that helped lead to the situation with Newt made the Republican whip, but he made it far worse. It is one thing to say that we do not want the Democrats to be in charge because we have ideas of our own, and we want to advance these ideas. But, democracy is about process, and our process is based upon the separate institutions, and how those institutions work. And, what Newt brought to the table was destruction of the institutions. Destruction so that more and more people followed his model would come to Washington thinking of themselves as Republicans not as members of Congress. If you have a republican president and Republican Congress, you see him not as the head of a separate branch of government on which you earn to keep a check but as your team captain and you are trying to keep him from getting sacked. It totally changed the whole situation. Jeff Greenfield: You are a Democrat. A well known Blue Dog Democrat Jim Cooper: Exactly Jeff Greenfield: You have this problem on your side of the aisle? Jim Cooper: You are right. Both political parties are afflicted by the same virus. Substance has taken a back seat. Many members do not today simply what they are voting on. They are just trying to follow the party line. I am worried that our Congress has morphed into a parliament in which we have 95, 99 percent party loyalty. We aren't putting the good of the country first. Norm Ornstein: Jim has hit at the root of where we really are. If you don't have broad bipartisan leadership consensus and one party jams its way through and the other party tries vigorously to oppose everything. Half of the country thinks the results are illegitimate. Jeff Greenfield: Illegitimate? Not just wrong? Norm Ornstein: Right, illegitimate and tries to overturn them which we are seeing now with the health care plan and the financial regulation. Then you move to divided government where you can't operate with a parliamentary minority party because you get gridlock or the politics of blackmail which is what we have had in the 112th Congress. Jeff Greenfield: One of the arguments is that we have had this great sorting out in America. That we live with people that think like us, vote like us, districts are more overwhelmingly red or blue therefore the danger that incumbents in the House that they have particularly is that if we move too far to the center, then we will have a primary run against us. Is this in fact an issue? Jim Cooper: Since most Congressional districts are gerrymandered today meaning that they are all Republicans or all Democratic. The fear now is that you will have a primary opponent. The general election has almost become irrelevant because every ten years when we are redistricting. We are doing that this year. It becomes either all red or all blue. There are only a handful of districts that are in the middle that could go either way so that creates embedded partisanship for decades. Mickey Edwards: The problem is, let me go back to the primary system. To some extent, it is wrong to just blame the people who participate in government. When Christine O'Donnell beat Mike Castle in Delaware, and therefore because most states do not allow you to run in the general election if you lost in a primary, Mike Castle was through politically. There are nearly a million people in Delaware Jeff Greenfield: That many? Mickey Edwards: Ya, that many nearly a million. Christine O'Donnell to win that republican nomination and end Mike castle's political career, she only got 30,000 votes. Where were the people? Where were the voters? So we created a system where only the hard-liners participate, and the people lose the option of going with people who might be willing to compromise. Jeff Greenfield: One of the ways that other countries get people to vote is they make it mandatory. My own sense is there may be a Constitutional problem here that nonvoting is an expressive act of disengagement. Norm Ornstein: Jeff, let me put in a word for what I call not mandatory voting but mandatory attendance at the polls which is what Australia does. In Australia, you don't have to vote, but if you don't show up a t the polls, then you are subject to a fine roughly of $15. You can get out of it by writing a letter that you are sick, you are out of town, or the dog ate your voting card, but they get 97% turnout. The main impact is that politicians know that there base is going to turn out and the other side's base is going to turn out focus on issues that matter to the voters in the middle who are persuadable. They change their rhetoric, less bombastic because that turns off the voters that matter. They don't focus on issues like guns or same-sex relationships nearly so much as they do on big issues that matter. Jim Cooper: Increasing voter turnout may turn out to be more doable than you think. You don't have to fine people if they don't show up at the polls. You can use a carrot instead. For example, what if you got 10 or 15 bucks off your taxes for showing up at the polls that might be a more pleasant way to encouraging it. Jeff Greenfield: Something that is already in place in California that was adopted for just this motive. That is the so called all in or jungle primary. Californians are going to be voting for every office except for the President by nonpartisan primaries, and the top two finishers move to November. The theory of Governor Schwarzenegger is that it will force these folks to the go to the middle. Good idea? Mickey Edwards: Great idea. Washington State did the same thing in 2006. It allows the voters who after all are the ones that matter to have a range of options instead of choosing between the 2 people that the partisans, the zealots in the party have allowed to move onto the general election. Instead of 2 candidates to choose from, you might have a dozen or ten who are legitimate, viable candidates and they are talking to a broader section of voters, a broader cross-section of voters. I think it is a great idea. I wish we have it all over the country Jeff Greenfield: Looked at it? Norm Ornstein: I think so partly because it is easier to do than providing money for voters or making them pay. We are watching the California experiment with great interest to see if it will help. The other thing that I would really like to do is to move Election Day to the weekend. If we could have a 24 hour voting period from noon Saturday to noon Sunday, you don't have Sabbath problems. Have 3 days of early voting for people that aren't around on the weekends. We need to make voting easier for people not hard. Jeff Greenfield: Let me pick up on one other very specific notion. That is the Senate filibuster. I realize that you gentlemen come from the House. I am just wondering that it seems to me that whatever side is in or fears it is going to be in the minority is going to think that this is the greatest thing since sliced bread. It is my protection. How is that ever going to change when it is always in some side interest to keep it. Norm Ornstein: The filibuster was never a part of what the framers intended. It was almost an accidental thing, but it was also very infrequently through most of our history. What has changed now is this culture, it is not the rule. It is the use of it as a routine matter and not just to block something that you care deeply about, but to basically to clog up the system entirely. That is a change, and that is really bad Jim Cooper: Jeff in the old days like When Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, the movie with Jimmy Stewart, you had to risk your bladder to filibuster. Today, it is a technical filibuster. You have an aide file a piece of paper so there are hundreds of them now when they use to be one or two a year. So the filibuster is probably worth keeping, but for real issues of national importance not on routine matters. Mickey Edwards: To follow up on what Jim just said. That means requiring the Senator who wants to do the filibuster to actually be on the Senate floor stating his reasons for the filibuster and holding the floor for as long as he is able to hold the floor. Jeff Greenfield: And given the age of some of these guys, the bladder issue will probably be effective. Norm Ornstein: Tell us about it. Jeff Greenfield: One more issue to talk about Norm Ornstein: We can't end this without mentioning the word money. Getting people to run office, when you know once you run, you will have someone dedicated to spending millions of dollars to destroy the reputation that you have. You will then have to spend all of your time begging for money to do the same to your opponent so that you can get to office and spend every spare moment running off the Capital grounds so you can raise money for you, for your team and your tribe, and to guard against some outside predator group created by Citizens United who might spend $20 million dollars destroying you. That is no way to run a system. Jeff Greenfield: You all think that money is a noxious substance in the political process or at least the way it is used now. What do you do about it? Particularly with the Supreme Court thinking it is a constitutional right. Mickey Edwards: Well, it is a noxious substance. A corporation is a person, well is my coffee mug a person? I do not know what the Supreme Court will say next, but the debate is all focused on campaigns are expensive. They are going to cost a lot of money, and the only debate is where the money is going to come from. I think we need to turn it on its head, and make campaigns not cost so much. So free radio time, free TV time so the need for money is not such a great problem. Jim Cooper: I would prefer a system where you could only raise money from home, from your own congressional district, your own state that would do a lot to remedy the problem. Jeff Greenfield: There I think you have a real First Amendment problem. If I live in New York, and I think a senator from say North Carolina for an example is a blight on the Republic and is sponsoring terrible ideas. I don't quite understand how you can say the Constitution that says I can't have my voice be heard. This guy or lady is having a national influence. Jim Cooper: The Court will make up its own mind, but they clearly went too far with Citizens United because corporations are not people contrary to what the Court has ruled. We can work through these problems because the current situation is not making a strong America. Norm Ornstein: What we can do beyond that is along with some of the things Mickey suggested to reduce the costs is to enhance the role of small donors which the internet now makes possible and less expensive. It is going to require multiple matching funds and incentives for candidates to raise money from a much larger number of donors which also gives them a stake in the system but doing all of that and if you have opened the flood gates to huge sums of money, unlimited sums of money then the corruption from candidates and parties shaking down donors and the need for people to beg for money to counter it means that nothing we do is going to stop what has become the new gilded age which is a very very dangerous phenomena. Mickey Edwards: I am not sure that you can't craft legislation that would pass Constitutional muster that would say for the purposes of elections that the term person only means an actually living human being so that. I want to get rid of corporate money, but I want to get rid of corporate money, labor union money, PAC money, party money you know to just have contributions from individuals. Jeff Greenfield: So we are headed into 2012 so if we reconvene 8 years from now just from the lay of the land that you see know, is your expectation of Congress to be better or worse or just continuing the way it is? Mickey Edwards: Better and I think because more and more people now identify themselves as independents. People are fleeing from the party system. We all are and we are just a small number of the many people out there who are putting forth reforms. I think the coalition and the coalescing of people who want to change the system is finally coming along and alive. I think a lot of these reforms that we have talked about will be in place. I think 8 years from now will be considerably better. Jeff Greenfield: Jim, are you an optimist down that road? Jim Cooper: I am an optimist. America has always healed itself before. We can and must do it again. I just hope that we do it in time before the credit markets and factors like that weaken our country. Norm Ornstein: If we convene 2 years from now, forget about. 8 years from now, it may be different. Right now Congress approval is 9%. John McCain says we are in the blood relatives and paid staff, maybe they will get down to 5%. The blood relatives are shaky at the moment, but then we will bottom out and move back up. I am very much afraid that the short term problem that we see confronting the global economy may make it take longer than 4 or 5 years. Jeff Greenfield: So the guidance for the viewers here appear to be leave the country until 2019, keep your fingers crossed, and we may come back to a better congress Norm Ornstein: Maybe leave the planet
12.09.2011	Dec. 7, 2011 WASHINGTON-U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) announced three new additions to hisWashington office.Katie Hill, a Nashville native and most recently a senior account executive at McNeely Pigott & Fox PR,will join as Cooper's new press secretary on Dec. 12. Prior to joining MP&F in 2007, Hill worked indevelopment and community relations at Hands On Nashville and was named to the Nashville EmergingLeaders Class of 2010. She is a graduate of the University of Virginia. Hill replaces Stephen George, who has taken a job as communications director for Rep. John Yarmuth(KY-03). Yarmuth represents Louisville, George's hometown, and is founder of LEO Weekly, whereGeorge formerly worked as a writer and editor. Cooper is pleased to welcome a new Department of Defense Legislative Fellow, Captain Ray Windmiller,who will assist with Cooper's responsibilities on the House Armed Services Committee. Capt. Windmillerhas been a member of the Army for 22 years, is a decorated soldier, and has served in Iraq as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Windmiller succeeds another Department of Defense Fellow, John Krisciunas,who will begin training to assume command of the guided-missile destroyer U.S.S. Forrest Sherman inthe United States Navy. Cooper also announced the addition of Kathleen Ambrose, another Nashville native, who graduated fromthe University of Mississippi in 2010 and will join as staff assistant. # # #
12.01.2011	December 6, 2011 Today, Congressman Cooper sent a bipartisan letter to President Obama urging his support for the reauthorization of a six-year, fully funded transportation bill. In addition to creating valuable jobs in Tennessee and across the nation, this bill will help us confront our long-existing infrastructure problems. Read the letter here. This is what Jennifer Steinhauer wrote about the bill for The New York Times on December 6: While Republicans and Democrats fight over how to pay for the extension of a payroll tax cut - or whether to let it continue at all - a bipartisan cadre of House members has quietly been coalescing around the notion of a large-scale, long-term transportation bill to address the country's myriad infrastructure needs. In a letter to President Obama, more than 110 House members from both sides of the aisle are asking the White House to support a six-year transportation measure that would cover a wide array of transportation projects. The letter does not specify how much those projects would cost. In a nod to the austerity measures currently in vogue on the Hill when it comes to new projects, the letter says that "given our fiscal challenges, we recognize that a six-year transportation authorization will need to be paid for." "We stand willing to work with your administration on a variety of funding options," it said. Transportation funding is popular across party lines, as most districts have significant needs, and transportation projects create jobs, help attract businesses and reduce traffic. The letter is signed by an unusual array of lawmakers, including Representative Jerrold Nadler, a liberal Democrat from New York, and Representative Tim Scott of South Carolina, one of the most conservative Republican freshmen. The idea for the letter belongs to two Democratic representatives, John Carney of Delaware and Jim Cooper of Tennessee, and two Republicans, Aaron Schock of Illinois and Pat Meehan of Pennsylvania. Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio has resisted transportation authorization bills, because they are known vehicles for earmarks, but earlier this year offered a bill without earmarks that would authorize transportation funding for five years. The legislation would be paid for by expanding domestic energy production, including opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska for drilling and shale oil exploration. Transportation authorization funding - one of a series of short-term extensions - is set to run out early next year. The letter follows: Dec. 5, 2011 President Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: We are writing to respectfully urge your full support for a long-term transportation reauthorization. Such legislation will address our urgent transportation and infrastructure needs, create jobs for Americans and give the private sector important incentives to locate, invest and hire here in the United States. The need for a long-term transportation authorization is clear to any American who drives a car or truck, rides the rails or flies in an airplane. First, our aging infrastructure risks creating a safety hazard for Americans. The American Society for Civil Engineers (ASCE) gives our transportation infrastructure a grade of "D," and a recent federal report estimated that more than 11 percent of the nation's bridges need timely repairs to avoid unsafe structural deficiencies. Second, transportation backlogs increase costs for small businesses and hurt job creation and economic growth. The ASCE reports that the cost of failing to invest in the nation's roads and bridges would total $2.1 trillion in lost economic growth by 2020, costing 877,000 jobs. The ASCE went on to find that congestion by 2020 could cost us $276 billion a year in lost time and inefficiencies. As a result of using more fuel, lost productivity and accelerated auto-wear on worsening roads, the overall cost to a family's household budget would be $1,060 a year. To address these urgent economic, transportation and safety needs, we believe our country needs a six-year, fully funded and paid-for transportation reauthorization with investments above current funding. Short-term extensions fail to recognize that meaningful, large-scale transportation projects take years to plan, approve and implement. The traditional six-year time-frame allows state departments of transportation to prepare for substantial infrastructure projects. A modern, safe and efficient transportation authorization will not only create jobs now for the construction industry - facing a 13.3 percent unemployment rate - but it will also set the table for long-term job creation and economic growth. Global employers considering a presence in the United States will require a modern transportation infrastructure that enables them to move their finished products to the global market place in a timely and cost-efficient manner. Our aging and congested system is a strong disincentive for firms to expand their presence in the United States and create jobs here at home. A long-term transportation authorization will help make America more competitive in the global marketplace and create jobs in all sectors of our economy. Given our fiscal challenges, we recognize that a six-year transportation authorization will need to be paid-for. We stand willing to work with your Administration on a variety of funding options. We have many ideas, but realize they are just a start and are happy to discuss others with you as well. Thank you in advance for your help in supporting a long-term transportation reauthorization that will create a modern, safe and efficient infrastructure system and create jobs and promote long-term economic growth. We look forward to working with you further on this issue. Sincerely, Aaron Schock Jim Cooper Patrick Meehan John C. Carney Jr.
11.18.2011	November 18, 2011 Bill to require that federal spending meet revenues fails WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) voted today in favor of a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution. The bill (H.J. Res. 2) failed to reach the two-thirds majority of the House needed for passage. The bill would have mandated that total spending not exceed revenues in a fiscal year. “Our debt grows by $14 billion every day. That’s $164,000 a second,” Cooper said. “I’m disappointed that Congress still isn’t taking this problem seriously. Congress must find the courage to make the tough choices to get our debt under control.” The bill would have required a three-fifths “supermajority” of both the House and Senate to authorize specific spending – including military – exceeding revenues in a fiscal year. The bill would have also prohibited any revenue increase without a majority vote of the House and Senate. Cooper has long supported balancing the federal budget and has co-sponsored legislation, including this bill, to create a Balanced Budget Amendment. Cooper spoke in favor of the bill on the House floor yesterday. Watch the video here. ###
11.17.2011	November 17, 2011 WASHINGTON - Speaking on the House floor, Congressman Cooper calls Congress "America's worst enemy," and says, "we've got to live within our means." Click to watch the video or read the transcript below. Cooper speaks in support of balanced budget amendment on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives November 17, 2011 The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Mike Mullen, said that our worst enemy is not any foreign power or Al Qaeda. It’s our own national debt. That’s right. It’s official now. Congress has become basically America’s worst enemy. I wish we would take it upon ourselves to cut spending, to balance budgets. We are failing in doing that, and we have failed repeatedly. I wish the supercomittee would come up with a super solution. That does not look likely. I regret that we are at this stage now where we need a balanced budget amendment. And I regret that we are at this stage of partisanship, where just 10 years ago, 72 Democrats voted for this, including 2 out of the 3 top members of our leadership. We’ve got to live within our means. The nation’s future is at stake. It’s sad that we have become so lame that we need this crutch, but we need it. America’s overspending, our obesity in this body, is go great that we have become America’s greatest obesity problem. The balanced budget amendment is the right diet.
11.15.2011	November 14, 2011 Bill prohibits insider trading for House members WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) has signed on as a co-sponsor of the Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge (STOCK) Act, a bill intended to curb insider trading among members of the House of Representatives. The bill (H.R. 1148) would prohibit members of the House from using non-public information regarding current or potential legislation to buy or sell stock. The bill, which Cooper has co-sponsored previously, prohibits members from sharing inside information for the purposes of trading stock. It also establishes stricter disclosure rules for members’ financial transactions. For more information in the bill, please click here. ###
11.10.2011	Fox News 11/8/11 Speakers: Rep. Jim Cooper Rep Michael Grimm Bill Hemmer of America’s Newsroom on Fox News Hemmer: There is a bipartisan group of 100 lawmakers sending a message to the super committee. That message is, “go big.” They say the committee should aim for $4 trillion in deficit reduction and not 1.2 trillion. Two of the men who signed that letter are with me now. New York Congressman Michael Grimm, a Republican and member of the House Financial Services Committee and Tennessee Congressman Jim Cooper, a Democrat and member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. And gentlemen, it’s an honor to have both of you. And good morning to you. Grimm: Good morning. Cooper: Good morning. Hemmer: Mr. Grimm, why’d you sign the letter, what was the message there? Grimm: Well I think it’s the reason I was elected to Congress. The people on both sides of the aisle want us to deal with this debt, and Admiral Mullen even said that this is the number one problem for the United States. The number one threat is this unbelievable burden of debt, so I think that we have to answer the call of the people and step up, do what needs to be done. But I’ve realized in my ten months, the only way we’re going to do this is by working together. So let’s sit down at the table, let’s put politics aside, let’s put out country first, and let’s deal with our debt problem. Hemmer: You know, Mr. Cooper, you said you were hoping for a miracle. Is it that dire? Cooper: (laughs) Well, we’re trying to give the super committee a backbone, and I’m proud to work with my friends across the aisle to try to do that. We’ve got to face the debt problem. My colleague is exactly right. It’s been festering for a long, long time. Now’s the time for the super committee to take bold action, and it should be a $4 trillion solution just to stabilize the problem. Hemmer: Yeah, looking for backbone. Senator Schumer was asked about this. I don’t know if you heard it, but I’ll play it for you and ask you both about it. Rolling. Sen. Chuck Schumer (on tape): If you don’t do any revenues, you won’t get the grand bargain that gets the deficit down. Just as if you didn’t do spending, you couldn’t come to a grand bargain that gets the deficit down. Hemmer: Well, what he’s saying is if you don’t get a deal you can blame Republicans. Mr Grimm? Grimm: Well, again, I think that’s the partisan rhetoric that’s not furthering the conversation. Hemmer: That’s what you just said you don’t need. What’s your message to Senator Schumer? [crosstalk] Grimm: Very simple. Let’s stop the rhetoric. Let’s sit down. I will talk about anything. I’m not agreeing to any specific provision. What I’m saying is let’s put every single thing on the table, have an open and honest discussion without cameras, without partisan rhetoric, and let’s put our country first. I’ve done that. I’ve been in combat, I’ve been an undercover agent for the FBI, I’ve put my country first many times. It’s not that hard to do. It’s just about sitting down and saying, “what ’s more important? Reelection? Or our country?” And I think that every one that signed this letter is saying that. That we are willing to put the country first, and we know that this is a huge problem we have to deal with. Hemmer: Yeah. Mr. Cooper, if this fails, do you blame Republicans, like Senator Schumer? Cooper: Bill, it’s very important to read the letter. And Mr. Grimm has signed a letter that calls for revenues, so he’s not only from New York, he actually agrees with Schumer more than he’s admitting here. It’s important that we not fight over these issues though, that we encourage a bold solution. And a bold solution will really have everything on the table. It should be a balanced approach with everything on the table. We’ve got to come up with something, and there are only a few days left. Otherwise the country will suffer. So let’s put our partisanship aside, let’s focus on the real issues. It should be spending cuts – they’re huge and predominant. It should also be some revenues. We can do this. We must do this. And we only have until November 23rd to get it done. Hemmer: Mr. Grimm, do you want to respond to that? Grimm: Well, where I do disagree with Senator Schumer is with pointing fingers at all. [crosstalk] Hemmer: No, I want you to respond to Mr. Cooper here, who says that you’re talking two different ways. Grimm: No, I don’t think we’re talking two different ways at all. I think that everything should be on the table so that we can at least have the conversation. It doesn’t mean that I’m asking my colleague, Mr. Cooper, or anyone to agree with my position. What I’m saying is, let’s at least have the honest discussion without the rhetoric of politics and without the optics of politics. Hemmer: Well, I think the American people are calling for that. We’ll see whether or not then if we’ll get it. [crosstalk] Grimm: Exactly. I feel like that was why I was elected. Hemmer: Congressman Grimm, thank you. Congressman Cooper, thanks to you as well. There are other ways to do this and we’ll see whether or not in the next 16 days if it happens that way. Thanks to both of you gentlemen. Grimm: Thank you. Cooper: Thank you.
11.05.2011	Bill reinstates easier tax process eliminated last year November 3, 2011 NASHVILLE—U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) and ten colleagues introduced bipartisan legislation to reinstate an important tax method for songwriters and music publishers. The Songwriters Tax Simplification Reauthorization Act (HR 3343) encourages investment in Nashville songwriters at a time when the music industry faces a paradigm shift. “Nashville is Music City,” Cooper said. “We need more investment into the music industry and to simplify provisions that unnecessarily burden songwriters and publishers.” The bill reinstates a flat, five-year amortization schedule of 20 percent per year, eliminating a requirement that songwriters project royalty income for individual songs. Projecting income for individual songs has become costly and cumbersome in the digital age when royalties are often less than a penny per song. The bill also encourages investment in entire song catalogues giving investors a far more reasonable method than projecting royalties for individual songs. Songwriters often sell their catalogues to generate retirement income. The amortization schedule, which originally took effect in 2005, was unintentionally eliminated in 2010. ###
11.02.2011	November 2, 2011 100 House members urging $4 trillion in deficit reduction over 10 years WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) is urging the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to “Go Big” in addressing the nation’s long-term deficit. Cooper is one of 100 House Democrats and Republicans who sent a letter to the so-called “Super Committee” on Wednesday asking for at least $4 trillion in deficit reduction over the next 10 years. “We’re asking members of the super committee to be brave and put everything on the table,” Cooper said. “It’s time to get serious about our deficit, and $4 trillion is the least we should do to stop our runaway debt.” The letter calls on Committee members to consider all options for reducing the deficit. “To succeed, all options for mandatory and discretionary spending and revenues must be on the table,” the letter reads. “In addition, we know from other bipartisan frameworks that a target of some $4 trillion in deficit reduction is necessary to stabilize our debt as a share of the economy and assure America’s fiscal well-being.” On Tuesday, Cooper joined U.S. Rep. Reid Ribble on CNN’s American Morning to discuss the bipartisan effort. A longtime advocate, Cooper has consistently supported efforts to vote on bipartisan debt plans and has authored legislation to establish a bipartisan fiscal commission. Read the letter here or watch Cooper on a Fox News segment about the letter here. ###
10.25.2011	November 1, 2011 U.S. Representatives Jim Cooper and Reid Ribble are interviewed on CNN's American Morning about a bipartisan push to "Go Big" st1\:* { BEHAVIOR: url(#ieooui) } SPEAKERS: CAROL COSTELLO, CNN ANCHORREP. JIM COOPER, D-TENN. REP. REID RIBBLE, R-WISC. CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR Host: Solving America’s Debt Crisis? Yeah right. That's the job of the high profile Super Committee, six Republicans and six Democrats. They have 23 days to come up with a way to reduce the deficit by $1.5 trillion. Yes, that's a big task, and this morning, the Committee is urged to go big by a group of bipartisan House members. Joining me now, Democratic Congressman Jim Cooper of Tennessee and Republican Congressman Reid Ribble from Wisconsin. Welcome, gentlemen. Cooper: Good morning, Carol.Ribble: Good morning, Carol.Host: Good morning. Thank you for being here. It is nice to see a Republican and Democrat together and talking. So you have written a letter, you have about 100 Members signed up in support of this letter. So tell us what the 100 lawmakers have agreed to and give us an idea how many Democrats and how many Republicans you've signed up, Representative Cooper. Cooper: We're asking the Super Committee to be brave, to do the right thing for America. If they do that, we've got their backs. Basically we want everything on the table.Host: You say be brave. So Representative Ribble, what does that mean, be brave, have courage? Ribble: I think for us, we want the Super Committee to feel empowered to go much larger than 1.5 trillion. If we look at $1.5 trillion in the course of a decade, that's only reducing spending about 2.7%. If they could go to 4 trillion, now we are at 9.5% and we're encouraging them to do so and lead with courage.Host: Congressmen, the biggest hurdles are retirement reform and taxes. Are Republicans in favor of some tax increases? Are Democrats in favor of reforms to entitlements?Ribble: I'll take it on the Republican side, Carol. I think what we're looking for is to encourage the committee to look at three things. We want whatever they come out with to be fair, to have sound policy, and to recognize the economic realities of what we are facing today. Tax rates don't correlate much to what actual revenue is, but if we would remove some of the subsidies and tax give-a-ways, we would have the money to reduce rates and spur economic growth which would increase revenue.Host: Would that satisfy things on this Super Committee do you think? I mean, the Republicans especially? Ribble: I think that that's a place to start. And that's the whole purpose of the letter, to show them there is some bipartisan support for them to look at this in a much bigger, long term approach.Host: So you know, you're sending this letter, and there are 100 lawmakers that signed on, but the Super Committee is really acting on its own so you are sort of outside the mix. How much clout will the letter really have? Cooper: I think you'll see it has a great influence because the Super Committee wants to know whatever they recommend and it is coming out November 23rd that it will be able to pass Congress. We have to vote by December 23rd, by Christmas. One hundred signatures on the letter means it has a lot of momentum. I think that will encourage the Super Committee to do the right thing. Host: Congressman Ribble, I want to ask you about the approval rating of congress.Ribble: Yeah.Host: There was a new The New York Times poll down to 9%. That means only your relatives and friends pretty much support you guys. What does that feel like?Ribble: Well, I mean, as a new freshman Member, I expected some of this to happen, but I tell you, the American people have a right to be cynical. I came into the job cynical back in January. Hasn't been a lot I've seen today to make me less cynical. However, here's a case where Congressman Cooper and I have become friends. We're a little more pragmatic. We want to see the future better for our children and grandchildren, and you know, we all have to lay down our swords, stop poking each other in the eye, try to get something done here. It is time we start to walk the walk, talk the talk. That's just the reality of it.Host: That sounds like such a simple thing to do. It is like sit down, talk it out, and compromise. So Congressman Cooper, why can't Congress do that?Cooper: Well, you're right, Carol, we should be able to do it, it's for the good of the country. We should be able to come together and compromise. Democrats often times want to completely protect all entitlement programs forever, Republicans don't want to hear the “t” word about taxes. There has to be a solution somewhere in the middle to reduce some debt so we have a stronger financial future for we can do this.Host: Congressman Ribble, we hear it all the time. Hear it from lawmakers like you that yes, compromise is possible and yes, we should be doing these things, but we don't see it in action.Ribble: Well, we see it sometimes in action, and we see it with this letter that's being written. Maybe the wisdom of the Super Committee is that you're doing something in a bicameral way and doing some of it bipartisan. If you address the big drivers of debt, defense spending, Medicare, Social Security, chances are better if we step together into the pond and say we'll do it together. What that will do is it will force the political parties and their committees to not be able to use it as a weapon against each other. We have to take those weapons away, and we have to be able to work together. Sometimes I feel like I'm in a classroom of six-year-olds.Host: I think many Americans would probably agree with you.Ribble: They would.Host: I hope your letter makes a difference. The Super Committee doesn't have much time to come up with whatever plan they're going to come up with. Representatives Cooper and Ribble, thank you for joining us. We appreciate it.Christine Romans, Co-Anchor: If you cut $1.2 trillion or $1.5 trillion out of the deficit, you're still running up the national debt. That doesn't start to eat at the national debt. That's where the go big strategy is coming from - given what they have to do which is politically dangerous and difficult, it still isn't enough.
10.16.2011	One of only 14 given “Gold Mouse Award” October 24, 2011 NASHVILLE —The Congressional Management Foundation has named the website of U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) one of the best on Capitol Hill. The group announced its annual awards on Monday, honoring the website (www.cooper.house.gov) with the “Gold Mouse Award.” Cooper’s website is one of only 14 to win the award in the House of Representatives. “This website belongs to the people of Middle Tennessee,” Cooper said. “They want good information that is easily accessible. That should be the standard throughout Congress.” Cooper’s website is a multimedia repository that is geared toward constituent services. It features a broad listing of federal services, where constituents will find everything from information on Social Security, Medicare and Veterans Assistance to copies of Cooper’s past and current legislation. In the wake of the May 2010 flood, Cooper’s website featured a guide to obtaining disaster assistance and relief, where everyone from individual citizens to businesses could learn where federal assistance was available and find out the latest news and updates. Cooper is always looking for suggestions from constituents for how to improve the website. About the awards Congressional Management Foundation is a nonpartisan nonprofit established in 1977 that works to improve communications between citizens and Congress and enhance operations in Capitol Hill offices. CMF has assessed and graded congressional websites and issued these awards since 2001. CMF conducted its analysis from June to September 2011 and today released its latest report, “112th Congress Gold Mouse Report: Best Practices in Online Communications on Capitol Hill” (download a copy of the report here). Of the 618 congressional websites graded, a total of 98 personal office, committee and leadership websites earned A’s, and will therefore receive a Platinum, Gold, Silver or Bronze Mouse Award. The Gold Mouse Awards and congressional website research is part of CMF's Partnership for a More Perfect Union, dedicated to enriching the relationship between citizens and Congress. # # #
10.15.2011	October 20, 2011Bill would clarify law to protect musicians, instrument retailers and others NASHVILLE- U.S. Representative Jim Cooper (TN-05) announced legislation Thursday to clarify a broad federal law so that musicians, instrument retailers and resellers-among many others-would no longer be subject to penalties for unknowingly possessing illegal woods. "In theory, anybody who travels outside the country or even across the state line with an old guitar right now would be in legal jeopardy," Cooper said. "The RELIEF Act protects guitar pickers and small businesses, and it treats them fairly." U.S. Representatives Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) and Marsha Blackburn (TN-07) joined Cooper as original co-sponsors. "All too often we find that the regulations coming from bureaucrats in Washington have unintended consequences on the manufacturers, dealers, and consumers of goods and services in this country," Blackburn said. "The selective and excessive enforcement of these regulations are killing jobs and striking fear into the hearts of those who may unknowingly be in violation of the law. That is why I am co-sponsoring this legislation with Congressman Cooper to provide some much needed certainty for businesses such as iconic guitar makers, their employees, and musicians who depend on these instruments for their livelihood, by ensuring the rules are fair and consistent." The Retailers and Entertainers Lacey Implementation and Enforcement Fairness (RELIEF) Act clarifies the Lacey Act, which Congress updated in 2008 in an effort to disrupt illegal logging. Cooper did not vote for that law. The well-intentioned law has been effective in targeting illegal logging. But it also left anyone with a product containing certain rare wood or plant materials subject to federal penalties. This encompasses everyone from musicians to dealers of antique furniture. The RELIEF Act does three essential things: Grandfathering: Any foreign wood products that a person owned before May 22, 2008 (the date the Lacey Act amendments were signed into law) will be exempt from the law. Protection: If a person has any wood that violates Lacey but didn't know it, he or she will not be penalized, and the government cannot confiscate that individual property. Access: The government should compile a database of forbidden wood sources on the Internet so that everyone is fairly warned. "I'm grateful to Rep. Cooper for all of his support," musician Vince Gill said. "Jim has always struck me as a fair man who operates with a great deal of common sense. From the perspective of guitar players, collectors and lovers of old instruments, I wholeheartedly support this bill." The RELIEF Act preserves punishments for those who knowingly violate the Lacey Act. It also keeps in place existing laws that seek to disrupt illegal logging practices. The RELIEF Act does not affect ongoing cases under the Lacey Act. # # # Read a ONE PAGE OVERVIEW and a SECTION BY SECTION summary of the bill. Download the FULL TEXT of the bill. Read the FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS about the RELIEF Act. See below for a FULL LIST of supporters including Musicians and Organizations (click on hyperlinks to view letters of support)Original Bill Sponsors U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper U.S. Rep. Mary Bono Mack U.S. Rep. Marsha Blackburn Musicians & Organizations Kenneth “Big Kenny” Alphin Alison Brown Rosanne Cash Vince Gill Nanci Griffith American Federation of MusiciansAmerican Home Furnishings Alliance Grand Ole Opry Grocery Manufacturers Association International Wood Products Association Juvenile Products Manufacturers Association League of American Orchestras National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) National Association of Music Merchants National Audubon Society National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) National Marine Manufacturers Association National Retail Federation National Songwriters Association (Includes Nashville, California, and Texas Associations) Recreational Vehicle Industry Association Retail Industry Leaders Association (RILA)Quotes "I'm grateful to Rep. Cooper for all of his support. Jim has always struck me as a fair man who operates with a great deal of common sense. From the perspective of guitar players, collectors and lovers of old instruments, I wholeheartedly support this bill." —Vince Gill “Musicians are in difficult straits in many ways today, with the recording industry and intellectual property laws in flux, but the RELIEF Act protects us from an overreaching and punitive law that affects touring musicians with fine instruments, and could devastate our ability to make a living on the road. I'm thrilled that Representative Jim Cooper has the good sense and the moral certitude to stand up for musicians with this important bill. I am honored to support him and the RELIEF Act.”—Rosanne Cash “NAMM applauds the swift action taken by Rep. Cooper in creating the RELIEF Act and pledges our support to this effort. NAMM’s goal since the Amendment in 2008 is to inform regulators and help legislators make positive changes to the Lacey Act that will preserve not only the world’s forests, but the vital work of U.S. manufacturing and commerce in the music products industry—and we believe the new RELIEF Act moves us closer to achieving this goal.”—Joe Lamond, President and CEO, NAMM
10.15.2011	Normal 0 false false false st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} The RELIEF ActFrequently Asked Questions A properly implemented Lacey Act can protect endangered species while also maintaining U.S. jobs and keeping musicians and small-business owners on the right side of the law. The RELIEF Act ensures fairness in the law. It also preserves strict current regulations to prevent illegal logging and the trade of illegally sourced plant materials. You can’t uncut a tree. If we allow abuse to our environment, we all suffer. Over the past three years, a broad coalition of environmental, business, manufacturing, hardwood, and other groups has sought to clarify the Lacey Act. The coalition, including the Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA), the Hardwood Federation, the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM), the Retail Industry Leaders Association (RILA) and the Sierra Club, produced a series of three "Consensus_Statements" laying out proposed changes. After three years, no agency has taken action. Seeing no change, Congressman Cooper chose to pursue a legislative course. Many provisions in the RELIEF Act are based on these proposed changes. The RELIEF Act is designed to ensure full compliance with the law and protect the environment. To download a PDF of these questions, click here. Is it currently illegal to buy or travel with products that contain rare wood? Yes. The 2008 amendments to the Lacey Act made it illegal to buy or travel with products that contain rare wood banned by the Lacey Act. See the specific text from the 2008 amendments: Section 3372, (a)(2)(B) It is unlawful for any person to import, export, transport, sell, receive, acquire, or purchase in interstate or foreign commerce any plant taken, possessed, transported, or sold in violation of any law or regulation of any State, or any foreign law, that protects plants. Does the RELIEF Act change this provision?Yes, but only for products imported prior to the Lacey Act Amendments of 2008. The RELIEF Act includes a grandfathering provision so that any plant or plant product imported or created before May 22, 2008, is exempt from the law. This provision was based on the proposed solution from the coalition’s Consensus Statements 1 and 2. “The Lacey Act amendments should not apply to plant and plant products that were imported prior to the enactment of the amendments.” Consensus Statement 2, June 29, 2010 (Click to view Consensus Statement 2) How does the RELIEF Act affect requirements on non-solid wood (composite) products?Many products are made of a combination of solid and non-solid woods. The RELIEF Act eliminates the declaration process for ONLY the non-solid wood parts of an item. For example, a wooden dresser has a particle board back. The solid wood parts of the dresser are subject to declarations; the particle board is not. This is based on the coalition’s Consensus Statements 1 and 2. “It is difficult, if not impossible, to declare the genus and species of wood used in certain composite products such as particle board or medium density fiberboard (MDF)… This group has agreed that Lacey declarations for particleboard (HTS 4410) and fiberboard (HTS 4411) and other equivalent engineered composite materials, and any components thereof in other products, should not be mandatory until appropriate administration agencies determine it is feasible and practical to collect the required information.” Consensus Statement 2, June 29, 2010 (Click to view Consensus Statement 2) Does the RELIEF Act affect current federal investigations?No. The RELIEF Act would have no bearing on any current federal investigations. In addition, if a product has been proven stolen, that constitutes a knowing violation of the law. The RELIEF Act does not apply, as it differentiates between knowing and unknowing violations. How does the RELIEF Act change penalties for offenders?The bill would not reduce or eliminate penalties for anyone found to have knowingly imported or purchased illegal wood. For those who did not knowingly violate the Lacey Act, the RELIEF Act limits penalties of “first infractions” to $250. Isn’t there already a process for implementing changes to the Lacey Act?Yes, there is a process to make regulatory changes the Lacey Act. But that process has not worked. Many groups, including the coalition that released a series of consensus statements, have been unsuccessful at implementing even modest clarifications to the law. Legislative action is needed to achieve the intent of the Lacey Act to curtail illegal logging and protect the environment.Does the RELIEF Act eliminate the requirement for manufacturers and retailers to abide by foreign laws?No. The RELIEF Act calls on agencies to compile a complete database of all foreign laws to help ensure full Lacey Act compliance and curb illegal logging.
09.22.2011	September 22, 2011 Watch Congressman Cooper's remarks on YouTube. Oversight & Government Reform Topic: How Obama's Green Energy Agenda is Killing Jobs Witnesses: The Honorable Hilda Solis, Sec. of Labor, U.S. Dept. of Labor, Mr. Daniel B. Poneman, Deputy Secretary of Energy, U.S. Dept. of Energy, Mr. Keith Hall, Commissioner, Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Dept. of Labor Remarks by Jim Cooper Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You and I both know that the Chinese are watching this hearing. They’re probably what they’re seeing is more partisan bickering. Now we don’t know if the Chinese bicker because they make their decisions in private. We’re also seeing a false conflict between fossil fuels and renewable fuels and that suits certain partisan motivations at this time in our democracy. I think most Americans are for the lowest cost fuel, period, including externalities. SO far in this hearing, no one has made reference to the fact that you can barely breathe the air in Beijing, China and other major cities. You can cut it with a knife. I’m from coal country, I love coal. I want it to work. But we’ve also created that coal is the unsubsidized fuel. Mr. Chairman, you and I both know that coal has been subsidized for decades. In my area, clean coal has been subsidized for decades. I wish some of those efforts had been more productive because it’s hard to clean up coal. Maybe it’s still possible; I haven’t given up trying. We are blessed with vast coal reserves, but it’s hard to clean up that fuel. Global warming may be more controversial on your side. Most scientists agree that global warming is happening and may even have a man made cause. Carbon-based fuel, that is an externality. Mr. Chairman as you pointed out in an earlier letter on behalf of a constituent, and I by no means for those efforts, it’s very important that we don’t create false conflicts between fuels, that we make rational decisions about the best way to go. It’s been established by the testimony here today that the Chinese vastly subsidize renewables more than we do, by 5 or 10 fold or even larger because we don’t really know the Chinese numbers. Now the Germans are subsidizing it more than we are. I would prefer that the free market work entirely on its own; that would be great. We in Tennessee are blessed because a company called Hemlock, a private sector American company, a subsidiary of Dow Chemical Company, not a dewey-eyed idealist in this field, has located thousands of green jobs in Tennessee. I hope that Dr. Hall is counting those jobs. Volker, the leading German producer of solar panels, has also created thousands of green jobs in Tennessee. No one is ever quite sure why they located in this state but perhaps the lack of a state income tax in Tennessee had something to it. Those states that want green jobs, maybe they could have a more efficient state government and then attract more industries. There are some real opportunities here, Mr. Chairman, to help America have more energy choices, help us pick the lowest cost choices including the externalities. Nobody wants to live in a polluted, dirty air environment. No one wants to ruin the planet. Experimental technologies take time, and they take effort. I don’t know the stats because they’re not included in this hearing, but coal may have been one of the most subsidized fuels ever if you look at the decades we’ve spent on subsidizing clean coal technology. Let’s do our best to try to make rational decisions for the country. Hopefully we can get back on the right path. I think that, again, one of the worst parts of hearings like this is the Chinese see us fighting. They see the partisanship and they say maybe state capitalism, their version, is working better than our version. And that should please them. We’ve got to make sure that Democracy works better. More balanced hearings, I think, can help us do that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
09.17.2011	Sept. 15, 2011 Nashville magnet high school one of six schools in Tennessee to receive federal designation NASHVILLE—The U.S. Department of Education on Thursday named Nashville’s Hume-Fogg Magnet High School a 2011 Blue Ribbon School Award winner. The Blue Ribbon Program honors schools whose students achieve at high levels in the classroom, as well as those who have helped close gaps in achievement among disadvantaged and minority students. “The students and teachers of Hume-Fogg are awesome, and I’m proud to honor them,” Cooper said. “Blue Ribbon schools set an important standard in education, and they help make their communities better.” Dr. Paul Fleming, principal of Hume-Fogg, and one teacher from the school are invited to a ceremony with U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan in Washington, D.C., on November 14 and 15. Each Blue Ribbon school will be given a plaque and flag to signify its status. Hume-Fogg is one of six Tennessee schools to receive the honor for 2011. Blue Ribbon schools are nationally recognized as some of America’s most successful schools, and their students and teachers often serve as mentors for others. The award acknowledges the hard work of students, staff members, families and the communities that support them. Nashville’s Overbrook School was one of 10 Tennessee schools awarded the Blue Ribbon designation in 2010. # # #
09.16.2011	September 14, 2011 Dear Members of Joint Committee on Deficit Reduction: On August 11, 2011, we sent a letter to every member of the Committee, urging you to work with your colleagues to achieve a balanced, bipartisan solution that will ensure the United States remains the world’s leading economy. We have spent the past month with our constituents back home. As Blue Dogs, we represent diverse districts that span the country, yet we heard one consistent message: quit the partisan bickering and get something accomplished. Congress and the Joint Committee on Deficit Reduction have a rare opportunity to put our fiscal house in order at a time when the public is paying close attention to our deficits and debt. Leaders of both parties will urge you to retreat to the stale party positions and talking points. Political operatives, with an eye toward November 2012, will turn this into a battle of Democrats versus Republicans. Now is the time to take a time-out from the 2012 elections, put party affiliations aside, and work together for the sake of our country’s future. The Budget Control Act of 2011 charged you to find $1.2 trillion in deficit reductions, but we urge you to think bigger and bolder. We believe that the Joint Committee on Deficit Reduction should report a plan to Congress that would truly stabilize the debt as a share of the economy, and cut the deficit by $4 trillion over the next 10 years. The roadmaps to achieve this goal are plentiful and bipartisan. In March, the Blue Dog Coalition outlinedthe “Blue Dog Benchmarks of Fiscal Reform,” which would cut the deficit by $4 trillion over ten years, stabilize the debt, and reduce the size of government. These benchmarks were based on the Fiscal Commission Report, but there are other large, bipartisan plans that achieve the same goals. The ideas are out there. Now we just need to prove that Congress has the political will. We are heartened by the tone and optimism of your opening statements at the first official Joint Committee meeting. We stand willing to work with you to achieve big results for the future of our country. Sincerely, Rep. Heath Shuler, Co-chair, Administration Rep. John Barrow, Co-chair, Policy Rep. Mike Ross, Co-chair, Communications Rep. Dan Boren, Co-chair, Whip Rep. Kurt Schrader, Chair, Fiscal Task Force Rep. Jim Cooper, Vice-chair, Fiscal Task Force Rep. Dennis Cardoza Rep. Jim Matheson
09.15.2011	Sept. 15, 2011 Nashville magnet high school one of six schools in Tennessee to receive federal designation NASHVILLE—The U.S. Department of Education on Thursday named Nashville’s Hume-Fogg Magnet High School a 2011 Blue Ribbon School Award winner. The Blue Ribbon Program honors schools whose students achieve at high levels in the classroom, as well as those who have helped close gaps in achievement among disadvantaged and minority students. “The students and teachers of Hume-Fogg are awesome, and I’m proud to honor them,” Cooper said. “Blue Ribbon schools set an important standard in education, and they help make their communities better.” Dr. Paul Fleming, principal of Hume-Fogg, and one teacher from the school are invited to a ceremony with U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan in Washington, D.C., on November 14 and 15. Each Blue Ribbon school will be given a plaque and flag to signify its status. Hume-Fogg is one of six Tennessee schools to receive the honor for 2011. Blue Ribbon schools are nationally recognized as some of America’s most successful schools, and their students and teachers often serve as mentors for others. The award acknowledges the hard work of students, staff members, families and the communities that support them. Nashville’s Overbrook School was one of 10 Tennessee schools awarded the Blue Ribbon designation in 2010. # # #
09.09.2011	"No political party has a monopoly on wisdom. No individual has a monopoly on wisdom. And if we put our best brains together, we’ll get a better solution." September 9, 2011 Watch the video by clicking here. Speakers: Erica Hill, Jim Cooper Transcript: HILL: We are, of course, in Washington, and there is so much talk these days about the divided Congress in this town and the lack of cooperation and even respect between the two parties. Congressman Jim Cooper is a Tennessee Democrat with nearly two decades of experience in Washington. He’s been labeled the “Conscience of the House” for his view on the state of dysfunction among his colleagues, and simply put, he’s had it. COOPER: I’m deeply worried that there are so many people here now who will do anything for partisan gain, including tear down our own country, that that’s borderline treason, and that really scares me. HILL: Today’s Washington is a far cry from the Congress Jim Cooper joined in 1983. Back then there was disagreement, but also understanding. COOPER: Tip O’Neill and Ronald Reagan were a classic example. They’d argue during the daytime, and they’d go have a beer together at night. They’d tell stories. And they’d get along. People today rarely do that. They like to fight during the day and at night. They don’t even know each other’s names. HILL: In July, Cooper shocked many of his colleagues when he used the floor at a House committee hearing to chastise that behavior and to call for change. COOPER (in July committee meeting): It doesn’t have to be this way. We can be civil to each other, we can be informed, we can resist the partisan talking points. But I’m not seeing that sort of behavior. COOPER (present): I didn’t intend to just scold them. I wanted better behavior, and I wanted younger members to learn that you don’t have to act this way. HILL: As a Blue Dog Democrat, Cooper’s efforts haven’t always found widespread support. He’s often too conservative for his own party, too liberal for Republicans. But he’s hoping this is an issue that can transcend left and right. HILL (to Cooper): How do you fix it, then? Where do you begin? COOPER: Well I think the solution starts with better candidates. Every two years there’s an opportunity for better representation back home. Another solution is the power of money. It’s overwhelming in Washington. Lobbyists really are more powerful than Congressmen by far. HILL: And don’t forget the voters. After all, someone gave these lawmakers their jobs. COOPER: People want their side to win. They don’t want to learn about the issue. They don’t want to compromise. And they want to hear good news from their elected official. HILL: Translation: We all have a job to do. (Banjo playing) And while Cooper waits, he’s figured out one way to deal with the stress. COOPER: Music is good therapy. HILL: Do you ever feel like, “that’s it. I can’t do it anymore. No one is working with me?” COOPER: There are days that I lose hope. But when I look at the Capitol dome, when I see this magnificent city and country, I think, “I’m so blessed to be born here.” But the key is to realize that no political party has a monopoly on wisdom. No individual has a monopoly on wisdom. And if we put our best brains together, we’ll get a better solution. HILL: Congressman Cooper is traveling around the U.S. right now. He’s giving speeches on what he says should be done to fix Congress. One of his other concerns is the redistricting that’s been going on. He says it takes away the balance between liberals and conservatives. He says that it supports extreme points of view. We have seen a little bit more goodwill though in the last few days, so we’ll see if perhaps that can continue.
09.09.2011	Congressman says Nashvillians are “tired of waiting” for a better economy September 9, 2011 U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) had the following to say about President Obama’s speech introducing the American Jobs Act: "The President made a good high-energy speech to get America back on track. Congress must do its part by buckling down to work and stopping the political games. People back home are tired of waiting for more jobs and a better economy." # # #
09.06.2011	"Cooper is the House’s conscience, a lonely voice for civility in this ugly era." The Last ModerateThe New York TimesSeptember 6, 2011 By Joe Nocera Jim Cooper, a Blue Dog Democrat who represents the Nashville area, was first elected to Congress in 1982. He was 28, and if it’s not quite right to say he’s been there ever since — he spent eight years in the private sector after losing the race for Al Gore’s Senate seat — he’s still been a congressman most of his adult life. You’d think that Cooper’s tenure would ensure him the privileges of seniority. It doesn’t. A mild-mannered man, you’d think he’d have friends on both sides of the aisle. Not so. He’s loathed by Republicans for being in the wrong party, and scorned by Democrats for his fiscal conservatism. At the least, you’d think that he’d be respected for his institutional memory. Wrong again. The reason is that Cooper is the House’s conscience, a lonely voice for civility in this ugly era. He remembers when compromise was not a dirty word and politicians put country ahead of party. And he’s not afraid to talk about it. “We’ve gone from Brigadoon to Lord of the Flies,” he likes to say. I first heard him lament the state of Congress during one of those “get Elizabeth Warren” hearings held earlier this year. When it was Cooper’s turn to question her, he turned instead to the Republicans. “This Congress is viewed as dysfunctional,” he said, “and this alleged hearing is one of the reasons why. It too easily degenerates into a partisan food fight.” He pleaded with the junior members to change their mean-spirited ways before they became ingrained. With Congress back in session this week — and the mean-spirited wrangling about to begin anew — I thought it would be useful to ask Cooper how Congress became so dysfunctional. His answer surprised me. He said almost nothing about the Tea Party. Instead, he focused on the internal dynamics of Congress itself. To Cooper, the true villain is not the Tea Party; it’s Newt Gingrich. In the 1980s, when Tip O’Neill was speaker of the House, “Congress was functional,” Cooper told me. “Committees worked. Tip saw his role as speaker of the whole House, not just the Democrats.” Gingrich was a new kind of speaker: deeply partisan and startlingly power-hungry. “His first move was to get rid of the Democratic Study Group, which analyzed bills, and which was so trusted that Republicans as well as Democrats relied on it,” Cooper recalled. “This was his way of preventing us from knowing what we were voting on. Today,” he added, “the ignorance around here is staggering. Nobody has any idea what they’re voting on.” In the O’Neill era, when an important issue was being debated, there were often several legislative alternatives. But, under Gingrich, “that was eliminated in favor of one partisan bill,” said Cooper. That continued after the Democrats retook the House in 2006. “We no longer search for the best ideas or the best policies,” he said. “There was only one health care bill offered. One Dodd-Frank. Now you are either an ally or a traitor.” Cooper was rolling now. “The real problem with big issues like Medicare is that both parties have to be brave at the same time,” he said. “Every pollster will tell you not to do that to get partisan advantage. Too many people here are willing to deliberately harm the country for partisan gain. That is borderline treason. “This is not a collegial body anymore,” he said. “It is more like gang behavior. Members walk into the chamber full of hatred. They believe the worst lies about the other side. Two senators stopped by my office just a few hours ago. Why? They had a plot to nail somebody on the other side. That’s what Congress has come to.” Inevitably, Cooper turned to the subject of money in politics. “Money changes hands here way too much,” he said. “Members buy their way onto committees. When I first came to Congress, the party was supposed to help you. Now, when a new member is sworn in, he or she is told what their dues are — how much they are expected to raise for the party for the next election. It’s worse in the Senate. It turns the whole place into a money machine.” Cooper had lots more to say: about how redistricting has fostered extremism, on both the left and the right; about how Congress has become incapable of legislating on behalf of the nation; about how we are living through a new McCarthyism, aimed at destroying innocent people who want to serve their country by coming to Washington to run an agency or department. “We survived McCarthy,” he said, suddenly, sounding a small, surprising note of optimism. “We’ll survive this.” I hope he’s right. As I prepared to leave, he added, “You can’t lose hope.” So, yes: Let’s all hope that the next few, critical months for Congress will be better than the last few. For the country’s sake, they have to be.
08.15.2011	Jim Cooper writes an op-ed in The Washington Post about the need for a new national cemetery. A new Arlington Cemetery August 13, 2011The Washington Post By U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper Just across the Potomac River from Washington is a thriving city of the dead. Despite the recent scandals involving the mishandling of remains, more than 7,000 veterans choose Arlington National Cemetery every year as their final resting place. That’s 20 funerals a day. Demand is higher than anytime since the 1960s, partly because of the passing of World War II veterans and partly because Arlington is even more popular with younger generations of veterans. There are already more than 260,000 graves and niches on Arlington’s 620 acres of beautiful rolling hills. Unfortunately, however, America’s most hallowed ground is rapidly running out of space. Without opening up more land, Arlington will have no room for cremated remains by 2016, or for casket burials by 2025. To avert closure, cemetery officials are planning another columbarium and two expansions that could extend the life of Arlington until 2035 or beyond. Each land deal, however, is problematic. The first proposed expansion is the so-called Millennium Project, a pompous name for a small sloping field and large wooded ravine at the western edge of the cemetery. This property lies below Fort Myer, the base of operations for the Army’s Old Guard and several four-star generals. The Army Corps of Engineers is about to bring in bulldozers before deciding exactly how the Millennium Project site will be used. This is the Corps’ second attempt. Stormwater runoff from Fort Myer is so bad that the Corps has already installed a million-gallon underground storage tank to minimize the erosion of graves. Another concern is the old-growth forest in the steep ravine that borders the cemetery. Depending on how many trees are cut, this 32-acre site could add four to eight years to the life of the cemetery. The second expansion site is the 42-acre hilltop next to the Air Force Memorial. Now occupied by the Navy Annex, a large 1940s office complex, this land lies across busy Columbia Pike from the cemetery. Moving the highway and demolishing a million square feet of offices could add about 10 years to Arlington’s life. But no matter what is done, Arlington Cemetery cannot keep growing forever. Today’s efforts to squeeze more yield out of existing acreage and to grab neighboring parcels are, at best, temporary solutions. After that, there is no more land to be had, unless the cemetery takes over all of Fort Myer or begins crowding the Iwo Jima Memorial. It’s time to give serious thought to a new national cemetery, perhaps at a battlefield such as Gettysburg, Antietam or Manassas, or a prestigious site like Quantico, Annapolis, West Point or even the National Arboretum. Today's veterans should be able to choose their place of honor and eternal rest. They have earned it. But tomorrow’s volunteers also deserve that right. Do today’s veterans want to occupy marginal ground at extraordinary cost? Or do they want a new home, a new Arlington, which could be every bit as magnificent as Robert E. Lee’s former plantation? Veterans should decide soon: Will Arlington be enhanced or diminished by today’s expansions? The Millennium ravine was deemed unfit for burials for 150 years; no amount of engineering will change that. The Navy Annex is a valuable Defense Department asset for today’s fight. In addition, no one is asking how much these expansions will cost. Do veterans want to be interred where taxpayers must pay a fortune for each grave or niche? Is that patriotic? Some are talking about an Arlington West so that veterans’ families do not have to travel 3,000 miles to visit their heroes. We also need a new Arlington East sooner than we think. Perhaps it’s time to establish two new national cemeteries to honor both our heroes of the past — and of the future. The writer, a Democrat, represents Tennessee’s 5th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
08.12.2011	Dear Member, As you prepare for your post on the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, we urge you to work with your colleagues to achieve a balanced, bipartisan solution that will control our nation’s debt and ensure that the United States remains the leader in the world economy. Last week, Standard and Poor’s downgraded the U.S. debt from a AAA rating for the first time in our nation’s history. They not only cited our dire fiscal problems, but our dysfunctional political system as the cause for the change in rating, saying “The political brinksmanship of recent months highlights what we see as America's governance and policymaking becoming less stable, less effective, and less predictable.” We believe it is time for Congress to prove them wrong. As policy makers we have a clear choice in front of us: pursue a partisan approach that caters to the political extremes, or work together as Americans to put our nation’s fiscal house in order. Therefore, we urge you to put politics aside and work across party lines to develop a fair and feasible path to fixing our long-term debt. The Blue Dog Coalition believes that Congress still has the capacity to solve big problems. We stand ready and willing to work with you to achieve a solution. Sincerely, Heath Shuler, John Barrow, Mike Ross, Dan Boren, Dennis Cardoza, Jim Matheson, Kurt Schrader, and Jim Cooper Read the letters to the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction here .
08.10.2011	Jim Cooper writes an op-ed in The Tennessean about the challenges facing the “super-committee” and what you can do to help end the stalemate in Washington. 'Super-committee' isn't best hope; Americans are The Tennessean By U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper August 14, 2011 Don’t expect the new congressional “super-committee” to suddenly act like superheroes and save the American economy. The 12 Democrats and Republicans on the committee don’t need spandex; they need courage. Just creating a committee is a sign of weakness; committees delay action. America’s debt problems are mounting so rapidly that our fiscal gap increases by roughly $14 billion every day we wait. That’s $164,000 a second. That’s why Congress should go back to work immediately instead of taking August off. Millions of Americans need jobs; Congress should be doing its job. Congress already has plenty of committees. The most notable, the Bowles-Simpson Commission, finished its work seven months ago. That committee won 60 percent bipartisan approval but could not get a congressional vote. Its report remains the best bipartisan blueprint for reform. Congress could vote on its proposals at any time. Will one or more of the six hard-core Democrats or six hard-core Republicans on the super-committee vote against their party? Doubtful. They are afraid of losing their leadership position in Congress and perhaps their next election. They were selected for their stubbornness, making stalemate the most likely outcome. If the super-committee ties 6-6, then automatic, across-the-board cuts will occur, starting in 2013. Some industries such as agriculture prefer this outcome, because it could protect them from deeper cuts. Other industries such as defense are angry with blanket cuts, because we are in the middle of multiple wars. Workable plan must boost revenue, reform entitlements Republicans are afraid that voting for any tax increase will lose the next election. Democrats fear that any reduction in Social Security or Medicare will terminate their careers. These fears will probably cripple the super-committee. Yet, no meaningful deficit reduction can be achieved without revenue and entitlement reform. Whether the super-committee deadlocks or not, it was only tasked with finding $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction over the next 10 years. Many experts think that more deficit reduction is required, such as the $4 trillion recommended by Bowles-Simpson. During today’s high unemployment and weak economy, these cuts should be back-loaded so that we do not jeopardize the fragile recovery. I am praying that at least seven members of the super-committee will rise to the challenge and quickly recommend a larger package of deficit reductions than the law requires, $4 trillion or more. To do that, Congress must be willing to take on special interests, political parties and extreme partisans back home. What can you do to ease the stalemate? Study proposals like the Bowles-Simpson Commission. Get beyond the partisan talking points, and know what solutions you prefer. Think for yourself, of course, but also for your community and nation. Talk to your neighbors and elected officials. Let them know what cuts you would like to see made. Don’t just advocate cutting someone else; tell us how your favorite programs can be reduced or eliminated. Almost everyone in modern America is subsidized in some way. Also, tell us what taxes could be increased. This is not a time for selfishness. We live in the greatest nation in the world, because our forbears made brave decisions. They did not take the easy road. They made the tough decisions that made America strong. U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper, a Democrat, represents Tennessee’s Fifth Congressional District.
08.06.2011	August 12, 2011 CNN's Christine Romans interviewed Congressman Cooper today on American Morning about the debt, super committee and Congress returning early from recess. Click here to watch the video, and see below for a full transcript. TRANSCRIPT REP. JIM COOPER, D-TENN., IS INTERVIEWED ON CNN'S "AMERICAN MORNING" AUGUST 12, 2011 SPEAKERS: CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR REP. JIM COOPER, D-TENN. ALI VELSHI, CNN ANCHOR ROMANS: All right. But my next guest is one of four Democratic lawmakers urging House leaders to end their recess and call Congress back to work. Congressman Jim Cooper joining me now live from Nashville, Tennessee. Nice to see you again, Congressman. COOPER: Good to see you again, Christine. ROMANS: You want them to come home. Tell me why you think that this is something is an urgent moment for America. COOPER: Well, I like vacation and time off as much as anybody else but we need to get back to work. Our nation has serious problems. We've already had a couple of weeks off. Why don't we get back to the job, because every day that we wait to solve our deficit problems is probably costing us another $14 billion or so dollars a day. So I think it's time to get back to work. ROMANS: You sent a letter to the leadership, saying, "Our fiscal and job situation is dire. Both deserve the full and immediate attention of congress. We ask that you reconvene the House immediately, show the American people and financial markets that Congress can solve these big problems in a bipartisan fashion." Have you heard anything back? COOPER: I haven't heard anything back, and predictably it's not going to be popular to call people back in with the congressmen. But I think it would be popular with the American people. The president is right. We shouldn't come back to town to argue and bicker. We should come back to do real work. And it's really the job of the speaker to call the House back into session. It's not the job of the president. We're a co-equal branch of government. ROMANS: You mentioned the financial markets. The financial markets putting pressure on Washington, on Congress, putting them on notice that whether or not you want to agree with the downgrade of S&P, the market is telling us that the U.S. has to get the house in order. How much pressure are the markets putting on that group of 12 lawmakers who have to agree on $1.5 trillion in revenue or spending cuts? COOPER: You've already pointed out there's never been a roller coaster stock market like we've seen this week. We need to do our job in Washington to give security to the markets. It's not just the committee of 12 that's going to have to decide on this. All of Congress is going to have to vote by Christmastime on this package. Many Congressmen haven't done their homework yet to decide exactly what cuts should be made. So I'm thinking it's time to get back to work and put our nose to the grindstone. ROMANS: Who's most likely? Of the six Republicans and the six Democrats, you need one -- you need one from each side to cross over so that you can -- that there can be a package to move forward. When you look at these 12, who do you think is the most likely to be the compromiser or the person who can leave re-election hopes, fund- raising and ideology behind to get something done? COOPER: I'll have to tell you, Christine, I don't see a single one, because they're all pre-selected to be hardcore Democrats or Republicans. And that doesn't mean they're bad people. They're all fine people. But they're unlikely to be able to compromise. And that means a six-six deadlock. And that means automatic across the board spending cuts, it could be devastating, for example, to areas like Defense where most people think they shouldn't be treated like every other area of government. ROMANS: Well, I mean, what you're telling me is really troubling, because what we're really hoping is this is not going to be a shrunken down version of a dysfunctional Congress. You see the same -- the same levers and ideologies that play in this group of 12 that we have to cause the U.S. to be downgraded and all these -- all the problems we're having in the markets. COOPER: You're right. It's like a mini me, a tiny, little version of the dysfunctional Congress unless there's a sudden -- a miracle and each one of them has a change of heart or something. But, remember how they're selected? They're pre-selected by their party leaders... ROMANS: Right. COOPER: ... to be absolutely true Democrats or Republicans. ROMANS: Now, you are what they call, you know, a blue dog Democrat. You have long been, quote-unquote, "fiscally conservative." You've been talking about debt -- debt and deficits to deaf ears, I will say, in Washington for a very, very long time. Could you tell me from your perspective -- from your perspective why is it that this was ignored, the problem was ignored forever and then now all of a sudden it has incited all of this ultimatums and grandstanding in Washington from -- when it was -- when nobody ever paid attention to it before? COOPER: Well, nobody likes to listen to bad news. You know, Standard& Poor's started warning us about this six years ago. I got a book out on it six years ago, but nobody paid any attention. You know, it's really been since Ross Perot ran for president in the 1990s since America has paid serious attention to this. Remember, under Bill Clinton, we have three years of balanced budget, the first since the 1920s. Then we fell under the ditch again. So this is not easy for Americans to handle. There's a lot of denial here, a lot of programs that folks don't even think are part of government like Medicare that are part of government. We need to reform them. ROMANS: In your perfect world, you have reforms to the entitlements, you have tax increases for -- for people, for companies, for companies who are people if you're Mitt Romney from this weekend. I mean do you have everything on the table. You have tax reform. Just quickly, I mean, in your perfect world what should this people do? COOPER: Not only should everything be on the table. I think the Bowles-Simpson Commission did... ROMANS: Right. COOPER: ... by far the best job of putting together (ph) a package. It's bipartisan that's fair, and it had attracted support from Dick Durbin to Tom Coburn. ROMANS: All right. Jim Cooper, Congressman Jim Cooper from Tennessee, really nice to see you. (CROSSTALK) COOPER: Thanks, Christine. ROMANS: and I’ll tell you, Carol and Ali, he has been talking about this for so long. He did put out a book many years ago called, “The Financial Report of the United States Government,” and it was just basically the U.S. Government’s financials that he said, “this is what it looks like – it ain’t good. It can’t go on like this. That was years ago. (CROSSTALK) VELSHI: Well, instead of writing the book he should’ve gone to these meetings and got in some Congressman’s face. That would’ve pushed the issue to the front burner. ROMANS: Some of his critics have said he’s like, what do they call it? A one-note Johnny: “all he talks about is debt and deficits. All he talks about is debt and deficits.” But it works in his district, because people in Tennessee are like, “he’s right. You can’t just spend beyond your means forever.” Now that same tone has taken hold in Washington, but not with people like Jim Cooper, who are saying, “compromise,” but with people who are saying, “no compromise.” VELSHI: Well, let’s hope he’s super on that Supercommittee.
08.05.2011	August 10, 2011 Former editor of the Nashville City Paper, Stephen George, to coordinate media in DC and Tennessee NASHVILLE—U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) has named Stephen George as his new press secretary. George, who most recently was the editor of the Nashville City Paper, will take over the press operation starting in September. “Stephen brings a much needed outside perspective to Washington. His experience will be invaluable to our operation,” said Congressman Jim Cooper. “We are delighted to welcome him to our team.” George has almost a decade of experience as a reporter and extensive knowledge of the Nashville political scene. Though based in Washington, he will split time between the two offices. “I've always found the legislative process fascinating, and I am thrilled to work for someone who considers it as thoroughly and respectfully as Jim Cooper,” said George. “His principles are sound and evident in what he says and does. I look forward to working with him and his talented staff.” # # #
08.04.2011	August 9, 2011 Cooper Urges Speaker Boehner to Bring Congress Back into Session “We can’t afford to wait until September to get back to work” NASHVILLE – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) joined sent the following letter to Speaker John Boehner and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi urging them to call Congress back into session to address the fiscal crisis. An excerpt is below. “Standard and Poor’s recent downgrade of America’s credit rating is a serious embarrassment. Clearly, the debt ceiling deal passed by Congress eight days ago – while an important first step – did not do nearly enough to instill confidence in our nation’s ability to deal with our long-term debt problem…. Our fiscal and jobs situation is dire and both deserve the full and immediate attention of Congress. We ask you to reconvene the House immediately, and show the American people and the financial markets that Congress can solve these big problems, in a bipartisan fashion. We can’t afford to wait until September to get back to work.” # # #
08.02.2011	August 1, 2011Legislation passed the House by a vote of 269-161 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement after his vote for the Bipartisan Budget Control Act which will cut at least $2.1 trillion in spending while raising the debt ceiling through 2013. “I supported the Budget Control Act because it protects America from default and starts cutting unnecessary spending. Much more needs to be done but Congress has finally stopped bickering and started solving our deficit problems.” Cooper is a long time advocate of a bipartisan debt plan that reduces spending, reforms the tax code and puts our country on a sustainable fiscal path. Last month, he sent a letter to Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi urging them to allow a vote on the “Gang of Six” bipartisan proposal that would have reduced the debt by almost $4 trillion over the next ten years. Unfortunately, House Leadership has refused to allow a vote on such a proposal. # # #
07.24.2011	July 28, 2011“We need a comprehensive, bipartisan proposal that raises our debt ceiling and lowers the debt in the long term, and we need one in the next 5 days.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement about his decision to vote No on Speaker John Boehner’s Budget Control Act of 2011: “We need a comprehensive, bipartisan proposal that raises our debt ceiling and lowers the debt in the long-term, and we need one in the next 5 days. The Boehner bill doesn’t meet any of these criteria and it won’t have my support.” Cooper has introduced legislation, HR2653, that would stop congressional pay if our country defaults on the national debt. The bill would prohibit members from receiving pay during a default, and would not allow for that pay to be recouped retroactively. He is also the only member of Congress to vote for every proposal available to raise the debt ceiling before August 2nd. Cooper is a long time advocate of a bipartisan debt plan that reduces spending, reforms the tax code and puts our country on a sustainable fiscal path. Last week, he sent a letter to Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi urging them to allow a vote on the “Gang of Six” bipartisan proposal that would have reduced the debt by almost $4 trillion over the next ten years. Unfortunately, House Leadership has refused to allow a vote on such a proposal. # # #
07.21.2011	July 26, 2011 WASHINGTON - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will introduce legislation that would stop congressional pay if our country defaults on the national debt. The bill would prohibit members from receiving pay during a default and would not allow for that pay to be recouped retroactively. Cooper said, “Failure is not an option. But, if default occurs, another paycheck for congressmen and senators should not be an option either.”Click here to review the Stop Member Pay Act. Cooper is a long time advocate of a bipartisan debt plan that reduces spending, reforms the tax code and puts our country on a sustainable fiscal path. Last week, he sent a letter to Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi urging them to allow a vote on the “Gang of Six” bipartisan proposal that would have reduced the debt by almost $4 trillion over the next ten years. Unfortunately, House Leadership has refused to allow a vote on such a proposal. Cooper supports and bipartisan approach to the debt ceiling debate and said: “Debt and deficits are a bipartisan problem, requiring a bipartisan solution. I am doing everything possible to get Congress to act responsibly by paying its bills on time, reducing the growth of future spending, keeping our interest rates low and strengthening our weak economy. Time is running out.” Cooper was also the co-sponsor of the SAFE Commission Act (H.R. 1557) which was the model for the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. The Gang of Six used the framework of the President’s Commission to produce their bipartisan proposal. He has listed information and resources on his website which will be updated throughout this debate . # # #
07.19.2011	“We are willing to do our part to advance this comprehensive, bipartisan debt reduction plan. We respectfully ask you to do the same.” July 19, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) and Congressman Frank Wolf (VA-10) sent the following letter to Speaker John Boehner and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi urging them to support the bipartisan debt plan proposed by the “Gang of Six” in the Senate. An excerpt is below. “On Tuesday, July 19, 2011, the so-called “Gang of Six” released their long-awaited bipartisan plan to reduce our long-term debt by $3.7 trillion over the next ten years. We applaud this effort and ask that you provide the opportunity to vote on this proposal as part of any request for an increase in the debt ceiling before the August 2nd debt ceiling deadline…..We believe this approach deserves the full and immediate attention of the House of Representatives. It is time to stop using the deficit and debt as political weapons and come together to support bipartisan solutions. We are willing to do our part to advance this comprehensive, bipartisan debt reduction plan. We respectfully ask you to do the same.” Congressmen Cooper and Wolf were the original co-sponsors of the SAFE Commission Act (H.R. 1557) which was the model for the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. The Gang of Six used the framework of the President’s Commission to produce their bipartisan proposal. The letter may also be viewed here. # # # To read the Gang of Six plan, click here.
07.16.2011	WASHINGTON - Congressman Jim Cooper started a countdown to August 2, the date when the U.S. is set to reach its debt ceiling. Please review the updates below. Wednesday, August 3 - About the Deal Sunday, August 1 - My Yes Vote on the Budget Control Act Thursday, July 28 - Postponed Vote in the House Wednesday, July 27 - Stop Member Pay, Preparing for Default Tuesday, July 26 - Paths Forward, Credit Rating Update, Stop Member Pay Monday, July 25 - 8 Days Left, New Proposals from Congress, Stop Paying Congress Friday, July 22 - Consequences of Default, Review from Bipartisan Policy Center Thursday, July 21 - Gang of Six proposal, Votes in the House, Balanced Approach
07.14.2011	July 14, 2011 WASHINGTON - At an Oversight & Government Reform Hearing on Consumer Financial Protection, Cooper says Congress is viewed as "dysfunctional" and encouraged colleagues to "resist partisan talking points" and partisan "food fights." Click to watch the video or read the transcript below. Cooper's comments were also mentioned in Time Magazine's online blog, the Swampland. Committee on Oversight & Government Reform Full Committee Hearing "Consumer Financial Protection Efforts: Answers Needed" July 14, 2011 U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have a question for the witness. I do have a comment primarily aimed at the junior members of the committee on both sides of the aisle. I think all of us realize that this Congress is viewed as dysfunctional, and, I would submit, that this Committee is also viewed as dysfunctional. And this alleged hearing is one of the reasons why. It too easily degenerates into a partisan food fight, and it doesn't have to be this way. In fact, just a few years ago in Congress, it was not this way. So I would urge the junior members of the Committee to resist the partisan talking points that enable people on both sides of the aisle to walk in here, read a question, make a partisan hit, look like we're smart and then leave. That's not good governance regardless of which party is in charge. I didn't vote for Dodd-Frank. It had many good features. It had some less good features. But I do not want to be part of a committee, at least at the subcommittee level, that treated Ms. Warren with more rudeness and disrespect than I have ever seen a Committee witness treated. That is not the American way. Now some of us come here, and we get so used to the food fight that we want it to continue and you'll probably score brownie points if you make your partisan hit. You might even get on a better Committee. Well, congratulations. You will not have solved a problem. I would suggest to the Chairman and the Ranking Member that oftentimes a seminar format is much more instructive, is much more educational than the sort of partisan charade we seem to continue to engage in with hearings like this. I would urge Members to read one of Ms. Warren's books. I've only read The Two Income Trap. It's outstanding. Your constituents back home should read this book. Your bankers back home should read this book. Then there'd be a lot less hatred, a lot less discord, a lot less anger because this lady is trying to do the right thing. We all recognize that consumers oftentimes get the short end of the stick. I've tried to refinance my home mortgage several times to take advantage of today's record-low interest rates. And the paperwork - they blizzard [you]. I went to a very good law school and it's almost impossible for lawyers to understand this stuff. Ms. Warren has pointed out that the existing regulatory agencies have taken over a decade to try to simplify a couple of the forms, and they have failed. What has this committee done to simplify some of the forms? Nothing. So isn't it time for a new approach? Isn't it time for fresh thinking to give the consumers a break? And let us also acknowledge that Congress is sometimes captured by vested interests. Sometimes that happens. And we need to resist that. So, I would urge the Members of the Committee, particularly the junior members who are not so entrenched in bad habits, to consider new and fresher approaches to solve some of these problems so that we can protect consumers and also give legitimate industries a fair shake because all bankers are not bad people. I'm afraid that we're falling into a rut here that is going to be to the detriment of not only this Committee and this Congress, but of the Nation. It doesn't have to be this way. We can be civil to each other. We can be informed. We can resist the partisan talking points. But I'm not seeing that sort of behavior. At least so far. So, let's try to do better and let's try to be civil to witnesses like Ms. Warren. Let's try to focus on the substance. Because I've actually heard very little substance here today. And there are better ways to solve our problems. I hope that this Committee will be part of those. I thank the Chairman, and I see that my time is about to expire.
07.13.2011	July 13, 2011 Washington, DC - U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) and U.S. Congresswoman Sue Myrick (NC-09) have introduced a bipartisan resolution to prevent the creation of duplicative federal programs. "Our government is bloated by too many wasteful and redundant federal programs," said Congressman Jim Cooper. "It is time to cut the fat. Congress needs to tighten its belt and take better care of taxpayer dollars." The bill amends the House rules to ensure that every bill reported out of its Committee of jurisdiction contains the following: 1. An analysis by the Congressional Research Service to determine if the bill creates any new federal program, office, or initiative that would duplicate or overlap any existing federal program with similar goals; 2. An explanation by the Committee as to why the program is necessary if one already exists; 3. If the bill does create an overlapping program, office, or initiative, it is not in order unless the Committee has prepared and posted on its website an analysis and explanation of it. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) recently released a report identifying hundreds of duplicative and overlapping programs costing approximately $217 billion a year. Cutting these programs could save billions of dollars. GAO found 47 separate job training programs, 88 economic development programs, 82 teacher quality programs, and 56 financial literacy programs. "Duplicative federal programs equal waste, and wasting tax dollars is exactly what the American people want their government to stop doing," Rep. Myrick said. "The government can't begin to operate within its means if it doesn't stop wasting money creating programs that already exist. I thank Rep. Cooper for his support in keeping our word to the American people to get our fiscal house in order." Senators Coburn, Udall, McCaskill and Paul have taken similar action in the Senate. ###
07.13.2011	Jim Cooper writes an op-ed in Tennessean about the current debt limit debate and why Congress shouldn't get paid if the nation defaults. Stop paying Congress if nation defaults July 27, 2011The Tennessean By U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper This is a crucial week for America as Congress grapples with the debt ceiling and budget reforms. These are complicated issues. I want you to know where I stand and why congressional pay should be stopped if we default. Debt and deficits are a bipartisan problem, requiring a bipartisan solution. Just 10 years ago, with a Democratic president and Republican Congress, we had three consecutive years of budget surplus, the first since the 1920s. Since then, Democrats and Republicans have both refused to pay for social programs and for today’s wars. All this spending has been put on the national credit card, increasingly financed by China. I put a book out on this in 2006, The Financial Report of the U.S. Government, warning of the coming crisis. For six years, the credit rating agencies and I have been trying to get America to change course. Now, with days left, the bills have come due. No one really knows the consequences of default, but they can’t be good. Raising the debt ceiling should be accompanied with real budget reform. The reforms being discussed range from $1 trillion to $5.5 trillion in deficit reduction and from six months to 10 years in duration. In my opinion, the bigger and longer the better. To achieve something like the $4 trillion Bowles-Simpson or the Gang of Six proposals, Congress needs to show more courage and bipartisanship in the next few days before default. So far, Congress has not been allowed to vote on any serious proposals like these. Every day the default crisis draws closer. Because of these congressional failures, I am drafting legislation to stop paying all congressmen and senators if America defaults. The Constitution protects congressional pay (how convenient!) but our payroll checks should be dead last on any priority list after default. I hope this punishment will get my colleagues’ attention and make them more interested in working together. I don’t blame the public for wanting to get rid of everyone in Congress. What the House has been voting on are extreme proposals on the left and right. The first was a “clean” debt ceiling extension that would have enabled America to pay its bills on time but without immediately cutting deficits. I voted for it. The second was the “Cut, Cap, and Balance” proposal that promised $5.5 trillion in deficit reduction, but refused to say what cuts would be made. I voted for it. In fact, I am literally the only member of Congress to support both these proposals; I refuse to be part of congressional gridlock. I voted for these imperfect proposals because I do not believe in risking American default on its obligations. Maintaining our credit rating is vital. Defaulting is like playing Russian roulette with a gun aimed at our own country. Are the people who are talking tough willing to guarantee that default isn’t a catastrophe? It’s looking more like a mini-deal will be cut, not real budget reform. Speaker Boehner and Majority Leader Reid are each floating proposals that are $1-$2.5 trillion in size, with no tax increases. Both require yet another congressional commission. The biggest difference between them seems to be whether we must face another default crisis before the 2012 election. I am doing everything possible to get Congress to act responsibly by paying its bills on time, reducing the growth of future spending, keeping our interest rates low and strengthening our weak economy. Failure is not an option. But, if default occurs, another paycheck for congressmen and senators should not be an option either.
07.07.2011	July 7, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) made the following statement on the ongoing debt negotiations. "I am hopeful that the White House’s high-level talks will get an agreement to cut deficits by $4 trillion over the next ten years. Democrats and Republicans need to stop bickering and put America first.” # # #
06.22.2011	Cooper recently signed on as a co-sponsor of H. Res. 268, the bipartisan Cantor-Hoyer resolution reaffirming the United States' commitment to a negotiated settlement through direct Palestinian-Israeli negotiations. Cooper said, "We must work harder now than ever to achieve a two-state solution ensuring a safe and democratic Israel." ###
06.13.2011	Contents Overview Recent News & Updates Links & Additional Information Overview It's an honor to be your representative and help assist you with issues involving federal agencies. If you have a question or concern that does not involve a federal agency, please use the resources below to find your elected representative.Governor Bill Haslam • 1st Floor, State Capitol • Nashville, TN 37243 • Phone (615) 741-2001 Bob Cooper, Attorney General • P.O. Box 20207 • Nashville, TN 37202 • Phone (615) 741-3491Tre Hargett, Tennessee Secretary of State • 312 Rosa L. Parks Avenue • 8th Floor, Snodgrass Tower • Nashville, TN 37243 • Phone (615) 741-2078Find My Tennessee State Legislators Recent News & Updates Links & Additional Information
06.13.2011	Budget & Economy Children & Families Energy & Environment Health Care Government Reform National Security Music & Entertainment Earmarks
06.09.2011	June 7, 2011 WASHINGTON - U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN) and U.S. Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA) wrote a letter to their colleagues today asking them to support the Gang of Six debt reduction efforts. To view a pdf of the letter, click here. Cooper and Wolf write: On Friday June 3, 2011, the co-chairs of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, Erskine Bowles and Senator Alan Simpson, wrote an op-ed for the Washington Post, “The Gang of Six is our Best Shot.” They called on lawmakers to support the Gang of Six efforts stating that it offers the “last, best hope for a comprehensive bipartisan deficit reduction agreement” this Congress. The Gang of Six has based their work off of the Bowles-Simpson plan, which is why it is important their discussions not only continue, but they have our bipartisan support. Never has there been a more important time in our nation’s history to come together to rein in our wasteful spending, stop playing favorites with the tax code, and put everything on the table. In April, Standard & Poor’s cut the U.S. ratings outlook to “negative,” due to the uncertainty over budget deficits and the debt ceiling. Just last week, Moody’s warned it may also downgrade the U.S. ratings outlook to “negative” as early as next month. We should be able to reduce spending, and raise the debt ceiling, without defaulting on our debt. The consequences of failure are unacceptable. It is common political posturing for Democrats and Republicans to blame each other for acquiring this debt, but neither side can cast stones. Both are guilty of making new promises we can’t pay for, and tax breaks we can’t afford. It is time to stop using the deficit as a political weapon, and come together to find bipartisan solutions. The Bowles-Simpson plan is bitter medicine, and while not perfect could restore our fiscal health. There is never a convenient time to make tough decisions, but the longer we put off fixing the problem, the worse the medicine will be. Messrs. Bowles and Simpson go on to say, “Members of both parties and both houses must publicly support the work of the Gang of Six. This is the time for heroes.” We couldn’t agree more. Committee for a Responsible Budget Praises Cooper and Wolf June 8, 2011 We are thrilled to see this bipartisan team in the House of Representatives coming out in support of the Gang’s efforts. And we hope more members from both parties and both houses will join them. As Bowles and Simpson write, “This is the time for heroes. The country is ready for leaders in Washington to put politics aside, pull together — not apart — put national interest ahead of political interests and put the next generation over the next election.” We congratulate Reps. Cooper and Wolf for their leadership and courage, and encourage others to join them in providing bipartisan support for the work of the Gang of Six. https://crfb.org/blogs/cooper-and-wolf-announce-support-gang-six Congress has basis for deficit deal Politico By Sen. Mark Kirk (R-Ill.) and Sen. Mark Udall (D-Colo.) June 13, 2011 With recent reports that the Senate Gang of Six has been working on a long-term deficit reduction plan of $4.7 trillion in cuts over 10 years, it is essential that the nation rally behind it. Only a bipartisan, all-of-the-above plan, with shared sacrifices from both parties, will show the public that Congress recognizes the serious nature of the nation’s current economic crisis and is willing to fix it. The gang’s plan is our best hope, and we would like to see all senators encourage its momentum. It deserves the full attention of those negotiating an increase in the federal debt ceiling, which must be coupled with long-term deficit reduction. This is our moment to make the collective sacrifice that maintains our superpower status. In fact, we have little choice — as Reps. Jim Cooper (D-Tenn.) and Frank Wolf (R-Va.) recently surmised. Work of this Gang of Six represents the best chance we have to achieve meaningful progress on our debt. It could send a powerful message to Americans that Washington can work together to tackle this critical issue. As we approach another dysfunctional impasse over raising the statutory debt limit, Congress should focus its attention on the bipartisan plan that has been laid at its feet. We must work together and pass it into law — before our national credit rating is downgraded and our chances of winning the global economic race are damaged. To read the full article, go to https://www.politico.com/news/stories/0611/56835.html.
06.09.2011	The Boston Review magazine recently featured Congressman Cooper's Fixing Congress speech. The feature issue included the full speech and reviews and responses from many prominent political commentators including: Stephen Ansolabehere David W. Brady John G. Geer Andrew Gelman Dana Houle Nick Nyhart Norman J. Ornstein Kathryn Pearson U.S. Rep. David E. Price John Samples Kenneth A. Shepsle
05.26.2011	Spends Memorial Day Weekend Visiting with Troops May 31, 2011 NASHVILLE—On Monday, May 30th, U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper returned from a four-day congressional visit to Afghanistan with refueling stops to visit NATO facilities in Belgium and Estonia. He spent Memorial Day weekend visiting the troops. The delegation met with General David Petraeus, Commander of the International Security Assistance Force, Karl Eikenberry, U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan, and troops from the U.S. military, including U.S. Special Operations Forces. The focus of the trip was both on Special Operations as well as cyber-warfare. Cooper, the only Tennessean on the House Armed Services Committee, was primarily assessing the conditions for proposed U.S. troop reductions in Afghanistan later this summer. Cooper said, “Our troops deserve tremendous credit for their heroic efforts to deny safe havens for terrorists in Afghanistan. Increased troop levels have had a definite impact on the Taliban and Haqqani network, but the summer fighting season is just beginning.” The group spent two days in Afghanistan meeting with U.S. military officials, Afghan officials and elders in one village. Cooper also met with troops from Tennessee who are serving at Bagram and Kandahar air bases. In Belgium and Estonia, the focus of discussion was NATO support, not only in ground war but also in cyber-war. Traveling with Cooper were Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Texas), Congressman John Garamendi (D-California), Congressman Tim Griffin (R-Arkansas), and Congressman Steven Palazzo (R-Mississippi). To view pictures, click here to visit Cooper’s Flickr page. # # #
05.25.2011	Overview News & Updates Links & Additional Resources Overview The Affordable Care Act or “Obamacare”For decades, I have worked hard to reform our nation’s broken health care system. In 2010, I voted for a comprehensive health care reform bill, the Affordable Care Act, to provide better care and lower costs over time. The Affordable Care Act isn’t perfect, and it doesn’t solve all our health care problems, but it’s an important first step. Like any other major legislation in Congress, we should continue to make improvements to the law. Elements of the new law are being phased in over several years, and we’ve already seen a lot of changes. Children with pre-existing conditions such as asthma are no longer denied coverage. Starting in 2014, no one can be denied coverage for a pre-existing coverage. More: View an interactive timeline of all of the changes and the plan for the law’s roll-out. More: Read about why I voted for the bill and my role in the health reform debate.Protecting Medicare Medicare is a vital and sacred program, but it’s on a fiscally unsustainable course. According to the Social Security and Medicare Actuaries, the Medicare Trust Fund will be exhausted in 2026. We must keep it strong and sustainable for our seniors and for future generations. In order to protect Medicare, we must first know how it works. My bill, the Medicare Information Act, would provide every American with an annual snapshot of their lifetime contributions and a summary of their estimated benefits. Many people don’t realize that they will likely withdraw much more from Medicare than they paid in. More: To view how Medicare is financed, check out this website. It’s important to find waste and abuse in the Medicare system, and that’s why I am a co-sponsor of the Preventing and Reducing Improper Medicare Expenditures (PRIME) Act. The PRIME Act would enact stronger penalties for Medicare and Medicaid fraud, curb improper or mistaken Medicare and Medicaid payments, improve waste and fraud prevention strategies and improve the sharing of anti-fraud data across state and federal agencies and programs. Prescription Drug Abuse Prescription drug abuse is a large and ever-growing problem that drives up health care costs, takes lives, and eats away at communities. Tennessee is one of the worst offenders, and that’s why I co-sponsored the Pill Mill Crackdown Act, a bipartisan bill to increase penalties for distributing controlled substances illegally.Promoting Innovation & Accessibility Innovation and accessibility are vital to improving the quality of our health care system. From new electronic medical records that will streamline patient care to continuing research for cures to disease and access to the most effective medicines, we must continue finding ways to make the system better. I also support initiatives to increase awareness, access to treatments and research for major health problems like diabetes and cancer. More: Cooper's Skin Cancer Caucus Facebook Page More: Cooper sends letter to support Special Diabetes Program Investing in Scientific and Health Care Research Basic science, the seed corn of innovation, is primarily supported by the federal government — not industry, which is typically more interested in applied research and development. But at a time when other countries are increasing investments in science and technology, basic science is at risk. I’ve supported increases for NIH funding for years and helped launch national awards in 2012 to promote major breakthroughs from science and medical research. More: Read all about the “Golden Goose Awards” News & Updates July 29, 2013 • Cooper Praises FDA Commissioner on Classification of UV Lamps July 1, 2013 • Cooper, Bipartisan Group Establish Skin Cancer CaucusApril 12, 2013 • Cooper co-sponsors the Breast Cancer Prevention ActJune 28, 2012 • Cooper Statement on Supreme Court's Affordable Care Act RulingMay 10, 2012 • The Atlantic: The Minimalist Case for Continuing with Health-Care ReformApril 15, 2011 • Cooper Supports New Research and Treatments for Type 1 Diabetes Patients March 31, 2011 • Cooper, Ryan Introduce the bipartisan MedInfo Act March 10, 2011 • Cooper Supports the Pill Mill Crackdown Act of March 10, 2011February 16, 2011 • Cooper co-sponsors H.R. 733, the Pancreatic Cancer Research & Education Act January 19, 2011 • My vote against repeal of the health care reform law Links & Additional Resources Health Care Law - Explore both private and public health coverage options and learn more about the new health care law. Plan choices for small businesses - A resource on insurance plan choices for small business owners. Food Safety - Get alerts on life-saving food recalls and helpful tips for keeping food safe, from the trusted source for food safety information. My Medicare - Medicare's free, secure online service for accessing personalized information regarding your Medicare benefits and services.Insure Kids - Find Tennessee-specific information about health insurance coverage for children under Medicaid and CoverKids, Tennessee’s Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). Let's Move for Healthier Children - Join America’s move to raise a healthier generation of kids. Tennessee ranks fifth in the nation for overweight or obese children. Department of Health & Human Sciences - Engage with the HHS as it makes its operations more transparent to the public. Hospital Compare – Compare hospitals in your area based on patient feedback and quality of care measures. Nursing Home Comparison – Detailed information about every Medicare and Medicaid-certified nursing home in the country. Stop Medicare Fraud – Learn how to prevent and report Medicare fraud.
05.13.2011	Local Veterans and Active Duty Military Encouraged to Attend May 13, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will celebrate Armed Forces Week (May 15-21) by hosting a Veterans' Workshop at the National Guard Armory. Over 30 agencies that provide services to Veterans in Middle Tennessee will be on hand to showcase some of the opportunities available to our military servicemen and their families. Local Veterans and active duty military are encouraged to attend. “Those who have served our country deserve our prayers and praise daily,” said Congressman Jim Cooper. “These men and women dedicated their lives to protecting our freedom and as we celebrate Armed Forces Week, I want every Veteran in Middle Tennessee to know about the many benefits that are available to them.” Services available include registering for GI benefits, checking your home loan guaranty information, small business loan information, homeowner financing/mortgage assistance, benefits/pension assistance, employment assistance and training, nursing care information, educational resources, and much more. What: Veterans’ Workshop When: Tuesday, May 17, 2011 -- 10am – 1pm Where: National Guard Armory 3041 Sidco Drive, Nashville This event is open to the press. Attendees are encouraged to RSVP if they plan to attend by calling Cooper’s Nashville office at 615-736-5295. For more information, visit Cooper’s website. # # #
05.06.2011	Overview When you don’t pay off your entire credit card bill at the end of the month, you increase your personal “debt ceiling.” You don’t need an act of Congress to do it; America does. Most Americans fail to pay their entire bill every month, just like Uncle Sam. This doesn’t make it right, just normal. Your personal debt-ceiling decision depends on how much you owe. If it’s a small amount, you can tighten your belt. If you owe a lot, you could face starvation if you cut back too much. How much is the U.S. credit card bill? Just to get through the next five months, America must come up with at least $738 billion. That’s roughly $2,460 for every American. Refusing to borrow any more money may seem responsible, even virtuous, in the short run, but it could create a massive economic crisis. Because of our economic recession, this is one of the worst times in history to pay off our bill immediately and tear up our nation’s credit card.G. William Hoagland, a former Senate Republican budget policy adviser said: “It would be a disaster if we defaulted if for even for a day. The risk premium hit (even a couple of basis points) would be built into all future interest rates. The government's credit rating would be downgraded -- if not permanently at least long enough to raise future question with our creditors. It would come at exactly the wrong time as the fledgling economy is trying to take hold.” Frequently Asked Questions What is the debt ceiling? The debt ceiling is the maximum amount the U.S. government is allowed to borrow to meet its commitments to pay for Social Security and Medicare benefits, veterans’ services, schools and more. Why do we need to raise the debt ceiling? In theory, the debt ceiling is in place to help Congress control spending and place an upper limit on government spending. Because the federal government has only run four budget surpluses since 1969, we need tougher budgetary enforcement and spending measures. The fact remains, however, that if the debt ceiling is not increased, the Treasury Department may not borrow any additional money. Cutting off our credit could have drastic consequences. We use that borrowed money to pay for educational and essential services for veterans and seniors.Has the debt ceiling been raised before? Yes. The first debt ceiling raise was in 1917, and we have seen countless raises since then – by members of both political parties and under both Republican and Democratic presidents. In fact, the debt ceiling has been raised 10 times over the last decade alone. While the debt ceiling was officially reached on May 16, 2011, the Treasury Department estimates that it can probably delay default until early August 2011.What happens if we don’t raise the debt ceiling? The U.S. would default on our current obligations – an unprecedented and tragic event. The government would not be able to make payments to our creditors, contractors, and employees, causing a ripple effect throughout the domestic and world economies. The U.S. stock and bond markets are likely to react violently.What about the credit rating? The credit rating of the U.S. would be lowered, leading to higher interest rates. Higher interest rates mean the cost of borrowing money goes up for government as well as for our businesses and citizens. For the government, higher interest rates mean the debt and deficit will further increase, as the U.S. will become a less attractive place for foreigners to invest. Businesses will have a more difficult time securing loans due to the increased costs of investing and expanding, which would depress our nation’s economic growth. Individuals will see home mortgage, car loan, and credit card rates rise. The stock markets are also likely to drop substantially, causing large losses in business capital and retirement benefits for individuals.Read reports from recent credit ratings agencies below. July 21, 2011 - Standard & Poor's says chances are 50-50 for a downgrade in the nation's credit rating (Reuters) July 19, 2011 - Moody's puts Tennessee and 4 other states on watch list (Wall Street Journal) July 18, 2011 - Fitch reiterates warning on U.S. credit rating (Reuters) July 13, 2011 - Moody's puts U.S. ratings on review for downgrade (Reuters) June 21, 2011 - Fitch says may place the U.S. rating on watch negative (Reuters) June 2, 2011 - Moody's Updates on Rating Implications of US Debt Limit, Long-Term Budget Negotiations (Moody's) April 18, 2011 - S&P cuts the U.S. ratings outlook from "stable" to "negative" (Reuters) Can we take steps to avoid this anticipated debt ceiling increase? Just to get through April through August, America must come up with at least $738 billion. Where do we find $738 billion right now? There is no good, quick way to find it without more borrowing. Look at the options in the chart below. Slash “mandatory” programs like Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, or veterans’ benefits (55% of all government spending)? Quick cuts risk hurting seniors and our nation’s veterans. How about cutting defense? Even eliminating the entire Defense Department would not produce enough savings, so why embolden our enemies? Interest payments on our debt cannot be cut without declaring national bankruptcy. The only thing left is the rest of government, i.e., “nondefense discretionary” programs – roads, parks, schools, energy research and development, etc. – which could be decimated without producing $738 billion in savings. Remember, Congress was recently fighting over just $39 billion in savings for the next five months. Larger cuts are possible, but $738 billion is completely unrealistic. Where to Cut The debt ceiling debate is about the past: money America has already spent but not financed. Real debates are about America’s future: making the hard choices that are needed to spend less money, make government efficient, and getting better results for your tax dollars. In order to solve our long-term fiscal challenges, we have to do so in a bipartisan manner. We need broad agreement because the cuts will affect everyone. Everything must be on the table – spending as well as revenue. It will take time – and a higher credit limit – to get America back on track. For history on the debt ceiling, see: The Debt Limit: History and Recent Increases. For more information, see: Playing with Matches on the Debt .
05.04.2011	Overview, FAQ & History
05.04.2011	May 2, 2011 WASHINGTON – Members of the Tennessee U.S. congressional delegation announced today that they have sent a letter to President Barack Obama supporting Tennessee Governor Bill Haslam’s request that he “declare a federal disaster in Hamilton, Bradley, Greene, and Washington counties as a result of the severe storms that swept across” Tennessee this past week. The full text of the letter follows. Dear Mr. President: On behalf of the State of Tennessee, we respectfully request that you declare a federal disaster in Bradley, Greene, Hamilton, and Washington counties as a result of the severe storms, flash flooding and tornadoes that struck the state beginning on April 25, 2011. Governor Bill Haslam has requested federal disaster assistance to respond to the devastation caused throughout Tennessee due to this historic tornado outbreak, and we expect a separate request will be forthcoming to respond to the flooding along the Mississippi River and its tributaries. Flooding in many of our communities will only get worse in the coming days, and the unprecedented river stages are threatening the entire levee system. State and local officials are only beginning to be able to assess the level of damage to infrastructure, private property and our economy. Many of the communities affected by these storms and rising flood waters are the same areas devastated by the May 2010 floods. In addition to all of the homes and businesses destroyed by the tornadoes, the flooding along the Mississippi River is forecast to exceed the great flood of 1937 in some areas, and reach the third highest level on record in Memphis by May 10. Federal assistance is critical to help our state and local governments initiate recovery efforts and to start repairing infrastructure. Like so many areas throughout the Southeast ravaged by these storms, our communities are overwhelmed by the destruction and need federal assistance. Public and Individual Assistance in Bradley, Greene, Hamilton, and Washington counties will help communities with debris removal and make victims eligible for a number of vital disaster assistance programs. The Tennessee delegation and state and local officials stand ready to work together with federal officials to make sure that Tennesseans receive the help they need to get back on their feet. Thank you for your expedited consideration of our State’s request, and we will provide you with more information about our State’s needs as information is available. # # #
05.04.2011	May 2, 2011NASHVILLE - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement after President Barack Obama announced that Osama bin Laden has been killed in Pakistan, and the U.S. is in possession of his body: “The death of Osama Bin Laden is a great victory in our fight against terrorism," said Congressman Jim Cooper. "I am thankful for all the brave men and women who fought tirelessly to help bring this man to justice. We will never forget the horrific attacks on 9/11, but hopefully this will bring some closure and comfort to those who lost loved ones nearly 10 years ago. This does not mark the end of our fight against evil, but it should serve as a warning to all those who choose to attack Americans. No matter how long it takes, no matter where you hide, we will find you and justice will be served." # # #
04.26.2011	10 Debt Daredevils The Daily Beast April 26, 2011 By Mark McKinnon With indebtedness and dependency threatening the nation, Mark McKinnon remembers the Alamo—and finds 10 brave souls in Washington, from Paul Ryan to Dick Durbin, who dare to take on the status quo. Like James Bowie and Davy Crockett, who dared to cross a line in the sand to join Col. William Barret Travis in defense of Texas independence, a brave few in Washington have taken a heroic first step to repel the forces of intransigence. “In the present confusion of the political authorities of the country, and in the absence of the commander in chief, I beg leave to communicate to you the situation...” Travis wrote during the siege of the Alamo 175 years ago, in a letter that could have been written today. He saw clearly the coming threat and laid out a plan. He did not wait for reinforcements who would not come in time. Travis took action. He led his men of “high-souled courage” in defense of freedom. Although these heroes fell in battle, “Remember the Alamo” became the rallying cry, and the war was won. Texas gained independence because of those who dared to lead. While the bombardments of demagoguery politicians in Washington face today are not so deadly, the situation is no less dire. Indebtedness and dependency threaten to enslave the nation. But there are a few who have shown high-souled courage by thinking outside the lines to save for future generations the promise that is America. And it’s time to call in reinforcements. 1. Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI), on the path to a debt-free nation: “We must not be the Congress that failed to fulfill the American legacy of leaving a better nation to our children... America is a nation conceived in liberty, dedicated to equality, and defined by limitless opportunity. Equal opportunity, upward mobility, prosperity—this is what America is all about. In all the chapters of human history, there has never been anything quite like America.... Colleagues, this is our defining moment.” 2. Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL) differs with other top Democrats, saying Social Security changes should be made now: “In 2037, as we know it, Social Security falls off a cliff. There’s a 22 percent reduction rate in payments, which is really not something we can tolerate. If we deal with it today, it’s an easier solution than waiting. I think we ought to deal with it. Many of my colleagues disagree, put it off to another day. But from my point of view, leaving it out makes it easier politically; including it, I think, meets an obligation, which we have to senior citizens.” 3. Sen. Tom Coburn (R-OK) joined Ben Cardin (D-MD) to introduce a bill to repeal an ethanol tax credit: “At a time when our nation is facing a debt crisis, it is an outrage the Senate won’t even allow a vote on my amendment to eliminate the ethanol corporate welfare subsidy and save taxpayers nearly $5 billion. If Congress can’t cut a corporate welfare subsidy the corporations themselves don’t want, what can we cut? Ethanol is a case study of how parochialism trumps progress in Congress. Sooner or later, the Senate will take a vote on this issue.” 4. Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN) joined Rep. John J. Duncan Jr. (R-TN) to introduce the bipartisan CAP Act to put an across-the-board, binding cap on all federal spending: “Government got too big under Presidents Bush and Obama, and now it needs to go on a diet. The CAP Act will return our government to its normal size. We don’t need an oversized government to deliver the services that people need; we need the lean and fit government that this bill would lead us to.” 5. David Walker, former comptroller general of the U.S. (1998-2008), and a co-founder of No Labels, commends Ryan’s budget plan, but adds: “...defense cuts that do not compromise national security and comprehensive tax reform that raises more revenue also need to be on the table in order to help ensure bipartisan support for any comprehensive fiscal reform proposal. Our current fiscal policy and path is both irresponsible and morally reprehensible. At the same time, the manner in which we address this challenge also raises key moral questions. Our political leaders from both parties need to be at the table with everything on the table in order to achieve sustainable success.” 6. Rep. Allyson Schwartz (D-PA) joined Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) as co-sponsor of a bill to repeal the unelected Medicare Independent Payment Advisory Board created by the Obama health-care law: “It’s our constitutional duty, as members of Congress, to take responsibility for Medicare and not turn decisions over to a board... I cannot condone the implementation of a flawed policy that will risk beneficiary access to care. We can and will address the unsustainable rate of growth in health-care spending... We cannot impose a financial burden on patients and providers to conceal inherent flaws in our health-care system through arbitrary cuts.” 7. Sen. Pat Toomey (R-PA) negotiated with backers of two competing proposals, securing the support of all 47 Republican senators for a balanced-budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution: “A balanced budget is an absolutely necessary condition for the strong economic growth and job creation that, frankly, we were sent here to accomplish... [the measure] will provide the fiscal straitjacket that we need to get our fiscal house in order.” 8. Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA), urging bipartisan action on debt reduction: “[O]ur national debt is now approaching $14 trillion. Remarkably, we’re still writing checks. That we’re still allowed to have a checkbook may be even more remarkable... our nation’s fiscal challenges are too serious, and the fiscal hole we’ve dug for ourselves is too deep, to be solved by looking at only one side of the ledger... it is clear that America cannot be a leader in the world, projecting strength and promoting democracy, if we are weakened at home by our own deficits and debt... ever since this economic downturn began, individual Americans and their families have been required to make tough choices of their own about how to make ends meet. It is time for those of us here in Washington to do the same.” 9. Anne Vorce, Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget: “We are at a crossroads. We still have a choice: We can make fiscal changes on our own, wait until the eleventh hour to tackle the series of fiscal challenges we face, or wait until changes are forced upon us by the financial markets. If Americans better understood the choices they face, there would be a richer and more informed national conversation about how—not whether—to put our fiscal house in order and what compromises are necessary.” 10. Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND), on facing the debt threat: “History is going to judge whether we have the courage, character, and the vision to stand up for America’s future. Those who take a walk, those who turn away, those who don’t have the gumption to stand up, are going to be judged very, very harshly.” That’s our take. What’s yours? Whom have we missed? As vice chairman of Hill & Knowlton and Public Strategies, and president of Maverick Media, Mark McKinnon has helped meet strategic challenges for candidates, corporations and causes, including George W. Bush, John McCain, Ann Richards, Charlie Wilson, Lance Armstrong, and Bono. McKinnon is co-founder of No Labels and co-chair of Arts & Labs.
04.25.2011	Suggestions and references that can help you prepare for disaster. Build a Kit What’s in An Emergency Kit? Check out this comprehensive list of things that you should consider when making an emergency “go” kit.Ready America: Get a Kit Customize Your Own Emergency Kit Enter your personal information into this database and customize your own kit.Be Red Cross ReadyRemember Your Important Financial Documents Keep copies of your important financial documents so they are close at hand in case of an emergency.Emergency Financial First Aid Kit Make a Plan How to Make a Family Plan Helpful ideas on how to create your family emergency plan.Ready America: Family Emergency PlanCustomize Your Personal Plan Ready to make a plan? Use this interactive website to customize your plan.Be Prepared: My Family Emergency Plan Be Informed Getting Emergency Information Stay Tuned to Local News Stations Get a Weather Radio Sign-Up for Free E-mail Alerts Weather Channel Accu WeatherKnow Specifics for Potential Disasters Earthquake – The Great ShakeOut - 200th Anniversary of New Madrid Earthquake Flooding - Red Cross Information Thunderstorms - Red Cross Information Tornado - Red Cross Information
04.25.2011	Prevent, Prepare and Respond April 25, 2011 NASHVILLE, TN -- On eve of the anniversary of historic May floods, the 200th Anniversary of New Madrid Earthquake, and during the severe spring storm weather season, Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) and the Nashville Area Red Cross have teamed up to encourage families to “Prevent, Prepare and Respond.” The event is designed to help the Middle Tennessee community get prepared for upcoming disasters by building a kit, making a plan and being informed. “We can’t stop disasters, but we can be better prepared to respond if something happens” said Congressman Jim Cooper. “The heroics of our first responders saved countless lives, but too many people were caught off guard by the flooding last May. With just a little planning, you can make sure each family is prepared to react when the next crisis strikes.” Cooper and the American Red Cross will distribute information on making an emergency plan, creating a “Go Kit” to keep in the home, and planning a disaster preparedness event in community neighborhoods. “The American Red Cross is in a constant state of preparedness, recruiting and training volunteers to respond to the humanitarian needs in our Middle Tennessee community. We hope this partnership with Congressman Cooper will result in a renewed awareness and education of preparedness in the face up disaster for individuals, neighborhoods and communities, “said CEO Joel R. Sullivan. “All the Red Cross work is made possible by the generous contributions of the American public." Representatives from OEM and TEMA will be on hand to discuss disaster preparations. A representative from FEMA will also be on hand to encourage participation in the Great American Shake Out event for earthquake preparedness. What: Cooper/Red Cross Disaster Awareness Event When: Thursday, April 28 10:30-11:00 a.m. Where: Red Cross Headquarters 2201 Charlotte Avenue, Nashville, TN This event is open to the press. Interviews and photo opportunities will be available after the presentation. Click here to view some disaster preparedness suggestions and references. # # #
04.20.2011	The Budget Cassandras Have Their DayThe Atlantic April 20, 2011 By Joshua Green On Monday, the ratings agency Standard & Poor's changed its outlook on U.S. debt from "stable" to "negative," meaning it sees a one-in-three chance of a downgrade from AAA rating--a prospect that roiled the markets. Not everyone is worried; a few people sneered. But the news vindicated a handful of congressmen who have worried about the U.S. credit rating for years, none more loudly or insistently than Rep. Jim Cooper of Tennessee, a Blue Dog Democrat. Cooper is also a deficit hawk, and last week, to the consternation of many of his colleagues, he put forward his own budget to cut the deficit by $4 trillion over ten years. I spoke to him yesterday about the news, the deficit negotiations, and how some members of Congress have never even heard of Standard and Poor's. What follows is a lightly edited transcript of our conversation:For as long as I've been in Washington, you've been warning to very little attention about a downgrade to the U.S. credit rating--to which we're now a step closer. What's the significance in your mind to the S&P news yesterday? The saddest words in the English language are "I told you so." S&P has been warning about this for years. The first time I saw it was on Page 13, I think, of the Wall Street Journal six or seven years ago, but no one was listening. As you know, that was Cassandra's curse--she was correct, but no one believed her. Now that we're at the edge of the precipice, people are tuning in. And there's still time to save the country. But I had hoped that we could anticipate this problem and solve it earlier, so we wouldn't come this close to perhaps defaulting on our debt.Given their appalling record in the run-up to the financial crisis, what credibility to the ratings agencies have left? This is a classic conundrum. People probably said the same thing of Cassandra: "She's just the daughter of a priest, what does she know?" It's easy to blame the messenger, and people have been doing that since Greek times. But now we actually have the example of a Greek financial collapse. The key is to focus on substance and not ad hominem attacks on the various prognositicators.It seems odd that S&P would do this now, when entitlement reform and deficit reduction are central concerns in Washington for the first time in many years. There's a false premise in your questions. S&P has been doing this for years. Moodys had a big announcement two or three months ago. What's different is that suddenly people are paying attention. And this has moved from the back of the paper to the front.How will this news affect the negotiations going on in Washington? Does it help or hurt? It should help if people have any sense. Nothing should so concentrate the mind as the fear of defaulting. It's easy to play games with individual votes, but to play games with the full faith and credit of the United States is tragic.Are we talking debt ceiling or entitlement reform, because they're two different things? We're talking debt ceiling, but it's a widely held view that Republicans will not allow a clean vote on the debt ceiling increase. They will demand fundamental reforms. And I support fundamental reforms. But tying them in to the debt ceiling increase is the type of brinkmanship that really could take us to the precipice.I take your point, but my impression has been that the timeline we're looking at doesn't allow for entitlement reform to happen before we hit the debt ceiling on July 8. What if that hasn't been settled? You'll have to talk to Republicans about that. A number of them want at least a handshake deal before they'll vote to increase the debt ceiling, and then you have the questions of the size of the increase. If it's a very small increase, we could vote on this every few months, like the continuing resolutions. That fits the agenda of some Republicans, because the political dynamic here is shouting to your base and looking like you're tough and refusing to compromise even when the consequences of defaulting are extraordinary and permanent.By my count, are at least five budget proposals floating around that attempt to tackle these problems, from the Republican Study Committee on the far right, to the Progressive Caucus on the far left, to your own budget introduced last week. Tell me about your effort, which basically took Bowles Simpson and put it in the form of a budget amendment, as I understand it? Exactly. My effort was to put in a budgetary form of the Bowles-Simpson commission report. Now, budgets are not nearly as specific as the commission's report. But they establish different categories for committees, so that they would be required to reduce the deficit by at least as much as the commission recommended, but they'd be free to choose another method of reduction. It's a little big like a blueprint in which each room has to be a certain size, but you don't predetermine what furniture is in the room.... The key is that it has to be big enough to work, fast enough to work, and fair enough to work, which means to me that everything has to be on the table. Meaning revenue raising along with spending cuts? Our problems are so large that if you understand them, you realize that everything has to be on the table. Even some things you wish did not have to be.Theoretically, Blue Dog Democrats and Tea Party freshmen ought have some common ground on deficit cutting. Is there any dialogue or cooperation between the two groups? Absolutely, we meet on a regular basis. these are not public meetings, but we've been meeting for a couple months now. There's a lot more commonality among backbenchers, low-profile members, than there is among party leaders. I'm actually very hopeful. Most people want to do the right thing for the country. Most people do want to learn about the complexities of the issues. Most people really do put the country first. But it's difficult. If you had to measure partisanship during the year, last week would have been on of the high points because Republicans were pulling out all the stops to get near-unanimity in their party to pass the budget. But I think the atmosphere will now improve and the S&P warning will help us improve it. Because there were a number of members of Congress who really had never heard of Standard & Poor's before.
04.20.2011	Please join me next Tuesday for a special screening of the award-winning short documentary, NASHVILLE RISES by local filmmaker Zac Adams. NASHVILLE RISES Tuesday, April 26, 2011 Nashville Downtown Public Library Auditorium 4:30pm – Reception 5:00pm – Screening 5:30pm – Remarks by filmmaker Zac Adams and special guests. Following the screening, we’ll have a short discussion with the filmmaker and special guests. Seats are available on a first-come, first-served basis. We hope to see you there. About NASHVILLE RISES: Narrated by Billy Bob Thornton, NASHVILLE RISES tells the emotional story of the city of Nashville’s extraordinary response to the worst natural disaster to ever hit the region. This is the story about the power of the human spirit, and how neighbors helped neighbors to overcome tragedy. NASHVILLE RISES is produced by Skydive Films, in association with Lavorsia Pictures, and IGBA Productions. The film was recently awarded the Ground Zero Spirit Award for Best Documentary Short at the Nashville Film Festival.
04.20.2011	Jim Cooper's pet issue - the federal budget - becomes the trendThe Tennessean April 17, 2011 By Bill Theobald For Rep. Jim Cooper, a self-described budget nerd, the past few months must seem like pocket-protector heaven. That's because Cooper’s pet issue throughout his congressional career, the need to deal with budget deficits and the huge national debt they have created, has now become the most important issue in Washington, and across the country. “It’s taken me 20 years to become an overnight success,” the Nashville Democrat joked last week as the House was about to vote on a budget for the rest of the year that will cut $38 billion. Cooper marked the week by introducing legislation with several GOP House members that would provide taxpayers with a “receipt” each year that shows where their tax dollars are spent. “You get a receipt with every other major purchase,” Cooper said. For Cooper it would just be another way to educate people about how their tax dollars are spent and to clear up misconceptions about how to fix the deficit. Cooper said many people think, for example, that eliminating foreign aid would have a major impact. Polls have shown that Americans think that 25 percent of the budget goes to foreign aid, when the figure is about 1 percent. Some people also don’t think Medicare is a government program, he said. “They haven’t really thought about it,” Cooper said. And he said discussions about billions and trillions of dollars are hard for people to grasp. He thinks breaking it down to an individual’s tax bill would make the choices involved more understandable. Cooper also announced last week his support for Republican Sen. Bob Corker’s legislation that would cap federal spending as a percentage of the country’s economic output and gradually reduce that cap over a decade. The Nashville Democrat and Rep. John Duncan, R-Knoxville, introduced a companion bill to Corker’s in the House. Cooper voted last week for the budget for the remainder of this year, but he opposed the budget outline for next year proposed by Rep. Paul Ryan, R-Wis. Ryan’s proposal to turn Medicare into a voucher program goes too far and he excludes defense spending from any cuts and doesn’t consider additional tax revenue, Cooper said. “You can’t play favorites,” Cooper said of the need to have everything on the table. Cooper offered his own budget plan for next year, which included many of the recommendations made earlier this year by a presidential commission created to address the budget crisis. But he decided to withdraw the proposal before there was a vote because he did not want to upset the ongoing negotiations on a budget deal in the Senate among a group of three Republicans and three Democrats. Cooper may disagree with Ryan but he describes himself as a “huge Paul Ryan fan” who is troubled by the tone of some of the criticism directed toward him. “He’s being unfairly vilified,” Cooper said. “It’s painful to see.” He said Ryan’s treatment is an example of why it is hard to make the tough decisions needed to balance the federal budget and reduce the national debt. Cooper was pleased by President Barack Obama’s 2012 budget proposal last week, in which he called for large spending cuts and discussed using the independent panels that are part of the health-care reform legislation to drive down Medicare costs. “The President supports $4 trillion in budget cuts? Hallelujah!” Cooper said.
04.18.2011	CAP Act Would Put Across-the-Board, Binding Cap on All Spending April 18, 2011 WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (D-TN) and John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) introduced the bipartisan CAP Act (H.R. 1605) in the House to put an across-the-board, binding cap on all federal spending. The CAP Act was introduced by Senators Corker (R-TN) and McCaskill (D-MO) in the Senate, and has continued to build bipartisan support throughout Congress. “Government got too big under Presidents Bush and Obama, and now it needs to go on a diet,” said Congressman Cooper. “The CAP Act will return our government to its normal size. We don’t need an over-sized government to deliver the services that people need; we need the lean and fit government that this bill would lead us to.” The CAP Act would set binding limits by automatically reducing spending across the board if Congress fails to take action. The fiscal straitjacket created by the CAP Act would result in $7.6 trillion less in spending over a 10-year period and fundamentally change the way Washington does business. “Our Nation is now more than $14 trillion in debt, and we continue to borrow $4 billion a day to pay our bills,” said Congressman Duncan. “We need a serious cap on spending, or it will not be too much longer before we cannot pay for all the things we have promised our people with money that will be worth anything. This bill is a great first step to reining in out-of-control federal spending, and I am so pleased that it has bipartisan support in the House and Senate.” Senator Corker had this to say about the today’s announcement: “I’m delighted our CAP Act to put a fiscal straitjacket on Congress now has the support of Jim Cooper and Jimmy Duncan in the House,” said Senator Corker. “This growing bipartisan, bicameral support signals momentum and a genuine desire to move the conversation on spending where it must go: from billions to trillions and to enact the kind of dramatic cuts that will be necessary to put our country on a path to fiscal solvency.” Specifically, the CAP Act would: (1) Put in place a 10-year glide path to cap all spending – discretionary and mandatory – to a declining percentage of the country’s gross domestic product, eventually bringing spending down from the current level, 24.7 percent of GDP, to the 40-year historical level of 20.6 percent. (2) If Congress fails to meet the annual cap, it requires the Office of Management and Budget to make evenly distributed, simultaneous cuts throughout the federal budget to bring spending down to the pre-determined level. Only a two-thirds vote in both houses of Congress could override the binding cap. (3) For the first time, eliminate the deceptive “off-budget” distinction for Social Security – providing a complete and accurate assessment of all federal spending. A one-page summary of the legislation can be found here. # # #
04.16.2011	April 14, 2011 WASHINGTON - Congressman Jim Cooper released his opening remarks at the House Armed Services Committee's hearing on the conditions at Arlington National Cemetery. Thank you, Chairman Wittman, for calling this hearing. It is a shame, however, that conditions at Arlington were so bad that we must have this hearing. Problems that never should have occurred have been discovered, and have taken years to correct. There are continuing concerns. We simply must get answers to these questions. There is probably no more honored, no more sacred, place in America than Arlington Cemetery. That’s where so many of America’s greatest heroes are buried. Arlington, with its row upon row of gravestones, is the magnificent reminder that our precious freedom is not free. It takes the blood and sacrifice of patriots to keep America great. That’s why Arlington is so important to the nation, and why it must be run in an absolutely first-rate fashion. I hope and pray that, with continued improvements at Arlington, that we will finally be able to lay these troubling issues to rest. ###
04.14.2011	“Americans deserve to know how their precious tax dollars are being spent.” WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (D-TN) joined Reps. Mike Quigley (D-IL), Todd Platts (R-PA), Aaron Schock (R-IL), and Dave Reichert (R-WA) to introduce legislation to provide each American with an itemized tax receipt. The Taxpayer Receipt Act (H.R. 1527) would provide a simple readout of where every individual taxpayer’s dollars are being spent. “Every time you make a major purchase, you get a receipt; the same should be true of tax dollars,” said Congressman Cooper. “Americans deserves to know how their precious tax dollars are being spent. A Taxpayer Receipt just makes sense.” The bill would provide a written receipt for those filing paper tax returns and an electronic receipt for those that e-file. The receipt would include a breakdown of each individual’s contributions to Social Security, defense spending, Medicare, and other federal programs, as well as the total amount of federal debt and how much the federal government has borrowed per citizen. The bipartisan “Taxpayer Receipt Act” was introduced in the Senate last month by Sens. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) and Scott Brown (R-MA). It is also “strongly supported” by the centrist think tanks Third Way and The Bipartisan Policy Center as well as by Americans for Prosperity. the National Taxpayer Advocate. and the National Taxpayers Union. A sample of what the tax receipt would look like can be seen here. Praise for Taxpayer ReceiptBipartisan Policy Center "Issuing 'taxpayer receipts' can provide American citizens with a broader understanding of federal spending, and help demonstrate that major entitlement programs – not discretionary spending, or foreign aid – are the major drivers of large national deficits. By clearly laying out the size and scope of our debt, maybe the 'taxpayer receipt' can help Americans realize that there are no simple solutions to our debt problem."National Taxpayer Advocate The taxpayer receipt "would help make taxpayers more aware of the connection between the taxes they pay and the benefits they receive" and would provide "better awareness of how our tax dollars are spent would increase the sense that 'we’re all in this together” (National Taxpayer Advocate Legislative Recommendations, p. 26).Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget "The Peterson-Pew Commission on Budget Reform recommended making more information about the federal budget easily accessible to the public as a part of comprehensive reform of the budget process. The taxpayer receipt is a good step in that direction."Americans for Prosperity "On behalf of more than 1.7 million Americans for Prosperity activists in all 50 states, [the Americans for Prosperity] applaud your introduction of the Taxpayer Receipt Act of 2011, S. 437 and H.R. 1527. The American people are exercising a healthy new scrutiny of how the federal government spends their hard-earned tax dollars. Transparency in government spending is an important part of that scrutiny. Your legislation will offer taxpayers a broad profile of how their money is spent, allowing them a glimpse into spending that their government has never before provided."National Taxpayers Union The “Taxpayer Receipt Act” provides a welcome dose of transparency by offering taxpayers a glimpse into where their money is going, as well as clearly showing how much the federal government is borrowing in their name....This bill is full of positives for taxpayers. Chief among them is the inclusion of separate line items detailing the amount of debt and additional borrowing for every taxpayer in the United States. This allows the receipt to highlight our drastically unbalanced budget that obscures the true cost of our federal government from the taxpayer. In so doing, this bill uncovers the very real threat that today’s deficits pose to future generations.
04.08.2011	Regardless of shutdown, Cooper’s office will remain open during normal business hours April 8, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C -- Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) released the following statement on the potential federal government shutdown: “Congress should be able to cut spending without shutting down the government. Regardless of what happens in Washington, I am working hard to make sure that everyone in the Nashville area gets the service they need. No member of Congress should get paid during a shutdown.” Cooper’s office has put together an information sheet on how a government shutdown will affect Middle Tennesseans. The information is posted on his website. Regardless of what happens over the next few days, both the downtown Nashville office and Cooper’s Washington, DC office will be open during normal business hours, and staff will continue working to serve the needs of all Middle Tennesseans. Last week, Cooper joined with 26 colleagues in a letter to Speaker John Boehner asking him to stop Members' from being paid during a government shutdown. Click here to download the letter to Speaker Boehner. # # #
04.06.2011	A list of government agencies and how you might be affected during a shutdown. How Will a Shutdown Affect You?If Congress is unable to reach compromise, a government shutdown for some federal agencies is set to begin on April 8 at midnight. You may wonder what this means for you - please see below for information released by specific agencies that may affect you. Some government agencies will remain open and functional to protect life and property. This includes the Armed Forces, Border Patrol, Air Traffic Control, First Responders and federal workers who provide medical care on the job. The Postal Service and the Federal Reserve, which are both self-funded, will also continue to operate. Regardless of what happens in Washington, I am working hard to make sure that everyone in our area gets the service they need. My Nashville and Washington DC offices will remain open to continue assisting you. If you have questions about anything not listed below, please contact my office. How are Government Agencies Affected During a Shutdown? To view a link to all government agency contigency plans, click here. IRS - Tax forms still must be postmarked by Monday, April 18. The IRS will continue processing electronic tax returns, but paper returns will be delayed. Social Security - Benefits for current Social Security recipients will continue going out on time. However, there may be delays for other services such as enrolling new participants, holding hearings, or resolving problems. Medicare - Current participants should not notice any disruption with daily health services, but new applications could be delayed. Military - Active duty military will continue to earn pay, although they could see a delay receiving their paycheck depending on how long a shutdown lasts. Veterans - The VA doesn't anticipate interruption to Veterans' health services including VHA hospitals and Community-Based Outpatient Clinics. Monthly benefits and compensation are distributed on the 1st of the month, and there are no delays expected unless the shutdown lasts until the 1st of next month. Visas and Passports - Prior shutdowns have kept new visa and passport applications from being processed. Embassies will remain open for services for American citizens, but will not conduct visa interviews. Health services - In 1996 the National Institute of Health stopped taking new patients for clinical trials, the Center for Disease Control stopped disease surveillance, disease hotlines weren't answered, and cleanup work stopped at 609 toxic waste sites. National Parks - National Park Service grounds, museums, and monuments will close. Air Travel / Federal Aviation Administration - Air travel will not be affected by the shutdown.Federal Courts - Federal courts are not affected by the shutdown. Disaster Response - Disaster Response is not affected by the shutdown.National Weather Service - National Weather Service alerts and forecasts, as well as volcano and earthquake monitoring by other agencies, would continue. Additional Information and Resources Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget - "Planning for Agency Operations During a Lapse in Government Funding" Congressional Research Service - "Shutdown of the Federal Government: Causes, Processes and Effects" Sighting Plans in Washington, DC? Washington Post: Shutdown Plan Details
04.04.2011	Rep. Jim Cooper ask Speaker Boehner to allow a vote to stop Members' pay during a government shutdown. March 31, 2011 Congress should be able to cut spending without shutting down the government. Regardless of what happens in Washington, I am working hard to make sure that everyone in the Nashville area gets the service they need. No member of Congress should get paid during a shutdown. March 30, 2011 - Rep. Jim Cooper joined with 26 colleagues in a letter to Speaker John Boehner asking for a full House vote to cut Members' pay during a government shutdown. Click here to download the letter to Speaker Boehner. March 30, 2011 - Cooper also signed on as a co-sponsor for H.R. 819, the Government Shutdown Fairness Act.H.R. 819 prohibits Members of Congress and the President from receiving basic pay in either of the following circumstances: (1) there is more than a 24-hour lapse in appropriations for any federal agency or department as a result of a failure to enact a regular appropriations bill or continuing resolution (2) the federal government is unable to make payments or meet obligations because the public debt limit has been reached.
04.03.2011	April 4, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C -- Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) made the following statement on the passing of his friend and colleague, former Tennessee Governor Ned McWherter. “Ned was a giant of Tennessee politics in every sense of the word. “We Miss Ned” bumper stickers are still seen around Nashville because he was one of the best governors in history.” # # #
04.01.2011	The House Armed Services held a full committee hearing on US Military Operations in Libya with Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Michael Mullen. March 31, 2011 Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Secretary Gates, Admiral Mullen. Thank you for your service and, above all, thanks to our troops. I have more of a statement than a question because my remarks deal with the Congressional role in this process. I don't think it's been mentioned so far in this hearing today that the Senate, the U.S. Senate, on March 1 unanimously called for a no-fly zone over Libya. The House did not take similar action, but the Senate vote is at least some sign of Congressional involvement early on in this process, almost two weeks before the Libya conflict. It's no secret that America is going through a period of domestic tension politically. It makes me yearn for the days when politics stopped at the water's edge, and we could rally behind the Commander-in-Chief. There's been a lot of discussion today about the War Powers Act from some Members here who are still unfamiliar with it. As you pointed out, Mr. Secretary, every single President, Democrat or Republican, has questioned the constitutionality of that Act. If we had wanted to repair it, we've had years to do so. But Congress has not done that. There's a school of thought in the law that, although the War Powers Act was intended to limit Presidential power, it has, in fact, expanded it. Yet we in Congress have not amended that act since 1973. Many people have wondered about the lack of adequate notice to this body. Well, the leadership in each party was informed promptly after the President's decision. So perhaps we should question our own contact with our own party's leadership. But that has not been raised, at least so far, in this hearing. I also think that you can see our Presidents age before our eyes, whether Democrat or Republican. For almost every year in office, it seems like they age ten years. The grey hair, the white hair quickly comes. They carry the weight of the world on their shoulders. They are privy to many things that we cannot discuss here, in an open hearing. I'm all for Congress. We are an equal branch, but sometimes we do not take our responsibilities equally seriously with the chief executive of the land. That worries me because Congress should be more than a Congress of back-seat drivers, more than a Congress of armchair generals. You gentlemen have conducted your responsibilities ably and well under difficult circumstances. I worry that we, in this body, have not. So, I'm hopeful on a going forward basis that we can examine some of these things such as not having declared a war since World War II. Vietnam was not an official war; Korea was not a war; so many of these other major conflicts were not official wars. We in Congress need to get our act together. This is not a criticism of you -- you gentlemen and the Executive Branch are working ably and well. We need to get our act together in the legislative branch. So, thank you for your service. Above all, thanks to our troops. But in the interest of full disclosure in this hearing, we need to reflect on Congressional shortcomings as well. Thank you, gentlemen. # # #To watch a video of Cooper's remarks, click here.
03.30.2011	Bill would inform taxpayers about the total contributions they have made to Medicare and what benefits they already have and are expected to receive. March 31, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C -- Congressman Jim Cooper (D-TN) introduced H.R. 1252, the bipartisan “Medicare Information Act” (MedInfo Act), with Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI), Chairman of the House Budget Committee. Every year, American taxpayers receive a Social Security statement that provides a concise, user-friendly record of their total contributions and a summary of their estimated lifetime benefits. Taxpayers deserve to receive the same information from Medicare, and the “MedInfo Act” requires a summary to be included with their annual Social Security statement. “Most people are glad to know they will receive far more in benefits from Medicare than they contribute to the program,” said Congressman Jim Cooper. “Every American should know more about how Medicare really works. Medicare is one of our most important benefits. We must protect it for older Americans, and preserve it for our children and grandchildren.” The “MedInfo Act” would provide a complete breakdown of lifetime Medicare contributions and benefits for everyone 25 and older. The annual statement would be sent in conjunction with the current Social Security statement. This information will facilitate greater understanding of the Medicare program. “It is critical that policymakers start working together to save Medicare for current and future generations,” said Chairman Ryan. “The millions of Americans who depend on this critical program deserve access to timely, accurate information about what contributions they have made and what benefits they have received or can expect to receive in the future. This bipartisan legislation aims to educate taxpayers and provide them with the information they deserve.” Recent support from prominent industry leaders: David Walker - Former Comptroller General of the United States, and Former Public Trustee of Social Security and Medicare “Congressmen Cooper and Ryan should be commended for their Medicare Information Act of 2011. The time has come to make Medicare beneficiaries aware of their contributions and the value of benefits provided by the Hospital Insurance (Part A) program. In my view, appropriate cost and benefit information should also be provided for the Medicare Part B and D programs at some point. Many Americans are not aware of the huge taxpayer subsidies being provided for these programs out of general revenues even for individuals who are very well off financially. Such subsidies must be reconsidered as part of comprehensive Medicare reform.” Bill Novelli - Former CEO of AARP “Every American needs to understand the costs and benefits of the Medicare program. The Medicare Information Act is a good start and I hope it will be the beginning of a national conversation.” Maya MacGuineas - President, Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget “Congressmen Cooper and Ryan are right to emphasize the need for more transparency in the Medicare program. We are going to have to ensure its long-term sustainability, and highlighting the costs and benefits is a useful exercise to help get that discussion underway.” Bipartisan Policy Center “The cost to provide this information is incredibly low – little more than the small printing costs – but the educational return to American citizens is quite high.” Additional Information is available on this one-page summary. # # #
03.15.2011	'Simple Return' cuts out unnecessary tax forms The Tennessean By Mike Shmerling March 13th, 2011 As a CPA (now inactive) I know the date that strikes fear in the hearts of most American families is fast approaching. April 15th: Tax day. Americans spend literally millions of hours every year filling out tax information. What many don’t know is that you are sending the government information it already knows: income, interest earned, and interest paid. Imagine a clean return prepared for you at no expense by the IRS, based entirely on information it already receives from your employer and bank. A form which you can either sign or simply throw away with no questions asked. Nashville’s Congressman Jim Cooper is introducing legislation called the Simple Return Act that would do exactly that, and it could save you from ever filling out another tax form. Under the current system, the IRS receives a W-2 from your employer and some form of 1099 from any financial institution with which you have investment income. When you file a return, the IRS checks what it received from your employer against your return. Simply put, we can cut out this middle step, on a voluntary basis, and save tens of millions of people billions of dollars. Because tax preparation is so regressive, in terms of both time and money, the Simple Return is the equivalent of a massive middle class tax cut. It could be used by as many as 40 million American taxpayers, saving approximately 225 million hours and more than $2 billion in preparation costs per year. These savings would be directed to those who need them the most. Every year, thousands of low income families right here in Nashville don’t take advantage of programs like the Earned Income Tax Credit because they don’t know about the benefit. The United Way of Metro Nashville provides free tax services for these families, but despite their efforts, an estimated $30 million was left unclaimed last year in Davidson County alone. This is like our community winning the lottery, but never turning in the lucky ticket. This isn’t a new idea. Nearly 25 years ago, incoming President Ronald Reagan instructed the Treasury Department to support the Simple Return and to study its effectiveness. They found the concept could save billions of dollars, but that the largest hurdle was the lack of computing power to process these returns on time. As with every other facet of modern life, that has changed. California ran a successful pilot program for state income taxes to an overwhelming positive response. Surveys indicate that 99% of those using the program would do so again. The irony of this success is that it has led small-government conservatives to attack the idea because citizens might actually start trusting the government again, cutting into anti-tax groups’ fundraising. Your credit card company doesn’t send you a blank form every month and ask you to fill in your transactions. They send you the bill and ask you to make sure it is accurate. The Simple Return would let the IRS do the same with your taxes. This is the type of commonsense legislation that will make your life easier and put money in your pocket. It has my support.
03.15.2011	“Here’s a simple idea for reducing the hassle of paying your federal income taxes: Make the IRS do your paperwork.” March 15, 2011 WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) introduced the Simple Return Act (H.R. 1069), a bill that would get the IRS to do your taxes for you. The Simple Return would allow the IRS to fill out a basic tax return for every American with the financial information it already receives from each taxpayer’s employer and financial institution: W-2 and 1099. Every American would have the opportunity to review and sign the government return, or simply throw it away and fill out their return on their own. “Here’s a simple idea for reducing the hassle of paying your federal income taxes,” said Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05). “Make the IRS do your paperwork. They already have much of your tax information like copies of your W-2 and 1099s. Today they use that information to catch you if you make a mistake. Why not get the IRS to use that information to help you instead of punish you?” The Simple Return could be used by anyone with basic tax information. It is estimated that around 40 million Americans would be able to use this service saving $2 billion in preparation fees and 225 million hours of preparation time. Converting that time into money, it is estimated that savings could reach $44 billion over 10 years. Mike Shmerling, a CPA (now inactive) and prominent local businessman, wrote an op-ed about the Simple Return Act in the March 13th edition of The Tennessean, which can be accessed here . ###
03.03.2011	March 22, 2011 Information, links and updates for constituents, family members and friends in Japan. The U.S. Department of State and the U.S. embassy and consulates in Japan are working to obtain information on the status of U.S. citizens and to provide emergency assistance to U.S. citizens. At this time, we have no reports of U.S. citizens killed or injured in the earthquake. Although telephone lines are disrupted, relatives may want to try contacting loved ones in Japan by e-mail, text (SMS) message, or other social media. CONSULAR ASSISTANCE TO U.S. CITIZENS IN JAPAN Online Information: Monitor travel.state.gov and the Embassy Tokyo websites for the latest updates. Public Inquiries: • If you have concerns about a specific U.S. citizen in Japan, please send the State Department an e-mail at JapanEmergencyUSC@state.gov • If you have concerns about a specific U.S. citizen in the Tsunami zone outside of Japan, please send the State Department an e-mail at PacificTsunamiUSC@state.gov • E-mail inquiries are strongly preferred, but you may call the Department's emergency assistance center at 1-888-407-4747 (Calling from outside the U.S. + 1-202-501-4444) if you are unable to use e-mail. LOCATING FRIENDS AND FAMILY Many Middle Tennesseans are struggling to get information about friends or family members. We are working with the State Department as they coordinate with the Japanese government on the rescue and recovery operation and will be gathering information throughout the weekend. If anyone is looking for information about friends or family members currently in Japan, contact Representative Jim Cooper’s Office at 615-736-5295.GOOGLE'S PEOPLE FINDER Google recently launched a "people finder" to help locate friends and loved ones in Japan. Click here for more information. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL INQUIRIES • U.S. Forces Japan reports that all personnel have been accounted for, and there are no reports of injuries. • The Department of Defense instructs that family members of Department of Defense personnel should call 1-800-342-9647 to inquire about their loved ones or contact the individual unit command directly for more specific information. JAPANESE AND OTHER CITIZENS • If you are calling regarding a Japanese citizen, please contact the Consulate-General of Japan in Nashville (615-340-4300) or the Japanese Embassy in Washington (202-238-6700). • If you are calling regarding a citizen of a third country, please contact that country’s Embassy or Consulate. Contact information for foreign Embassies and Consulates in the United States is available in the Country Specific Information links at www.travel.state.gov . The State Department has set up a task force to respond to the earthquake and tsunami disasters. Email for the consular task force is japanemergencyusc@state.gov; email for inquiries in the tsunami zone overseas outside of Japan is pacifictsunamiusc@state.gov. The most recent information is posted on the Embassy Tokyo website . TRAVEL ALERT The Department of State has issued a travel warning for Japan. U.S. citizens should avoid travel to Japan at this time. This Travel Alert expires on April 1, 2011. Full text of the travel alert is here . HOW TO HELP We encourage cash donations to established organizations with foreign aid programs. You can make a cash donation to the American Red Cross's International Services division. Donors can direct their funds specifically to Japan Earthquake and Pacific Tsunami Relief. You can also donate $10 by texting REDCROSS to 90999. Another website, www.interaction.org, has a list of other organizations accepting contributions. ------------------- STATE DEPARTMENT UPDATES UPDATE - March 22, 2011Additional information, including an updated Warden Message, was issued on March 22 by Embassy Tokyo. The message and a video by Ambassador Roos can be found at https://japan.usembassy.gov GENERAL OVERVIEW ON AFTERMATH The National Police Agency reported 9199 dead, 13,786 missing, and 2722 injured. According to the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, eight prefectures plan to host in hotels and public facilities 152,000 people, approximately 48 percent of the total number in evacuation centers. The Japanese government also plans to build 30,000 transitional shelters in the next two months. Vice President Biden and Secretary Clinton signed the condolence book at the Japanese embassy. According to the Japan Meteorological Agency, the country has experienced 318 aftershocks of 5.0 or greater magnitude since the initial quake. Cabinet Chief Secretary Edano announced the government is considering a new “reconstruction agency” to serve as the core body overseeing reconstruction efforts. TEPCO announced it will resume rolling power outages March 22 following a three-day suspension. The blackouts will affect approximately ten million households. Narita and Haneda Airports are almost fully operational and nearly all regular flights are operating as scheduled. Airline representatives report that Narita Airport will install radiation measurement equipment and publish measurements on its website. Narita Airport also reports that some elevators and lighting have been turned off to conserve power and that some cash dispensers are not functioning. U.S. GOVERNMENT ASSISTANCE The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs reports the United States is the largest donor to date, with over $23 million in assistance, which accounts for over 70 percent of total funding. China was the second largest donor with $4.7 million in contributions. NKH television’s “News 7” program, Japan’s most-watched news show, carried a three-minute report on the ongoing relief operations conducted by the USS Ronald Reagan. An unmanned KMAX helicopter will be deployed and will be able to fly close to the nuclear plant to help keep an estimated 1000 to 1500 tons of water in the spent fuel rod holding tank. The KMAX team plans to depart from the Westover Air Reserve Base in Massachusetts March 22 via C5 transport. Lockheed Martin plans to bring a contingent of 24 technicians along with the helicopter to support the operation. At the request of the Japanese government, a U.S. military salvage boat is expected to arrive in Japan on March 23 to remove underwater obstacles from Port Hachinohe in the northern Aomori prefecture so the oil base can resume berthing cargo vessels and other ships. DART continues to conduct assessments, although the weather has delayed some on the ground assessments. Ten thousand sets of personal protective equipment, such as suits, masks, gloves, decontamination bags, and other supplies, arrived in Tokyo. The Department of Defense and the USAID Disaster Assistance Response Team will transport the suits to a Japan Self Defense Force post in Fukushima Prefecture. An update on U.S. Government assistance to Japan to date can be found at https://japan.usembassy.gov/e/p/tp-20110322-01.html FUKUSHIMA DAI-ICHI NUCLEAR ISSUES The Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) announced power lines were connected to the switchboards of all six reactor units and power was restored to the central control room of reactor No. 3. Power is expected to be restored to the cooling water pump at reactor No. 3 March 23 and, if successful, the process to cool the reactor and spent fuel pool would begin. TEPCO reported water levels at reactors Nos. 1, 2, and 3 were stable and seawater injections continued. No changes were reported in the status of those reactor cores. Truck-mounted pumps injected water for three hours into the reactor No. 4 spent fuel storage pool. At the request of the Japanese government and TEPCO, Toshiba sent 100 engineers to Fukushima Dai-ichi and Dainii power plants to provide support. The National Institute of Radiological Sciences examined 338 people, including Self Defense Forces and TEPCO employees involved in the water spraying operations, and reported all exhibited only low levels of radiation. Winds will continue to blow offshore through Saturday and shift to onshore on Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday. There’s a chance of light rain or scattered showers throughout the period. Temperatures are normal; 40s in daytime, 30s at night. CONSULAR ISSUES Japanese authorities have confirmed the death of American English teacher Taylor Anderson. Ms. Anderson’s father has arrived in Japan and was met by consular officers. He will go to Miyagi Province. We are prepared to assist the family with repatriation or burial of Ms. Anderson’s remains. We have no other information on other Americans missing or unaccounted for, but we continue to work with Japanese authorities. Embassy Tokyo issued an updated Warden Message March 22 with information regarding the availability of potassium iodide tablets. Ambassador Roos provided a video message and Embassy Tokyo issued a Warden Message covering the current situation in Japan and guidance for American citizens. The Message addressed concerns about radiation, potassium iodide, radiation and food safety, among other concerns. The video and Warden Message are on the Embassy’s web site: https://japan.usembassy.gov . INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE AND RESPONSE The UN Disaster Assessment Coordination Team will end all assignments in Japan over the next several days. ---UPDATE - March 21, 2011An updated Travel Warning issued was issued on March 21 announcing that the U.S. Government is making available Potassium Iodide as a precautionary measure for United States Government personnel and dependents residing within locations covered by authorized voluntary departure. Private American citizens are advised to contact their personal physicians or their employer with questions about Potassium Iodide. The text of the announcement is at https://www.travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/tw/tw_5398.html . The U.S. Embassy will continue to update American citizens as the situation develops through our Warden network in Japan; these messages, along with other useful information, can be viewed on our website: www.travel.state.gov under “Japan Earthquake and Pacific Tsunami.” U.S. citizens in need of emergency assistance or with information on loved ones can enter information at the Task Force Alert link on the Japan Earthquake/Tsunami site on www.travel.state.gov , and provide detailed information about their location and contact information. U.S. citizens in Japan and those concerned about them should monitor that U.S. Department of State website. Additional information is available through the U.S. Embassy Tokyo website at: https://japan.usembassy.gov/ . International commercial flights are operating in and out of Japan, and the best way for Americans to get on these flights is to work directly with the airlines. In addition, for those who have made it to the airport in Tokyo already, U.S. consular officers will be available at the Narita airport for the next several days. They will be wearing orange vests that read “U.S. Embassy.” For getting to the airports from various locations in Japan: The State Dept. has compiled a list of local ground transportation options at: https://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/pa/pa_5388.html . Because of lack of demand, the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo has no plans to charter buses from Sendai to Tokyo, and U.S. government charter flights have been discontinued at this time. Visa inquiries: For questions concerning U.S. visas for people (not U.S. citizens) seeking to enter the U.S. from Japan, please contact japanvisainquiries@state.gov. Tokyo, Osaka and Naha Visa Sections are providing only emergency visa appointments. The Fukuoka Visa Section has normal hours and the Sapporo Visa Section is closed until March 21. EPA continues to monitor radiation levels here in the U.S. The www.epa.gov website now has links to the monitors on the West Coast of the U.S. GENERAL OVERVIEW ON AFTERMATH The Japanese National Police Agency reported 8,805 dead, and 12,654 missing. Police officials estimate the overall death toll will exceed 18,000 as the Miyagi Prefecture police estimated more than 15,000 deaths in their area alone. There are an estimated 243,000 homes without power and 720,000 homes without potable water. Approximately 9000 homes had power restored and 20,000 had water restored. Economy, Trade, and Industry Minister Kaieda said overall economic damage tops $248 billion. According to a World Bank report, Japan would need five years to rebuild. Japan’s growth will slow only temporarily and should start picking up pace after mid-2011 when reconstruction efforts get underway. The report also estimated “limited impact” on the regional economy. JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation’s oil refinery in Yokohama, one of Japan’s largest facilities, reportedly resumed production of gasoline and kerosene. Officials with the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said that the gasoline supply in the greater Tokyo area will likely come back to normal within several days. The ESSEX Air Rescue Group plans to insert three Humanitarian Assistance Survey Teams from the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit to conduct surveys in the vicinity of Iwate and Sendai. The ruling party coalition called for a significant increase in the nation’s budget to address the disaster. Japanese government officials announced that portions of the damaged Tohoku Expressway, which links Tokyo and Sendai, would re-open for the first time March 22. Manila-based World Health Organization said that the detection of radioactivity in some Japanese foods, and the Japanese government’s reaction thereafter, indicates a “more serious” food safety situation than originally thought. Chief Cabinet Secretary Edano announced Prime Minister Kan’s instruction to governors of Fukushima, Gunma, Ibaraki, and Tochigi prefectures to restrict spinach and canola shipments grown in those prefectures and milk produced in Fukushima. Edano said eating products subject to the shipment restrictions should not immediately affect human health. Japan prohibited the sale of raw milk from Fukushima Prefecture. The sale of spinach from neighboring Ibaraki Prefecture was banned due to detected levels of radioactive iodine and cesium surpassing government limits. The Japanese government reported that residents of Iitate Village and Fukushima prefecture have been advised not to drink tap water, and the government is supplying bottled water. In the Tokyo area, 10 of 12 water samples taken March 15 and 16 did not contain radiation. There are no international or domestic restrictions on air travel to or within Japan. Measurements of air and water in areas outside Fukushima and Ibaraki are well within safe limits. FUKUSHIMA DAI-ICHI NUCLEAR ISSUES The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is analyzing the color of smoke from reactor No. 3 for indications of problems with the spent fuel pool. Japan’s Nuclear Safety Agency observed white smoke at reactor No. 2, which appeared to originate from a new location. The NRC reports the steam was hydrogen gas, which vents automatically. The Ministry of Defense (MOD) has assumed the lead role in Japanese nuclear response activities. TEPCO is now in an advisory role to MOD. The first of two Australian C-17 aircraft carrying components for the pumping system that pumps seawater into reactors, and three technical experts arrived at Yokota Air Base. The second C-17 is expected to arrive March 22. Tomioka Town, Iwaki City, and Miharu Town in Fukushima Prefecture began distributing potassium iodide tablets to residents before receiving official instructions from the Japanese government, causing confusion among local residents. The Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear power plant was already one of the most trouble-prone nuclear facilities in Japan, even before the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, according to Wall Street Journal analysis of regulatory documents. CONSULAR ISSUES Consular teams from Sendai and other areas have returned from the affected area, but remain in contact with Japanese authorities trained in search techniques. Embassy Tokyo is working to confirm the identity of remains that Miyagi Police believe to be of an American teacher. INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE AND RESPONSE The Russian government has enhanced radiation checks on travelers and cargo originating from Japan, with every incoming passenger being screened for possible radiation contamination. No higher-than-average-radiation has been detected thus far. ---UPDATE - March 20, 2011GENERAL OVERVIEW ON AFTERMATH The National Police Agency reported the death toll stands at 8450, with 2701 injured and 12,909 still missing. Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Kobe, and Osaka ports are experiencing congestion due to inconsistent power and extra cargo from diverted ships. Japanese Ambassador Fujisaki and a USAID representative greeted the Fairfax County USAR team upon arrival in the United States at 0415 EDT March 20. Japan announced the creation of a task force under the prime minister’s office for improved coordination of humanitarian assistance. Japanese Self Defense Force delivered more than seven tons of kerosene airlifted by U.S. military helicopters to Kusennuma City, Miyagi prefecture. FUKUSHIMA DAI-ICHI NUCLEAR ISSUES Aerial monitoring flights conducted March 19 showed the 50-mile evacuation zone remains adequate. Air samples do not indicate any further melting of the reactor cores. The IAEA began measuring radiation in air and soil in the Tokyo metropolitan area March 19. Prime Minister Kan will visit Fukushima and Miyagi prefectures by helicopter March 21 but will remain outside the 12-mile exclusion zone. The Government of Japan said power was restored to the No. 2 reactor, and other reactors were expected to regain power early the week of March 21, media report. The U.S. Department of Energy confirmed the power is back on at the No. 2 reactor. Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) reports there is water in the spent fuel pools at the Nos. 3 and 4 reactors, but there is no independent verification of these reports. At the request of Japan and the United States, Australia was scheduled to transport pumping equipment to Japan from Perth beginning March 20. The Self Defense Forces (SDF) and Tokyo Fire Department will continue spraying water onto the Nos. 3 and 4 reactors until the equipment arrives. Local pumping equipment is also being sent from Mie prefecture. TEPCO reports cooling systems are working in the No. 5 and No. 6 reactors, and the temperature of the spent fuel pools has decreased to a safe level. TEPCO stated the radiation level within the Fukushima facility declined since water spraying began March 19. TEPCO reported one additional worker was exposed to unsafe levels of radiation, bringing the total number of TEPCO employees exposed to dangerous levels to seven. The Fukushima prefecture city of Iwaki distributed iodine tablets to 150,000 residents. Japan’s Self Defense Force will send two tanks to Fukushima to help remove radiation-contaminated debris obstructing fire trucks’ access. As of 1200 EDT March 20 winds were currently blowing out to sea but are expected to shift counter-clockwise toward the south the evening of March 21. U.S. airline representatives report Narita airport will install radiation measuring equipment and publish the measurements on their web sites. The Japan Health Ministry identified additional types of radiation-tainted vegetables in Chiba, Gunma, and Tochigi prefectures. Taiwan authorities discovered a shipment of fava beans from Japan were “very slightly contaminated” but within Taiwan’s legal safety limits. The beans will be destroyed. CONSULAR ISSUES Department of Defense dependents will depart Japan en route to the United States over the next several days under the authorized voluntary departure. Flights are expected to be at capacity. The Miyagi Consular Assistance Field Team (CAFT) returned to Tokyo. The Sapporo component of the Iwate CAFT returned to Sapporo, while the Tokyo component will remain until March 21. INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE AND RESPONSE China will suspend approval of new nuclear power stations and reassess all nuclear projects. The Chinese search and rescue team returned to China March 20 after completing operations. --- UPDATE - March 19, 2011There has been an updated Travel Warning issued authorizing the voluntary departure of eligible family members and warning U.S. citizens of the deteriorating situation at the nuclear power plant and adding Akita Prefecture to the areas impacted. The text of the message is at: https://www.travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/tw/tw_5390.html . Additional information from an on-the-record briefing with Under Secretary of State Patrick Kennedy and Deputy Secretary of Energy Dan Poneman is at https://japan.usembassy.gov/e/p/tp-20110317-09.html . Under Secretary Kennedy and Deputy Assistant Secretary James D. Pettit, Bureau of Consular Affairs, held special briefing this afternoon and their remarks are at https://www.state.gov/m/rls/remarks/2011/158550.htm . The U.S. Embassy will continue to update American citizens as the situation develops. U.S. citizens in need of emergency assistance, or persons with information about such individuals, can enter information about them through the Task Force Alert link on the Japan Earthquake/Tsunami site on www.travel.state.gov , and provide detailed information about their location and contact information. U.S. citizens in Japan and those concerned about them should monitor the U.S.Department of State website at travel.state.gov . International commercial flights are operating in and out of Japan, and the best way for Americans to get on these flights is to work directly with the airlines. In addition, for those who have made it to the airport in Tokyo already, U.S. consular officers will be available at the Narita airport for the next several days. They will be wearing orange vests that read “U.S. Embassy.” For getting to the airports from various locations in Japan. The State Dept. has compiled a list of local ground transportation options at: https://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/pa/pa_5388.html . Because of lack of demand, bus service from Sendai has been suspended and charter flights have been discontinued at this time. We continue to send out updated messages through our Warden network in Japan; these messages, along with other useful information, can be viewed on our website: https://travel.state.gov under “Japan Earthquake and Pacific Tsunami.” Additional information is available through the U.S. Embassy Tokyo website at: https://japan.usembassy.gov/ . Visa inquiries: For questions concerning U.S. visas for people (not U.S. citizens) seeking to enter the U.S. from Japan, please contact japanvisainquiries@state.gov. Tokyo, Osaka and Naha Visa Sections are providing only emergency visa appointments. The Fukuoka Visa Section has normal hours and the Sapporo Visa Section is closed until March 21. EPA continues to monitor radiation levels here in the U.S. The www.epa.gov website now has links to the monitors on the West Coast of the U.S. How to help: We encourage cash donations. The web site www.interaction.org has a list of organizations accepting contributions. The American Red Cross is accepting donations of $10 by texting REDCROSS to 90999. USAID now has an email address for Americans who want to provide assistance (cash donations) to help them direct contributions to organizations on the ground: japanhelp@ofda.gov. USAID’s Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA) is coordinating the overall response management and humanitarian assistance effort. AID/OFDA can be reached at RMT_PACTSU@ofda.gov (underscore between RMT and PACTSU), Phone: 202 712 0039. The Center for International Disaster Information (CIDI) – www.cidi.org – is a clearing house for putting people who want to donate to disaster relief missions (in either in case or kind) in contact with NGOs like Interaction. CIDI has the expertise to match up quickly individual U.S. citizens, i.e. congressional constituents, with public and private entities that can provide transport. GENERAL OVERVIEW ON AFTERMATH The Japanese National Police Agency reported 7653 dead, 2583 injured, and 11,746 missing. NHK reported this is the largest number of casualties in Japan since World War II. Japan’s Ministry of Health confirmed on its website the presence of radioactive iodine in food products from the Fukushima and Ibaraki prefectures and is considering prohibition of certain items. Water in Tokyo also tested positive for radioactive iodine, although the Japanese government confirmed the trace amounts do not affect human health if ingested. A fire at Cosmo Oil’s Chiba refinery, which has raged since the earthquake, was extinguished. Urban Search and Rescue Teams from Los Angeles and Fairfax counties departed Japan and are en route to Los Angeles and Dulles. The Japanese Consul General in Los Angeles plans to meet the team at its first stop and Ambassador Fujisaki will meet the Fairfax team in Virginia. Tokyo Electric Power Company decided not to carry out power rationing for the first time since March 14. Earthquake damage is now estimated at $200 billion, not including damage associated with the Fukushima Dai-ichi plant. FUKUSHIMA DAI-ICHI NUCLEAR ISSUES The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) assessed the spent fuel cooling pools in reactors No. 3 and No. 4 were completely dry, while pools in No. 1 and No. 2 were stable. Efforts to fill the dry pools with fire hoses and helicopter-borne water drops were not effective. According to the IAEA, diesel generators are providing power for cooling No. 5 and No. 6. Engineers connected a power line to the plant, which was expected to restore electricity to four of the six reactors. It was unclear whether the cooling system would be sufficient given the extensive damage. Prime Minister Kan ordered the Ministry of Defense (MOD) to take the lead on coordinating the whole-of-government response at the reactor site. Meteorological forecasts indicate winds will head offshore through March 20, and might shift onshore for 12 hours March 21 before shifting back offshore. In response to the forecast, Prime Minister Kan said the crisis remained “very grave.” Japan will send an official to Vienna to explain the nuclear crisis at a March 21 board meeting. CONSULAR ISSUES An updated Travel Warning and voluntary authorized departure cable were issued, warning U.S. citizens of the deteriorating situation at the nuclear power plant and adding Akita Prefecture to the areas impacted. Three U.S. chartered buses departed Sendai March 19. The remaining 10 buses were cancelled due to lack of demand. No further U.S.-chartered flights are planned at this time. Seats remain available on commercial flights, which are 80 to 90 percent occupied, to the United States and regional destinations from Narita and Haneda airports. The consular team in Sendai finished door-to-door searches for U.S. citizens and are returning to Tokyo. U.S. Forces Japan (USFJ) confirmed departure of family members commenced from Yokota Air Base March 19 using charter aircraft. The first flight departed Yokota for Seattle with 233 passengers. PACOM confirmed these flights will be open to private American citizens. INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE AND RESPONSE IAEA will station additional officials in Tokyo to improve monitoring cooperation. Radiation levels in major Japanese cities have not changed significantly since yesterday. The IAEA radiation monitoring team took measurements at seven different locations in Tokyo and in the Kanagawa and Chiba Prefectures. Dose rates were well below those which are dangerous to human health. The Singaporean Foreign Ministry advised nationals living within 60 miles (100 km) of the plant to leave Japan. The foreign ministers of Japan, China, and the Republic of Korea will meet in Kyoto March 19 to discuss future cooperation in disaster prevention and the safety of nuclear facilities. The UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office issued a travel warning advising against all non-essential travel to Tokyo and the northeast portion of Japan and recommending UK nationals in these areas consider leaving. ---UPDATE 2 - March 18, 2011There has been a Travel Warning issued authorizing the voluntary departure of eligible family members from Tokyo, Yokohama, and Nagoya, and recommending that U.S. citizens in Japan consider departing. The text of the message is at: https://www.travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/tw/tw_5390.html Additional information from an on-the-record briefing with Under Secretary of State Patrick Kennedy and Deputy Secretary of Energy Dan Poneman is at https://japan.usembassy.gov/e/p/tp-20110317-09.html . Under Secretary Kennedy and Deputy Assistant Secretary James D. Pettit, Bureau of Consular Affairs, held special briefing this afternoon and their remarks are at https://www.state.gov/m/rls/remarks/2011/158550.htm . The U.S. Embassy will continue to update American citizens as the situation develops. U.S. citizens in need of emergency assistance, or persons with information about such individuals, can enter information about them through the Task Force Alert link on the Japan Earthquake/Tsunami site on www.travel.state.gov , and provide detailed information about their location and contact information. U.S. citizens in Japan and those concerned about them should monitor the U.S.Department of State website at travel.state.gov . International commercial flights are operating in and out of Japan, and the best way for Americans to get on these flights is to work directly with the airlines. In addition, for those who have made it to the airport in Tokyo already, US consular officers will be available at the Narita airport for the next several days. They will be wearing orange vests that read “U.S. Embassy.” In addition, the Department of State is arranging charter flights from Tokyo to safehaven locations in Asia. Space on these flights is limited, and travelers will be required to sign a form promising to reimburse the U.S. government at the equivalent commercial rate. Information on these flights is at https://www.travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/pa/pa_5388.html . For getting to the airports from various locations in Japan. The State Dept. has compiled a list of local ground transportation options at: https://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/pa/pa_5388.html . Bus Seats Available from Sendai: The U.S. Embassy in Tokyo has arranged for over 600 seats on several buses for transportation from Sendai City Hall to Tokyo. Priority for seats will be given to U.S. citizens and their immediate dependents. No reservation is required. However, passengers will be required to sign a promissory note to reimburse the U.S. Government for the normal bus fare from Sendai to Tokyo. The first buses will depart at 9:00 a.m. on Friday, March 18 in front of Sendai City Hall. If there are extra seats left over, then the remaining buses will depart on 9:00 a.m. on Saturday, March 19 at the same location. We continue to send out updated messages through our Warden network in Japan; these messages, along with other useful information, can be viewed on our website: https://travel.state.gov under “Japan Earthquake and Pacific Tsunami.” Additional information is available through the U.S. Embassy Tokyo website at: https://japan.usembassy.gov/ . Visa inquiries: For questions concerning U.S. visas for people (not U.S. citizens) seeking to enter the U.S. from Japan, please contact japanvisainquiries@state.gov. Tokyo, Osaka and Naha Visa Sections are providing only emergency visa appointments. The Fukuoka Visa Section has normal hours and the Sapporo Visa Section is closed until March 21. How to help: We encourage cash donations. The web site www.interaction.org has a list of organizations accepting contributions. The American Red Cross is accepting donations of $10 by texting REDCROSS to 90999. USAID now has an email address for Americans who want to provide assistance (cash donations) to help them direct contributions to organizations on the ground: japanhelp@ofda.gov. USAID’s Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA) is coordinating the overall response management and humanitarian assistance effort. AID/OFDA can be reached at RMT_PACTSU@ofda.gov (underscore between RMT and PACTSU), Phone: 202 712 0039. The Center for International Disaster Information (CIDI) – www.cidi.org – is a clearing house for putting people who want to donate to disaster relief missions (in either in case or kind) in contact with NGOs like Interaction. CIDI has the expertise to match up quickly individual U.S. citizens, i.e. congressional constituents, with public and private entities that can provide transport for commodities or charities to receive cash. GENERAL OVERVIEW ON AFTERMATH The Japanese National Police reports 6911 dead and 10,754 missing. The number of people in evacuation centers dropped from 430,000 to 390,000. Households without power dropped from 450,000 to 370,000. Approximately 1.8 million households continue to have problems accessing potable water. Satellite photos show Ishinomaki City in Miyagi prefecture suffered 15 square miles of flooding in the tsunami, the worst in terms of total area. The Japanese Ministry of Defense ordered reservists to duty to assist with water supply, life support, and translation for the first time since the reservist system began in 1954. The G7 pledged to intervene in currency markets in a coordinated manner for the first time since 2000 as Japan sold Yen on currency markets. The Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology reported damage to 195 cultural and natural heritage sites in 13 prefectures. FUKUSHIMA DAI-ICHI NUCLEAR ISSUES The spent fuel pools at reactor No. 4 remain a high priority. Japanese authorities said the entire core of reactor No. 4 was unloaded and placed in the spent fuel pool located in the reactor’s building before the earthquake. Despite large amounts of vapor at reactor No. 3, Japanese authorities calculate the pool will not dry out until April 4. Reactors No. 1 and 2 appear stable as workers continue to pump in seawater to cool the reactors. Although the temperatures in the fuel pools next to the reactors No. 5 and 6 have risen incrementally, these pools are less of a concern. TEPCO said burying the reactors in sand and concrete was a possible last resort. Japanese monitoring in Chiba, Saitama, Tokyo, Ibaraki, Tochigi, and Iwate from March 13 to March 16 reported short-term increases in the normal gamma radiation received per hour by factors of between about 10 and 50, which quickly returned to normal. A miniscule amount of radioactive material, apparently from Fukushima, was detected by a monitoring post in California. Japanese engineers will use infrared rays to gauge the temperatures of the reactors and spent fuel storage pools and also take photos to assess the damage to the outer buildings and core of the reactors March 19. The IAEA will expand monitoring cooperation. CONSULAR ISSUES The first U.S.-chartered bus departed Sendai at 2300 EDT March 17 with 27 U.S. citizens and six foreign nationals. Embassy Tokyo issued a Warden Message announcing additional buses on standby to depart Sendai at 2000 EDT. Canadian-chartered buses transported two Americans from Sendai. Demand for U.S.-chartered flights is low and commercial flights are about 85 percent full. DHS has no plans to increase active radiation screening for passengers at ports of entry at this time. INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE AND RESPONSE The UK reserved 200 seats on a flight to Hong Kong at 0800 EDT March 19. Only 43 British and other eligible nationals have signed up. The British Search and Rescue Team completed its assignment March 17 and plans to leave the country. Bulgaria, Austria, and Finland sent radiation monitoring experts and equipment to their embassies in Tokyo. Chinese authorities at Dalian airport refused to unload cargo aboard a Japanese plane citing abnormal level of radiation. To date, the U.S. military has conducted 132 helicopter and 641 aircraft missions to assist in survivor recovery, personnel transport, and relief commodities distribution. Google offered personnel and assets to re-establish mobile phone and internet connectivity and offered to underwrite the cost of sending nuclear experts from Lawrence Livermore Labs. The internet company also offered to help the IAEA, WHO, and CDC establish centralized data repositories for information on radiation levels around Fukushima. Thailand will send three C-130s with 18 pallets of relief supplies beginning March 18. The C-130s will also help transport Thai nationals returning to Thailand starting March 20. Australia urged its citizens to leave Tokyo and surrounding areas in an upgraded travel warning. --- UPDATE - March 18, 2011There has been a Travel Warning issued authorizing the voluntary departure of eligible family members from Tokyo, Yokohama, and Nagoya, and recommending that U.S. citizens in Japan consider departing. The text of the message is at: https://www.travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/tw/tw_5390.html Additional information from an on-the-record briefing with Under Secretary of State Patrick Kennedy and Deputy Secretary of Energy Dan Poneman is at https://japan.usembassy.gov/e/p/tp-20110317-09.html . Under Secretary Kennedy and Deputy Assistant Secretary James D. Pettit, Bureau of Consular Affairs, held special briefing this afternoon and their remarks are at https://www.state.gov/m/rls/remarks/2011/158550.htm . The U.S. Embassy will continue to update American citizens as the situation develops. U.S. citizens in need of emergency assistance, or persons with information about such individuals, can enter information about them through the Task Force Alert link on the Japan Earthquake/Tsunami site on www.travel.state.gov , and provide detailed information about their location and contact information. U.S. citizens in Japan and those concerned about them should monitor the U.S.Department of State website at travel.state.gov . International commercial flights are operating in and out of Japan, and the best way for Americans to get on these flights is to work directly with the airlines. In addition, for those who have made it to the airport in Tokyo already, US consular officers will be available at the Narita airport for the next several days. They will be wearing orange vests that read “U.S. Embassy.” In addition, the Department of State is arranging charter flights from Tokyo to safehaven locations in Asia. Space on these flights is limited, and travelers will be required to sign a form promising to reimburse the U.S. government at the equivalent commercial rate. Information on these flights is at https://www.travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/pa/pa_5388.html . For getting to the airports from various locations in Japan. The State Dept. has compiled a list of local ground transportation options at: https://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/pa/pa_5388.html . Bus Seats Available from Sendai: The U.S. Embassy in Tokyo has arranged for over 600 seats on several buses for transportation from Sendai City Hall to Tokyo. Priority for seats will be given to U.S. citizens and their immediate dependents. No reservation is required. However, passengers will be required to sign a promissory note to reimburse the U.S. Government for the normal bus fare from Sendai to Tokyo. The first buses will depart at 9:00 a.m. on Friday, March 18 in front of Sendai City Hall. If there are extra seats left over, then the remaining buses will depart on 9:00 a.m. on Saturday, March 19 at the same location. We continue to send out updated messages through our Warden network in Japan; these messages, along with other useful information, can be viewed on our website: https://travel.state.gov under “Japan Earthquake and Pacific Tsunami.” Additional information is available through the U.S. Embassy Tokyo website at: https://japan.usembassy.gov/ . Visa inquiries: For questions concerning U.S. visas for people (not U.S. citizens) seeking to enter the U.S. from Japan, please contact japanvisainquiries@state.gov. Tokyo, Osaka and Naha Visa Sections are providing only emergency visa appointments. The Fukuoka Visa Section has normal hours and the Sapporo Visa Section is closed until March 21. How to help: We encourage cash donations. The web site www.interaction.org has a list of organizations accepting contributions. The American Red Cross is accepting donations of $10 by texting REDCROSS to 90999. USAID’s Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA) is coordinating the overall response management and humanitarian assistance effort. AID/OFDA can be reached at RMT_PACTSU@ofda.gov, Phone: 202 712 0039. The Center for International Disaster Information (CIDI) – www.cidi.org – is a clearing house for putting people who want to donate to disaster relief missions (in either in case or kind) in contact with NGOs like Interaction. CIDI has the expertise to match up quickly individual U.S. citizens, i.e. congressional constituents, with public and private entities that can provide transport for commodities or charities to receive cash. GENERAL OVERVIEW OF AFTERMATH President Obama visited the Japanese Embassy in Washington March 17 to deliver flowers and express sympathies on behalf of the American people. The President spoke on events in Japan this afternoon. His remarks are at https://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2011/03/17/president-obama-we-will-stand-people-japan . The Japanese National Police Agency reported 5692 dead, 9522 missing, and 2383 injured. Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) announced it was able to avoid implementing rolling blackouts in Tokyo and its surrounding area. Toyota will suspend all production until March 22, Honda will suspend all production until March 20, and Nissan will stop production at four plants in Kanagawa Prefecture. The Nikkei 225 Index dropped 131 points or 1.4 percent. Overall, in the past five sessions, the Index is down more than 14 percent. Japanese Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Minister Kano warned of a “food supply-demand imbalance” in the country. Japan produces only 39 percent of its own food and will be even more dependent on foreign supplies. Sendai Airport is now open to supply humanitarian efforts for Self Defense Forces (SDF) and U.S. military flights. Delta Airlines reported while outbound flights from Japan are almost full, inbound traffic is nearly empty. Delta plans to temporarily suspend its Haneda service to Detroit and Los Angeles and focus on its Narita hub. British Airways became the latest airline carrier to pull crews out of Tokyo. The UK is chartering flights from Tokyo to Hong Kong to supplement commercially available options for British nationals seeking to leave Japan. The World Health Organization representative in China issued a statement to quell increasing public concern. NUCLEAR ISSUES The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) assesses secondary containment at the Fukushima Dai-ichi reactor No. 3 is severely damaged, primary containment at reactor No. 2 is damaged, half of fuel at reactor No. 1 is uncovered, the water level is dropping in the spent fuel pond and rods are heating up at reactor No. 5, and the water level in reactor No. 6 is lower than normal but not heating up. There is another spent fuel storage facility on site and its status is currently unknown. IAEA Director General Amano and an expert mission traveled to Japan to conduct high-level consultations with Japanese authorities and respond to Japan’s request for assistance in environmental monitoring and medical services. Amano asked the Board of Governors to meet March 21 in a special session so he could report on his by-then completed trip. The Department of Energy reports it continues to analyze data from manned air monitoring assets performing assessments since March 16 near the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear power plant. The Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) estimates it will fix power cables by March 18 on the Fukushima Dai-ichi plant to supply power to the reactor coolant system and test power to reactor No. 2 once spraying of water on reactor No. 3 is completed. At least 20 people have fallen ill due to possible radiation contamination, in addition to 19 injured and two missing at the Fukushima Dai-ichi plant. CONSULAR ISSUES The first U.S. government voluntary authorized departure flight departed Tokyo at 1138 EDT and arrived at Taipei 1300 EDT. The total number of passengers on the plane was 96. There are no reports of U.S. citizen fatalities. INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE AND RESPONSE The Republic of Korea (ROK) assistance to Japan since March 11 has exceeded $12.5 million, including 52 tons of boric acid, the primary material used to halt fission reaction at nuclear power plants. French Interior Minister Gueant said France was prepared to welcome Japanese nationals in need of care who could not be treated in Japan. Embassy Paris reports French Finance Minister Lagarde will convene conference calls March 17 with finance ministers and central bankers from European and Group of 7 countries to assess economic effects and possible responses. Canada advised all of its citizens within 50 miles of the Fukushima Dai-ichi plant to move farther from the site, joining the United States in urging the wider evacuation zone. India advised its nationals to avoid non-essential travel to Japan. Air India also introduced daily flights in order to fly Indian citizens back. The People’s Republic of China began bussing its nationals out of the affected areas, transporting citizens to where China Airlines flights operate. ---UPDATE 2 - March 17, 2011There has been a Travel Warning issued authorizing the voluntary departure of eligible family members from Tokyo, Yokohama, and Nagoya, and recommending that U.S. citizens in Japan consider departing. The text of the message is at: https://www.travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/tw/tw_5390.html Additional information from an on-the-record briefing with Under Secretary of State Patrick Kennedy and Deputy Secretary of Energy Dan Poneman is at https://japan.usembassy.gov/e/p/tp-20110317-09.html The U.S. Embassy will continue to update American citizens as the situation develops. U.S. citizens in need of emergency assistance, or persons with information about such individuals, can enter information about them through the Task Force Alert link on the Japan Earthquake/Tsunami site on www.travel.state.gov , and provide detailed information about their location and contact information. U.S. citizens in Japan and those concerned about them should monitor the U.S.Department of State website at travel.state.gov . International commercial flights are operating in and out of Japan, and the best way for Americans to get on these flights is to work directly with the airlines. In addition, for those who have made it to the airport in Tokyo already, US consular officers will be available at the Narita airport for the next several days. They will be wearing orange vests that read “U.S. Embassy.” In addition, the Department of State is arranging charter flights from Tokyo to safehaven locations in Asia. Space on these flights is limited, and travelers will be required to sign a form promising to reimburse the U.S. government at the equivalent commercial rate. Information on these flights is at https://www.travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/pa/pa_5388.html . For getting to the airports from various locations in Japan. The State Dept. has compiled a list of local ground transportation options at: https://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/pa/pa_5388.html . Bus Seats Available from Sendai: The U.S. Embassy in Tokyo has arranged for over 600 seats on several buses for transportation from Sendai City Hall to Tokyo. Priority for seats will be given to U.S. citizens and their immediate dependents. No reservation is required. However, passengers will be required to sign a promissory note to reimburse the U.S. Government for the normal bus fare from Sendai to Tokyo. The first buses will depart at 9:00 a.m. on Friday, March 18 in front of Sendai City Hall. If there are extra seats left over, then the remaining buses will depart on 9:00 a.m. on Saturday, March 19 at the same location. We continue to send out updated messages through our Warden network in Japan; these messages, along with other useful information, can be viewed on our website: https://travel.state.gov under “Japan Earthquake and Pacific Tsunami.” Additional information is available through the U.S. Embassy Tokyo website at: https://japan.usembassy.gov/ . Visa inquiries: For questions concerning U.S. visas for people (not U.S. citizens) seeking to enter the U.S. from Japan, please contact japanvisainquiries@state.gov . How to help: We encourage cash donations. The web site www.interaction.org has a list of organizations accepting contributions. The American Red Cross is accepting donations of $10 by texting REDCROSS to 90999. USAID’s Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA) is coordinating the overall response management and humanitarian assistance effort. AID/OFDA can be reached at RMT_PACTSU@ofda.gov (underscore between RMT and PACTSU), Phone: 202-712-0039. GENERAL OVERVIEW ON AFTERMATH Japanese National Police Agency reported 5321 dead, 9329 missing, and 2383 injured. Embassy Tokyo has received no reports of U.S. citizen fatalities. More that 500,000 people have been internally displaced. Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) began implementing rolling blackouts in Chiba, Tochigi, and Saitama prefectures. Japan began random tests of agricultural products for radioactive contamination. Canada, China, and South Korea will monitor imports from Japan. NUCLEAR ISSUES The status of the spent fuel pools in Fukushima Dai-ichi reactors No. 3 and No. 4 remains unclear. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission reports reactor No. 3 is not covered in water and the structural integrity of reactor No. 4 may be so weak it can not retain water. Pressure was reportedly rising in reactor No. 3. Defense Minister Kitazawa announced helicopter operations to spray water on reactor No. 3. Post notes the helicopter operations concluded. Reactor No. 4 is being cooled with water cannon trucks. Media reports radiation levels remained unchanged. Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) staff remained on site but could not make necessary visual inspections for reactors No. 3 and 4 due to physical damage and radiation levels. TEPCO reported a new power line to the plant, which would facilitate cooling and firefighting operations, was nearly complete. President Obama spoke to Prime Minister Kan March 17 offering additional U.S. nuclear experts and affirming U.S. commitment to assist. CONSULAR ISSUES A Travel Warning was issued announcing the voluntary authorized departure for eligible family members of Embassy Tokyo, Consulate Nagoya, and the Foreign Service Institute Field School in Yokohama. U.S. Forces Japan (USFJ) will follow the Department’s authorized voluntary departure and organize arrangements for family members. Embassy Tokyo issued a Warden Message recommending American citizens evacuate the area within 50 miles of the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear power plant in accordance with NRC recommendations. INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE The III Marine Expeditionary Unit established a Command Element in Sendai to coordinate military assistance and the Forward Air Refueling Point at Yamagata Airfield is now operational. The USS Ronald Reagan is northeast of Sendai conducting relief efforts and the USS Tortuga is offloading equipment and personnel in Aomori. USFJ provided 150 nuclear, biological, and chemical suits to TEPCO employees. ExxonMobil announced it will donate $3 million to the Japanese Red Cross, provide additional electricity to the Tokyo area, and refine extra fuel worldwide to calm markets. Singapore donated $500,000 for relief operations and sent a five-person search and rescue team. Bermuda pledged up to $50,000 in matching donations to the Japanese Red Cross. Chinese oil company PetroChina will supply 20,000 tons of diesel and gasoline to Japan. ---UPDATE - March 17, 2011We want to update you on the efforts of U.S. consular officers in the affected areas of Japan. There are currently four consular assistance teams in Miyagi and Ibaraki prefectures; they are using information from our inquiry database to seek out U.S. citizens we believe are in those areas, going door-to-door, talking with local security and healthcare officials, and visiting shelters and evacuation centers. To date, we have not received any reports of U.S. citizen deaths. The Sendai team is providing emergency consular assistance at the Sendai International Relations Association offices (SIRA) in Sendai, and there are also teams at the Narita and Haneda airports to assist U.S. citizens who are seeking to depart Japan. The United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), the Department of Energy and other technical experts in the U.S. Government have reviewed the scientific and technical information they have collected from assets in country, as well as what the Government of Japan has disseminated, in response to the deteriorating situation at the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant. Consistent with the NRC guidelines that apply to such a situation in the United States, we are recommending, as a precaution, that American citizens who live within 50 miles (80 kilometers) of the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant evacuate the area or to take shelter indoors if safe evacuation is not practical. The U.S. Embassy will continue to update American citizens as the situation develops. U.S. citizens in need of emergency assistance should send an e-mail to JapanEmergencyUSC@state.gov with detailed information about their location and contact information, and monitor the U.S.Department of State website at travel.state.gov. International commercial flights are operating in and out of Japan, and the best way for Americans to get on these flights is to work directly with the airlines. In addition, for those who have made it to the airport in Tokyo already, US consular officers will be available at the Narita airport for the next several days. They will be wearing orange vests that read “U.S. Embassy.” Getting to the airports from various locations in Japan: the State Dept. has compiled a list of local ground transportation options at: https://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/pa/pa_5388.html . We continue to send out updated messages through our Warden network in Japan; these messages, along with other useful information, can be viewed on our website: https://travel.state.gov under “Japan Earthquake and Pacific Tsunami.” Additional information is available through the U.S. Embassy Tokyo website at: https://japan.usembassy.gov/ . GENERAL OVERVIEW ON AFTERMATH Japanese police reported 4277 dead and 8194 missing. Embassy Tokyo has received no reports of U.S. citizen fatalities. A total of 440,818 people are in shelters, and at least 1.6 million households in 12 prefectures are without water. More than 2400 schools in 22 prefectures collapsed or suffered significant damage. The government of Japan ordered the construction of 600 temporary shelters. Japanese Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Minister Kano announced the release of stockpiled rice to address shortages caused by transportation disruptions. A survey of major supermarkets in greater Tokyo showed prices multiplied up to ten times. Minister of Consumer Affairs Renho called for people in Tokyo to refrain from hoarding goods. NUCLEAR ISSUES Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) believes spent fuel pools in reactors No. 3 and No. 4 might be uncovered, but are maintaining structural integrity. TEPCO said a new power line to revive electric-powered pumps that supply cooling water supply to spent fuel storage ponds is almost complete. Officials plan to try it “as soon as possible.” Japan’s health and welfare minister increased the “acceptable” level of radiation exposure to five times the level allowed in the United States to permit a crew to resume attempts to cool damaged sectors. TEPCO staff remains on site but cannot make necessary visual inspections due to debris and physical damage. IAEA Chief Amano urged the Japanese government to provide better information to the agency about the nuclear crisis and announced plans to visit Japan March 17. CONSULAR ISSUES U.S. Consular teams in Miyagi and Ibaraki have assisted 84 U.S. citizens since March 14. INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE A British Search and Rescue (SAR) team joined the USAID 144-person and 12-canine SAR team. The teams established a combined base of operations in Sumita, Iwate Prefecture. Canada’s 17-member Disaster Victim Identification Team will arrive March 17. The Red Cross has provided $10 million to the Japanese Red Cross for relief efforts supporting immediate needs for 530,000 internally displaced persons. Walmart announced its intention to provide $5 million in cash and in-kind donations to be distributed through its Japanese stores. Latvia will donate $200,000 to relief efforts. Ireland will donate $1,394,000 to the Red Cross. Timor Leste will send a disaster relief support team. ---UPDATE - March 16, 2011 We want to update you on the efforts of U.S. consular officers in the affected areas of Japan. There are currently four consular assistance teams in Miyagi and Ibaraki prefectures; they are using information from our inquiry database to seek out U.S. citizens we believe are in those areas, going door-to-door, talking with local security and healthcare officials, and visiting shelters and evacuation centers. To date, we have not received any reports of U.S. citizen deaths. The Sendai team is providing emergency consular assistance at the Sendai International Relations Association offices (SIRA) in Sendai, and there are also teams at the Narita and Haneda airports to assist U.S. citizens who are seeking to depart Japan. Regarding the nuclear incidents in and around Fukushima, the Japan Nuclear Industrial Safety Agency (NISA) recommends that people who live within 20 kilometers of the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant in Okumacho evacuate the area immediately, and that people in the zone between 20 and 30 km of the plant stay indoors at home or at work. The Japanese authorities have confirmed that the situation remains serious. The U.S. government and all experts are fully engaged in analyzing the issues, including those regarding Fukushima reactor, in close consultation with the Japanese Government. We continue to send out updated messages through our Warden network in Japan; these messages, along with other useful information, can be viewed on our website: https://travel.state.gov under “Japan Earthquake and Pacific Tsunami.” Additional information is available through the U.S. Embassy Tokyo website at: https://japan.usembassy.gov/. Japanese Police reported 3771 dead, 7843 missing, and 2044 injured. Embassy Tokyo has received no reports of U.S. citizen fatalities. Internally displaced persons number 530,000. In a very rare televised address, the Japanese Emperor told citizens not to give up hope in the face of the earthquake and tsunami. He expressed deep concern about the nuclear situation. Significant aftershocks continue, including a 6.0 magnitude event 60 miles offshore Tokyo at 2352 EDT March 15. Most airports continue to operate, but ground transport is erratic due to gas and electricity shortages. Tokyo Metro asked commuters to avoid peak hours. Currently, TEPCO can only supply 33 million kilowatts, leaving a shortfall of 4 million kilowatts. Several hundred thousand phone and internet connections remain disconnected. Damage from the earthquake is expected to exceed the $119 billion damage from the 1995 Kobe earthquake. FUKUSHIMA DAI-ICHI NUCLEAR POWER PLANT STATUS A fire at reactor No. 4 led TEPCO to pull workers temporarily from the site, according to press. NRC is working to confirm the status of the fire and cooling water. Forecasts for March 16 show winds blowing seaward. Smoke began rising from reactor No. 3. Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Edano said the reactor’s containment vessel might have been damaged. Japanese Defense Minister Kitazawa said Self Defense Forces might be deployed to the Fukushima plant. Media report SDF helicopters have aborted water drops over reactor No. 3 due to safety concerns. Minister Kitazawa said U.S. Forces Japan fire trucks delivered March 14 will be used to pump water to cool reactors No. 3 and No. 4. Trained TEPCO operators are now en route to the site. Media report failure of containment at reactors No. 2 and 3. NRC is unable to confirm the levels of damage and radiation. Information flow and data gathering remain problematic. U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL RESPONSE Japan requested foreign consequence management support, transport of pumps, boron, fresh water, remote cameras, global hawk surveillance, evacuation support, medical support, decontamination, and radiation monitoring. U.S. Forces Japan is evaluating the request. In a press conference, Ambassador Roos said the U.S. government and people were “stepping up in countless ways for the Japanese people.” Recognizing conflicting reports, Amb. Roos committed to providing as much up-to-date information as possible. U.S. Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) teams concluded their assignment in Iwate Prefecture without finding survivors. The teams will be reassigned to work with Chinese and UK USAR teams. The Philippines and Malaysia announced they would monitor Japanese food imports for radiation. To date, 102 countries and 14 international organizations have offered assistance. CONSULAR ISSUES Australia updated its travel advisory, noting the government had authorized the voluntary departure of dependants of Australian officials in Tokyo. France advised its citizens to return home or relocate to the south of Japan. Air France planes are en route to Japan to assist in repatriation. Austria is moving its embassy to Osaka due to radiation concerns. The Chinese Embassy is sending buses to move its nationals from Miyagi, Fukushima, Ibaraki, and Iwate prefectures. In addition to Ibaraki, Miyagi and Iwate prefectures, U.S. consular teams are in Tokyo area airports and Misawa Air Base. Consulate General Hong Kong and AIT Taipei issued warden messages citing host government reports that there are no local threats from the nuclear situation in Japan. ---UPDATE 2 - March 15, 2011 Japanese police reported the official death toll at 2414. Miyagi prefectural government confirmed 9700 of 10,000 persons in Minami-Sanriku-Cho whose whereabouts were previously unknown have been found in evacuation shelters. Delta, United, and American Airlines resumed regular flights to and from Tokyo. Air China cancelled flights from Beijing and Shanghai to Tokyo. TEPCO started rolling blackouts in parts of its coverage area. The Ministry of Finance is considering mobilizing nearly all of the $2.5 billion in remaining fiscal 2010 contingency funds. The Nikkei closed at 8605, down 10.5%. The massive selloff on the Tokyo Stock Exchange wiped out $287 billion from the market’s value. NUCLEAR ISSUES NRC reports the core of Fukushima Dai-ichi reactor No. 2 was uncovered March 14 and might have partially melted through the containment vessel. Experts are analyzing radiation measurements to make an assessment of the reactor’s status. A fire at reactor No. 4, which was burning spent fuel, was extinguished. Japanese authorities evacuated residents within a 12 mile radius of the Fukushima Dai-ichi site and instructed people within 12 to 19 miles of the facility stay indoors. This affects 210,000 to 220,000 people. Fifty workers remain at the facility. A no-fly zone is set for a 19 mile radius over the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear plant. Cooling operations are continuing at Fukushima Dai-ichi reactors No. 1 and No. 3. Winds over the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear plant are blowing inland from the northeast towards Tokyo according to the Japan Meteorological Agency. Media report officials have detected slightly higher-than-normal radiation levels in Tokyo, but insist there are no health dangers. U.S. GOVERNMENT ASSISTANCE Two DOD fire trucks were turned over to Japanese authorities in Fukushima prefecture. The USS Tortuga arrived off the coast of Hokkaido. DOE radiation monitoring pods are en route to Yokoda Air Force Base. INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE Russia deployed 180 search-and-rescue personnel and offered nuclear assistance. Prime Minister Putin called for additional deliveries of fuel and will consider increasing coal shipments by three to four million tons. U.S. EMBASSY AND CONSULATE Embassy Tokyo resumed limited consular services. Consular teams are in Miyagi and Ibaraki prefecture. --- UPDATE - March 15, 2011 There continue to be conflicting reports regarding the numbers of dead and injured. The Japan Broadcasting Corporation reported 15,000 people were unaccounted for, and 450,000 were sheltering in evacuation centers. The International Energy Association reported 11 nuclear power reactors were off-line in the affected area. Six oil refineries were closed, representing 1.4 million barrels per day or 30 percent of Japan’s total refining capacity. The Government of Japan distributed 230,000 units of stable iodine to evacuation centers around the Fukushima Dai-ichi and Fukushima Dai-nii plants to help prevent cancer as a precautionary measure. Japanese stocks plunged below 10,000 March 14, a drop of more than 6 percent. Major manufacturers closed plants for an unspecified period. The Bank of Japan announced plans to inject a record $183 billion (15 trillion yen) into the economy and will provide an additional $61 billion (5 trillion yen) in aid for risky assets in an effort to bolster market confidence shaken by the disaster. The Japanese Ministry of Energy, Trade, and Industry announced it will release three days’ worth of oil stockpiles. NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS AND RELATED ISSUES The Japanese Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency reported an explosion at Fukushima Dai-ichi reactor 2. No other details are known at this time. The U.S. Department of Energy reported the conditions of Fukushima Dai-ichi reactors 1, 2, and 3 have degraded with significant damage to the fuel casings inside the reactor core of all three units. There is no evidence at this time of a core breach at any of the affected reactors. The radiation released from Fukushima Dai-ichi reactors 1, 2, and 3 reached neighboring prefectures. On March 15, radiation measured in an Ibaraki border town 80 kilometers (50 miles) south of the nuclear plant was 100 times the normal level. Because this was one-tenth the amount received in a normal chest x-ray, the prefecture determined it would have no effect on the health of the people. Around Sendai, U.S. forces were exposed to very small amounts of radiation. The Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) likely will implement planned power outages in eight prefectures and Tokyo March 15, which could cause train disruptions. The Department of Defense deployed two fire trucks to respond to a request from the Japanese Prime Minister for high-pressure water pumps to help cool the Fukushima Dai-ichi reactors. TEPCO personnel received the first truck. The second will arrive early March 15. U.S. GOVERNMENT ASSISTANCE Two urban search and rescue (USAR) teams from Los Angeles and Fairfax counties arrived in the Ofunato area and will begin operations at first light March 15. USAID’s Response Management Team will deploy additional NRC officials to handle nuclear issues on the ground. Marines from the III Marine Expeditionary Force (MEF) are deploying critically needed supplies to affected areas. The III MEF dispatched an advance team to the Tohoku region to establish a forward operational and liaison presence. INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE Japan accepted the offer of the International Atomic Energy Agency to provide a technical team. Russian President Medvedev offered to provide energy assistance as well as humanitarian assistance. Prime Minister Kan responded he would consult with Russia if needed. Russia also may send 200,000 tons of liquefied natural gas to Japan in coming months. INTERNATIONAL CONSULAR OVERVIEW AND REACTIONS In addition to the three teams already on the ground, Embassy Tokyo is sending consular teams to Iwate and Ibaraki. The Embassy of Saudi Arabia in Japan issued a “mandatory evacuation.” All Saudi citizens, including Embassy officers, will be evacuated from Osaka. There are approximately 400-500 Saudi citizens in Japan, including some citizens that were working near Fukushima. --- UPDATE - March 14, 2011 Japanese officials confirmed 2,800 dead, after another 1,000 bodies washed up along the Miyagi coastline. Hundreds of thousands of people are struggling to find food and water. At least 1.4 million households have gone without water, and some 1.9 million households are without electricity. The National Police Agency estimates nearly 37,700 buildings were damaged or destroyed throughout northeastern Japan. Opposition New Komeito Party President Yamaguchi agreed to smoothly enact legislative measures and an extra budget bill to extend financial support to quake-stricken areas. TEPCO announced it lost approximately 20 percent of its power generating capacity and began a series of planned rolling blackouts for parts of the Tokyo area. TEPCO urged its customers to limit electricity use. The Embassy is reducing power use at the chancery and housing compound. Japan’s central bank is injecting $183.8 billion into money markets after stocks plunged 6.3 percent. The Shinmoedake volcano on Japan’s Kyushu Island resumed activity after lying dormant for a couple of weeks. No injuries were reported and the eruption likely was part of volcanic activity ongoing since January. NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS AND RELATED ISSUES Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Edano said a hydrogen explosion occurred at reactor No. 3 of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, injuring 11 workers. Embassy Tokyo comments Assistant Chief Cabinet Secretary Kawai reports data indicates the containment vessel is safe, and the GOJ does not anticipate a major radiation release. Japanese authorities will continue to impose a 12-mile evacuation zone and advised residents in the area to stay indoors. The Nuclear Safety Agency (NISA) notified the government the cooling system of reactor No. 2 at the Fukushima Dai-ichi failed. The Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) is trying to cool the reactor. DOD issued a press release stating the U.S. 7th Fleet temporarily repositioned its ships and aircraft away from the Fukushima Dai-ichi plant after detecting low level contamination in the air and on its aircraft. The Japanese foreign affairs ministry was notified of the statement in advance and pushed back, saying it would heighten public anxiety. The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission will brief the United Kingdom’s Health and Safety Executive (nuclear directorate staff) on the nuclear situation. U.S. GOVERNMENT ASSISTANCE The III Marine Expeditionary Force (MEF) Forward unit arrived in Sendai and is embedded with Japanese Northeast Security forces. Additional units are scheduled to arrive soon and MEF is considering an official Japanese government request for U.S. military assistance with restoring operations at the Sendai airport. The USS Ronald Reagan resumed Search and Rescue (SAR) operations, but moved to a northward position where it is continually monitoring radiation levels. The USS Tortuga is scheduled to arrive March 15 in Hokkaido to transport approximately 280 Japanese soldiers and 90 vehicles to northeast Japan. The USS Essex is expected to arrive March 16 in the Sea of Japan. Embassy Tokyo consular teams in Sendai and Miyagi continue to look for U.S. citizens. INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE A Chinese SAR team arrived in Iwate Prefecture March 13 and is en route to Tohoku. Press reports that they arrived in Japan with four tons of SAR materials and equipment, power supplies and telecommunication equipment. Seventy-seven British personnel arrived at Misawa Air Base to support the SAR mission in the Iwate Ohunato area, and are en route to Ofunato. An Australian SAR team arrived at Yokota Air Base and will operate in Minamisanriku-cho. A 55-member New Zealand SAR team is scheduled to arrive at Narita airport March 14. A 131-member French SAR team will arrive at Narita airport March 14 and move to Misawa Air Base. --- UPDATE 2 - March 13, 2011 The National Police Agency of Japan reported 1353 deaths and 1085 missing. Media reports carry higher numbers. About 380,000 people are sheltering in 2050 evacuation centers. Japan’s meteorological agency estimates the possibility of aftershocks with magnitude 7.0 or higher is 70 percent until 2000 EDT March 15, followed by 50 percent until 2000 EDT March 18. Although most aftershocks are concentrated in the area of the original earthquake, there have been others elsewhere in Japan, indicating additional damaging quakes are possible throughout the main islands. Rolling electricity blackouts will begin March 14. They will affect 13 out of 23 wards in Tokyo. The wards, which include government and Diet offices, Embassy housing, and the chancery, will be exempt. Some cities where U.S. bases are located will be included in the blackouts, but it is not clear if the bases will be affected. NUCLEAR POWER FACILITIES AND RELATED ISSUES U.S. DOE, HHS, and USAID DART members met with Japanese officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Nuclear Industry Safety Agency on March 13. The DART team reports the Japanese government appears to be getting a handle on the situation at the Fukushima Daiichi plant, where cooling systems on reactors No. 1 and No. 3 have shut down. The containment vessels for all six reactors are intact, and there has been no major release of radioactive material. Officials are concerned the same hydrogen buildup that resulted in an explosion at Daiichi reactor No. 1 might occur at Daiichi reactor No. 3. If that is the case, a similar visible explosion in reactor No. 3’s outer building could occur, though that would not likely result in any significant release of radiation. There are no immediate concerns of radiation leakage from reactor No. 2. At the Fukushima Dainii nuclear power plant, media report Japanese authorities are still trying to reduce the temperature of reactors Nos. 1, 2, and 4. A cooling system pump stopped at the Tokai No. 2 nuclear power plant in the Ibaraki prefecture, approximately 75 miles north of Tokyo, according to press. The reactor automatically shut down due to the earthquake, and an emergency generator is now cooling the reactor. This is the first report of trouble related to cooling efforts at the Tokai plant since the earthquake. A state of emergency at the Onagawa nuclear power plant, 40 miles east of Sendai city, was lifted when radioactivity levels returned to normal. All three reactors at the plant are under control. The Fukushima prefecture requested the central government provide more equipment and staff so it could start radiation exposure screening at all evacuation stations by March 15. After detecting radiological material on four helicopters operating from ships of the USS Ronald Reagan battle group, the Navy ordered all of their vessels to remain more than 100 nautical miles off the Japanese coast until an assessment of the impact of contamination on operations is completed. According to initial reports, one helicopter had visited a Japan Self Defense Forces vessel approximately 60 nautical miles northeast of Fukushima. Three others had engaged in ship-to-shore overland flights 60-70 nautical miles north of Fukushima. American Airlines reports it is slightly adjusting its routes and will carry contingency fuel in case rerouting is required due to the nuclear power plant situation. The Federal Aviation Administration reports no known changes or cancellations to routes. U.S. GOVERNMENT ASSISTANCE The DART team has seven members in Tokyo and four in Misawa, not including search and rescue personnel. Three additional members are scheduled to arrive March 14 in Tokyo. The U.S. Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) teams will begin rescue efforts March 14 in Ofunato town, Iwate Prefecture, in northeastern Japan. They will coordinate with the UN disaster assistance team, which arrived in Tokyo March 13. The second USAID cargo plane carrying supplies arrived at Misawa Air Base at 1015 EDT. INTERNATIONAL REACTION An Embassy Tokyo consular team is in Sendai city to check on the welfare and whereabouts of U.S. citizens, working with Australian, Canadian, and UK consular officers. France warned French citizens to avoid all travel to Japan. The French Embassy in Tokyo instructed French citizens to leave Tokyo, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed this was not the official French position. Germany warned citizens against travel to northeast Japan, and is organizing a bus to evacuate German residents in Sendai to Tokyo. Germany and Finland are going to authorized departure status for eligible family members. Kandahar’s mayor announced the Afghan city would donate $50,000 to “brothers and sisters” in Japan. Japan has accepted offers of assistance from 69 countries. USAR teams from ten countries have arrived and 17 additional teams from other countries are on standby. --- UPDATE - March 13, 2011 Reports of the number of fatalities range from 800 to 2000; 773 are known missing and 1442 are injured, with no confirmed U.S. citizen casualties. Police in Japan’s northeastern Miyagi estimate the death toll in Miyagi alone will likely exceed 10,000. Los Angeles and Fairfax county search and rescue (SAR) teams arrived in Misawa Air Base at 0122 EST March 13. One cargo flight arrived March 12 with enough equipment to support the teams. A second cargo flight is expected later on March 13. Two representatives from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission and representatives from the Departments of Energy and Health and Human Services are also in Japan. The U.S. Geological Survey said the March 11 earthquake moved Japan’s main island by about eight feet. FUKUSHIMA NUCLEAR POWER PLANT Chief Cabinet Secretary Edano said radiation at the nuclear power plant in Fukushima briefly rose above legal limits but has since declined significantly, according to press. Embassy Tokyo notes Edano also said sea water is being pumped into the No. 3 reactor and that while an explosion is possible, a meltdown is not expected. DoE notes the information pertaining to the Fukushima nuclear power station is vague and a meltdown remains possible. The No. 2 reactor appears to be stable and is the least problematic of the three reactors. The Japanese authorities evacuated 170,000 people from the 20 km radius of the Fukushima power plant, according to press. Embassy Tokyo adds the government advises people within the radius to cover their skin completely when outdoors and to avoid eating produce. Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (NISA) said about 160 people were exposed to radiation around the Fukushima nuclear power plant. Japan’s foreign ministry briefed diplomatic missions on breaking events but did not include information beyond what was readily available in the media. USG OPERATIONS AND CONSULAR AFFAIRS The Travel Alert advised U.S. citizens to avoid travel to Japan and requested all non-essential official U.S. government personnel defer travel to Japan. Embassy Tokyo also released its sixth Warden Message since the March 11 earthquake Embassy Tokyo officials are at Tokyo’s Narita International Airport to offer assistance and information to U.S. citizens. Flights have resumed and most services are operating normally. One officer will visit Tokyo’s Haneda airport, which is reportedly also operating normally. American Airlines reported a lack of information from Japanese authorities is causing it to seriously consider suspending services to Japan. The FAA Command Center reports Japanese officials say all flight operations are normal. U.S. ASSISTANCE PACOM notes helicopter assistance missions were temporarily suspended following nuclear contamination at 13 times the base level of radiation normally in the air. The helicopter crew had minor contamination on their hands and feet. PACOM notes this level does not pose a risk and it remains unclear where the contamination originated. The USS Ronald Reagan executed six maritime search and rescue and reconnaissance missions and 20 helicopter missions delivering supplies to ships at sea and three towns near Sendai. The Essex, Blue Ridge, Tortuga, Harper’s Ferry, and Germantown are all en route to Japan. The team leader, deputy team leader, logistics officer, and information officer of USAID’s Disaster Assistance Relief Team (DART) are in Tokyo. USAID has provided $740,600 in humanitarian assistance to date. A list of organizations accepting cash donations for earthquake and tsunami response efforts in Japan is available at www.interaction.org . INTERNATIONAL REACTIONS European missions plan to move to voluntary authorized departure. Embassy Tokyo notes the German Embassy moved to voluntary departure for embassy families and non-essential personnel. A team of 15 Chinese civilian officials arrived in Japan to conduct search and rescue operations. Germany, Switzerland, and the UK have also sent assistance teams, according to Japanese press. The UK team of 60 rescuers and two canines is scheduled to arrive at Misawa Air Base March 13. --- UPDATE 2 - March 12, 2011 The number of reported fatalities is currently 689 and is expected to rise; 639 are known missing and 1570 are injured. There are no confirmed U.S. citizen causalities. The GE-Hitachi employees working at Fukushima 4 power plant are currently in Tokyo. All 40 employees have been examined and none has radiation exposure. According to TSA and HHS, all employees will be permitted to board commercial transport. Los Angeles and Fairfax county rescue teams are en route to Misawa and are expected to arrive in Japan at 2130 EST March 12. The teams include 150 personnel and 12 canines. At Japan’s request, the Department of Defense will take responsibility for search and rescue (SAR) along the coast line and in coastal waters. The USS Ronald Reagan began the first of its six SAR missions planned for March 13. At 1112 EST, the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center canceled the tsunami warning for all areas in the Western Pacific. Narita and Haneda airports are now open, but due to a backlog of flights it will take a week before the airports are operating normally. FUKUSHIMA NUCLEAR POWER PLANT According to media, the emergency cooling system is no longer functioning at the No.2 and 3 reactors at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power facility. The facility is trying to secure alternate means to cool the reactors, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has requested USFJ support to haul the water. According to Chief Cabinet Secretary Edano, reactor No. 1 at Fukushima Daiichi Power Plant is pumped full of seawater, but the government of Japan can not confirm the temperature lowered. Secretary Edano noted nine people near the site were exposed to radiation. Thus far, Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (NISA) has declined a general offer of assistance from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The Japanese government is distributing potassium iodine tablets to the population around the impacted site to help prevent radiation sickness and reduce risks for thyroid disease and cancers. A Japanese self defense unit specializing in nuclear issues took over security at the Daiichi Fukushima site. Japan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs will hold a briefing for diplomatic missions on the latest nuclear developments. U.S. ASSISTANCE The 7th Fleet flag ship USS Blue Ridge has departed for Japan and is estimated to arrive March 18 at 0930 EST. Other ships, including the USS Germantown and the USS Tortuga are expected to arrive March 14 at 1300 EST and 1515 EST respectively. Japan moved its first 700 Ground Self Defense Force (GSDF) personnel via commercial ferry but reconfirmed its request for DOD transport for other GDSF Northern Army personnel from Otaru to Akita. INTERNATIONAL REACTIONS Russian Deputy Prime Minister Sechin announced Russia can send up to 150,000 tons of liquefied natural gas to Japan, if requested. An Australian SAR team will arrive March 13 at Yokota Air Force Base. At Japan’s request, a 60 person UK SAR team will land on the U.S. side of Misawa air base and will coordinate with U.S. SAR teams. --- UPDATE - March 12, 2011 The number of reported fatalities is currently 433 and is expected to rise; 784 people are known missing (Note: The 1000 fatalities reported in the last situation report was actually the number of fatalities and missing persons). There are no confirmed deaths of American citizens. Ambassador Roos held a press conference at 0530 EST. The Ambassador led a moment of silence for the victims of the tragedy and expressed condolences to the Japanese people. He outlined steps to assist American citizens. The Ambassador described U.S. military and humanitarian assistance and offered “our full assistance” in responding to the Fukushima nuclear power plant. An explosion occurred at Tokyo Electric Power Company’s (TEPCO) Fukushima 1 nuclear power plant, about 160 miles north of Tokyo. Japanese authorities expanded the evacuation zone around the plant from six to 12 miles. Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (NISA) reported four workers were injured. NISA reports two radioactive substances, cesium and radioactive iodine, were detected near the Fukushima plant. The agency indicates some of the metal containers of uranium fuel might have started melting. The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) has made a general offer of assistance to NISA under the IAEA’s convention on assistance. Japan has yet to respond. One HHS and one DOE expert are departing for Japan March 12. An NRC officer is currently en route to Japan to join a USAID DART team. GE Hitachi reported 40 employees (37 of whom are American citizens) evacuated from the Fukushima 4 power plant. Four have reported possible radiation exposure (3 for inhalation of dust particles and 1 contact with radioactive water). They are in transit to Tokyo with the intention to return to the United States, rather than seek local medical attention. Embassy Tokyo is providing consular assistance. At 0136 EST, the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) canceled the tsunami warning for all areas covered by the Center. Tsunami advisories remain in effect for the Western Pacific in case of aftershocks. USG OPERATIONS AND PERSONNEL Embassy Tokyo resumed normal operations in the chancery. Misawa Air Base is operating on generator power and has offered potable water to the city. A missing Embassy Manila employee and his family traveling in Japan have been located and are in good condition. U.S. ASSISTANCE The USS Ronald Reagan is scheduled to arrive off the Japanese coast mid-day March 12 EST. The USS Essex arrived in Malaysia early March 12. The ship is making preparations to depart for Japan as early as March 12. The USS Blue Ridge, which arrived in Singapore, is loading a humanitarian assistance/disaster relief kit and is making preparations to depart for Japan. Other ships, including the USS Harpers Ferry and the USS Germantown, have been redirected to Japan. The 7th Fleet commander has directed almost all helicopter-capable ships to be ready to sail within 24 hours and all non-aviation capable ships to be ready to sail within 48 hours. Embassy Tokyo will reconfirm whether a request to transfer cooling water to the Fukushima plant is still needed in light of the explosion. The Fairfax County search and rescue team is en route to Los Angeles to rendezvous with the LA county team with an onward destination of the Misawa Air Base. Members of the OFDA/DART team arrived and are working with USFJ on logistics. Japanese wave gauges are not operational. NOAA is sharing information with its Japanese counterparts regarding earthquake activity, wave heights, and atmospheric conditions. USAID has provided $715,600 in humanitarian assistance to date. TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE TEPCO warned of possible blackouts and urged customers to limit use of electricity, especially during peak evening hour. The earthquake caused water supply stoppages to 1.1 million homes in 18 prefectures. Limited flights resumed at Tokyo’s Narita and Haneda airports. INTERNATIONAL REACTIONS Australia is sending a search and rescue team with dogs and intends to send two C-17 aircraft and up to 100 personnel to Yokota Air Base. A Republic of Korea (ROK) team with rescue dogs arrived at Tokyo’s Haneda airport. ROK is also preparing to send three C-130s carrying approximately 150 personnel and 30 tons of aid. The United Kingdom, New Zealand, and Singapore plan to send assistance teams. --- UPDATE - March 11, 2011 Secretary Clinton is fully engaged on this issue. Ambassador Roos in Tokyo has spoken to Foreign Minister Matsumoto, and our senior officials are in close contact with the Japanese embassy in Washington. President Obama spoke with Prime Minister Kan this morning (March 11) and offered the deepest condolences of the American people to the victims of this disaster and their families. He offered whatever assistance the Japanese needed to respond to this terrible event. The president also made remarks at the top of his news conference today (March 11) offering condolences and laying out some of the immediate efforts the U.S. is taking to provide assistance to Japan, to ensure American citizens and our military in Japan are accounted for and to make sure we are taking necessary precautionary steps here in America due to the tsunami. The government of Japan has requested humanitarian and logistical assistance. We are working to meet the requests as fully and quickly as possible. DAMAGE ASSESSMENT There are at least 1000 confirmed fatalities and casualty numbers will continue to be adjusted as the response continues. There are no reports of American citizen fatalities or serious injuries; Mission Japan continues to track welfare and whereabouts cases. There are approximately 1300 registered American citizens in the most heavily affected region in northern Japan. Mission Japan has not yet been able to access the area. Aftershocks continue with at least one over magnitude 7.0 and over 20 exceeding magnitude 6.0. NOAA reports tsunami warnings remain in effect for Japan, Russia, Mexico, French Polynesia, Pitcairn, Guatemala, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Antarctica, Panama, Honduras, Chile, Ecuador, Colombia, and Peru. USG OPERATIONS AND PERSONNEL All Embassy staff and dependents are accounted for with no current reports of serious injuries. Structural engineers have inspected and cleared the chancery and residences. The Embassy plans to reopen March 12. U.S. ASSISTANCE USAID has mobilized two Urban Search and Rescue teams from Fairfax and Los Angeles counties, each with approximately 72 personnel, six search and rescue canines, and up to 30 metric tons of rescue equipment. USAID deployed a Disaster Assistance Response Team and provided $100,000 for immediate local response. Japan is using the U.S. airbase in Misawa as a hub for relief efforts and international assistance. If additional capacity is needed, the United States has authorized use of Yokota Airbase. The aircraft carrier USS Ronald Reagan is en route to support relief efforts off the coast of northern Japan. It is expected to arrive March 13 local time. Japan has requested landing clearance and refueling support for firefighting helicopters and staff. Japan requested U.S. Navy transport for approximately 700 Japanese Ground Self Defense Forces personnel from their base in Hokkaido to the main disaster site. TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE Radiation levels inside the Fukushima nuclear power plant exceeded normal levels after the cooling system failed, media report. Due to power outages, the plant has not yet been able to release vapor to relieve pressure and some radiation has seeped outside the plant. The IAEA reports a power generator has arrived at the power plant. People within 10 kilometers have been evacuated. Tokyo area roads have reopened. Trains and Narita airport in Tokyo were scheduled to open the morning of March 12. The U.S. air base at Yokota accepted several diverted commercial planes and is accommodating the passengers. Mobile and landline phone networks are overloaded and service is unreliable. INTERNATIONAL REACTIONS UNSYG Ban said the UN is ready to help Japan in any way necessary following the earthquake and tsunamis. Japan has accepted offers of supplies and personnel support from the Republic of Korea, Australia, and New Zealand. --- Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;}
03.03.2011	March 9, 2011 WASHINGTON -- Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) discussed the importance of the Financial Report of the United States at a House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform (OGR) hearing. The OGR Subcommittee on Government Organization, Efficiency and Financial Management focused the hearing on the FY2010 Consolidated Financial Report of the U.S. Government. Cooper, a member of the OGR Committee, stressed the need for every elected official and every citizen to read our Nation's Financial Report released annually by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Cooper says this report shows the best picture of our Nation's financial well-being because it includes liabilities on our "credit card." Related LinksCooper Comments on YouTube WSJ: Deficit Really $2.1 Trillion? Financial Report of the United States Citizens' Guide to the Financial Report of the United States
03.03.2011	March 12, 2011 NASHVILLE - U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper presented a Congressional Award to one of country music's icons, Jimmy Dickens, at the Grand Ole Opry. Jim Cooper: “Jimmy Dickens has already turned 90 years old. I wanted to make sure that everybody in America and the world knew that. In fact, I wanted to make sure that he’s a little bit a part of American history. So we got a plaque for him, he’s officially entered into the Congressional Record of the United States. Now, I want to do this the right way, Jimmy, so let me get down on your level here. This man is country music royalty. He started—he started as a member of the Grand Ole Opry in 1948, which is even years before I was born. He has played with all the greats, from Hank Williams, Sr. through Brad Paisley. This man is a walking, talking miracle, and I want to single him out for two great blessings. One, he is living proof that nice guys finish first. And two, the best things in life come in very small packages. Jimmy…this is for you.” Jimmy Dickens: “Mr….Mr. Cooper, may I, uh, in a few words, uh…I don’t know how to explain this to you, I don’t find the words in my vocabulary to tell you folks how much I appreciate this so very much. Uh…may God bless you all, and I hope that I’m worthy of this tremendous award, and I appreciate your kindness. Thank you sir.” Jim Cooper: “We’ll be back in ten years for the hundredth. “ Jimmy Dickens: “Never thought I’d run out of words. Oh mercy, thank you for your kindness, and I do appreciate that very much. I, uh…before we get through here, I’d like to do this old song…you’ve probably never heard it before, because it, it came out in—well, I suppose I could say my latest album, that came out in 1963, I think it was…” ---Congressional Record for Little Jimmy Dickens Mr. Cooper. Madam Speaker, today I rise to honor James Cecil Dickens, better known as Little Jimmy Dickens, on the occasion of his 90th birthday. He may be a man of diminutive stature, but Little Jimmy, the renowned entertainer and Grand Ole Opry star, stands taller than the rest. Jimmy Dickens was the first of thirteen children born to a West Virginia farming family and knew from a young age that he wanted to write and sing country music. He first appeared on local radio in the 1940s under the name “Jimmy the Kid” where he began building his reputation as the master of the country novelty song. Some of his early hits include “Take an Old Cold Tater (And Wait)” (1949), “I’m Little But I’m Loud” (1950), “Country Boy” (1949), and “A-Sleeping at the Foot of the Bed” (1950). In 1948, Roy Acuff heard Jimmy and invited him to perform on the world-famous Grand Ole Opry stage at the Ryman Auditorium. Little Jimmy was an immediate favorite not only for his unforgettable songs, but also for his flamboyant style and country sense of humor. He became a permanent member of the Grand Ole Opry in 1948, and recently celebrated his 60th anniversary as the longest-tenured Opry member of all time. Little Jimmy was signed to his first major label, Columbia Records, the same year he become an Opry Member. It was at that time that Dickens formed the band the Country Boys, whose line-up included top-flight musicians Jabbo Arrington, Grady Martin, Bob Moore, Buddy Emmons and Thumbs Carllile. Dickens had a number of hits with the Country Boys, though none bigger than “May the Bird of Paradise Fly Up Your Nose” (1965), which reached number one on the country charts and hit the pop charts, as well. Little Jimmy holds the unique distinction of having hit records in every decade from the 1940s to the 1970s. But Little Jimmy Dickens’ music is only part of his story and only part of what makes him just as popular today as when he first burst onto the country music scene over 60 years ago. He is quick with a joke and he is kind-hearted. He always has time for his fans and often spends hours signing every last autograph after a show. In an ever-changing music industry, Little Jimmy is a constant presence and a reminder that sometimes nice guys finish first. Jimmy has long been adored by his country music colleagues as well, whether it be fellow legends like the late Hank Williams (who nicknamed Jimmy, “Tater”) or modern-day superstar, Brad Paisley (who Jimmy often performs with). It is this adoration that earned him a spot in the Country Music Hall of Fame nearly 30 years ago. Jimmy is celebrating his 90th year as anyone who knows him might guess he’d celebrate it—by entertaining his fans with good country music and humor. He’s even worked his age into his act. “You’ll know you’re 90-years-old,” Jimmy tells his fans, “when you drop something, bend over to pick it up, and think to yourself, ‘is there anything else I can do while I’m down here?” And so, Madam Speaker, it is my privilege to ask my colleagues to join me in saluting Little Jimmy Dickens – an icon, a legend, and a global ambassador to country music.
03.03.2011	March 10, 2011 WASHINGTON - Congressman Jim Cooper welcomed The Reverend Raymond Bowman from Nashville as today's guest chaplain on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. To watch a video of Rev. Bowman's prayer, click here. Rep. Jim Cooper's Remarks on Reverend BowmanThank you, Mr. Speaker. It’s an honor to recognize the Reverend Raymond Bowman today who just gave the opening prayer. Seldom has Congress been in more need of prayer than we are today. Rev. Bowman was raised in Chicago and came to Nashville, Tennessee to attend American Baptist College. Thankfully, he’s the pastor of Spruce Street Baptist Church in Nashville, Tennessee, sometimes referred to as the mother church of all the African-American churches in our area. He is also the president of the IMF, the Interdenominational Ministry Fellowship. He and his wife Nancee are with us today and we would like to welcome them to our Nation’s Capitol.
02.11.2011	Check below for updated information on the developing situation in Egypt.Remarks by the Presidenton EgyptFebruary 11, 20113:05 P.M. ESTTHE PRESIDENT: Good afternoon, everybody. There are very few moments in our lives where we have the privilege to witness history taking place. This is one of those moments. This is one of those times. The people of Egypt have spoken, their voices have been heard, and Egypt will never be the same.By stepping down, President Mubarak responded to the Egyptian people’s hunger for change. But this is not the end of Egypt’s transition. It’s a beginning. I’m sure there will be difficult days ahead, and many questions remain unanswered. But I am confident that the people of Egypt can find the answers, and do so peacefully, constructively, and in the spirit of unity that has defined these last few weeks. For Egyptians have made it clear that nothing less than genuine democracy will carry the day.The military has served patriotically and responsibly as a caretaker to the state, and will now have to ensure a transition that is credible in the eyes of the Egyptian people. That means protecting the rights of Egypt’s citizens, lifting the emergency law, revising the constitution and other laws to make this change irreversible, and laying out a clear path to elections that are fair and free. Above all, this transition must bring all of Egypt’s voices to the table. For the spirit of peaceful protest and perseverance that the Egyptian people have shown can serve as a powerful wind at the back of this change.The United States will continue to be a friend and partner to Egypt. We stand ready to provide whatever assistance is necessary -- and asked for -- to pursue a credible transition to a democracy. I’m also confident that the same ingenuity and entrepreneurial spirit that the young people of Egypt have shown in recent days can be harnessed to create new opportunity -- jobs and businesses that allow the extraordinary potential of this generation to take flight. And I know that a democratic Egypt can advance its role of responsible leadership not only in the region but around the world.Egypt has played a pivotal role in human history for over 6,000 years. But over the last few weeks, the wheel of history turned at a blinding pace as the Egyptian people demanded their universal rights.We saw mothers and fathers carrying their children on their shoulders to show them what true freedom might look like.We saw a young Egyptian say, “For the first time in my life, I really count. My voice is heard. Even though I’m only one person, this is the way real democracy works.” We saw protesters chant “Selmiyya, selmiyya” -- “We are peaceful” -- again and again.We saw a military that would not fire bullets at the people they were sworn to protect. And we saw doctors and nurses rushing into the streets to care for those who were wounded, volunteers checking protesters to ensure that they were unarmed.We saw people of faith praying together and chanting – “Muslims, Christians, We are one.” And though we know that the strains between faiths still divide too many in this world and no single event will close that chasm immediately, these scenes remind us that we need not be defined by our differences. We can be defined by the common humanity that we share.And above all, we saw a new generation emerge -- a generation that uses their own creativity and talent and technology to call for a government that represented their hopes and not their fears; a government that is responsive to their boundless aspirations. One Egyptian put it simply: Most people have discovered in the last few days…that they are worth something, and this cannot be taken away from them anymore, ever.This is the power of human dignity, and it can never be denied. Egyptians have inspired us, and they’ve done so by putting the lie to the idea that justice is best gained through violence. For in Egypt, it was the moral force of nonviolence -- not terrorism, not mindless killing -- but nonviolence, moral force that bent the arc of history toward justice once more.And while the sights and sounds that we heard were entirely Egyptian, we can’t help but hear the echoes of history -- echoes from Germans tearing down a wall, Indonesian students taking to the streets, Gandhi leading his people down the path of justice.As Martin Luther King said in celebrating the birth of a new nation in Ghana while trying to perfect his own, “There is something in the soul that cries out for freedom.” Those were the cries that came from Tahrir Square, and the entire world has taken note.Today belongs to the people of Egypt, and the American people are moved by these scenes in Cairo and across Egypt because of who we are as a people and the kind of world that we want our children to grow up in.The word Tahrir means liberation. It is a word that speaks to that something in our souls that cries out for freedom. And forevermore it will remind us of the Egyptian people -- of what they did, of the things that they stood for, and how they changed their country, and in doing so changed the world.Thank you.END 3:13 P.M. EST**Update, February 4**The overnight update of information on Egypt is below. No evacuation fights were scheduled for today, but consular officers were at the airport to assist U.S. citizens with commercial flights. The Situation in Egypt portion of https://travel.state.gov continues to have the most updated information about evacuation matters. A short readout of Vice president Biden’s call with his Egyptian counterpart is pasted below the update, as are remarks by White House Spokesman Gibbs about the violence against journalists.As a reminder, the Egypt task force is up and running. Public inquiries can be directed to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or 1-888-407-4747 or 1-202-501-4444 outside the U.S. We also have a dedicated Congressional website for consular matters, including Egypt, at www.travel.state.gov/congress.For non-consular issues, you can reach the legislative affairs representative on the task force at TaskForce-1@state.gov (please start the subject line with “For Legislative Affairs”) or 202-647-6611, and ask for the H representative.The latest update of events:Latest Developments Protesters planned large demonstrations today to push President Mubarak from office on the “Day of Departure.” PM Shafik appeared on state television February 3 and instructed the Minister of Interior not to interfere with peaceful protests. Defense Minister Tantawi and leaders of the armed forces visited Tahrir Square today. It is uncertain whether anti-Mubarak demonstrators will remain in Tahrir Square or move to regime symbols such as the Presidential Palace after Friday prayers. The military has restricted access to Tahrir Square, is conducting security checks of all entrants, and is trying to prevent supplies from reaching protesters. Violent clashes between pro-Mubarak and anti-government protesters February 3 left four people dead in the town of Sharqiyah. S. Res. 44, sponsored by Senators Kerry and McCain, urging Mubarak to hand over power to a caretaker government and begin a peaceful transition to a democratic society, passed the Senate last night Egypt is expected to dominate the Munich Security Conference February 4-6. Security Situation The curfew in Cairo remains in effect between 1700 and 0700 Cairo time (1000 and 0000 EST) Status of International Journalists and Civil Society Reports indicate a staffer of Human Rights Watch and a French-Moroccan human rights advocate are scheduled to be released February 4. Six members of the Egyptian Center for Economic and Social Rights were detained. News organizations continue to report attacks and threats of violence against journalists. The Committee to Protect Journalists received 100 reports of journalists being detained or attacked, as well as damage to news organization property. CBS and Washington Post journalists have been released. A Google executive and a Belgian reporter for Reporters Without Borders remain missing. Unidentified individuals entered Alhurra’s Cairo news bureau February 3 threatening to kill Alhurra’s two on-air journalists if they did not leave the building. As a result, the bureau was immediately closed. Similar threats were made at the production facility for Alhurra’s flagship program “Al Youm.” Al Arabiya and Al Jazeera reported problems February 3 while broadcasting live scenes from Tahrir Square. Political and Economic Situation The Muslim Brotherhood (MB) rejected VP Soliman’s call for national dialogue and noted the constitutional reform process could not be overseen by the current illegitimate government. A leading member of the MB added the group had no ambitions to run for the Egyptian presidency or posts in a coalition government. The MB also rejected any U.S. role in the transition process, alleging “American bullets and tear gas killed youth” in Tahrir Square. Media report signs of slowing cargo operations at the Alexandria and Damietta Ports on the Mediterranean Sea, which handle container and bulk shipments of grains and other goods. Suez Canal traffic has not yet been affected, although employees must leave their posts early to comply with the government curfew. Egypt’s Central Bank said it would limit cash withdrawals by individuals but allow unlimited transfers abroad when banks re-open February 6. Consular Issues No U.S. government evacuation flights are scheduled today. Consular personnel will be at the airport to direct U.S. citizens to available commercial flights. International Reactions The website World Wide Tahrir called for sit-ins at Egyptian embassies worldwide February 4. Egyptian-Americans in New York City planned a demonstration in Times Square February 4 in support of anti-Mubarak protestors in Cairo. EU High Representative Ashton said it was essential the Egyptian government and people “move forward together.” Dutch PM Rutte said it would be “gratuitous and arrogant” to call for Mubarak’s resignation. Ayatollah Khamenei said uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia would spell “irreparable defeat” for the United States, and added the uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia represent “Islamic awareness” in the region. The White HouseOffice of the PresidentFor immediate releaseFebruary 3, 2011Readout of the Vice President's Call with Egyptian Vice President Omar SolimanThe Vice President today spoke by phone with Egyptian Vice President Omar Soliman, reiterating President Obama’s condemnation of the recent violence in Egypt and calling for restraint by all sides. He also restated the President’s support for universal rights, including the right to peaceful assembly, association, and speech. Vice President Biden urged that credible, inclusive negotiations begin immediately in order for Egypt to transition to a democratic government that addresses the aspirations of the Egyptian people. He stressed that the Egyptian government is responsible for ensuring that peaceful demonstrations don’t lead to violence and intimidation and for allowing journalists and human rights advocates to conduct their important work, including immediately releasing those who have been detained.Press Secretary Gibbs on Egypt, Violence & JournalistsDuring his gaggle with the press this morning aboard Air Force One, Press Secretary Robert Gibbs opened the session with pointed remarks about recent developments in Egypt:MR. GIBBS: Let me -- if I can, let me just start with a few thoughts. I want to reiterate our administration and our country’s strong condemnation of the violence and the images that we’ve seen over the past many hours.The government of Egypt has to ensure that peaceful protests can take place. We have obviously seen the remarks of the Prime Minister today and hope that his acknowledgment that anybody that is involved in this will be held accountable is something that the government is serious about.I want to say a word for a second on the systematic targeting of journalists in Egypt. This also is completely and totally unacceptable. Any journalist that has been detained should be released immediately. I think we need to be clear that the world is watching the actions that are taking place right now in Egypt. And I’ll reiterate again that the actions of targeting journalists, that is unacceptable, and that those journalists should be, if they are detained, released immediately. I know the President has been briefed on this as part of the daily briefing this morning.Next, I would like to again reiterate that the -- as we have said all along -- that the time for the transition in Egypt is now, and it is important that we all begin to see meaningful steps toward that transition and that negotiations take place between the government and a broadly based group of members of the opposition as we work through, as I said, the transition toward free and fair elections.**Update, February 3**The evening update of information on Egypt is below.A new warden message was issued today, regarding evacuation flights. The full message is below the update, but key is that flights will continue tomorrow, but due to the availability of commercial flights and decreased demand for U.S. government flights (today’s USG flights were not full) we are assessing the need for further government flights, which are unlikely after Thursday. All remaining U.S. citizens who wish to depart Egypt on a U.S. government flight and who are able to do so should immediately proceed to the HAJ Terminal 1, Hall 4 as soon as possible on February 3. They should not wait for a call from the U.S. Embassy. The information at the Situation in Egypt portion of https://travel.state.gov reflects this and continues to have the most recent information.Also pasted below is an update on evacuation efforts to date.As a reminder, the Egypt task force is up and running. Public inquiries can be directed to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or 1-888-407-4747 or 1-202-501-4444 outside the U.S. We also have a dedicated Congressional website for consular matters, including Egypt, at www.travel.state.gov/congress.For non-consular issues, you can reach the legislative affairs representative on the task force at TaskForce-1@state.gov (please start the subject line with “For Legislative Affairs”) or 202-647-6611, and ask for the H representative. The latest update of events:Latest Developments Violent clashes erupted between pro- and anti-Mubarak demonstrators in Tahrir Square, including stone-throwing and attacks from protesters mounted on camels and horses. The army did not appear to involve itself aside from initial efforts to separate the two sides. The Egyptian health ministry said three people were killed and over 600 injured in today’s battles. Mohamed ElBaradei said he hoped President Mubarak would leave office before February 4, dubbed by anti-government protesters as the “Friday of Departure.” He also called on the army to intervene to stop the violence “to protect Egyptian lives.” Anti-government protesters said they would not leave Tahrir Square until Mubarak quits. Vice President Soliman said anti-government protests must stop before dialogue can begin with opposition groups. Regular internet service has resumed in Cairo and Alexandria. Newly-appointed Trade Minister Fawzi outlined an emergency plan to get vital foodstuffs and fuel from ports and warehouses to distribution outlets. Food supply has reportedly improved today, with better-stocked shelves and fewer incidents of hoarding. Prices have not risen drastically in most areas. Journalists, including CNN’s Anderson Cooper and two AP correspondents, have been roughed up in gatherings of Mubarak supporters. One Al-Arabiya reporter was stabbed. Other international journalists reportedly have been detained. Security Situation Violence in Tahrir Square began this morning after pro-Mubarak organized groups arrived by bus, raising suspicions that they were sponsored by the government despite a statement by the Ministry of Interior (MOI) that they were not involved. Civilians manning checkpoints in some neighborhoods continue attempts to search vehicles. The Embassy is monitoring clashes between pro- and anti-government groups in Sharkiya, escalating violence in Suez, and peaceful protests in Sinai. Pro-Mubarak demonstrations were also held in Alexandria. Regional Palestinian Authority security forces are mobilizing for demonstrations on February 4 and 11 in the West Bank. Consular Situation Four U.S. government evacuation flights departed Cairo: one via Luxor to Athens, and the others direct to Frankfurt, Istanbul and Andrews Air Force Base. Over 300 passengers were on these planes. Emergency consular services remain available to U.S. citizens; however, access to the Embassy is very difficult due to the activity in Tahrir Square. International Reaction Turkish Prime Minister Erdogan urged transition to a temporary administration with a road map and schedule as the only way to satisfy the people. Several hundred expatriate Egyptians demonstrated in Doha calling for the end of the Mubarak administration, a large protest by Doha standards with rare Government of Qatar permission. Another protest is scheduled for February 4. British Prime Minister Cameron raised suspicions that Egyptian authorities may be behind attacks on anti-government protestors, warning that any action by the regime to sponsor or tolerate the current violence would be “completely and utterly unacceptable.” Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu said the Iranian leadership wants to take advantage of the chaos in Egypt to create “another Gaza” run by Islamic fundamentalists and called on Palestinian leaders to see the regional changes as an opportunity to restart peace talks. UNSYG Ban condemned the “unacceptable” violence in Cairo. Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov said “political groups inside Egypt should seek consensus themselves” without foreign imposition of “recipes and ultimatums,” reaffirming Russia’s strategic partnership with Egypt. European Union High Representative for Foreign Affairs Ashton urged President Mubarak to speed the transition to elections and offered to increase European Commission support. The Algerian Foreign Minister emphasized the Algerian government’s relationship with the people of Egypt. Warden Message 7: February 1, 2011US Embassy, CairoThe U.S. Embassy advises U.S. citizens in Egypt that we plan to continue evacuation efforts on Thursday, February 3 and are assessing the need to continue flights after that, in view of the availability of commercial flights and decreased demand for U.S. government evacuation flights. Additional U.S. government flights after Thursday are unlikely.All remaining U.S. citizens who wish to depart Egypt on a U.S. government flight and who are able to do so should immediately proceed to the HAJ Terminal 1, Hall 4 as soon as possible on February 3. Do not wait for a call from the U.S. Embassy. Further delay is not advisable.This assistance will be provided on a reimbursable basis, as required by U.S. law. U.S. citizens who travel on US government – arranged transport will be expected to make their own onward travel plans from safehaven locations in Europe. Flights to evacuation points began departing Egypt on Monday, January 31. The welfare and safety of U.S. citizens in Egypt remains one of State Department’s top priorities. Approximately 1,800 U.S citizens and their family members have been evacuated from Egypt in an operation that began on Monday, January 31. Immediate family members (spouses and children) who are not U.S. citizens must be documented for entry into the safehaven country and/or U.S., if that is your final destination. All U.S. citizen travelers and their spouses and children, are required to have valid travel documents. The U.S. Embassy in Cairo will assist U.S. citizens with travel documents. U.S. citizens who do not hold a valid U.S. passport or visa and are interested in departing Egypt via USG-chartered transportation should contact the US Department of State and Embassy Cairo by sending an email to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or by calling 1-202-501-4444Frequently Asked Question:I’m ready to go. What do I do?Documented U.S. citizens may proceed to the HAJ Terminal 4 of the airport as of Monday, January 31, 11:00 am.My child is a U.S. citizen. Can my whole family be evacuated?A U.S. citizen child may be escorted by one adult, preferably a parent, who has appropriate travel documents. If a family has more than one U.S. citizen child, the one-adult rule still applies.Do I need a U.S. passport?All U.S. citizen travelers and their spouses and children, are required to have valid travel documents. The U.S. Embassy in Cairo will assist U.S. citizens with travel documents. U.S. citizens who do not hold a valid U.S. passport or visa and are interested in departing Egypt via USG-chartered transportation should contact the US Department of State and Embassy Cairo by sending an email to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or by calling 1-202-501-4444.What do I do if my child is a U.S. citizen, but hasn’t yet been documented?Contact the U.S. Embassy in Cairo. U.S. citizens who do not hold a valid U.S. passport or visa interested in departing Egypt via USG-chartered transportation should contact the U.S. Department of State and Embassy Cairo by sending an email to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or by calling 1-202-501-4444. My family members aren’t U.S. citizens. Can they travel with me?The scheduled evacuation flights will transport U.S. citizens and their immediate family members. Immediate family members – defined as spouses and children – who are not U.S. citizens will be required to have travel documentation that will permit their entry into the safe haven destinations. At this time, flights are expected to travel to Istanbul, Turkey, Athens, Greece, and Nicosia, Cyprus. Safe haven destinations may change. U.S. citizens requesting evacuation will not be able to select their safe haven destinations.Will you fly me to the United States? Our goal is to get people to a safe place, where they can make their own onward travel arrangements. Travelers will be responsible for their own onward travel arrangements and accommodations in the safe haven city. Consular officers will provide travelers with information on airlines and hotels. What should I bring?Travelers should bring valid travel documents and any necessary medications.Each traveler may bring one suitcase and a small personal carry-on item.U.S. citizens seeking evacuation should be prepared for a substantial wait at the airport. Travelers are advised to bring food, water, diapers and other necessary toiletries with them to the airport.What about my pets?Evacuation flights will not be able to accommodate pets. Do I have to pay for the flight?U.S. citizens requesting evacuation will be asked to sign paperwork promising to reimburse the U.S. Government for flight costs at a later date. Exact flight costs are not yet available, but should be comparable to a one-way commercial flight from Egypt to the safe haven location. How do I get to the airport?At this time, public transport to include taxis is still operating in Egypt.Status of U.S. Citizen Evacuations from EgyptMedia NoteOffice of the SpokesmanWashington, DCFebruary 2, 2011The welfare and safety of U.S. citizens in Egypt remains one of the State Department’s top priorities. More than 1,900 U.S. citizens and their family members have been evacuated from Egypt in an operation that began on Monday, January 31. We plan to continue evacuation efforts on Thursday, February 3, and are assessing the need to continue flights after that.We continue with our efforts to assist any U.S. citizens who wish to leave Egypt and are boarding additional flights today. As curfew has been eased by three hours, we expect more U.S. citizens will be able to reach the Cairo airport.We advise U.S. citizens to avoid demonstrations and carefully proceed to the airport during non-curfew hours. U.S. citizens with passports that expired within the past 10 years may go directly to the airport. Persons with passports that expired more than 10 years ago, should go to the Embassy to obtain a replacement.Although non-emergency personnel at our Embassy are leaving Egypt under ordered departure status, the Department continues to send personnel into Cairo and to our safe haven locations to assist U.S. citizens. The Embassy remains open for U.S. citizen services only during non-curfew hours.The most up-to-date information for U.S. citizens in Egypt can be found on our website Travel.State.Gov. U.S. citizens in Egypt, or persons concerned for their U.S. citizen loved ones in Egypt also may contact the State Department by email at EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or telephone at 1-888-407-4747 (toll-free in the United States and Canada) or 1-202-501-4444 (outside the United States and Canada).**Update, February 2**The overnight update of information on Egypt is below. No new warden messages were issued overnight. The Situation in Egypt portion of https://travel.state.gov continues to have the most recent information. As a reminder, the Egypt task force is up and running. Public inquiries can be directed to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or 1-888-407-4747 or 1-202-501-4444 outside the U.S. For non-consular issues, you can reach the legislative affairs representative on the task force at TaskForce-1@state.gov (please start the subject line with “For Legislative Affairs”) or 202-647-6611, and ask for the H representative.The latest update of events:Latest Developments Calling President Mubarak’s concession not to run in the next presidential election “not enough,” protestors and opposition leaders continued demonstrations into the night February 1. Demonstrations are expected to continue February 2. An Egyptian military spokesman called for protestors to leave the streets and return to normal life, stating Egyptians “had delivered their message.” Protestors called for a rally February 4 at Cairo’s presidential palace to dislodge Mubarak if he had not stepped down by the week’s end. Internet service is returning to Egypt after days of an unprecedented cutoff by the government. Opposition leader ElBaradei called Mubarak’s announcement an “act of deception” that would “extend the agony” in Egypt and create six or seven more months of instability. Former presidential candidate Ayman Nour noted Mubarak did not reject the possibility his son Gamal would run for president, calling Mubarak’s decision “a unique case of stubbornness that will end in disaster.” Deputy Chairman of the Muslim Brotherhood Mohammed Habib stated VP Soliman might be a better option than Mubarak staying in power. Significant food, water, and fuel shortages remain amid concerns of port disruptions in Egypt. Unconfirmed reports indicate former Minister of Interior Habib al-Adli will be referred to military prosecutors after police beat, tear-gassed, and fired rubber bullets at anti-government demonstrators last week. Google Inc. began a public search for its head of marketing for the Middle East and North Africa, who has reportedly been missing in Cairo since January 27. Security Situation The military regained more control of the streets and numerous check points remain in place in and around Cairo. State-run media report the curfew hours would be shortened on February 2 from 1700 until 0700 local (2300 until 1300 EST). Demonstrators were seen camping out in Tahrir Square and are expected to gather again, but not on the scale of the February 1 protests. Media report clashes broke out between pro-Mubarak and anti-government protesters in Alexandria shortly after Mubarak’s speech. Small demonstrations took place in Aswan where military were present but did not have to intervene. Consular Services Emergency embassy consular services remain available to American citizens; however, access to the Embassy remains difficult. International Reactions Arab League Secretary General Moussa noted some Egyptians “would need more” than what Mubarak offered, adding he would seriously consider whether to seek the presidency. Quartet Representative Blair described Mubarak as “immensely courageous and a force for good” and warned against a rush to elections that could bring the Muslim Brotherhood to power. French President Sarkozy called on Egyptian authorities to “do everything possible” to support a concrete and rapid transition process without violence. **Update, February 1**The overnight update of information on Egypt is below. The State Department has ordered the departure of non-emergency U.S. Government personnel and dependents from Egypt. (Previously they were authorized to depart.) The press statement on this is pasted below. No new warden message or public service announcement was issued overnight. Please continue to see the information on Egypt at https://travel.state.gov for the latest.As a reminder, the Egypt task force is up and running. Public inquiries can be directed to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or 1-888-407-4747. For non-consular issues, you can reach the legislative affairs representative on the task force at TaskForce-1@state.gov (please start the subject line with “For Legislative Affairs”) or 202-647-6611, and ask for the H representative.The latest update of events:Latest Developments The anticipated “march of a million people” will not be a march, but sit-in demonstrations in Tahrir Square and other locations across the country, including Alexandria. Military tanks and troops have positioned themselves to divert protesters from the presidential palace. Demonstrations are expected to begin between 1400 and 1500 local (0700 and 0800 EST). Mobile communications might be disrupted by the government during the demonstrations. Egyptian TV is broadcasting coverage of a vocal pro-Mubarak rally near Egyptian TV headquarters. The official estimate of participants is “in the thousands.” Vice President Soliman announced he would begin a dialogue with the opposition, including the Muslim Brotherhood, and begin to address the socioeconomic concerns of the protesters. Reports suggest many Egyptians view Soliman’s promise to implement certain reforms as a delaying effort. Protesters will accept nothing less than an end to the current regime and the creation of a transitional government in advance of new elections. The Noor Group, Egypt’s last remaining functioning internet service provider, was taken offline January 31. The Noor Group supported Egypt’s stock exchange and other businesses. Google and Twitter launched a new service called Speak-to-Tweet. It allows Egyptians without an internet connection to transmit Twitter messages by dialing a telephone number and leaving a voicemail, which is then automatically transcribed into a message on Twitter. Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service downgraded their Egypt debt ratings as a result of the unrest. Security Situation The curfew and the “million person” rally continue to impede movement around Cairo. All intercity highways and roads leading to Cairo have been closed, according to press. The main road to the airport passes near the Cairo rally location. The curfew remains in effect from 1500 to 0800 local. The curfew was not enforced the evening of January 31. Media report thousands remained in Tahrir Square overnight. Train services nationwide and all intercity buses are suspended, media report. Egyptian authorities said the Suez Canal is operating normally, with armed guards protecting the waterway. However, many vessels are bypassing Egyptian ports. There have been no significant demonstrations in Aswan since January 28. There is a light military presence in the city. U.S. citizens remain in Aswan, the majority of whom are affiliated with organized tour groups. Consular IssuesCharter flights continue today from Cairo. International Reactions Arab League Secretary General Moussa called for a “peaceful transition” from one era to another. OPEC Secretary General al-Badri expressed concern about the situation in Egypt. The Chinese government sent two aircraft operated by Air China and Hainan Airlines to transport 480 Chinese nationals February 1. Two additional Air China planes are en route to Cairo. A China Southern Airlines plane is flying to Luxor to pick up approximately 220 Hong Kong residents. Taiwan intends to evacuate nearly 500 of its residents, using commercial and charter flights. Some European airlines, including Lufthansa, Austrian Airlines, and Air Berlin, stated their intention to send larger aircraft than usual to meet demand and agreed to provide additional flights for foreign ministries. The Japanese government is urging its approximately 600 citizens to leave Egypt. ********************************************************US DEPARTMENT OF STATE Office of the SpokesmanFor Immediate Release February 1, 2011 2011/133STATEMENT BY PHILIP J. CROWLEY, ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR PUBLIC AFFAIRSOrdered Departure Declared for EgyptOn February 1, the Department of State ordered the departure of all non-emergency U.S. Government personnel and their families from Egypt in light of recent events. The Department of State will continue to facilitate the evacuation of U.S. citizens who require assistance. Cairo airport is open and operating, but flights may be disrupted and transport to the airport may be disrupted due to the protests. U.S. citizens in Egypt who require assistance, or those who are concerned that their U.S. citizen loved one in Egypt may require assistance, should contact the U.S. Department of State and the U.S. Embassy in Cairo at: EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov, or at 1-202-501-4444. Please follow the directions on the Embassy website for all other consular inquiries.###**Update, January 31**Information on the situation in Egypt is available at https://travel.state.gov and now includes a section on Frequently Asked Questions on the situation in Europe, including evacuation information.As a reminder, the Egypt task force is up and running. Public inquiries can be directed to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or 1-888-407-4747. For non-consular issues, you can reach the legislative affairs representative on the task force at TaskForce-1@state.gov (please start the subject line with “For Legislative Affairs”) or 202-647-6611, and ask for the H representative. Consular UpdateEmbassy Cairo is working with Washington to make preparations for the charter flights. Embassy Cairo will continue to provide emergency services to U.S. citizens at the embassy January 31. The travel warning for Egypt was posted on travel.state.gov and Embassy Cairo’s website, and sent out as a warden message to all Americans in Egypt registered with the Embassy. The Bureau of Public Affairs and Embassy Cairo worked to disseminate this information via radio stations to reach Americans in Egypt, since internet services and TV remain unreliable. INTERNATIONAL REACTIONSUK PM Cameron, French President Sarkozy, and German Chancellor Merkel, in a joint statement, called for a “broad-based government” and “free and fair elections” in Egypt. Arab League Secretary General Moussa, a former Egyptian foreign minister, said he wanted to see a multi-party democracy emerge in Egypt, stating Mubarak needed to respond to mass protests demanding reform, rather than reshuffling ministers. The Iraqi government announced it will evacuate Iraqi citizens living in Egypt. Oil company Royal Dutch Shell plans to evacuate its international staff and their families. Several hundred people demonstrated in front of the Egyptian Embassy in Tunis to express “support to the Egyptian people’s uprising”. They reportedly chanted, “Mubarak, Ben Ali is waiting for you.” *************************************Egypt: Public Service Announcement for American CitizensRemarksJanice Jacobs, Assistant Secretary for Consular AffairsWashington, DCJanuary 30, 2011As Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs, I want you to know that the Department of State is very focused on the safety and security of U.S. citizens living and visiting in Egypt.State Department personnel at our Embassy in Cairo and here in the United States are working round-the-clock to ensure the safety our Americans. We’re monitoring the situation on the ground in Egypt, communicating information and implementing crisis response plans. We are communicating via our website, emails, call centers, social media, radio and television to get information out to U.S. citizens on the ground in Egypt who are understandably worried. We are sending additional consular personnel to Egypt to augment our Embassy staff. Charter flights out of Cairo will begin tomorrowWe are aware that not all U.S. citizens have internet or cell phone service in Egypt. We do know that many Americans are in contact with friends and family outside of Egypt. Because of communications interruptions, we ask that family and friends in the United States assist us by relaying information to their loved ones in Egypt directly. The most up-to-date information – including evacuation instructions – can be found on our website at travel.state.gov.The U.S. Department of State is arranging transportation to safe haven locations in Europe. This assistance will be provided on a reimbursable basis, as required by U.S. law. U.S. citizens who travel on U.S. government–arranged transport will be expected to make their own onward travel plans. We expect initial flights to go into Athens, Istanbul and Nicosia, Cyprus. Consular personnel at those locations will be available to help citizens make their arrangements for lodging and onward travel.The charter flights are not intended to supplant Americans’ existing commercial travel plans. Citizens with ticketed flights should contact their airlines. All U.S. citizen travelers, their spouses and children are required to have valid travel documents.Again, you can find the most up-to-date information at travel.state.gov. Thank you for helping us communicate with U.S. citizens in Egypt. When you reach them, please assure them that their government is focused on their welfare and safety. January 28The State Department released the below advisory today for all U.S. citizens in Egypt. We urge all citizens to take extra precaution and follow the guidelines listed below. If there are any emergencies over the weekend, please call 615-714-0386 and leave a voice mail. We will return your call as soon as possible. U.S. Citizens facing IMMEDIATE danger should contact the State Department directly at 202-647-5225.Travel AlertU.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATEBureau of Consular Affairs Egypt January 28, 2011The U.S. Department of State alerts U.S. citizens to ongoing political and social unrest in Egypt. Violent demonstrations on January 28 took place in several areas of Cairo and other parts of the country, disrupting road travel between city centers and airports. Disruptions in communications included the interruption of internet and mobile telephone service. The Government of Egypt has imposed a curfew from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. in Cairo, Alexandria and Suez until further notice. Given this situation, the Department of State urges U.S. citizens to defer non-essential travel to Egypt at this time and advises U.S. citizens currently in Egypt to defer non-essential movement and to exercise caution. This Travel Alert expires on February 28, 2011. In the event of demonstrations, U.S. citizens in Egypt should remain in their residences or hotels until the situation stabilizes. Security forces may block off the area around the U.S. Embassy during demonstrations, and U.S. citizens should not attempt to come to the U.S. Embassy or the Tahrir Square area at such times. The Embassy duty officer is available to U.S. citizens for emergencies at +20 1 2797-3300 during evening and weekend hours and the American Citizens Services Section can be reached at +20 1 2797-2301 during business hours, Sunday to Thursday from 8:00 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. and at consularcairoacs@state.gov. Demonstrations have degenerated on several occasions into violent clashes between police and protesters, resulting in injuries and extensive property damage. While demonstrations have not been directed toward Westerners, U.S. citizens are urged to remain alert to local security developments and to be vigilant regarding their personal security. The U.S. Department of State strongly urges U.S. citizens to avoid all demonstrations, as even peaceful ones can quickly become unruly and a foreigner could become a target of harassment or worse. If caught unexpectedly near a demonstration, U.S. citizens should obey instructions from police and leave the area as quickly as possible. U.S. citizens resident in Egypt should monitor local news broadcasts and U.S. citizen visitors should ask tour guides and hotel officials about any planned demonstrations in the locations they plan to visit. U.S. citizens should carry identification and a cell phone which works in Egypt. U.S. citizens in Egypt are encouraged to enroll in the Smart Travelers Enrollment Program (STEP) at the following website: https://travelregistration.state.gov. U.S. citizens without internet access may enroll directly at the U.S. Embassy. By enrolling, U.S. citizens make it easier for the Embassy to contact them in case of emergency. Updated information on travel and security in Egypt may be obtained from the Department of State by calling 1-888-407-4747 toll-free in the United States and Canada or, for callers outside the United States and Canada, on a regular toll line at 1-202-501-4444. For further information, please consult the Country Specific Information for Egypt, as well as the Worldwide Caution. The Embassy is located at 5 Tawfik Diab Street (formerly known as Latin America Street), Garden City, Cairo. For further information, U.S. citizens may call the Embassy’s American Citizen Services Unit at 2797-2301 during business hours, Sunday to Thursday from 8:00 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. For emergencies after business hours and on weekends and holidays, U.S. citizens can contact the Embassy Duty Officer via the Embassy switchboard on 2797-3300.
02.10.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Cooper (D-TN) has introduced bipartisan legislation with Congressmen Aaron Schock (R-IL), Mike Quigley (D-IL), and Joe Walsh (R-IL) to eliminate wasteful government programs. The Federal Program Sunset Commission Act (H.R. 606) creates a bipartisan commission comprised of Members of the House and Senate, as well as outside experts, to help abolish duplicative, unnecessary, or inefficient programs. “Our government is bloated by too many wasteful federal programs,” said Congressman Jim Cooper. “It is time to cut the fat. Congress needs to tighten its belt and take better care of taxpayer dollars. This bill is a good place to start.” The Federal Program Sunset Commission Act builds upon H.R. 2142 from the 111th Congress (P.L. 111-352), which installed a new system to review the results of each federal program and evaluate its effectiveness. The Federal Program Sunset Commission Act would add much-needed teeth in order to eliminate programs that are not performing by abolishing those federal programs which fail to measure up. “Getting Washington’s spending spree under control should be a bipartisan priority, because economic improvement and job creation are directly tied to lowering our federal deficit,” said Congressman Schock. Every September 1st, the Sunset Commission will report to Congress and provide a list of federal programs selected for abolishment, as well as recommendations for how to improve or consolidate others. Within six months of being listed for abolishment, the federal program will cease to receive any federal funding, with unobligated amounts returned to the Treasury to reduce the deficit. Congress can overturn the abolishment of any federal program by simply choosing to reauthorize it at any time. The Sunset Commission will be comprised of ten Members appointed by the President, five of whom are former members of Congress and five of whom are non-Congressional Members with expertise in the administration of government programs. No more than three members in each category may be of the same political party. Sunset Commission Members are term-limited and will not be paid. News and Accolades The Concord Coaltion said that this bill is a "fiscally responsible step that could eliminate waste, reduce spending and help restore public trust in government." The Bipartisan Policy Center calls it a "commendable act of bipartisan collaboration" that should be used as part of a "bipartisan and comprehensive effort" to "address our fiscal imbalance." The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget says it is a "good start towards government reform."
02.10.2011	View archived e-newsletter updates below. September 9, 2011: Better Solutions September 6, 2011: Will Civility Prevail? August 3, 2011: About the Deal August 1, 2011: My Yes Vote on the Budget Control Act July 28, 2011: Postponed Vote in the House July 27, 2011: Stop Member Pay, Preparing for Default July 26, 2011: Paths Forward, Credit Rating Update, Stop Member Pay July 25, 2011: 8 Days Left, New Proposals from Congress, Stop Paying Congress July 22, 2011: Consequences of Default, Review from Bipartisan Policy Center July 21, 2011: Gang of Six proposal, Votes in the House, Balanced Approach March/April 2011: Government shutdown, MedInfo Act, Financial Report, Sunset Commission, Simple Return, Guest Chaplain January / February 2011: Committee Assignments, Unrest in the Middle East, Redistricting Bill, National Weather Service November / December 2010: Nashville Library Receives Medal of Honor, Deficit Reform, Disaster Relief, Tax Deal
02.08.2011	February 1, 2011NASHVILLE-U.S.Rep. Jim Cooper is calling on local school students to roll up their sleeves and get out the markers, construction paper, doilies and glue sticks for the launch of his "Valentines for Veterans Project." A member of the House Armed Services Committee, Cooper invites all area school classes, Scout troops, community youth groups or interested individuals to make Valentine's Day cards for Middle Tennessee veterans and soldiers serving overseas. "We will never be able to adequately thank the brave men and women who have served with honor and sacrificed so much for us and our country," Cooper said. "These Valentines will lift some spirits and remind our veterans and troops that they are in our thoughts and our hearts." Cooper will pick up the cards and personally deliver them to veterans at the Nashville campus of the Veterans Administration (VA) Tennessee Valley Medical System and to the Tennessee Army National Guard offices for shipment to Tennessee troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. Since its founding in 1996 by columnist Ann Landers, the "Valentines for Veterans" effort has brought millions of Valentine's Day cards to our nation's veterans. The project coincides with National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week, which is celebrated every year during the week of February 14. Middle Tennessee students interested in participating in the "Valentines for Veterans" project can call Congressman Cooper's office at (615) 736-5295. ###
02.01.2011	Two events tomorrow will help promote the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC)February 1, 2011 NASHVILLE -- Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will speak at two United Way kick-off events tomorrow, to promote their free Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) sites throughout Davidson County. Cooper will visit the Woodbine Community Organization and the Sam Levy Community Center in East Nashville tomorrow, to discuss the importance of the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) and how these VITA sites are helping Middle Tennesseans earn it, keep it and save it. The events are open to the press. Woodbine Community OrganizationWhen: Tomorrow, Wednesday February 2nd, 2011 -- 10:30 AM Where: Woodbine Community Center 222 Oriel Avenue Nashville, TN 37210Sam Levy Community Center When: Tomorrow, Wednesday February 2nd, 2011 – 1:30 PM Where: Sam Levy Community Center 302 Foster St. (Behind Caldwell Elementary School) Nashville, TN 37207EITC is the largest federal tax program for low-income, working taxpayers and helps to lift more families out of poverty than any other government program. Working taxpayers who earned less than $49,000 in 2010 can take part in free tax preparation services with IRS-certified volunteers at any of the 11 Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) sites throughout Davidson County. VITA site locations will be open through April 15, 2011 for tax filing purposes.###
02.01.2011	Overview News & Updates Links & Additional Information Overview We live in the greatest nation on earth, and my job is to make sure we preserve America’s promise for future generations. I’m a member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform (OGR), the main investigative body in the House, and I focus extensively on government reform issues.My "Fixing Congress" speech in 2011 helped to launch a series of reform measures to cut government waste and eliminate, increase transparency and make the government work better for its citizens. I’m a founding member of the “Fix Congress Now” and “No Labels” groups and have been named a “Problem-Solver” for my commitment to working across the aisle and putting nation before party. One of my proposed reforms, “No Budget, No Pay” is now the law of the land, and more reform efforts are underway including the launch of a major bipartisan reform package in July. One of my efforts to eliminate wasteful and duplicative programs was approved by the 113th Congress as a rules measure. I’ve also introduced bipartisan legislation requiring federal agencies to produce an annual a list of their programs and submit it to the Office of Management and Budget so we can identify additional duplicative efforts. We need more accountability and transparency in our nation’s finances. The Consolidated Financial Report of the United States Government is the most important government financial document because it shows a real picture of our nation’s finances, but most folks don’t even know it exists. It is the only government document that includes liabilities like Medicare and Social Security that are on the country's "credit card" for future payment, and it’s published every year by the Treasury. In 2006, I wrote a foreword to the Financial Report which was published, along with the full report text, and available in bookstores across America. A subcommittee of OGR held a hearing on the 2011 report, and you can watch video of my comments here. As one of the first members to reject earmarks, I am glad that we again have a ban on earmarks this Congress. But we need a permanent fix, and that's why I'm working on legislation to completely end the practice. I also continue to support redistricting reform and was proud once again to introduce the Redistricting Transparency Act (H.R. 337), which would curb the practice of gerrymandering by letting the public participate in the Congressional redistricting process. News & Updates July 18, 2013 · Cooper Joins Bipartisan Group to Announce Major Reform EffortJuly 15, 2013 · Cooper Joins Bill to Cut Congress' Pay During SequesterMay 15, 2013 · Blue Dogs to President Obama: Investigate IRSMarch 5, 2013 · House Passes Deficit Transparency BillFebruary 15, 2013 · Cooper Pushes to End GerrymanderingJanuary 29, 2013 · Cooper op-ed: No Budget No Pay Finally Finds Support in CongressJanuary 14, 2013 · Cooper Joins the No Labels Congressional Problem-Solvers GroupJanuary 4, 2013 · Cooper measure will stop the (spending) madnessJanuary 3, 2013 · Cooper comments on start of 113th CongressJanuary 1, 2013 · Cooper says no to member pay raiseJune 22, 2012 · Cooper talks about Congressional reform on MSNBCMay 16, 2012 · Rep. Cooper launches bipartisan Fix Congress Now CaucusApril 17, 2012 · Cooper introduces bipartisan legislation to prevent duplication April 1, 2012 · Tennessean op-ed: Grab Congress By Its Purse StringsMarch 29, 2012 · Chuck Todd calls out House members for not supporting Cooper’s budget proposal based on Simpson-Bowles March 28, 2012 · Cooper statement on Simpson-Bowles budget voteMarch 27, 2012 · Cooper, LaTourette introduce Simpson-Bowles BudgetMarch 14, 2012 · Cooper talks about No Budget, No Pay on Fox BusinessMarch 14, 2012 · Cooper talks about No Budget, No Pay on Fox NewsMarch 14, 2012 · Cooper talkes about No Budget, No Pay on CNNMarch 14, 2012 · Cooper testifies about No Budget, No Pay ActMarch 8, 2012 · The Atlantic: Outdated Laws and Subsidies—How Did it Get so Bad?February 29, 2012 · Blue Dogs endorse Cooper's No Budget, No Pay ActFebruary 9, 2012 · Cooper Statement on passage of STOCK ActFebruary 7, 2012 · Cooper, Blue Dogs urge Congress to pass Expedited RescissionFebruary 1, 2012 · Cooper, Blue Dogs urge Cantor to take up STOCK ActDecember 19, 2011 · Cooper, Flake Introduce Earmark Elimination Act of 2011 December 13, 2011 · Cooper introduces No Budget, No Pay ActDecember 9, 2011 · Cooper discusses how to fix Congress on the PBS show, "Need to Know"November 14, 2011 · Cooper co-sponsors STOCK ActJuly 13, 2011 · Rep. Jim Cooper and Rep. Sue Myrick (R-NC) Work to End Duplicative Federal ProgramsMarch 9, 2011 · Cooper Discusses Financial Report at Congressional HearingFebruary 10, 2011 · Cooper Introduces Bipartisan Legislation to Cut Government WasteJanuary 31, 2011 · Editorial: Redistricting Transparency Would Benefit AllJanuary 27, 2011 · Speech on "Fixing Congress" January 26, 2011 · Cooper, Shuler Work to Stop GerrymanderingJanuary 4, 2011 · House Democrats Ask: Where's the Open and Fair Process? For older government reform news, click here. Links & Additional Information House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform U.S. Government Accountability Office Recovery.Gov Financial Report of the United States Government
01.31.2011	January 31, 2011 From the Knoxville News-Sentinel on January 27, 2011: The Tennessee General Assembly will begin the required and always partisan task of redrawing congressional districts sometime after the results of the 2010 Census are released in March. A proposal on the federal level by a Tennessee congressman would allow for greater public scrutiny of the process, which would be a service to residents whose lives will be affected by redistricting for the next decade. U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper, a Democrat from Nashville, is sponsoring a bill that would require entities in charge of redistricting in each state to set up a website and solicit public input online and through public hearings. Redistricting maps would have to be posted at least 10 days before a vote on their adoption, along with the justifications for the new district boundaries. Cooper's bill would benefit the public by providing more openness to a process that often is an exercise in partisan power politics. The only drawback might be that some would see it as an unwarranted federal intrusion into a process that is reserved for the individual states. Congressional districts are redrawn every decade after census results are released. In Tennessee, as in most states, the Legislature is in charge of redistricting. A few other states use nominally bipartisan commissions to do the work. Republicans control the Tennessee General Assembly now, and for the first time in state history will be in charge of redistricting. Though Cooper's a Democrat, his proposal wouldn't seem to have much of an effect on the balance of power in Tennessee's congressional delegation. After the midterm elections, only two of Tennessee's nine House members are Democrats - Cooper of Nashville and U.S. Rep. Steve Cohen of Memphis. It's unlikely that the Republican state legislators would be able to redraw their districts in a way to affect the partisan balance of those cities. Redistricting doesn't just affect Congressional representation, however. State House and Senate districts will be redrawn, too, and the likelihood of political gerrymandering is much higher for state legislative districts. Redistricting isn't a purely partisan endeavor, of course. Districts must contain roughly the same number of people and be contiguous, for example. But whichever party is in power typically tries to arrange the districts to maintain or increase its advantage. With Republicans firmly in charge of the U.S. House of Representatives, Cooper's bill faces an uphill battle. Many GOP House members likely will be reluctant to impose such a requirement on the individual states. But even if it doesn't become a federal law, Tennessee lawmakers should consider adopting a similar measure on their own. Doing so would provide their constituents with a way to monitor and give input into one of the foundations of representative government. Neither Democrats nor Republicans have anything to fear from greater scrutiny. Openness is a virtue that knows no party. Transparency won't remove partisanship from redistricting, but it would benefit the people whose representation in the Legislature and in Congress will be affected for the next 10 years.
01.28.2011	The State Department continues to send out travel updates for all U.S. citizens in Egypt. We urge all citizens to take extra precaution and follow the guidelines listed below. **Update, February 4** The overnight update of information on Egypt is below. No evacuation fights were scheduled for today, but consular officers were at the airport to assist U.S. citizens with commercial flights. The Situation in Egypt portion of https://travel.state.gov continues to have the most updated information about evacuation matters. A short readout of Vice president Biden’s call with his Egyptian counterpart is pasted below the update, as are remarks by White House Spokesman Gibbs about the violence against journalists. As a reminder, the Egypt task force is up and running. Public inquiries can be directed to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or 1-888-407-4747 or 1-202-501-4444 outside the U.S. We also have a dedicated Congressional website for consular matters, including Egypt, at www.travel.state.gov/congress. For non-consular issues, you can reach the legislative affairs representative on the task force at TaskForce-1@state.gov (please start the subject line with “For Legislative Affairs”) or 202-647-6611, and ask for the H representative. The latest update of events: Latest Developments Protesters planned large demonstrations today to push President Mubarak from office on the “Day of Departure.” PM Shafik appeared on state television February 3 and instructed the Minister of Interior not to interfere with peaceful protests. Defense Minister Tantawi and leaders of the armed forces visited Tahrir Square today. It is uncertain whether anti-Mubarak demonstrators will remain in Tahrir Square or move to regime symbols such as the Presidential Palace after Friday prayers. The military has restricted access to Tahrir Square, is conducting security checks of all entrants, and is trying to prevent supplies from reaching protesters. Violent clashes between pro-Mubarak and anti-government protesters February 3 left four people dead in the town of Sharqiyah. S. Res. 44, sponsored by Senators Kerry and McCain, urging Mubarak to hand over power to a caretaker government and begin a peaceful transition to a democratic society, passed the Senate last night Egypt is expected to dominate the Munich Security Conference February 4-6. Security Situation The curfew in Cairo remains in effect between 1700 and 0700 Cairo time (1000 and 0000 EST) Status of International Journalists and Civil Society Reports indicate a staffer of Human Rights Watch and a French-Moroccan human rights advocate are scheduled to be released February 4. Six members of the Egyptian Center for Economic and Social Rights were detained. News organizations continue to report attacks and threats of violence against journalists. The Committee to Protect Journalists received 100 reports of journalists being detained or attacked, as well as damage to news organization property. CBS and Washington Post journalists have been released. A Google executive and a Belgian reporter for Reporters Without Borders remain missing. Unidentified individuals entered Alhurra’s Cairo news bureau February 3 threatening to kill Alhurra’s two on-air journalists if they did not leave the building. As a result, the bureau was immediately closed. Similar threats were made at the production facility for Alhurra’s flagship program “Al Youm.” Al Arabiya and Al Jazeera reported problems February 3 while broadcasting live scenes from Tahrir Square. Political and Economic Situation The Muslim Brotherhood (MB) rejected VP Soliman’s call for national dialogue and noted the constitutional reform process could not be overseen by the current illegitimate government. A leading member of the MB added the group had no ambitions to run for the Egyptian presidency or posts in a coalition government. The MB also rejected any U.S. role in the transition process, alleging “American bullets and tear gas killed youth” in Tahrir Square. Media report signs of slowing cargo operations at the Alexandria and Damietta Ports on the Mediterranean Sea, which handle container and bulk shipments of grains and other goods. Suez Canal traffic has not yet been affected, although employees must leave their posts early to comply with the government curfew. Egypt’s Central Bank said it would limit cash withdrawals by individuals but allow unlimited transfers abroad when banks re-open February 6. Consular Issues No U.S. government evacuation flights are scheduled today. Consular personnel will be at the airport to direct U.S. citizens to available commercial flights. International Reactions The website World Wide Tahrir called for sit-ins at Egyptian embassies worldwide February 4. Egyptian-Americans in New York City planned a demonstration in Times Square February 4 in support of anti-Mubarak protestors in Cairo. EU High Representative Ashton said it was essential the Egyptian government and people “move forward together.” Dutch PM Rutte said it would be “gratuitous and arrogant” to call for Mubarak’s resignation. Ayatollah Khamenei said uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia would spell “irreparable defeat” for the United States, and added the uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia represent “Islamic awareness” in the region. The White House Office of the President For immediate release February 3, 2011 Readout of the Vice President's Call with Egyptian Vice President Omar Soliman The Vice President today spoke by phone with Egyptian Vice President Omar Soliman, reiterating President Obama’s condemnation of the recent violence in Egypt and calling for restraint by all sides. He also restated the President’s support for universal rights, including the right to peaceful assembly, association, and speech. Vice President Biden urged that credible, inclusive negotiations begin immediately in order for Egypt to transition to a democratic government that addresses the aspirations of the Egyptian people. He stressed that the Egyptian government is responsible for ensuring that peaceful demonstrations don’t lead to violence and intimidation and for allowing journalists and human rights advocates to conduct their important work, including immediately releasing those who have been detained. Press Secretary Gibbs on Egypt, Violence & Journalists During his gaggle with the press this morning aboard Air Force One, Press Secretary Robert Gibbs opened the session with pointed remarks about recent developments in Egypt: MR. GIBBS: Let me -- if I can, let me just start with a few thoughts. I want to reiterate our administration and our country’s strong condemnation of the violence and the images that we’ve seen over the past many hours. The government of Egypt has to ensure that peaceful protests can take place. We have obviously seen the remarks of the Prime Minister today and hope that his acknowledgment that anybody that is involved in this will be held accountable is something that the government is serious about. I want to say a word for a second on the systematic targeting of journalists in Egypt. This also is completely and totally unacceptable. Any journalist that has been detained should be released immediately. I think we need to be clear that the world is watching the actions that are taking place right now in Egypt. And I’ll reiterate again that the actions of targeting journalists, that is unacceptable, and that those journalists should be, if they are detained, released immediately. I know the President has been briefed on this as part of the daily briefing this morning. Next, I would like to again reiterate that the -- as we have said all along -- that the time for the transition in Egypt is now, and it is important that we all begin to see meaningful steps toward that transition and that negotiations take place between the government and a broadly based group of members of the opposition as we work through, as I said, the transition toward free and fair elections. **Update, February 3** The evening update of information on Egypt is below. A new warden message was issued today, regarding evacuation flights. The full message is below the update, but key is that flights will continue tomorrow, but due to the availability of commercial flights and decreased demand for U.S. government flights (today’s USG flights were not full) we are assessing the need for further government flights, which are unlikely after Thursday. All remaining U.S. citizens who wish to depart Egypt on a U.S. government flight and who are able to do so should immediately proceed to the HAJ Terminal 1, Hall 4 as soon as possible on February 3. They should not wait for a call from the U.S. Embassy. The information at the Situation in Egypt portion of https://travel.state.gov reflects this and continues to have the most recent information. Also pasted below is an update on evacuation efforts to date. As a reminder, the Egypt task force is up and running. Public inquiries can be directed to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or 1-888-407-4747 or 1-202-501-4444 outside the U.S. We also have a dedicated Congressional website for consular matters, including Egypt, at www.travel.state.gov/congress. For non-consular issues, you can reach the legislative affairs representative on the task force at TaskForce-1@state.gov (please start the subject line with “For Legislative Affairs”) or 202-647-6611, and ask for the H representative. The latest update of events: Latest Developments Violent clashes erupted between pro- and anti-Mubarak demonstrators in Tahrir Square, including stone-throwing and attacks from protesters mounted on camels and horses. The army did not appear to involve itself aside from initial efforts to separate the two sides. The Egyptian health ministry said three people were killed and over 600 injured in today’s battles. Mohamed ElBaradei said he hoped President Mubarak would leave office before February 4, dubbed by anti-government protesters as the “Friday of Departure.” He also called on the army to intervene to stop the violence “to protect Egyptian lives.” Anti-government protesters said they would not leave Tahrir Square until Mubarak quits. Vice President Soliman said anti-government protests must stop before dialogue can begin with opposition groups. Regular internet service has resumed in Cairo and Alexandria. Newly-appointed Trade Minister Fawzi outlined an emergency plan to get vital foodstuffs and fuel from ports and warehouses to distribution outlets. Food supply has reportedly improved today, with better-stocked shelves and fewer incidents of hoarding. Prices have not risen drastically in most areas. Journalists, including CNN’s Anderson Cooper and two AP correspondents, have been roughed up in gatherings of Mubarak supporters. One Al-Arabiya reporter was stabbed. Other international journalists reportedly have been detained. Security Situation Violence in Tahrir Square began this morning after pro-Mubarak organized groups arrived by bus, raising suspicions that they were sponsored by the government despite a statement by the Ministry of Interior (MOI) that they were not involved. Civilians manning checkpoints in some neighborhoods continue attempts to search vehicles. The Embassy is monitoring clashes between pro- and anti-government groups in Sharkiya, escalating violence in Suez, and peaceful protests in Sinai. Pro-Mubarak demonstrations were also held in Alexandria. Regional Palestinian Authority security forces are mobilizing for demonstrations on February 4 and 11 in the West Bank. Consular Situation Four U.S. government evacuation flights departed Cairo: one via Luxor to Athens, and the others direct to Frankfurt, Istanbul and Andrews Air Force Base. Over 300 passengers were on these planes. Emergency consular services remain available to U.S. citizens; however, access to the Embassy is very difficult due to the activity in Tahrir Square. International Reaction Turkish Prime Minister Erdogan urged transition to a temporary administration with a road map and schedule as the only way to satisfy the people. Several hundred expatriate Egyptians demonstrated in Doha calling for the end of the Mubarak administration, a large protest by Doha standards with rare Government of Qatar permission. Another protest is scheduled for February 4. British Prime Minister Cameron raised suspicions that Egyptian authorities may be behind attacks on anti-government protestors, warning that any action by the regime to sponsor or tolerate the current violence would be “completely and utterly unacceptable.” Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu said the Iranian leadership wants to take advantage of the chaos in Egypt to create “another Gaza” run by Islamic fundamentalists and called on Palestinian leaders to see the regional changes as an opportunity to restart peace talks. UNSYG Ban condemned the “unacceptable” violence in Cairo. Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov said “political groups inside Egypt should seek consensus themselves” without foreign imposition of “recipes and ultimatums,” reaffirming Russia’s strategic partnership with Egypt. European Union High Representative for Foreign Affairs Ashton urged President Mubarak to speed the transition to elections and offered to increase European Commission support. The Algerian Foreign Minister emphasized the Algerian government’s relationship with the people of Egypt. Warden Message 7: February 1, 2011 US Embassy, Cairo The U.S. Embassy advises U.S. citizens in Egypt that we plan to continue evacuation efforts on Thursday, February 3 and are assessing the need to continue flights after that, in view of the availability of commercial flights and decreased demand for U.S. government evacuation flights. Additional U.S. government flights after Thursday are unlikely. All remaining U.S. citizens who wish to depart Egypt on a U.S. government flight and who are able to do so should immediately proceed to the HAJ Terminal 1, Hall 4 as soon as possible on February 3. Do not wait for a call from the U.S. Embassy. Further delay is not advisable. This assistance will be provided on a reimbursable basis, as required by U.S. law. U.S. citizens who travel on US government – arranged transport will be expected to make their own onward travel plans from safehaven locations in Europe. Flights to evacuation points began departing Egypt on Monday, January 31. The welfare and safety of U.S. citizens in Egypt remains one of State Department’s top priorities. Approximately 1,800 U.S citizens and their family members have been evacuated from Egypt in an operation that began on Monday, January 31. Immediate family members (spouses and children) who are not U.S. citizens must be documented for entry into the safehaven country and/or U.S., if that is your final destination. All U.S. citizen travelers and their spouses and children, are required to have valid travel documents. The U.S. Embassy in Cairo will assist U.S. citizens with travel documents. U.S. citizens who do not hold a valid U.S. passport or visa and are interested in departing Egypt via USG-chartered transportation should contact the US Department of State and Embassy Cairo by sending an email to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or by calling 1-202-501-4444 Frequently Asked Question: I’m ready to go. What do I do? Documented U.S. citizens may proceed to the HAJ Terminal 4 of the airport as of Monday, January 31, 11:00 am. My child is a U.S. citizen. Can my whole family be evacuated? A U.S. citizen child may be escorted by one adult, preferably a parent, who has appropriate travel documents. If a family has more than one U.S. citizen child, the one-adult rule still applies. Do I need a U.S. passport? All U.S. citizen travelers and their spouses and children, are required to have valid travel documents. The U.S. Embassy in Cairo will assist U.S. citizens with travel documents. U.S. citizens who do not hold a valid U.S. passport or visa and are interested in departing Egypt via USG-chartered transportation should contact the US Department of State and Embassy Cairo by sending an email to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or by calling 1-202-501-4444. What do I do if my child is a U.S. citizen, but hasn’t yet been documented? Contact the U.S. Embassy in Cairo. U.S. citizens who do not hold a valid U.S. passport or visa interested in departing Egypt via USG-chartered transportation should contact the U.S. Department of State and Embassy Cairo by sending an email to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or by calling 1-202-501-4444. My family members aren’t U.S. citizens. Can they travel with me? The scheduled evacuation flights will transport U.S. citizens and their immediate family members. Immediate family members – defined as spouses and children – who are not U.S. citizens will be required to have travel documentation that will permit their entry into the safe haven destinations. At this time, flights are expected to travel to Istanbul, Turkey, Athens, Greece, and Nicosia, Cyprus. Safe haven destinations may change. U.S. citizens requesting evacuation will not be able to select their safe haven destinations. Will you fly me to the United States? Our goal is to get people to a safe place, where they can make their own onward travel arrangements. Travelers will be responsible for their own onward travel arrangements and accommodations in the safe haven city. Consular officers will provide travelers with information on airlines and hotels. What should I bring? Travelers should bring valid travel documents and any necessary medications. Each traveler may bring one suitcase and a small personal carry-on item. U.S. citizens seeking evacuation should be prepared for a substantial wait at the airport. Travelers are advised to bring food, water, diapers and other necessary toiletries with them to the airport. What about my pets? Evacuation flights will not be able to accommodate pets. Do I have to pay for the flight? U.S. citizens requesting evacuation will be asked to sign paperwork promising to reimburse the U.S. Government for flight costs at a later date. Exact flight costs are not yet available, but should be comparable to a one-way commercial flight from Egypt to the safe haven location. How do I get to the airport? At this time, public transport to include taxis is still operating in Egypt. Status of U.S. Citizen Evacuations from Egypt Media Note Office of the Spokesman Washington, DC February 2, 2011 The welfare and safety of U.S. citizens in Egypt remains one of the State Department’s top priorities. More than 1,900 U.S. citizens and their family members have been evacuated from Egypt in an operation that began on Monday, January 31. We plan to continue evacuation efforts on Thursday, February 3, and are assessing the need to continue flights after that. We continue with our efforts to assist any U.S. citizens who wish to leave Egypt and are boarding additional flights today. As curfew has been eased by three hours, we expect more U.S. citizens will be able to reach the Cairo airport. We advise U.S. citizens to avoid demonstrations and carefully proceed to the airport during non-curfew hours. U.S. citizens with passports that expired within the past 10 years may go directly to the airport. Persons with passports that expired more than 10 years ago, should go to the Embassy to obtain a replacement. Although non-emergency personnel at our Embassy are leaving Egypt under ordered departure status, the Department continues to send personnel into Cairo and to our safe haven locations to assist U.S. citizens. The Embassy remains open for U.S. citizen services only during non-curfew hours. The most up-to-date information for U.S. citizens in Egypt can be found on our website Travel.State.Gov. U.S. citizens in Egypt, or persons concerned for their U.S. citizen loved ones in Egypt also may contact the State Department by email at EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or telephone at 1-888-407-4747 (toll-free in the United States and Canada) or 1-202-501-4444 (outside the United States and Canada). **Update, February 2** The overnight update of information on Egypt is below. No new warden messages were issued overnight. The Situation in Egypt portion of https://travel.state.gov continues to have the most recent information. As a reminder, the Egypt task force is up and running. Public inquiries can be directed to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or 1-888-407-4747 or 1-202-501-4444 outside the U.S. For non-consular issues, you can reach the legislative affairs representative on the task force at TaskForce-1@state.gov (please start the subject line with “For Legislative Affairs”) or 202-647-6611, and ask for the H representative. The latest update of events: Latest Developments Calling President Mubarak’s concession not to run in the next presidential election “not enough,” protestors and opposition leaders continued demonstrations into the night February 1. Demonstrations are expected to continue February 2. An Egyptian military spokesman called for protestors to leave the streets and return to normal life, stating Egyptians “had delivered their message.” Protestors called for a rally February 4 at Cairo’s presidential palace to dislodge Mubarak if he had not stepped down by the week’s end. Internet service is returning to Egypt after days of an unprecedented cutoff by the government. Opposition leader ElBaradei called Mubarak’s announcement an “act of deception” that would “extend the agony” in Egypt and create six or seven more months of instability. Former presidential candidate Ayman Nour noted Mubarak did not reject the possibility his son Gamal would run for president, calling Mubarak’s decision “a unique case of stubbornness that will end in disaster.” Deputy Chairman of the Muslim Brotherhood Mohammed Habib stated VP Soliman might be a better option than Mubarak staying in power. Significant food, water, and fuel shortages remain amid concerns of port disruptions in Egypt. Unconfirmed reports indicate former Minister of Interior Habib al-Adli will be referred to military prosecutors after police beat, tear-gassed, and fired rubber bullets at anti-government demonstrators last week. Google Inc. began a public search for its head of marketing for the Middle East and North Africa, who has reportedly been missing in Cairo since January 27. Security Situation The military regained more control of the streets and numerous check points remain in place in and around Cairo. State-run media report the curfew hours would be shortened on February 2 from 1700 until 0700 local (2300 until 1300 EST). Demonstrators were seen camping out in Tahrir Square and are expected to gather again, but not on the scale of the February 1 protests. Media report clashes broke out between pro-Mubarak and anti-government protesters in Alexandria shortly after Mubarak’s speech. Small demonstrations took place in Aswan where military were present but did not have to intervene. Consular Services Emergency embassy consular services remain available to American citizens; however, access to the Embassy remains difficult. International Reactions Arab League Secretary General Moussa noted some Egyptians “would need more” than what Mubarak offered, adding he would seriously consider whether to seek the presidency. Quartet Representative Blair described Mubarak as “immensely courageous and a force for good” and warned against a rush to elections that could bring the Muslim Brotherhood to power. French President Sarkozy called on Egyptian authorities to “do everything possible” to support a concrete and rapid transition process without violence. **Update, February 1** The overnight update of information on Egypt is below. The State Department has ordered the departure of non-emergency U.S. Government personnel and dependents from Egypt. (Previously they were authorized to depart.) The press statement on this is pasted below. No new warden message or public service announcement was issued overnight. Please continue to see the information on Egypt at https://travel.state.gov for the latest. As a reminder, the Egypt task force is up and running. Public inquiries can be directed to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or 1-888-407-4747. For non-consular issues, you can reach the legislative affairs representative on the task force at TaskForce-1@state.gov (please start the subject line with “For Legislative Affairs”) or 202-647-6611, and ask for the H representative. The latest update of events: Latest Developments The anticipated “march of a million people” will not be a march, but sit-in demonstrations in Tahrir Square and other locations across the country, including Alexandria. Military tanks and troops have positioned themselves to divert protesters from the presidential palace. Demonstrations are expected to begin between 1400 and 1500 local (0700 and 0800 EST). Mobile communications might be disrupted by the government during the demonstrations. Egyptian TV is broadcasting coverage of a vocal pro-Mubarak rally near Egyptian TV headquarters. The official estimate of participants is “in the thousands.” Vice President Soliman announced he would begin a dialogue with the opposition, including the Muslim Brotherhood, and begin to address the socioeconomic concerns of the protesters. Reports suggest many Egyptians view Soliman’s promise to implement certain reforms as a delaying effort. Protesters will accept nothing less than an end to the current regime and the creation of a transitional government in advance of new elections. The Noor Group, Egypt’s last remaining functioning internet service provider, was taken offline January 31. The Noor Group supported Egypt’s stock exchange and other businesses. Google and Twitter launched a new service called Speak-to-Tweet. It allows Egyptians without an internet connection to transmit Twitter messages by dialing a telephone number and leaving a voicemail, which is then automatically transcribed into a message on Twitter. Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service downgraded their Egypt debt ratings as a result of the unrest. Security Situation The curfew and the “million person” rally continue to impede movement around Cairo. All intercity highways and roads leading to Cairo have been closed, according to press. The main road to the airport passes near the Cairo rally location. The curfew remains in effect from 1500 to 0800 local. The curfew was not enforced the evening of January 31. Media report thousands remained in Tahrir Square overnight. Train services nationwide and all intercity buses are suspended, media report. Egyptian authorities said the Suez Canal is operating normally, with armed guards protecting the waterway. However, many vessels are bypassing Egyptian ports. There have been no significant demonstrations in Aswan since January 28. There is a light military presence in the city. U.S. citizens remain in Aswan, the majority of whom are affiliated with organized tour groups. Consular Issues Charter flights continue today from Cairo. International Reactions Arab League Secretary General Moussa called for a “peaceful transition” from one era to another. OPEC Secretary General al-Badri expressed concern about the situation in Egypt. The Chinese government sent two aircraft operated by Air China and Hainan Airlines to transport 480 Chinese nationals February 1. Two additional Air China planes are en route to Cairo. A China Southern Airlines plane is flying to Luxor to pick up approximately 220 Hong Kong residents. Taiwan intends to evacuate nearly 500 of its residents, using commercial and charter flights. Some European airlines, including Lufthansa, Austrian Airlines, and Air Berlin, stated their intention to send larger aircraft than usual to meet demand and agreed to provide additional flights for foreign ministries. The Japanese government is urging its approximately 600 citizens to leave Egypt. ******************************************************** US DEPARTMENT OF STATE Office of the Spokesman For Immediate Release February 1, 2011 2011/133 STATEMENT BY PHILIP J. CROWLEY, ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR PUBLIC AFFAIRS Ordered Departure Declared for Egypt On February 1, the Department of State ordered the departure of all non-emergency U.S. Government personnel and their families from Egypt in light of recent events. The Department of State will continue to facilitate the evacuation of U.S. citizens who require assistance. Cairo airport is open and operating, but flights may be disrupted and transport to the airport may be disrupted due to the protests. U.S. citizens in Egypt who require assistance, or those who are concerned that their U.S. citizen loved one in Egypt may require assistance, should contact the U.S. Department of State and the U.S. Embassy in Cairo at: EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov, or at 1-202-501-4444. Please follow the directions on the Embassy website for all other consular inquiries. ### **Update, January 31** Information on the situation in Egypt is available at https://travel.state.gov and now includes a section on Frequently Asked Questions on the situation in Europe, including evacuation information. As a reminder, the Egypt task force is up and running. Public inquiries can be directed to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or 1-888-407-4747. For non-consular issues, you can reach the legislative affairs representative on the task force at TaskForce-1@state.gov (please start the subject line with “For Legislative Affairs”) or 202-647-6611, and ask for the H representative. Consular Update Embassy Cairo is working with Washington to make preparations for the charter flights. Embassy Cairo will continue to provide emergency services to U.S. citizens at the embassy January 31. The travel warning for Egypt was posted on travel.state.gov and Embassy Cairo’s website, and sent out as a warden message to all Americans in Egypt registered with the Embassy. The Bureau of Public Affairs and Embassy Cairo worked to disseminate this information via radio stations to reach Americans in Egypt, since internet services and TV remain unreliable. INTERNATIONAL REACTIONS UK PM Cameron, French President Sarkozy, and German Chancellor Merkel, in a joint statement, called for a “broad-based government” and “free and fair elections” in Egypt. Arab League Secretary General Moussa, a former Egyptian foreign minister, said he wanted to see a multi-party democracy emerge in Egypt, stating Mubarak needed to respond to mass protests demanding reform, rather than reshuffling ministers. The Iraqi government announced it will evacuate Iraqi citizens living in Egypt. Oil company Royal Dutch Shell plans to evacuate its international staff and their families. Several hundred people demonstrated in front of the Egyptian Embassy in Tunis to express “support to the Egyptian people’s uprising”. They reportedly chanted, “Mubarak, Ben Ali is waiting for you.” ************************************* Egypt: Public Service Announcement for American Citizens Remarks Janice Jacobs, Assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs Washington, DC January 30, 2011 As Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs, I want you to know that the Department of State is very focused on the safety and security of U.S. citizens living and visiting in Egypt. State Department personnel at our Embassy in Cairo and here in the United States are working round-the-clock to ensure the safety our Americans. We’re monitoring the situation on the ground in Egypt, communicating information and implementing crisis response plans. We are communicating via our website, emails, call centers, social media, radio and television to get information out to U.S. citizens on the ground in Egypt who are understandably worried. We are sending additional consular personnel to Egypt to augment our Embassy staff. Charter flights out of Cairo will begin tomorrow We are aware that not all U.S. citizens have internet or cell phone service in Egypt. We do know that many Americans are in contact with friends and family outside of Egypt. Because of communications interruptions, we ask that family and friends in the United States assist us by relaying information to their loved ones in Egypt directly. The most up-to-date information – including evacuation instructions – can be found on our website at travel.state.gov. The U.S. Department of State is arranging transportation to safe haven locations in Europe. This assistance will be provided on a reimbursable basis, as required by U.S. law. U.S. citizens who travel on U.S. government–arranged transport will be expected to make their own onward travel plans. We expect initial flights to go into Athens, Istanbul and Nicosia, Cyprus. Consular personnel at those locations will be available to help citizens make their arrangements for lodging and onward travel. The charter flights are not intended to supplant Americans’ existing commercial travel plans. Citizens with ticketed flights should contact their airlines. All U.S. citizen travelers, their spouses and children are required to have valid travel documents. Again, you can find the most up-to-date information at travel.state.gov. Thank you for helping us communicate with U.S. citizens in Egypt. When you reach them, please assure them that their government is focused on their welfare and safety. January 28 The State Department released the below advisory today for all U.S. citizens in Egypt. We urge all citizens to take extra precaution and follow the guidelines listed below. If there are any emergencies over the weekend, please call 615-714-0386 and leave a voice mail. We will return your call as soon as possible. U.S. Citizens facing IMMEDIATE danger should contact the State Department directly at 202-647-5225. Travel Alert U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE Bureau of Consular Affairs Egypt January 28, 2011 The U.S. Department of State alerts U.S. citizens to ongoing political and social unrest in Egypt. Violent demonstrations on January 28 took place in several areas of Cairo and other parts of the country, disrupting road travel between city centers and airports. Disruptions in communications included the interruption of internet and mobile telephone service. The Government of Egypt has imposed a curfew from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. in Cairo, Alexandria and Suez until further notice. Given this situation, the Department of State urges U.S. citizens to defer non-essential travel to Egypt at this time and advises U.S. citizens currently in Egypt to defer non-essential movement and to exercise caution. This Travel Alert expires on February 28, 2011. In the event of demonstrations, U.S. citizens in Egypt should remain in their residences or hotels until the situation stabilizes. Security forces may block off the area around the U.S. Embassy during demonstrations, and U.S. citizens should not attempt to come to the U.S. Embassy or the Tahrir Square area at such times. The Embassy duty officer is available to U.S. citizens for emergencies at +20 1 2797-3300 during evening and weekend hours and the American Citizens Services Section can be reached at +20 1 2797-2301 during business hours, Sunday to Thursday from 8:00 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. and at consularcairoacs@state.gov. Demonstrations have degenerated on several occasions into violent clashes between police and protesters, resulting in injuries and extensive property damage. While demonstrations have not been directed toward Westerners, U.S. citizens are urged to remain alert to local security developments and to be vigilant regarding their personal security. The U.S. Department of State strongly urges U.S. citizens to avoid all demonstrations, as even peaceful ones can quickly become unruly and a foreigner could become a target of harassment or worse. If caught unexpectedly near a demonstration, U.S. citizens should obey instructions from police and leave the area as quickly as possible. U.S. citizens resident in Egypt should monitor local news broadcasts and U.S. citizen visitors should ask tour guides and hotel officials about any planned demonstrations in the locations they plan to visit. U.S. citizens should carry identification and a cell phone which works in Egypt. U.S. citizens in Egypt are encouraged to enroll in the Smart Travelers Enrollment Program (STEP) at the following website: https://travelregistration.state.gov. U.S. citizens without internet access may enroll directly at the U.S. Embassy. By enrolling, U.S. citizens make it easier for the Embassy to contact them in case of emergency. Updated information on travel and security in Egypt may be obtained from the Department of State by calling 1-888-407-4747 toll-free in the United States and Canada or, for callers outside the United States and Canada, on a regular toll line at 1-202-501-4444. For further information, please consult the Country Specific Information for Egypt, as well as the Worldwide Caution. The Embassy is located at 5 Tawfik Diab Street (formerly known as Latin America Street), Garden City, Cairo. For further information, U.S. citizens may call the Embassy’s American Citizen Services Unit at 2797-2301 during business hours, Sunday to Thursday from 8:00 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. For emergencies after business hours and on weekends and holidays, U.S. citizens can contact the Embassy Duty Officer via the Embassy switchboard on 2797-3300.
01.26.2011	"Sunlight is the best disinfectant."January 26, 2011 WASHINGTON– Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) and Congressman Heath Shuler (NC-11) have both introduced legislation that would ease Congressional gridlock by reforming the redistricting process. Cooper has introduced the “Redistricting Transparency Act” (H.R. 419) which seeks to stop political gerrymandering by letting the public participate in the redistricting process. It requires open hearings and a public website in each state with data on Congressional districts so the public can watch and participate in the system by which district lines are drawn following the release of Census data. “Democrats and Republicans have been in cahoots about this for decades,” said Cooper. “Both want to minimize the number of competitive districts. Today, there are only 91 politically balanced districts out of 435, but both parties want even fewer. The political map-drawers know how to split neighborhoods, houses, and even, in theory, double beds. This abuse of the one-person, one-vote principle enables politicians to draw districts so bizarre that you need a GPS device to locate them.” In many districts, incumbents only need to rally their base to secure victory, leaving the minority and independent voices out of the process. The Redistricting Transparency Act would go into effect this year, allowing the public to participate in the redistricting process which will take place in the next few months. A longtime supporter of redistricting reform, Cooper has advocated for changing this corrupt practice regardless of which party was in control of the Tennessee legislature. “Sunlight is the best disinfectant,” said Cooper. “No one should be against transparency.” Cooper will also cosponsor comprehensive redistricting reform legislation, The Fairness and Independence in Redistricting Act (H.R. 453), introduced by Congressman Shuler. The FIR Act takes politics and partisanship out of the congressional redistricting process by setting minimum standards for states when redrawing congressional maps. Each state will be required to establish an independent, bipartisan redistricting commission to redraw congressional district lines only once every 10 years based on principles outlined in the bill. Cooper has supported redistricting reform in 109th, 110th and 111th Congresses. A map of Tennessee’s congressional districts can be found here. A summary of the Redistricting Transparency Act and a fact sheet on gerrymandering are attached. ###
01.24.2011	"The New Dems are a strong pro-business force in the Democratic Party, and I am proud to join their ranks." January 24, 2011 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper has joined the New Democrat Coalition, the largest bloc of moderate Democratic Members in the House of Representatives. The New Democrat Coalition is comprised of 43 Members focused on economic growth, national security, personal responsibility, and technology development. Cooper said: “The New Dems are a strong pro-business force in the Democratic Party and I am proud to join their ranks. We need more moderate voices in Congress, and the New Dems provide another opportunity to bring commonsense solutions that balance the extremes on both sides of the aisle.” The New Dems focus on policies that private sector-led growth, build on America’s innovative edge in the global economy, create new opportunities for American workers, and provide a more secure and stable future for our country. For more information about the House New Democrat Coalition visit https://newdemocratcoalition-kind.house.gov/. In addition to the New Dems, Cooper is a member of the moderate Blue Dog Coalition in the House. ###
01.19.2011	Cooper selected to serve as Ranking Member on House Armed Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. January 19, 2011 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper has been selected to serve as Ranking Member on the House Armed Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. Cooper made the following statement: "I'm honored to be chosen for this position and look forward to working with Subcommittee Chairman Rob Wittman (R-VA) to make sure our resources are properly handled. Every dollar we waste is a dollar that doesn’t get to our troops." The Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee conducts studies and investigations across the jurisdiction of the House Armed Services Committee, including inquiries into allegations of waste, fraud, abuse, and wrongdoing and inefficiencies within the Department of Defense. The Committee conducts comprehensive oversight studies of major programs and issues and provides recommendations and improvements for the DOD. A complete list of all subcommittee members will be posted shortly on this website. Cooper will also serve on the Tactical Air and Land Forces subcommittee which handles all acquisitions programs for the Army and Air Force. In addition, the subcommittee will be responsible for Navy and Marine Corps aviation programs and the associated weapons system sustainment accounts, National Guard and Army and Air Force reserve modernization, and ammunition programs. ###
01.19.2011	"The repeal may be good political theater, but it won't fix the problems with our health care system."January 19, 2010 WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) made the following statement about the Republican’s attempt to repeal health care reform. “For decades I have been saying that America needed to improve its health care system because it is unsustainable. Last year, I voted for reform because the legislation makes our system better. There are parts that I believe need to be changed, but we should work together to edit the bill, not repeal the bill. The repeal vote may be good political theater, but it won’t fix the problems with our health care system.”A long time advocate for health reform, Cooper has taught health care policy at Vanderbilt’s business school for more than 12 years and is considered one of the experts on health care reform in Congress. Click to view his floor statement from last March and here to view his remarks at the bipartisan health reform summit at the White House last February. A breakdown of the impact of health care reform repeal on the 5th district can be found here. ###
01.12.2011	January 12, 2011NASHVILE - U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) made the following statement after the release of National Weather Service Flood Service Assessment. “The National Weather Service report confirms the breakdown in communication during the historic flooding last year. We can’t stop the rain, but we can and must do a better job at warning people of the potential for dangerous flooding. A few hours of warning could have saved lives and prevented millions of dollars in damage."A link to the full report can be found here, and will be linked on Cooper’s website.###
01.10.2011	January 8, 2011NASHVILE - U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) made the following statement after news that Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords and others were shot at an event in Tucson, AZ this morning. “Gabby Giffords is one of the nicest people I've ever met. She's humble, friendly, capable, and down-to-earth, even though she's married to an astronaut. I always worried about her husband, Captain Mark Kelly, when he was up in space or piloting a Navy plane; it turned out that the real threat was in Arizona." "There is no finer person than Gabby Giffords. Please pray for her and all the other victims of the shooting."###
01.05.2011	January 5, 2011WASHINGTON--U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper was sworn in today to represent Tennessee’s 5th district in the 112th Congress. Cooper released the following statement upon taking the oath of office: “There is no time to celebrate. Too many Americans are out of work, and we need to grow our economy. While America is fighting two wars, and our deficit problems continue to grow, there is no shortage of work for this Congress. I am proud to represent Middle Tennessee, and its common-sense values, as we work to solve these problems.”###
01.05.2011	March 1, 2011 WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will speak at the No Labels press event TODAY at 10am CT / 11amET on the East Side of the U.S. Capitol. The event is calling for a timely and constructive approach to solve the nation’s fiscal challenges. Over 200 state leaders from more than 40 states - representing tens of thousands of No Labels members across the country - will join together with a clear message: Everyone at the Table, Everything on the Table. The event will be live streamed on the web here . Cooper has been a long time advocate of bipartisan solutions to our nation’s fiscal problems. He was the cosponsor of the SAFE Commission Act with Republican Frank Wolf (VA-10), which was the model for the Presidents National Commission of Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. He was the first Member of Congress to sign on to Change Congress and recently gave a speech at Harvard Law School calling for significant reform to end the extreme partisanship in Washington. The speech is available on Cooper’s website . No Labels is a non-profit political organization that intends to unite Republicans, Democrats and Independents with a simple, single idea – “our leaders need to work together to do what government was intended to do: solve problems.” For more information about No Labels, visit its website . ###
01.04.2011	January 4, 2011 WASHINGTON – Congressmen Jim Cooper (TN-05), Gary Peters (MI-9), Gerry Connolly (VA-11) and Ted Deutch (FL-19) sent the following letter to Speaker-designee John Boehner, urging an open and fair vote on the House rules package. Tomorrow, the House of Representatives is expected to vote on a set of rules that will govern the 112th Congress. Republican Leadership is attempting to block any amendments to that package, already going back on their commitment to a fair, open and transparent process. In the January 4th letter to Mr. Boehner, the members wrote, “You (Rep. Boehner) put it best in your September 30th, American Enterprise Institute speech, when you said: “instead of clamping down even further, it's my view that we should open things up and let the battle of ideas help break down the scar tissue between the two parties.” There can be no better way to demonstrate your commitment to open rules in the 112th Congress than to ensure that the rules the full House will consider on Wednesday, January 5 are themselves considered under an open rule that will invite all Members to contribute to the final package that is adopted.” The full letter is attached. ###
12.01.2010	December 1, 2010 WASHINGTON - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) commented on the report by the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. Cooper was an early advocate for a fiscal commission and introduced the SAFE Commission Act (H.R. 1557) with Representative Frank Wolf (R-VA) more than three years ago. The National Commission was modeled after the SAFE Commission Act. “The Commission’s report is being met with resounding silence. Yet almost everyone knows that America must make spending cuts of this magnitude. If you don’t like the “Moment of Truth” recommendations, then craft your own – and win majority votes of the House and Senate – while remembering that every day of delay costs us roughly $8 billion. Denial and gridlock will not strengthen America; supporting major changes in fiscal policy will.” ### Click here to read the Fiscal Commission's Report, The Moment of Truth.
11.29.2010	November 29, 2010WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will provide more than $7 million to Davidson County for home buyouts. The Home Buyout Program will be coordinated by the local government officials and is designed to purchase residential properties that were substantially damaged during the historic May 2010 flooding. “The federal government will continue to play a role in our recovery by investing in Nashville’s future,” Cooper said. “The Home Buyout Program is an important step toward ensuring that these homes are never flooded again.” The funding is part of FEMA’s Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, a federal grant program to implement long-term hazard mitigation measures after a natural disaster. FEMA has approved 81 homes for the buy-out so far. For more information of the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, visit FEMA’s website.###
11.22.2010	November 20, 2010Read the original on the Tennessean website.Thanksgiving, we gather together to give thanks. But thousands of children in foster care have much less to be thankful for.Today, we celebrate National Adoption Day, an effort to raise aware­ness of the 123,000 children in foster care waiting to find per anent, loving families. Here in Tennessee, more than 7,500 children live in some form of out-of-home care. Too many of these children will never get adopted before they turn 18; called aging-out of the sys tem. They will go through life alone, not sharing holidays with parents, not having a father to walk them down the aisle, a mother to give them a hug.While the number of children in foster care has significantly decreased over the past decade, the number of adoptions has remained unchanged. On aver age, children wait over three years before finding a “for ever family” through adoption. During this time, these children are moved from foster home to home, changing schools, losing friends, separated from siblings, and wondering if they will ever have any one to call “Mom” or “Dad” again.Many in our com munity are already making a difference. This year, I nominated Douglas and Jennie Webb from Cheatham County as “Angels in Adoption.” The Webbs have fostered 17 children and recently added two new adopted children to their family. As a long time member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI), I am proud to recognize their outstanding commitment to providing children with loving and stable homes.Not every one can become a foster or adoptive parent, but that doesn’t mean any one can’t get involved.Nashville’s own performing artist Jimmy Wayne has become a hero in the adoptive community for creating the “Meet Me Halfway” project to raise awareness for foster youth. Last Jan. 1, Jimmy began a 1,700-mile journey across the country. The singer, a former foster child and home less teen, walked from Nashville to Phoenix to raise awareness of at-risk youth and teens that are in danger of aging out of the foster sys tem. His effort has inspired thousands to join his cause.Middle Tennesseans showed the world our true character in the way we rebuilt after the flood. Our recov proved that when every one does their part, there is no obstacle we can’t over­come. Giving just a little bit of your free time can make a huge impact.Talk to your friends and neighbors to raise awareness for the thou sands of children with out a home. Become a men tor to a foster child, and encourage your church community to support adoptive youth. Together, we can solve this children’s crisis in our state.According to a recent survey, nearly 48 million Americans have considered adopting from foster care. If just one in 500 of these adults adopt, all the 123,000 children in foster care waiting for adoption would have permanent families. Some times all it takes is a word of encouragement and the sup port of a friendly neighbor to give a family the courage to take on this responsibility. You can be that voice.As families across Middle Tennessee gather to celebrate the holidays, let’s focus on giving each child something to be thankful for.###
11.18.2010	Says earmark reform alone can't fix the deficitDark days for a deficit fighterBy Joshua GreenNovember 18, 2010In the two weeks since the election, the deficit has taken center stage in Washington, propelled by a high-profile report on how to cut it from the chairmen of the president’s deficit commission, and by a push to ban congressional earmarks from conservative activists. This is welcome news for Democratic Representative Jim Cooper of Tennessee, a renowned budgetary Cassandra who is so alarmed by the deficit that the first thing visitors to his Capitol Hill office encounter is a billboard displaying the steadily mounting US debt. Yesterday, it stood at $13,050,588,009,652, and because Cooper believes that most people cannot fathom a number so large, it also breaks down the debt into the cost per person: $42,350.Cooper supports nearly every effort to cut spending and rein in the deficit — for years, he himself has voluntarily foregone earmarks. But he doesn’t expect the numbers to shrink anytime soon. His disappointment with the reaction to the two deficit initiatives puts Tea Party triumphalism about curbing Washington’s profligacy in perspective. Cooper thinks that real change is still a long way off.The grounds for this grim assessment was the swift chorus of dismissal from almost every politician and interest group of the plan advanced last week by Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson, co-chairmen of the deficit commission, to cut $3.8 trillion in spending and sharply reduce the federal deficit. The proposal targets sacrosanct entitlements like Medicare and Social Security, as well as military spending, and includes tax increases alongside spending cuts. As Simpson put it, “We have harpooned all of the whales in the ocean, and some of the minnows.’’The commission was not expected to release a proposal until December, when, it was hoped, at least 14 of the 18 members would sign off on it, thereby guaranteeing a vote in Congress. The fact that the chairmen abruptly released their own proposal was a tacit acknowledgment that this part of the task was futile: no such support would have been forthcoming. And sure enough, the main point of consensus has been a storm of anger that the plan is too radical and cuts too deep. “Getting real about those numbers is a gigantic task that could lead to riots, which we’ve seen in Europe,’’ Cooper said. “That moment of realization hasn’t happened here yet.’’Opponents of earmarking, the process by which lawmakers steer money to pet projects, have had a much better go of it. On Tuesday, Senate minority leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, a champion earmarker, bowed to pressure from Tea Party activists and agreed to a voluntary ban. But at least in budgetary terms, this is much less of a victory than it may seem. Earmarks account for only about $16 billion a year, or less than one half of 1 percent of the federal budget. Banning them would not lower spending or cut the deficit, since, contrary to popular perception, the money would not be returned to the Treasury but would simply revert to the Appropriations Committee to be spent elsewhere. To make a real dent in federal spending, the appropriations process itself would need reform, and that’s not currently on the table.Cooper is a patient man. Banning earmarks may not cut the deficit, but he believes that even symbolic victories have value. “Congress is just an organized appetite,’’ he said, “and earmarks encourage us to think of taxpayer money as our own.’’ Anything that changes this cast of mind will help the larger task.The danger is that voters may mistakenly believe that eliminating earmarks will do something significant toward solving the fiscal crisis — or, worse, that it is actually sufficient. That self-deception would leave the country even less prepared to confront the painful reckoning Cooper sees just ahead. “Our problems are worsening at a rate of $8 billion a day — so earmarks represent basically two days of our problem,’’ he said. “It’s almost impossible for people to comprehend. When I talk even to sophisticated audiences and try to clue them in, they react like kids being told a bedtime story. They want to know, ‘Where’s the happy ending?’ ’’ So far, there is still none in sight.The original article from The Boston Globe can be found here.
11.17.2010	"It's time for new leadership"November 17, 2010 WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement about the Democratic Minority Leader election: “It’s time for new leadership after the worst electoral defeat since 1948. Therefore I voted against Speaker Pelosi and for her Blue Dog rival, former UT quarterback Heath Shuler.”Despite Cooper’s opposition, Pelosi won the Minority Leader position by a vote of 150-43.# # #
11.16.2010	"Nashville deserves a great library, and this award is proof we've got the best in the country."November 16, 2010 WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) congratulated the Nashville Public Library on its selection for the 2010 National Medal for Museum and Library Service. The National Medal is the nation’s highest honor for museums and libraries awarded to institutions that make extraordinary civic, educational, economic, environmental, and social contributions. Five museums and five libraries are chosen each year to receive the award which is presented by The Institute of Museum and Library Service (IMLS). Cooper nominated the Nashville Public Library for this prestigious award. “Nashville deserves a great library and this award is proof we’ve got the best in the country,” said Congressman Jim Cooper. “Donna Nicely and her team deserve tremendous credit for leading our library through tough times without compromising excellence. I am proud to have the only congressional office in America located in a public library, so our rent helps keep our library strong.”The Nashville Public Library is a leader in efforts to continually improve and enrich our city. The library connects with the Nashville community through outreach and public programming that is educational and fun. The 264,958 active cardholders accurately mirror the community’s diversity. For at-risk children, the library uses its vast collection of marionettes to present the program Bringing Books to Life at local Head Start centers. Children are treated to a marionette-performed story time, and teachers and parents witness how information is retained when there is engagement and visual stimulation.For more information, visit the IMLS website . ###
11.16.2010	November 15, 2010WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement in response to the announcement that Republican Senators will place a moratorium on their requests for earmarks. Cooper has publicly refused to request any earmarks for the last three years and is one of only five House Democrats who refuses to do so. "I've fought against earmarks for years,” said Congressman Jim Cooper. “It's about time that Congress followed my lead. Better late than never." # # #
11.10.2010	November 10, 2010NASHVILLE - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) commented on the proposed recommendations by the Co-Chairs of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. Cooper was an early advocate for a fiscal commission and introduced the SAFE Commission Act (H.R. 1557) with Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA) more than three years ago. The National Commission was modeled after the SAFE Commission Act. “Is America ready for an adult conversation on the deficit? The public reaction to this proposal will be a good test. It is bitter medicine, but it could restore our fiscal health. There are other cures, but few politicians are willing to discuss them, because they don’t taste any better. It’s “put up or shut up” time. Congress should vote on this proposal and on any alternative measure that achieves the same deficit reduction. Every day we wait worsens our debt.”# # #
11.10.2010	October 30, 2010NASHVILLE—U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will attend the Bordeaux Hills “Welcome Back Home” Open House TODAY Saturday, October 30 at 1PM. The members of the Bordeaux Hills Residential Association will be welcoming back the homeowners of 176 homes in the area that were damaged by the May 2010 flood. What: Bordeaux Hills “Welcome Back Home” Open House When: TODAY 1:00 Saturday, October 30 Who: Congressman Jim Cooper and the Bordeaux Hills Residential Association Where: Corner of Mexico and LaGrange Drive, Bordeaux Hills NeighborhoodThe “Welcome Back Home” event will celebrate the re-opening of the nearly 200 homes in the neighborhood that sustained significant damage during the historic May flood. Cooper has been touring flood damaged neighborhoods across Middle Tennessee since May and visited the Bordeaux neighborhood in July. The President of the Bordeaux Hills Residential Association and the Bordeaux Hills Disaster Relief Fund, Ruby Baker, will be leading Cooper on a tour of the neighborhood.If you have any questions please reach out to Peter Boogaard at peter.boogaard@mail.house.gov or by phone at 202.374.1406.# # #
10.05.2010	Nashville City Paper By J.R. Lind October 3, 2010 Reliable statistics do not exist for things like “wireless microphone users per capita.” But if they did, there’s no doubt Nashville would rank highly. Since it’s no longer the 1950s, musicians rely heavily on wireless technology to bring their songs to their fans. Wireless mics rely on radio frequencies to carry voice to amplifiers. Problem is, lots of things rely on radio frequencies. Radio, obviously, but also televisions and cell phones. Therein lies the problem. It seems frequencies wireless mics often used were in danger of being wiped out by high-powered signals from major telecom companies. In fact, Verizon purchased the oft-employed 700-hertz signal last year. Not to fret, connoisseurs of the headset mic (Garth Brooks, this means you). The wireless microphone issue is the latest piece of esoterica into which U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper sank his teeth, prompting the mental image of Cooper onstage, headset mic in place, touring 27 cities on the “Get Us Back in the Black: Deficit PowerPoint World Tour (featuring Lady GaGa).” In real life, Cooper urged the Federal Communications Commission to protect certain bands of the radio spectrum for wireless use, reserving extra space in cities like Nashville, which ranks highly on the aforementioned list that does not actually exist. The FCC did so last week. “Music is a lifeline to Nashville’s economy, and the live music industry depends more than ever on wireless microphones and other equipments to connect the artist with the audience,” Cooper said. “The FCC’s order helps guarantee that the flawless sound music fans expect will continue without interference from new consumer wireless devices.” Cooper is well known for the depth of his knowledge on issues like the deficit and health care, but he also has a knack for solving perceived injustices on not-so-macro issues: courthouse construction, electrical co-ops and the plight of the hands-free singer. The FCC’s decision to protect these bands has been widely praised by music industry types as the hometown rep protects their interests. And they can clap as loud and as long as they want, since their hands aren’t occupied with pesky wired microphones.
09.29.2010	Judiciary Courthouse Access hearing to be held today at 2 P.M. CST.September 29, 2010 WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will testify before the House Judiciary Committee today to advocate for federal funding for a new Nashville courthouse. Cooper helped create the Courthouse Caucus, a 16 member group focused on restoring regularly scheduled funding for the construction of federal courthouses in the communities with the greatest need. For the past decade, the courthouse construction program has become mired in politics. Courthouses have been funded through political favoritism and pork-barrel earmarks, a process Cooper has long opposed. The construction program is supposed to follow the Judicial Conference’s five year plan that contains a priority list of proposed courthouses ranked by need. A courthouse's position on the priority list is independent of Congressional politics or seniority, but has been routinely ignored. The Judicial Conference assigns priority with a focus on addressing space needs, security, public health, and safety deficiencies, and Cooper has advocated a return to a disciplined and transparent process.Largely because of Cooper’s action, Nashville has moved up from number six to number two on the Judiciary Conference’s priority list in just the last year.The following is an excerpt from Cooper’s prepared statement that he will deliver to the Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts and Competition at 2 P.M CST today: “Congressman Jo Bonner and I started the sixteen-Member Courthouse Caucus whose mission is to restore regularly scheduled funding for the construction of Federal Courthouses on the Judiciary’s Five-Year Plan. If Courthouses are going to get funded, let’s make sure it is those that are in the communities with greatest need. The Courthouse Caucus has worked to educate Members about how the courtroom construction process should work, and I am pleased to report to that its efforts have so far made a difference. The omnibus appropriations bill signed into law in December 2009 contained funding for five courthouses that were on the Five-Year Plan. For the first time in over five years, courthouses that were of the most urgent need in their respective communities were awarded their badly needed funding. The Caucus spoke with one voice, and we finally got things right this year. That is good government. ” Cooper has been calling for funding for the Nashville courthouse since he came to Congress in 2002, and Nashville has been waiting for a new courthouse since 1992, when the Estes Kefauver Federal Courthouse was first deemed inadequate.###
09.28.2010	Magenet Schools Assistant Grant will help fund six new magnet schools in Metro Nashville.September 28, 2010 NASHVILLE – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) announced a new $4 million grant from the Department of Education for the 2010-2011 school year as part of their Magnet School Assistance Program. The grant is expected to be continued for 3 total years at $4 million dollars a year ($12 million in total) and will help fund six new magnet schools in the Metropolitan Nashville Public School (MNPS) System. Dr. Jesse Register, Director of Metro Nashville Public Schools, joined Cooper for the announcement. “Improving our education system is the best thing we can do to build a strong foundation for our economy,” said Congressman Jim Cooper. “Our local, state and federal leaders have made education reform a top priority, and we are seeing the benefits of that commitment. These funds will help propel Nashville’s schools to the forefront of our nation’s education system and prepare our children to thrive in a 21st century economy.”MNPS was granted funding to help establish six new magnet schools; Wharton Elementary, John Early Middle, Pearl-Cohn High, Hattie Cotton Elementary, Bailey Middle, and Stratford High School. These schools will be thematic magnet schools, meaning each will have a specific educational concentration. The purpose of thematic magnet schools is to reduce the minority group isolation in schools with higher than the district average of minority students. They are also designed to provide public school choice to students attending schools identified for improvement, corrective action, or restructuring under Title I, Part A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. “We continue to expand our high-quality educational programs that interest and engage our students. We encourage families to explore all the Metro Schools opportunities available to them,” said MNPS Director of Schools Dr. Jesse Register. “These new magnet school programs draw on the strengths that already exist in our community and provide opportunities for our students to build skills for college and career.”Tennessee has recently been a recipient of hundreds of millions in federal dollars to improve the education of children across the Volunteer State. Tennessee was one of the first two winners of Race to the Top funds – $500 million to be spent on reforms to raise the bar for Tennessee students and invest in schools and teachers to provide better outcomes for our children. The state also received a $67.8 million School Improvement grant to invest in practices which will turn around low-performing schools. Our State was also part of a 26-state consortium which will share over $180 million in funding from the Race to the Top Assessment Program to assist states in adhering to higher standards such as the Common Core standards.More information on the specifics of the Magnet School Assistance Program grant, and the schools the funds will help to establish, can be found on the information sheet attached to this document.# # #
09.28.2010	September 28, 2010NASHVILLE – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will announce a new federal grant TODAY before the Metro Nashville School Board Meeting. The announcement will be made at 4:30 PM in the Metro Nashville Public Schools Administration Board Room. Cooper will be joined by Dr. Jesse Register, Director of Metro Nashville Public Schools.Who: Congressman Jim Cooper and Dr. Jesse Register When: TODAY Tuesday September 28, 4:30 PM Where: Administration Building of Metropolitan Nashville Public Schools, 2601 Bransford AvenueThe event is open to the press, and will be followed by the regularly scheduled school board meeting. ###
09.24.2010	"The brave men and women who fought in World War II changed the course of history, and I was honored to take part in their trip to our nation's capital."September 27, 2010 WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) met a group of Nashville WWII Veterans who were visiting the WWII memorial as part of the Honor Flight network. Honor Flight is an organization that helps every single willing and able veteran in America visit their memorials in Washington DC. These Veterans were part of the Music City Honor Flight program in Middle Tennessee and were making their first trip to the WWII Memorial with the organization. "The brave men and women who fought in World War II changed the course of history, and I was honored to take part in their trip to our nation’s capital,” said Congressman Jim Cooper. “We owe a great debt to those who risked their lives in the protection of our freedom and I am so pleased the Honor Flight program helps give our veterans the opportunity to visit the memorials built in their honor."Honor flights are all fully paid for, and Veterans are typically accompanied by volunteers who donate their time to ensure that the group has a safe and successful trip.# # #
09.20.2010	"Music is a lifeline to Nashville's economy, and the live music industry depends more than ever on wireless microphones and other equipment to connect the artist with the audience."September 23, 2010 WASHINGTON - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) applauded today’s FCC decision to protect wireless microphone users from interference from new “white space devices”. Wireless microphones had been at risk of interference from high-powered signals from giant telecommunication companies if the white space they operated in was not protected. The decision reserves a minimum of two TV channels nationwide for wireless microphone use and makes provisions for extra space, in areas like Nashville, where wireless microphone use is more prevalent. "Music is a lifeline to Nashville’s economy, and the live music industry depends more than ever on wireless microphones and other equipment to connect the artist with the audience,” said Representative Jim Cooper (D-TN). “The FCC's order helps guarantee that the flawless sound music fans expect will continue without interference from new consumer wireless devices."Cooper has been a strong advocate for wireless microphone users and urged the FCC to protect wireless mics from outside interference. Pete Fisher, the Vice President and General Manger for the Grand Ole Opry, made the following statement about Cooper’s role in today’s decision. “Congressman Cooper has been the leading voice in the fight to protect wireless microphone users and we would not be celebrating today without his support. This decision will ensure that our performers at the Grand Ole Opry will continue to deliver memorable performances, without interruption.”The reserved channels are off-limits to TV Band Devices that operate in the white spaces between assigned TV stations, thus preventing them from interfering with wireless microphone signals on those channels. Large-scale users would be able to achieve extended protection for specific events through the geo-location database prescribed by the FCC in 2008.###
09.20.2010	"In a tough economy, this bill will help businesses grow and hire more people."September 23, 2010WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) praised the passage of the Small Business Job Act (H.R.5297), which he voted for today. The bill provides much needed access to capital for millions of small businesses and offers 8 new tax incentives to companies so that they may expand, hire, and fuel our economy. “In a tough economy, this bill will help businesses grow and hire more people,” said Congressman Cooper “It will also encourage banks to start lending again.”The Small Business Jobs Act is expected to create 500,000 new jobs by encouraging the development of American small businesses. It also keeps jobs in America by closing tax loopholes that reward corporations that ship jobs overseas. It provides $12 billion in tax cuts to small business and will provide up to $300 billion in private sector lending for small businesses, along with state grants for small business lending. The bill is fully paid for and will not add to the deficit.# # #
09.17.2010	Cooper's resolution honoring the anniversary of 19th Amendment passed Congress this weekSeptember 17, 2010 NASHVILLE – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will host a reception on Monday, September 20th to commemorate the 90th Anniversary of the 19th Amendment. Cooper introduced a resolution (H.Res. 1357) to commemorate the 90th anniversary; the amendment passed on Wednesday. The state of Tennessee cast the deciding vote for women’s suffrage in Nashville in 1920. “Nashville Suffragists showed courage and conviction standing up for the most basic principle of our Constitution: that everyone, men and women, are created equal. We should all be proud of the example they set.” I video of the floor debate on Cooper’s resolution is available on his website. What: Breakfast Reception Commemorating Passage of Women’s SuffrageWhere: Provence Café 601 Church St. NashvilleWhen: Monday, September 20th 8 AM-9 AM If you have any questions, please reach out to Peter Boogaard at 202-226-5969. # # #
08.28.2010	Press Conference to Hilight Upcoming Deadlines for Tax Relief Programs for Flood Victims August 30, 2010 NASHVILLE – Congressman Jim Cooper will join Mayor Karl Dean and Audit Director Stacy Gibson from the Tennessee Department of Revenue on Tuesday afternoon to discuss the upcoming deadlines for local, state and federal tax relief opportunities for victims of the May flood. The press conference will be held at 1 p.m. at St. Luke’s Community House, 5601 New York Ave., which is also the location of one the five United Way’s Restore the Dream Centers that has been established throughout Davidson County. Restore the Dream Centers offer long-term case management and other assistance to Nashville flood victims. Services offered at the St. Luke’s center include counseling on the tax implications of flood damage and repairs. Flood victims may be eligible for a prorated property tax assessment, a state sales tax refund, and federal income tax write-offs. The last day for flood victims to apply for property tax relief is Wednesday, Sept. 1. More information is online at www.nashvillerecovery.com. WHO: Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) Mayor Karl Dean Stacy Gibson, Audit Director for the Tennessee Department of Revenue WHAT: Press Conference on Tax Relief Deadlines for Flood Victims WHEN: TOMORROW Tuesday, Aug. 31, 2010 at 1 p.m. WHERE: Mural Room at St. Luke’s Community House 5601 New York Ave. Photo Opportunity United Way’s Restore the Dream Center at St. Luke’s # # #
08.24.2010	Cooper will join Secretary Locke, Governor Bredesen and Mayor Dean for a discussion on Piracy and Intellectual Property Protection with Local Music Industry Leaders. August 27, 2010 NASHVILLE - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will welcome U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gary Locke to Nashville on Monday to hear from the music industry about the impact of rampant music piracy. Cooper, Secretary Locke, Governor Bredesen and Mayor Dean will be on hand for a discussion on music piracy and intellectual property with local music industry leaders. WHO: U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke Tennessee Governor Phil Bredesen U.S. Representative Jim Cooper (TN-5) Nashville Mayor Karl Dean WHEN: Monday, August 30, 2010 12:15 P.M. CDT Tour of “Music Row” with local leaders and music industry representatives Begins at: 1710 Roy Acuff Place Nashville, Tenn. 37203 Media Coverage: Press arrival time is 12:00 p.m. 2:00 P.M. CDT Discussion Forum on Intellectual Property Protection ** Attendance to the event is by invitation only. This event is not open to the public. ** Belmont University Maddox Grand Atrium 1900 Belmont Blvd. Nashville, Tenn. 37212 Media Coverage: Press arrival time is 1:45 p.m. Please RSVP by Monday if you would like to attend. If you have any questions, please contact Peter Boogaard at peter.boogaard@mail.house.gov or by phone at 202.374.1406. # # #
08.04.2010	August 4, 2010 Deadline to Apply for FEMA Disaster Assistance is Tomorrow, August 5 WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will continue his “Race to Register” campaign tomorrow with tours through West Nashville. The deadline to register for assistance is tomorrow, on Thursday August 5th. What: “Race to Register” Campaign When: TODAY 2:30 PM August 4, 2010 Where: West Nashville Corner of 53rd Ave. & Charlotte Ave (Cooper will meet at Wendell Smith Restaurant and drive to flood damaged areas throughout West Nashville) Cooper will continue touring flood damaged neighborhoods across Middle Tennessee throughout the week. He is encouraging anyone who hasn’t applied for disaster assistance to do so before the August 5th Deadline. Media advisories will be sent throughout the week with the updated “Race to Register” press schedule. If you have any questions, please reach out to Peter Boogaard at peter.boogaard@mail.house.gov or by phone at 202.374.1406. # # #
08.03.2010	August 3, 2010 Deadline to Apply for FEMA and SBA Disaster Assistance Just Two Days Away, Thursday, August 5 WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will continue his “Race to Register” campaign tomorrow with tours through East Nashville. The deadline to register for assistance is just 2 days away, on Thursday August 5th. What: “Race to Register” Campaign When: TOMORROW 10:00 AM August 4, 2010 Where: East Nashville 3748 Moss Rose Rd (If you are planning to attend the event, please follow up via email by 9:30 Wednesday morning) Cooper will continue touring flood damaged neighborhoods across Middle Tennessee throughout the week. He is encouraging anyone who hasn’t applied for disaster assistance to do so before the August 5th Deadline. Media advisories will be sent throughout the week with the updated “Race to Register” press schedule. If you have any questions, please reach out to Peter Boogaard at peter.boogaard@mail.house.gov or by phone at 202.374.1406. # # #
08.03.2010	August 3, 2010 Deadline to Apply for FEMA Disaster Assistance Just Three Days Away, Thursday, August 5th. WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will continue his “Race to Register” campaign this afternoon with tours in Antioch. The deadline to register for assistance is just 3 days away, on Thursday August 5th. Antioch When: TODAY 2:30 PM August 3, 2010 Where: Lighthouse Christian School 5100 Blue Hole Road, Antioch We will meet near the flag pole in front of the building. Cooper will be touring flood damaged neighborhoods across Middle Tennessee throughout the week. He is encouraging anyone who hasn’t applied for disaster assistance to do so before the August 5th Deadline. Media advisories will be sent throughout the week with the updated “Race to Register” press schedule. If you have any questions please reach out to Peter Boogaard at peter.boogaard@mail.house.gov or by phone at 202.374.1406. # # #
08.02.2010	August 2, 2010 Deadline to Apply for FEMA Assistance Just Three Days Away, Thursday, August 5 WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will continue his “Race to Register” campaign tomorrow morning with a tour of the Schermerhorn Symphony Center. Cooper has been touring flood damaged areas across Middle Tennessee to highlight the deadline to apply for FEMA and SBA benefits. The Schermerhorn suffered significant damage in the flooding and has undergone an intense recovery. What: “Race to Register” Campaign Where: Schermerhorn Symphony Center When: 10:15 AM TOMORROW Tuesday August 3rd Directions: Due to construction, press should arrive at the side entrance near 4th and Demonbreun. There is a gate where you can enter through the construction to get to the entrance. Cooper will continue touring flood damaged neighborhoods across Middle Tennessee throughout the week. He is encouraging anyone who hasn’t applied for disaster assistance to do so before the August 5th Deadline. Media advisories will be sent throughout the week with the updated “Race to Register” press schedule. If you have any questions please reach out to Peter Boogaard at peter.boogaard@mail.house.gov or by phone at 202.374.1406. # # #
08.02.2010	August 1, 2010 Deadline to Apply for FEMA Disaster Assistance Less than a Week Away, Thursday, August 5th WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will launch his “Race to Register” campaign to encourage Middle Tennesseans to register for FEMA and SBA Disaster Assistance. The deadline to register for assistance is less than a week away, on Thursday August 5th. Cooper’s Race to Register campaign kicks off TODAY, August 2nd in Bellevue, where he will be joined by FEMA Federal Coordinator Officer Gracia Szczech and SBA Senior Area Manager Saundra Jackson for a brief press conference on Harpeth Bend Drive. Following the press conference Cooper will tour flood damage throughout the neighborhood with Councilman Bo Mitchell and local Bellevue residents. Both events will be open to the press. What: Race to Register Campaign When: 10:30 AM Monday August 2nd Who: Congressman Jim Cooper and FEMA Federal Coordinator Officer Gracia Szczech SBA Senior Area Manager Saundra Jackson Where: 901 Harpeth Bend Drive Cooper will be touring flood damaged neighborhoods across Middle Tennessee throughout the week. He is encouraging anyone who hasn’t applied for disaster assistance to do so before the August 5th Deadline. Media advisories will be sent throughout the week with the updated Race to Register press schedule. If you have any questions please reach out to Peter Boogaard at peter.boogaard@mail.house.gov or by phone at 202.374.1406. # # #
07.30.2010	August 2, 2010 Deadline to Apply for FEMA Disaster Assistance Just Four Days Away, Thursday, August 5. WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will continue his “Race to Register” campaign this afternoon with tours in the Donelson and Two Rivers area. The deadline to register for assistance is just 4 days away, on Thursday August 5th. Two Rivers When: TODAY 1 PM August 2, 2010 Where: Two Rivers Baptist Church 2800 McGavock Pike Nashville, TN 37214 Donelson When: TODAY 2 PM August 2, 2010 Where: Donelson Christian Academy 300 Danyacrest Dr Nashville, TN 37214 Cooper will be touring flood damaged neighborhoods across Middle Tennessee throughout the week. He is encouraging anyone who hasn’t applied for disaster assistance to do so before the August 5th Deadline. Media advisories will be sent throughout the week with the updated “Race to Register” press schedule. If you have any questions please reach out to Peter Boogaard at peter.boogaard@mail.house.gov or by phone at 202.374.1406. # # #
07.27.2010	July 26, 2010 WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) applauded the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals decision that stopped the state of North Carolina from imposing its emission standards on TVA power plants in Tennessee. Cooper urged TVA to appeal a 2009 US District Court ruling in favor of North Carolina, and joined in filing an amicus brief on behalf of TVA. “This is a big win for Tennesseans,” said Cooper. “The court decision overturned the unjust ruling for North Carolina that would have burdened TVA with nuisance lawsuits, raising our electric rates unfairly. I worked hard to persuade TVA to appeal the lower court ruling and I am glad I did. Electric customers will be glad too.” In 2006, North Carolina sued TVA over air pollution blowing into North Carolina from power plants in Tennessee and Alabama. TVA was operating in compliance with Federal and Tennessee regulations and was in the process of meeting enhanced emissions standards scheduled by EPA. North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper (no relation) argued that because the plants were within 100 miles of the North Carolina border, they needed to abide by the North Carolina’s emissions standards. US District Judge Lacy Thornburg ruled in favor of North Carolina on January 13th, 2009. TVA claimed that the drastic timetable for changes would cause significant rate hikes for TVA customers. Congressman Cooper persuaded TVA Chairman Duncan to appeal the ruling and joined in filing an amicus brief just days before the appeal deadline. Chairman Duncan pursued the appeal and Cooper convinced seven Members of the Tennessee Congressional Delegation to join in signing the brief. Today, the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals overturned the District Court ruling, thereby protecting Tennessee ratepayers from significant electric rate increases. Cooper’s letter to TVA Chairman Duncan is attached, as is the amicus brief outlined by Cooper. # # #
07.26.2010	Energy and Water Subcommittee Appropriations Committee, U.S. Senate Washington, D.C. July 22, 2010 Thank you Senators Dorgan and Bennett, and to Senator Alexander for calling this hearing. I appreciate the opportunity to work with you on a bipartisan basis to make sure the public gets the facts about what happened in Tennessee during the great flood of 2010. The national news media may have downplayed the 2010 flood, but the world watched in admiration as Tennesseans immediately got to work repairing the water damage and rebuilding their lives, homes, and businesses. Neighbors helped neighbors, churches helped everyone, and no one waited for government assistance, although FEMA, SBA, and other agencies are thankfully doing their part. In my district, people are still volunteering, and donating, and wearing proudly the WE ARE NASHVILLE t-shirts in order to help everyone bounce back from the flood. The sad truth, however, is that thousands of Tennesseans are still hurting. They can never be made whole from what happened. The record rains could not be stopped, but people are demanding to know if the Army Corps of Engineers or the National Weather Service could have at least warned us of the imminent disaster, and done more to reduce it. The spookiest thing about the flood was the fact that so many cars were left in driveways, so many trucks in their terminals. So many families went to bed thinking they were safe. Lives could have been saved and hundreds of millions of dollars of damage averted with just a little warning. Who knew, for example, that even parts of our interstate highways were about to be under water? I just learned yesterday that one of Middle Tennessee's largest employers, A.O. Smith in Ashland City, a company that knows how to deal with the Cumberland River, lost 60,000 water heaters that were packed and ready for shipment. I welcome the Corps "After Action Report" that was released yesterday. The Corps worked hard on the document, and it is a good beginning to understanding what happened. The Corps itself still has a lot to learn, however, as it demonstrates on page 29, when it states incorrectly that "Metro Center... flooded," which is completely untrue. How the Corps could still not know the fate of this billion-dollar office park and commercial center months after the flood is hard to comprehend. Metro Center never flooded, thank goodness. In order to get the facts right, we still need to hear from witnesses that were present in Nashville during the flood, and to see their emails, texts, and records. There's no substitute for local, first-hand knowledge. We also need to see how the Corps performed according to their own computer modeling, a "what if" program that they have never volunteered. The best way to summarize the Report is to say it puts a cheerful face on some pretty ugly facts. The Corps admits to no less than 27 categories of problems with their performance during the 2010 Flood, so it's hard to see how the Corps could give itself a passing grade. Probably the ugliest findings are on page 62, when the Corps admits that, on the crucial day, the morning of Sunday, May 2nd, when an elderly couple in Nashville had already drowned getting to church, only then did Nashville Corps take the flood seriously enough to establish emergency operations. As the Corps admits, this key decision happened at least a day, and several lives, late. By then the Cumberland River had already risen 15.5 feet. As the Corps also admits, they were so unprepared that they did not even have a Standard Operating Procedure for 24/7 staffing, although TVA does it routinely (p. 266). The Corps had not read its Weather Service emails, determined who were essential personnel, or even established a telephone tree. I know Boy Scout troops that are better prepared than this. A second ugly finding is this: After the Corps finally declared the emergency on the morning of Sunday, May 2nd, the Corps did not fully inform the Weather Service - and therefore the public - about major water releases from Old Hickory Dam until 11 o'clock that night. This inexplicable, inexcusable, 16-hour delay kept the public from knowing that the Cumberland River was rising an additional 19 feet, just due to Old Hickory Dam alone. Nineteen feet is the greater part of the devastating 32-foot rise of the Cumberland River, and hardly anyone knew it was coming. The release of such a flood of water from Old Hickory was almost as if a water bomb were dropped on Nashville. The Corps now admits in its Report that it should have made clear to the Weather Service - and therefore to the public - by, at the latest, 1:30 Sunday afternoon - or almost ten hours earlier - that the Cumberland River was rising as if Old Hickory Dam had literally disappeared. People downstream had a right to know this vital information. Of course, the Corps uses drier, bureaucratic language, but it states (p.62) that it "assumed that... the [Weather Service] would run its [river forecasting] models as if the project were no longer present." These are sometimes called "free flow" or "run of river" conditions, similar to what would happen on a Cumberland River without any dams at all. The Corps still insists on calling this "technical information" but it can mean life or death for people downstream. The Corps blames the Weather Service for not understanding hydraulics, but why on earth couldn't the Corps warn them and us, in plain English, of the worst disaster in modern Tennessee history? The Corps can't blame the breakdown of the Internet for this one; the Corps was not able to explain the situation clearly while talking to the Weather Service on the telephone. To fix this staggering breakdown in communications, the Corps is promising such things as "annual Flood Table Top Exercises" with other agencies, and electronic updates for what the river levels (p. 270). In my opinion, that's not good enough to protect Nashville. Thankfully, at least three hours before the Corps realized that the Weather Service had been relying on bad information from the Corps, alert managers at the Opryland Hotel had already evacuated their 1,500 guests to safety. Opryland is the largest hotel in the world outside of Las Vegas, and a huge part of Nashville's tourism industry. They saved their guests by looking at the raging River with their own eyes, without any help from the Corps or the Weather Service. Another ugly fact from the Report is the admission that the Corps failed to use its own eyes on the river, personnel from the U.S. Geological Survey who knew about our River's gages and flood levels. These men and women were available to provide "real-time observations" (p.58) of the Cumberland River but were not called upon to do so, partly due to confusion and to privatization issues. As a result, the Corps had troops that it never deployed. There are dozens of other very serious questions raised by the Report. There were multiple failures of communication, failures of management, as well as some heroic efforts by some dedicated and experienced individuals. Bottom line: the Report leaves no doubt that the Army Corps and Weather Service could have done a much better job, and must do better in the future. Without such improvement, Tennessee is at terrible risk. We simply must solve these problems before the next flood or emergency. Thank you again for this hearing, and I look forward to placing additional questions in the record. # # #
07.26.2010	July 21, 2010 Cooper to Testify at Thursday Senate Hearing WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement on the Army Corps of Engineers’ just released After Action Report regarding the historical flooding in Middle Tennessee. “The Corps admits to 27 types of mistakes in managing the 2010 flood in this, their preliminary report on the disaster. Some were failures to communicate, others were failures to manage. The report is more detailed than I expected, but the Corps makes some additional mistakes in the report itself. For example, on page 29, the report says that on Monday, May 3rd, “Metro Center has been flooded” which was not true, and was never true. Fortunately, this billion-dollar office park and commercial center never flooded because the levees held. How could the Corps not know what happened to such an important part of our city and our region’s economy?” Cooper will testify at a Senate hearing on Thursday, July 22nd, regarding the Army Corps of Engineers performance during the flood. Cooper has been critical of the Corps’ response and has penned a three-part editorial on this subject for the Tennessean. The first two parts of the series are available on his website, cooper.house.gov. The final piece will run Thursday morning. # # #
07.23.2010	July 22, 2010 (Last of a three-part series.) Today, the Army Corps of Engi­neers will tes­tify before Con­gress on its per­for­mance dur­ing the his­toric flood. As I pointed out in this series, the Corps did not apply the lessons learned from the 1975 flood, and its struc­tural prob­lems lim­ited their response. The hear­ing should help start cor­rect­ing these problems. On its web­site, the Corps says that one of its top mis­sions is “to reduce risks from dis­as­ters.” There are two ways to do that: by prepar­ing us before a record rain­fall and by warn­ing us before the river rises to dan­ger­ous lev­els. Did the Corps pre­pare us or warn us? Here’s what hap­pened before the flood: The Corps uses mis­lead­ing words like 100-year, or 500-year, to describe rare events, often caus­ing peo­ple to under­es­ti­mate risk. Those adjec­tives do not mean you are safe for 100 years, or that you only face a 1 per­cent risk of flooding. Almost no one in low-lying areas of Nashville knew there was a 26 per­cent chance of seri­ous, 100-year flood­ing dur­ing their 30-year mort­gage. Dig deep into the Corps web­site and you’ll find it: Roughly 1 per­cent risk every year in a 100-year flood plain, and the risk adds up. Too few Nashvil­lians knew that they needed flood insur­ance to cope with a 26 per­cent risk. There are 11,496 at-risk res­i­den­tial and busi­ness prop­er­ties in David­son County inside the flood­way and 100-year flood plain, but only about 3,895 had flood insur­ance. In other words, only about one-third of those who needed insur­ance cov­er­age had it. The Corps also does a poor job of teach­ing us that liv­ing near a river gets riskier every year in fast-growing regions. Every new park­ing lot and build­ing changes the way that rain­fall reaches rivers. Homes and busi­nesses that are safe now may not be in the next decade, so every­one needs a mar­gin of safety. Here’s what hap­pened dur­ing the flood: Accord­ing to the press con­fer­ence that the Corps and the National Weather Ser­vice held in Nashville after the flood, “The Corps is not a 24/7 water man­age­ment oper­a­tion.” The weather ser­vice was, dur­ing the flood, “basi­cally, if you want to call it, run­ning blind.” The Corps increased the flow from Old Hick­ory Dam 22 times on the cru­cial day, Sun­day, May 2, but only updated the National Weather Ser­vice four times, prob­a­bly pre­vent­ing the weather ser­vice from mak­ing accu­rate forecasts. The Cum­ber­land River rose 19 feet in 16 hours that Sun­day, exclu­sively because of releases from Old Hick­ory Dam, which tripled that day to reach an all-time record. Hardly any­one down­stream knew that Old Hick­ory Dam was releas­ing more water than it ever had before. In a sense, it no longer was act­ing as a dam, because it was releas­ing every­thing it could. Lives were lost and hun­dreds of mil­lions of dol­lars of dam­age were done to vehi­cles, inven­tory and mov­able equip­ment sim­ply because we lacked even a few hours warn­ing of these mas­sive Cum­ber­land River flows. The Corps has never pub­licly vol­un­teered that it has a “what if” com­puter pro­gram that judges whether it could have run our dams better. It’s like play­ing chess against a computer. Will the Corps dis­close at today’s hear­ing how its per­for­mance scored? Nashville deserves to know if our dams could have been man­aged better. U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper, D-Nashville, rep­re­sents Tennessee’s Fifth Con­gres­sional District.
07.22.2010	July 22, 2010 "I know Boy Scout troops that are better prepared than this." WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) testified today at a Senate hearing regarding the Army Corps of Engineers performance during the flood. Cooper continued to be critical of the Corps’ actions and expressed his concerns in today’s testimony. “The Corps also admits, they were so unprepared that they did not even have a Standard Operating Procedure for 24/7 staffing, although TVA does it routinely. The Corps had not read its Weather Service emails, determined who were essential personnel, or even established a telephone tree. I know Boy Scout troops that are better prepared than this.” Cooper’s full statement is attached.
07.19.2010	July 18, 2010 by U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (This column is the second in a three-part series ) In order to find out what really happened during the Flood of 2010, the Army Corps of Engineers should release all of its records, including e-mails, texts and voice mails. We should know what they were saying inside and outside the Corps. The Nashville office of the Corps is run by a new lieutenant colonel every two years. He is the only active-duty officer in our branch but has zero experience in managing water. The current officer is a very good man but, without such experience, must follow the lead of his civilian staff. Military rules prohibit the lieutenant colonel from complaining about his position. Our Nashville office reports to the Corps regional office for the Ohio River and Great Lakes. That office is commanded by Maj. Gen. John Peabody, whose biggest headache is keeping the Asian carp out of Lake Michigan. Gen. Peabody will be testifying to Sen. Lamar Alexander's July 22 hear­ing on the Flood of 2010. According to his July 3 column in The Tennessean, he seems to have already decided that the Corps did its best during the flood. However, Gen. Peabody was not in Nashville during the flood. Gen. Peabody has another headache because he knows that at least two Corps officials from Washington headquarters were, by coincidence, in Nashville during the flood. From what they witnessed, they were demanding to know "what the heck is going on" with the Corps. The Corps' "after action" report is due to be released July 22. In the report, the Corps will be grading its own performance. As President Ronald Reagan liked to say, "Trust, but verify." Sen. Alexander's hearing will begin the verification process. The Corps' river missions are navigation, hydropower, recreation and flood control. These missions sometimes conflict because the first three require high water levels; the last requires low. Technically, the Corps does not promise flood control, only "flood damage management," which is obviously much less helpful to downstream residents. The Corps says that Old Hickory, the main dam on the Cumberland above Nashville, is primarily for navigation and hydropower, not flood relief. Who knew? Most people thought the dam was also for flood relief, just like they think that Old Hickory Lake is for recreation. The Corps has other ideas. According to the Corps, Cordell Hull, the next dam upriver on the Cumberland, is also primarily for navigation, not flood relief, although no barge has traveled there in years. If it's not being used for navigation, why can't it help reduce flooding? Percy Priest Dam on Stones River can reduce flooding, as can other tributary dams. On the Cumberland, however, only Wolf Creek Dam, deep in Kentucky, is for floods. Wolf Creek's lake is huge - larger than all of our area lakes com­bined - but its dam is under repair. We need to make sure the Corps does not whitewash what happened during the Flood of 2010. The public is entitled to the facts. We also need to understand the Corps' thinking. Under Corps management, there is no dam on the Cumberland River above Nashville whose purpose is "flood damage management," until you get 216 miles upstream to a broken dam. Too few Nashvillians knew how risky our river was before or during the flood.
07.13.2010	Long time policy expert Mel Bass takes reins of legislative operation. July 13, 2010 WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (D-TN) announced that Mel Bass will serve as the new Legislative Director in his Washington DC office. Bass grew up in Nashville and has been the Director of Federal Affairs for Vanderbilt University Medical Center since 2000. “We are very fortunate to have someone of Mel’s caliber taking the reins of our policy staff,” said Cooper. “Mel has distinguished himself throughout an extensive career on Capitol Hill and his close connection to Middle Tennessee will be an incredible asset to our Washington office. His leadership will allow our legislative staff to continue to do great work.” Bass, who has more than 30 years of policy experience, is a graduate of Georgetown Law School and is a US Naval Air Reserve Veteran. After law school, Mel was a criminal prosecutor and civil trial attorney in Tampa, FL. He served on the staffs of three Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, two Democrats and one Republican, and for Environmental Protection Agency under a Republican administration before leaving for several positions in the private sector. “I’ve known Jim for almost 20 years and I have always been impressed with his integrity and independent, visionary thinking,” said Bass. “It would be difficult to find a Member who digs as deeply on the issues or understands policy as well as Jim.” Bass replaces James Leuschen, who was recently named Senior Policy Advisor to Majority Leader Steny Hoyer. A front page story in today’s Roll Call about Leuschen’s departure and Cooper’s staff is linked here. ###
07.12.2010	July 11, 2010 By U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (This column is the first of a three-part series.) We don't know what will be in the Army Corps of Engineers' "after action" report on the 2010 Flood, but we can start comparing the Corps' performance this year with their actions in 1975, during Nashville's last big flood. So how did the Corps do in 2010 compared to 1975, given the record rains? The 1975 flood crested at 47.64 feet, took nine lives and resulted in $17 million in damages (about $70 million in today's dollars). The 2010 Flood crested at 51.86 feet, took 31 lives, and will probably cost $2 billion. The following quotes are from the Corps' 1975 report: "During the March 1975 flood, there were relatively few disruptions of normal communications (telephone, teletype and radio between the Corps, other agencies, and the public) and, in general, the reporting system functioned well." In 2010, the Corps lost Internet service on the crucial day, May 2. "Since operations of the Corps reservoir system drastically changes the flow regime of the Cumberland River, it is necessary for the National Weather Service to be kept current on all changes of flows at the dams ... very frequent communication with the Nashville office of the NWS was required." In 2010, the Corps was many hours late in telling NWS about dam releases. "To help control the flood crest of the Cumberland River at Nashville and further down-stream, the discharge at J. Percy Priest Dam was reduced to zero for 52 hours ..." In 2010, didn't Percy Priest continue to release water? "Spill­way gates (at Old Hickory Dam) were carefully operated ... permitting the pool to rise slowly to the full utilization of surcharge storage." In 2010, Old Hickory Lake rose very quickly. The (Corps) Emergency Operations Center was established "to supply information to other governmental organizations and to direct emergency units to critical areas ... and maintained liaison with mayors and county judges in flood-affected areas." In 2010, local officials and even Corps headquarters felt deprived of information about the flood. "About 100,000 sand­bags were issued by Corps personnel, and Corps pumps were made available to several communities in Middle Tennessee ... Corps field personnel were directly involved in evaluating peo­ple from flooded homes, laying sandbags, and operating pumps for dewatering." In 2010, what happened? Worse scenario predicted In fairness, regarding Nashville's flood future, the Corps warned: "A flood of similar or even greater magnitude than that of March 1975 could occur at any time ... no mat­ter how large a flood may have occurred on any given stream, a larger one will eventually occur. "The Corps advises people not to build homes in those areas subject to flooding. "In those areas where the ground is near the level of the highest flood recorded, the Corps urges developers to build a little higher, knowing that eventually there will be flooding greater than the flood of record." There has been and should be "an increasingly massive program of developing and providing flood-plain information to the public." Everyone knows that we had record rain in 2010, but does the rain explain the dif­fer­ences from 1975? The best parts of the Corps report were the sections warning us about the future, but few people ever saw the report. They warned, but they whispered. The worst part is that the Corps itself does not seem to have learned the lessons of the past. U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper represents Tennessee's Fifth Congressional District in Congress.
07.01.2010	July 1, 2010 First Children, Now Adults with Pre-Existing Conditions Will Have Access to Afordable Health Insurance. WASHINGTON - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) urged Tennesseans with pre-existing medical conditions to sign up for health care insurance offered as part of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Created under the ACA, which passed into law in March, the Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan (PCIP) is available today. PCIP is a transitional program until 2014, when individuals and small businesses will have access to more affordable private insurance choices through new competitive Exchanges. In 2014, an estimated 30 million people, including Members of Congress, will also purchase their insurance through these Exchanges. More information on how to apply is available on Cooper's website . "For too long, pre-existing conditions have locked millions of Americans out of the health insurance market," said Cooper. "Because of legislation we passed this year, more than 12,000 Middle Tennesseans who live with pre-existing conditions will finally have access to affordable health insurance." More information can be found at HealthCare.gov, a new website designed for consumers to research affordable health care coverage tailored specifically for their needs. A video tour to help users navigate the site is available here . # # #
07.01.2010	The Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan was created to make health insurance available to you if you have had a problem getting insurance due to a pre-existing condition. The Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan: Will cover a broad range of health benefits, including primary and specialty care, hospital care, and prescription drugs. Doesn’t charge you a higher premium just because of your medical condition. Doesn’t base eligibility on income. You will qualify for the Plan if: You are a citizen or national of the United States or lawfully present in the United States. You must provide a copy of a document that confirms your citizenship, such as a copy of your U.S. Passport, a copy of your birth certificate, a copy of your certificate of citizenship, or a copy of your naturalization certificate. You must have been uninsured for at least the last six months You must have had a problem getting insurance due to a pre-existing condition. To donwload an application click here: https://www.pcip.gov/Apply.html Frequently Asked Questions: https://www.pcip.gov/FAQ.html
07.01.2010	July 1, 2010 "Nothing should stand in the way of helping Middle Tennesseans rebuild." WASHINGTON -Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement after the Senate passed H.R. 5569, the National Flood Insurance Program Extension Act of 2010. Cooper cosponsored the legislation in the house, which passed last week. "Nothing should stand in the way of helping Middle Tennesseans rebuild. I'm glad the Senate has finally followed our lead and taken action." H.R. 5569 will extend the National Flood Insurance Program through September 30, 2010, without adding to the nation's federal debt. The legislation will allow the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to issue new flood insurance contracts, renew contracts for those that are expiring, and make changes to current contracts. The Small Business Administration (SBA) requires that certain businesses and homeowners have flood insurance in order to receive a disaster loan. The SBA will now be able to release preapproved loans for those who could not, up until now, purchase flood insurance. Cooper has been calling for an extension of the NFIP program since late May. Legislation passed last night also includes an extension of the closing date to qualify for the homebuyer's tax credit from June 30, 2010, to September 30, 2010. Cooper said this will help Tennesseans whose homes were under contract by April 30, 2010, but were delayed by the flood, by allowing them to still take advantage of the up to $8,000 tax credit. # # #
06.25.2010	June 25, 2010 FEMA, SBA Extend Individual Assistance and Proof of Loss Deadlines by 30 Days WASHINGTON - The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Small Business Association (SBA) has extended the 60 day Individual Assistance deadlines by 30 days for those individuals that suffered losses due to the historic floods in Tennessee on May 1st -3rd. FEMA also extended the 60 day Proof of Loss deadline by 30 days. Congressman Cooper worked in concert with Governor Bredesen and the entire Tennessee Congressional Delegation to request that these impending deadlines be extended. These FEMA and SBA deadlines, set to expire on July 6th, will now extend through August 5, 2010. Rep. Cooper applauded FEMA's decision: "Tennesseans deserve more time to get the paperwork done, whether it's to file a claim with FEMA, a Proof of Loss, or to apply for an SBA loan. I'm glad that we have an extra 30 days to get the help we need." FEMA and SBA provide individual disaster assistance for people whose homes and belongings have been destroyed in a declared disaster area which includes Nashville and the surrounding areas. Both FEMA and SBA impose a strict 60 day deadline to sign up for assistance, and those that fail to sign up are often left without recourse. Thanks to this extension being granted, those individuals will now have an additional 30 days (until August 5th) to sign up for assistance or to apply for a loan. Individuals in a declared disaster county that require assistance should call 800-621-FEMA (3362) or apply online at www.disasterassistance.gov. Individuals and businesses can apply for low-interest SBA loans online at www.sba.gov. Additionally, individuals with FEMA Flood Insurance are required to file a Proof of Loss claim within 60 days of the date of loss. With the unprecedented amount of natural disasters and floods across the country, there is a real danger that a lack of qualified and trained insurance adjusters could create delays that could run past the 60 day deadline. This would mean that thousands of Tennessee citizens with valid flood claims could see their claims denied before they can complete the necessary paperwork. Those insured homeowners will now have an additional 30 days from the date of their loss to file their Proof of Loss claim. Congressman Cooper will continue to work with Governor Bredesen and the Tennessee delegation to ensure that all available resources are available to the flood victims in our State. ###
06.15.2010	June 18, 2010 Corps decides not to produce post flood report on the 2010 Nashville and Tennessee Flood WASHINGTON - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) has learned that the Army Corps of Engineers' Washington leadership has decided not to produce a post-flood report on the 2010 Nashville and Tennessee flood because of budget considerations. Cooper is demanding a swift investigation into the Corps response to the flooding that began on May 2nd. "This is completely unacceptable," said Cooper. "I am stunned the Corps doesn't feel it is necessary to investigate their response to a multi-billion dollar disaster. The people of Middle Tennessee deserve answers. This shows a serious lack of accountability and leadership at the Corps." Cooper met with senior corps officials in Nashville on May 24th to discuss the Corps response to the flooding and was informed that they would be producing a post flood report. Cooper is demanding that Lieutenant GeneralRobert L. Van Antwerp, Chief of Engineers and Commanding General of the Army Corps, produce a post flood report on the flooding in Middle Tennessee. # # #
05.27.2010	May 27, 2010 "Nashville is rising after the flood" WASHINGTON -Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement after President Obama announced that a Department of Labor National Emergency Grant (NEG) has been approved to create 2,416 temporary jobs in Tennessee. Eligible dislocated workers would be employed to assist in the clean-up and recovery efforts from the severe storms and flooding in early May. "Nashville is rising after the flood and these funds will help put more than 2,400 Tennesseans to work rebuilding our great state. I am pleased the Federal Government has continued to take action to help Middle Tennessee recover from this terrible disaster." The Department of Labor has approved $4,674,400 with $1,752,900 released initially to the Tennessee Department of Labor and Workforce Development. The funds will be used to provide temporary employment on projects for the clean-up, demolition, repair, renovation, and reconstruction of destroyed public structures, facilities, and lands within the affected communities. Funds will also be used for projects that provide food, clothing, shelter, and other types of humanitarian assistance for disaster victims. Cheatham, Davidson and Wilson Counties were among the 30 counties covered by this grant.
05.26.2010	The AffordableCare Act has numerous provisions which take effect in 2010. Many ofthese provisions help to individuals who struggle to find insurance, including young adults and early retirees. Other provisions begin to reign in some of the worst practices of health insurance companies. Many of these provisions will start in July or September of this year. Here is a short list and links to more information about the provisions. Check back often, as this page will be updated as more information is made available.SMALL BUSINESS TAX CREDITS- Tax credits are made available to small businesses to make employee coverage more affordable. Tax credits of up to 35 percent of premiums will be available to firms that choose to offer coverage. Credits are available starting this year. START TO CLOSE THE MEDICARE PART D DONUT HOLE- Seniors who reach the "donut hole" under Medicare Part D will receive a $250 rebate to in 2010. Beginning in 2011, institutes a 50% discount on prescription drugs in the donut hole; also completely closes the donut hole by 2020. HELP FOR UNINSURED AMERICANS WITH PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS UNTIL EXCHANGE IS AVAILABLE (lNTERIM HIGHâ?RISK POOL ) -Provides access to affordable insurance for Americans who are uninsured because of a preâ?existing condition through a temporary subsidized highâ?risk pool. Coverage is now available. EXTENDS COVERAGE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE UP TO 26th BIRTHDAY THROUGH PARENTS' INSURANCE- Requires new health plans and certain grandfathered plans to allow young people up to their 26th birthday to remain on their parents' insurance policy, at the parents' choice. Effective September 23, 2010. Note: many insurance companies have began this provision early. Employer-sponsored plans can wait to make this change once a new plan year begins, so be sure to check with your insurer/employer to be sure. HELP FOR EARLY RETIREES- Creates a temporary reâ?insurance program (until the Exchanges are available) to help offset the costs of expensive premiums for employers and retirees for health benefits for retirees age 55â?64. Effective starting June 1, 2010. NO DISCRIMINATION AGAINST CHILDREN WITH PREâ?EXISTING CONDITIONS-Prohibits new health plans in all markets plus grandfathered group health plans from denying coverage to children with preâ?existing conditions. This begins for all new health plans offered after September 23, 2010. ENDS RESCISSIONS- Bans insurance companies from dropping people from coverage once they get sick. Effective starting September 23, 2010. FREE PREVENTIVE CARE UNDER MEDICARE- Eliminates coâ?payments for preventive services and exempts preventive services from deductibles under the Medicare program. Effective beginning January 1, 2011. BANS LIFETIME LIMITS ON COVERAGE- Prohibits health insurance companies from placing lifetime caps on coverage. Effective for plans which begin after September 23, 2010. NEW, INDEPENDENT APPEALS PROCESS- Ensures consumers in new plans have access to an effective internal and external appeals process to appeal decisions by their health insurance plan. Effective September 23, 2010. ENSURES VALUE FOR PREMIUM PAYMENTS- Requires plans in the individual and small group market to spend 80 percent of premium dollars on medical services, and plans in the large group market to spend 85 percent. Insurers that do not meet these thresholds must provide rebates to policyholders. Effective on January 1, 2011. HOLDS INSURANCE COMPANIES ACCOUNTABLE FOR UNREASONABLE RATE HIKES- Creates a grant program to support States in requiring health insurance companies to submit justification for all requested premium increases, and insurance companies with excessive or unjustified premium exchanges may not be able to participate in the new Health Insurance Exchanges. Starting in plan year 2011. The Department Of Health and Human Services has created a new Office of Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight which will monitor many of the major provisions of the historic health reform bill. I encourage you to check out their website for updated information in the coming weeks and months -
05.24.2010	May 24, 2010 "When it comes to earmarks and excessive spending, members of Congress need some parental supervision" NASHVILLE - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement after President Obama announced that he would be requesting the power of expedited rescission by sending the "Reduce Unnecessary Spending Act of 2010" to Congress. "When it comes to earmarks and excessive spending, members of Congress need some parental supervision. We have seen the success of strong budget enforcement tools like statutory PAYGO in the late 90's. We reinstated PAYGO to get the government back on a sound fiscal path. Expedited rescission can help keep us on that track." Cooper long championed re-instatement of PAYGO policies which passed into law earlier this year, and has been a strong supporter of expedited rescission. He is a cosponsor of an expedited rescission proposal introduced by Rep. Walt Minnick (ID-1) earlier this year and has supported Rep. Paul Ryan's (WI-1) similar legislation in past Congresses. For the 3rd consecutive year, Cooper refused to request earmarks and has praised the President for creating the Executive Deficit Commission, a proposal similar to the SAFE Commission sponsored by Cooper in the House. # # #
05.17.2010	NASHVILLE - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) presented a slideshow to the Nashville Downtown Rotary today calling for Congressional hearings on decisions made by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in the days and weeks prior to the historic flooding. Cooper's initial analysis, taken from material available publicly on the Corps' website, indicates further examination is needed. "This is not a blame game," said Cooper. "But, like Sen. Alexander has said, there should be an investigation into what could have been done differently. Congress may conclude that the Corps acted appropriately, but we have reason to proceed with a deeper inquiry." The entire presentation is available on Cooper's website. Related Articles New York Times: Army Corps is Criticized for Actions in Flood Fox News: Federal agencies: Poor communication hurt accuracy of forecasts ahead of Nashville deluge # # #
05.14.2010	May 13, 2010 WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) congratulated Jerry Martin on his confirmation as the next US Attorney for Middle Tennessee. Martin has been confirmed by the U.S. Senate, and is expected to be officially confirmed by President Obama on Friday. Cooper had this to say about the confirmation. "Jerry Martin will make a fantastic US Attorney and Middle Tennessee is lucky to have his service. He's home grown, incredibly bright, and offers new leadership to the US Attorney's office." Martin has been a leader in the local Tennessee community. He attended Webb Academy in Bell Buckle Tennessee before going to Dartmouth College and then attended law school at Stanford University. Martin returned home to Tennessee and worked at numerous local firms before joining Barrett, Johnston & Parsley where he became partner in 2007. Current US Attorney Ed Yarbrough has been the top prosecutor in Middle Tennessee since 2007 and is widely recognized with bringing much needed stability and leadership to the office. "Ed Yarbrough took on a troubled US Attorney's office and turned it in to a professional organization once again," said Cooper. "All Middle Tennesseans should be grateful for his leadership and exemplary service." # # #
05.13.2010	U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) representatives will be at the Disaster Recovery Centers to answer any questions about the SBA low-interest disaster loan program for homeowners, renters, businesses and private non-profit organizations of all sizes. These loans are to repair or replace real estate and/or personal property damaged by the storms and flooding. All DRCs in Middle Tennessee are now closed. If you would like information on Disaster Recovery Centers, visit www.DisasterAssistance.gov or call 800-621-FEMA (3362) or (TTY) 800-462-7585 for those with speech and hearing disabilities. Help in all languages is available.
05.13.2010	May 13, 2010 "The volunteer spirit has been magnificent. Now it's time for the government to step up" WASHINGTON -Congressman Jim Cooper's (TN-05) Resolution (H.Res. 1337) to honor those affected by last weekend's flood passed with unanimous support this afternoon. Congressman Cooper spoke on the House floor to commend the people of the Volunteer State for their incredible outpouring of kindness and compassion and reiterated the point that Nashville is open for business. "The volunteer spirit has been magnificent. Now it's time for the government to step up," said Cooper on the floor of the House. "Nashville is rising. That's the real message here. We are coming back and coming back strong." The entire Tennessee Congressional Delegation co-sponsored this legislation and spoke in support on the floor of the House. A clip of Congressman Cooper's floor speech is linked on his website at www.cooper.house.gov. # # #
05.11.2010	May 11, 2010 WASHINGTON-Tennessee's entire congressional delegation has asked President Obama to formally request funding in the upcoming Supplemental Appropriations bill, which will be marked up by the Senate Appropriation Committee on Thursday, to "help our state recover from the unprecedented flooding that affected Tennesseans in 52 counties from Memphis to Nashville." "According to NOAA and the Corps of Engineers, the flooding in Tennessee was the result of a 1,000-year rainfall event," the delegation wrote in their May 11th letter to President Obama. "We thank you for already designating 42 of the 52 counties requested by our governor as eligible for disaster relief. We also appreciate the efforts of FEMA Director Fugate and his staff as well as that of Secretaries Napolitano, Locke, and Donovan and Small Business Administrator Mills all of whom have visited Tennessee during the last week. "Tennesseans are helping themselves and their neighbors, but Tennessee will require federal assistance beyond what current emergency programs' funding can support. Because the Senate Appropriations Committee will mark up supplemental appropriations legislation that you have requested on Thursday, it is vital that a request for Tennessee flood relief come from the Office of Management and Budget as quickly as possible." The letter was signed by all members of the Tennessee congressional delegation: U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), and U.S. Representatives Phil Roe (R-Tenn. 1), John Duncan (R-Tenn. 2), Zach Wamp (R-Tenn. 3), Lincoln Davis (D-Tenn. 4), Jim Cooper (D-Tenn. 5), Bart Gordon (D-Tenn. 6), Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn. 7), John Tanner (D-Tenn. 8), and Steve Cohen (D-Tenn. 9). A copy of the letter is attached. # # #
05.10.2010	May 9, 2010 By U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper A federal tax cut for flood victims? It's not only a great idea, it's already the law. The best part is: the bigger your loss, the bigger your tax cut. And you don't have to wait until next year to benefit: You may amend your 2009 tax return to get your refund soon because you live in a federally declared disaster county. That's good news for taxpayers when they need it most. This tax break is separate from any FEMA, SBA or other government aid. Get your paperwork ready, because you must be able to prove your loss. Flood-caused damage to your car, home, or furnishings is a "casualty loss" that reduces your federal income taxes. Don't pretend everything was new; only claim damage due to the flood. Take pictures of all the stuff you've hauled to the curb because everything can be deducted. The IRS suggests 20 pages of losses. You can even deduct your entire home if it is declared unsafe by local government within 120 days of the flood. Of course, if you had insurance, file your claim with your agent. Insurance pays first, and you can't recover twice. But if you don't have insurance, or your coverage is limited - and you don't qualify for a federal grant - you can still cut your taxes. For example, the flood totaled your car worth $10,000. You have limited car insurance that pays $2,000. You may amend your 2009 tax return to show your $8,000 loss, or wait until you file your taxes for 2010. The IRS won't pay you $8,000, but will pay you a percentage of that amount, depending on your tax bracket (10-35 percent of $8,000). It's similar for business: Any damage to rental property, computers, displays, inventory, etc., can be deducted from your business taxes. You'll need to know the depreciated value of your income-producing property so you can deduct whatever insurance does not cover the loss. Even paperclips count. The deduction for direct flood damage has no dollar limit, to the extent you are a taxpayer and can document and itemize your loss. Businesses get a better deal than homeowners or renters, because businesses have no deductible. If it passes, the pending "extenders" bill in Congress lowers the household casualty deductible. Consult your tax adviser before you make any decisions. You can download the forms from the www.irs.gov website. Forms 1040 (Schedule L) and 4684 are key. Also, study the forms' instructions and workbooks. You will not be able to deduct termite damage or indirect expenses of the flood. For example, the cost of a rental car is not deductible unless it fits another provision of the code. And the cost of future flood prevention - like building a levee or flood-proofing a basement - is not deductible but may be capitalized. As we recover from the 2010 flood, I want you to get every penny of help you can get.
05.10.2010	May 7, 2010 NASHVILLE- President Obama has approved Governor Bredesen's Presidential Disaster Request for Wilson County. Robertson and Smith Counties have all been granted the Disaster Designation. Significant federal resources will now be available to those affected by this crisis. Cooper has appointed two members of his staff to focus specifically on Disaster Assistance Requests. Staff Attorney Lana Skelo and Director of Community Outreach Brenda Wynn will spearhead efforts in the Nashville office. They can be reached at 615-736-5295 or via email at lana.skelo@mail.house.gov and brenda.wynn@mail.house.gov. Please see Federal Disaster Declaration Fact Sheet attached. # # #
05.07.2010	May 7, 2010 NASHVILLE--Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano will visit Middle Tennessee tomorrow to discuss the impact of historic flooding resulting from severe weather, and view firsthand the response and recovery efforts. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) has been in constant contact with the Obama Administration since early Sunday morning and has been pleased with the great response. More details about the trip will be releases once they are finalized. # # #
05.07.2010	Below is some useful information about access to health care, including instructions on how to re-fill prescription medication which may have been lost in the flooding. Information on shelters and legal clinics is also available. Medical Needs Medicare Beneficiaries If you live in a county that declared an "emergency area" you have special rights under Medicare: Seeing a Doctor: - You can see any doctor that accepts Medicare patients, even if your health care need isn't an emergency. You will only have to pay the in-network rate during the emergency period. In some instances you may have to ask for reimbursement from your plan for out-of-area or out-of-network services received. - If you are in a Medicare Advantage plan (such as an HMO or PPO), you will not have to meet your plan's prior authorization and/or out-of-network rules. Getting your Prescription Drugs: - In general, you won't be required to go to your usual pharmacy for a replacement supply if you can't get to your prescription drugs, or if they are lost or damaged. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the federal agency that runs the Medicare Program, expects plans to lift the rules that would normally keep you from refilling your prescriptions earlier than needed. If you have questions or want more information call 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227). TTY users should call 1-877-486-2048. 1-800-MEDICARE can also give you your plan's contact information if you need it. BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee and CVS Caremark BCBS of TN and CVS Caremark announced on Friday May 7th that they were temporary lifting certain pharmacy restricts for those Tennessee impacted by recent floods, allowing individuals to refill their prescriptions early to replenish their supply. This guidance will last for up to three weeks. For more information about the waivers, members insured by BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee can call the customer service number found on the back of their ID card or go to www.bcbst.com The Dispensary of Hope The Dispensary of Hope is an organization that provides medications to patients in need. There are over 25 dispensaries throughout the State of Tennessee. If you need medicine, you can go online to the Dispensary of Hope and request assistance.https://www.dispensaryofhope.org/find-meds or call 1.888.428.HOPE (4673) or 615.284.6468 The Dispensary is anticipating an increase in demand for medications throughout Tennessee over the next 60 days and is accepting donations of medicine: Email: victoria.jones@dispensaryofhope.org or visit: https://www.dispensaryofhope.org/give-meds if you are able to help out. Remember: Always wash your hands with soap and clean water (tap water or water that has been boiled or disinfected): before preparing or eating food after toilet use after participating in flood cleanup activities after handling articles contaminated with flood water or sewage. Flood waters may contain sewage and other hazardous substances. Although skin contact with flood water does not, by itself, pose a serious health risk, there is some risk of disease from eating or drinking anything contaminated with flood water. If you have any open cuts or sores that will be exposed to flood water, keep them as clean as possible by washing well with soap to control infection. If a wound develops redness, swelling, or drainage, seek immediate medical attention. In addition, parents need to help children avoid illness. Do not allow children to play in flood water areas, wash children's hands frequently (always before meals), and do not allow children to play with flood-water contaminated toys that have not been disinfected. You can disinfect toys using a solution of one cup of bleach in 5 gallons of water. Shelters: For an up to the minute list of Red Cross Shelters, please visit: https://www.redcross.org/nss/ Mold Excess moisture and standing water contribute to the growth of mold in homes and other buildings. Infants, the elderly, or anyone with asthma, allergies and other breathing conditions may be sensitive to mold. People with immune suppression are also susceptible to mold infections. Two of the best sources of information about mold and what to do about it are the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) . Legal Clinics: There are a number of free legal clinics for those with questions about the disaster relief services available to them. Attorneys will be on hand to answer your questions on the following subjects: * Securing government benefits available to disaster victims * Filing life, medical and property insurance claims * Dealing with home repair contracts and contractors * Replacing missing or destroyed wills and other legal documents * Dealing with consumer protection matters, remedies and procedures * Counseling on mortgage-foreclosure problems * Counseling on landlord/tenant problems These service centers are currently open from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday - Saturday. No appointments are necessary. Bellevue Community Center 656 Colice Jeanne Road Nashville, TN 37221 Coleman Community Center 384 Thompson Lane (at Nolensville Rd.) Nashville, TN 37211 East Community Center 700 Woodland Street Nashville, TN 37206 Hadley Park Community Center 1037 28th Avenue North Nashville, TN 37208 Hermitage Community Center 3720 James Kay Lane Nashville, TN 37076 Repair Guidelines (from Metro Codes) Repairing electrical systems exposed to flood watr Restarting heating and cooling appliances Repair of water heaters exposed to flood waters
05.07.2010	May 7, 2010 “I have never been so proud to live in the Volunteer State” NASHVILLE - Today, Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) introduced a Resolution (H.Res. 1337) to honor those affected by last weekend's flood. Earlier this week, President Obama officially granted Governor Bredesen's Presidential Disaster Request for Tennessee. This was just one part of a series of actions taken by Cooper to increase national attention on the flooding in Tennessee. Cooper spoke this week on the floor of the House about the devastation he witnessed over the weekend. He commended the people of the Volunteer State for their incredible outpouring of kindness and compassion. "The good local people of Middle Tennessee have banded together and are volunteering in record numbers. I have never been so proud to live in the Volunteer State," said Cooper. Yesterday, Cooper invited Minister Tim Alexander of Smith Springs Church in Nashville to offer the opening prayer in Congress. Tim spoke about the damage in Middle Tennessee and the personal impact of the flood. Cooper then returned to Tennessee and immediately traveled to Cheatham County to meet with local and county officials about devastation in the area. Cheatham had been largely isolated during the flood due to road closures. # # #
05.07.2010	TODAY - FRIDAY, MAY 7, 2010 2:30 CDT - NASHVILLE LIBRARY NASHVILLE - In the wake of the catastrophic flood, many have been left with enormous problems, questions and concerns. Congressman Cooper will join local and state leaders at flood relief meeting for downtown businesses to answer questions and begin coordinating relief efforts. The community meeting will include a presentation by Congressman Jim Cooper who will address federal disaster relief programs. Douglas Miller, a representative from SBA, and Gracia Szczech, the FEMA Federal Coordinating Officer and Jim Bassham, the TEMA Director will be on hand to answer questions. Mayor Karl Dean's Office, state and local officials including Senator Thelma Harper, Reps. Mary Pruitt, and Mike Stewart Metro Council Lady Erica Gilmore and Councilman Mike Jameson. Also, Metro Department representatives will be on hand to address relief efforts, utilities restoration, downtown clean-up, volunteer coordination, and other issues. Downtown organizations including the Downtown Partnership, Convention & Visitors Bureau, DISTRICT Merchants Association and Urban Residents Association will also be on hand to discuss their organizational efforts. WHEN: TODAY - 2:30 pm CDT WHERE: Downtown Library 615 Church Street Nashville, TN 37208 We will gather in the library Auditorium -- the second hallway on your left upon entering. Signs will direct you. # # #
05.06.2010	Please check back here frequently. The President and Congress may authorize additional means of business disaster recovery in the upcoming days. Information about those programs will be available here when they become available. Small Business Administration Disaster loans through the Small Business Administration (SBA) are available to businesses to repair or replace destroyed or damaged business facilities, inventory, machinery, or equipment. The maximum loan amount is $ 2,000,000. 1. View my Step-by-Step Guide on getting help to rebuild your business 2. Find help with SBA Loans at a local Disaster Recovery Centers 3. Facts about Small Business Administration disaster loans 4. SBA Powerpoint Presentation on Disaster Recovery 5. Apply Online Now or visit our local Business Recovery Center: Nashville Business Recovery The Mayor of Nashville, in coordination with the Nashville Chamber of Commerce, has recently launched the Nashville Business Response Team as a means to centralize all of the available federal, state and local resources for business disaster recovery. One of the main focuses of the Business Response Team is to facilitate business-to-business assistance. 1. Area businesses that have been affected by the flood should sign up for help. 2. Area businesses that want to help in the recovery efforts should also sign up. Someone from the Business Response Team will contact you shortly after signing up for assistance. Tax Code Provisions If your business has been negatively impacted by a natural disaster, there are certain provisions of the United States tax code that you can take advantage of to offset losses. 1. Click here to read Jim's Article on these Tax Provisions 2. Download Tax Forms from the IRS Website New programs may become available if Congress passes the upcoming "tax extenders" bill, so please check back often. Please consult a qualified tax adviser before you make any decisions. STATE, LOCAL & COMMUNITY RESOURCES Tennessee Emergency Management Agency (TEMA) / 615-741-0001 / www.tnema.org Metro Nashville Community Hotline (Non-Emergency Number for Community Assistance) / (615) 862-8574 Tennessee Department of Health, Emergency Medical Services / (615) 741-2584 or (800) 778-4505 / https://health.state.tn.us/ Nashville Area Red Cross / (615) 250-4250 / www.nashvilleredcross.org Hands on Nashville, Community Volunteer Organization / (615) 298-1108 / www.hon.org Flood recovery information from Waller Lansden FEDERAL RESOURCES Federal Disaster Clearinghouse / www.disasterassistance.gov Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) / 800-621-3362, www.fema.gov Small Business Administration / 800-659-2955 / www.sba.gov IRS Disaster Helpline / 866-562-5227 USDA Farm Service Agency / 615-277-2600 National Flood Insurance Hotline / 800-427-4661 / www.floodsmart.gov National Flood Insurance Program Summary of Coverage INSURANCE COMPANY PHONE NUMBERS State Farm Fire and Casualty Co., 1-800-732-5246 Farm Bureau Insurance, 1-800-836-6327 Allstate Insurance Co., 1-800-767-7619 Nationwide Insurance Co., 1-800-421-3535 Traveler's Insurance Co., 1-800-252-4633 Farmers Insurance Group 1-800-435-7764 USAA (United Services Auto Association), 1-800-531-8111 Foremost Insurance Co., 1-800-527-3907 TIPS FROM TENNESSEE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND INSURANCE Locate a copy of your policy and read through it. Contact your insurance carrier or your agent as soon as possible after damage. Make a thorough inventory of all missing or damaged items. Take pictures inside and out for documentation before repairs are made. Secure and protect your property against further rain or other damage without making permanent repairs, so an adjustor can see the full extent of damage. Keep receipts for any expenses required to protect your property from further damage. Follow the claims-filing procedure set forth in your policy. If there is a dispute, follow the company's dispute process. Settlement offers from insurers can be negotiated. You don't have to take the first offer. If you have issues with an insurance company, call the Department of Commerce and Insurance at 1-800-342-4029. Avoid unscrupulous, unlicensed contractors who take advantage of homeowners anxious to rebuild after disasters by hiring only licensed contractors. Consumers may verify a license status by calling 1-800-544-7693 or checking online at https://licsrch.state.tn.us/. For non-insurance issues, call the Consumer Affairs hot line, 1-800-342-8385.
05.06.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} WE ARE HOME Program - a resource for residents in Davidson County affect by the flood. The program provides assistance for homeowners after FEMA and / OR SBA efforts are exhausted. The program offers grant and loan award packages to help homeowners repair and move back into their homes. For more information, visit the We Are Home website. Flood 2010 Victims should visit Nashville Flood Recovery's website to get up-to-date information on long term recovery plans and useful resources. https://www.nashvillerecovery.com/Guide to Rebuilding Your Home After a Disaster 1. View my Step-by-Step Guide to rebuild your home. NOTE: Whether it's a broken lamp or ripped-out floors, take pictures and document any losses you have. This information will be helpful to FEMA inspectors and IRS records to determine your losses. 2. If you are forced to evacuate your home, staying in a hotel or even with a relative, FEMA Housing Assistance is available to cover some of these costs. Register for Housing Assistance at www.DisasterAssistance.gov or call 800-621-FEMA (3362). 3. FEMA provides individual disaster assistance for people whose homes and belongings have been destroyed in a declared disaster area. This assistance will only cover costs to bring your home up to a minimally habitable standard. FEMA will come to your home to inspect the damages. FEMA assistance is capped at $29,900, including any Housing Assistance you may have received. Register for Individual Assistance at www.disasterassistance.gov or call 800-621-FEMA (2262) What you need to gather for the process: Homeowners - Find proof of home ownership. Examples include a tax bill, deed, mortgage payment receipt or insurance policy with the property's address (policy does not have to be flood insurance). If you do not have access to any of the items above, you should contact the appropriate agency to request a copy of the receipt or policy. Renters - Find proof that you are renting this property. Examples include your lease, rent payment receipt, utility bill or other document confirming that the home was your primary residence at the time of the disaster. If you do not have access to the items above, you should contact the property owner and your utility providers. 4. Homeowners with a FEMA Flood Insurance Program should learn about your flood insurance coverage 5. Low interest personal property loans and physical disaster loans are also available to homeowners and renters in a declared disaster area through the Small Business Administration. Personal property loans (capped at $40,000) are available to renters and homeowners for the purpose of replacing personal property that is not part of their real estate or home structure. Physical disaster loans (capped at $200,000) are available to homeowners for the purpose of repairing or rebuilding a home that was destroyed by the floods. Apply for an SBA disaster loan for individuals at SBA.gov 6. Click here for a listing of community resources including contact information for medical needs, shelters and legal aid clinics. 7. Excess moisture and standing water contribute to the growth of mold in homes. Infants, the elderly, or anyone with asthma, allergies and other breathing conditions may be sensitive to mold. People with immune suppression are also susceptible to mold infections. Two of the best sources of information about mold and what to do about it are the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) .
05.06.2010	TODAY - THURSDAY, MAY 6, 2010 7:10 CDT - ASHLAND CITY NASHVILLE - Congressman Jim Cooper will meet with local officials from Cheatham County in Ashland City to get an update on the disaster response. Cheatham has been largely isolated since flooding forced the closure roads surrounding the area. Black Hawk Helicopters were airlifting Meals Ready to Eat (MREs) into the region. WHO: Congressman Jim Cooper Cheatham County and City Officials WHAT: Meeting with Local Officials from Cheatham County on Disaster Response WHEN: TODAY - Approximately 7:15 p.m. CDT WHERE: 101 Court Street - Ashland City Court House # # #
05.06.2010	May 6, 2010 WASHINGTON- Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) is issuing an informational handout with step-by-step instructions to help Middle Tennesseans Business's get access to federal disaster assistance. President Obama has already granted Governor Bredesen's request for Federal Emergency Assistance for ten Tennessee counties. FEMA has said that more damage surveys have been scheduled and more counties and additional forms of assistance may be designated after the assessments are fully completed in the affected areas. Cooper has appointed two members of his staff to focus specifically on Disaster Assistance Requests. Staff Attorney Lana Skelo and Director of Community Outreach Brenda Wynn will spearhead efforts in the Nashville office. They can be reached at 615-736-5295 or via email at lana.skelo@mail.house.gov and brenda.wynn@mail.house.gov. Cooper's informational handout is attached. # # #
05.05.2010	May 4, 2010 WASHINGTON- Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) is issuing an informational handout with step-by-step instructions to help Middle Tennesseans get access to federal disaster assistance. President Obama granted Governor Bredesen's request for Federal Emergency Assistance for Cheatham, Davidson, Hickman and Williamson counties, earlier this evening. FEMA said that damage surveys have been scheduled and more counties and additional forms of assistance may be designated after the assessments are fully completed in the affected areas. Cooper has appointed two members of his staff to focus specifically on Disaster Assistance Requests. Staff Attorney Lana Skelo and Director of Community Outreach Brenda Wynn will spearhead efforts in the Nashville office. They can be reached at 615-736-5295 or via email at lana.skelo@mail.house.gov and brenda.wynn@mail.house.gov. Cooper's informational handout is attached. # # #
05.04.2010	May 4, 2010 Washington- President Obama has approved Governor Bredesen's Presidential Disaster Request for Tennessee. Cheatham, Davidson, Hickman and Williamson Counties have all been granted the Disaster Designation. Significant federal resources will now be available to those affected by this crisis. Cooper has appointed two members of his staff to focus specifically on Disaster Assistance Requests. Staff Attorney Lana Skelo and Director of Community Outreach Brenda Wynn will spearhead efforts in the Nashville office. They can be reached at 615-736-5295 or via email at lana.skelo@mail.house.gov and brenda.wynn@mail.house.gov. Click here to read FEMA's Disaster Declaration Fact Sheet. # # #
05.04.2010	Dealing with a Disaster at Home During a disaster, federal, state and local agencies work together to help communities react and recover. Please review information on my disaster relief efforts. Preparing for a Disaster Before a disaster strikes, work with your family to create a plan. Check out our recommendations to "Build a Kit, Make a Plan and Be Informed." Just a little preparation and planning can make a big difference if you are ever in a disaster situation. Dealing with a Crisis Overseas If you or your loved one are overseas during a crisis, we can assist in coordinating emergency information with the State Department. We will send you updates and travel advisories with the latest information (See an example: Egypt Travel Alert for February 2011) . We recommend that all international travelers register with the Smart Traveller Enrollment Program, STEP, a free program from the Department of State that allows you to register your travel with the nearest embassy and provide any necessary updates directly to you. If you need emergency passport assistance, visit this website and contact my office. Flooding in Nashville, May 2010 From Lebanon to Bellevue, downtown Nashville to Antioch and all areas inbetween, the challenges facing our communities are daunting, but I am committed to ensuring that we emerge from this disaster stronger and more vibrant than ever. Thanks to the dedication of local officials and thousands of volunteers, we've had the best community response ever to any disaster. Now my job is to make sure that the federal government responds with the same determination. We should also examine what could have been done differently in the days and weeks prior to the flooding. Our community is planning for a long term recovery. The United Way, in partnership with other agencies, has launched Restore the Dream centers where caseworkers work individually with victims to try to meet the needs of each household. Visit the Restore the Dream website for additional information. I will continue working with local and state officials and other community agencies on recovery efforts in the months and years to come. If you have a specific question about your Disaster Relief FEMA or SBA case, please contact Lana Johnston in the Nashville Office at (615) 736-5295. Federal Assistance Available Disaster Relief Tax Cut: You may be able to claim a deduction for much of the damage to your home or business for losses not covered by your insurance, FEMA or an SBA loan. Click here to read my op-ed for more details. Assistance is available for homeowners, renters and businesses through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Small Business Administration (SBA). To see other counties in Tennessee who qualified for FEMA assistance, view FEMA's Disaster Declaration Map for Tennessee. For links to other helpful information from FEMA, click here.CAUTION: **Please note that a FEMA official will not ask for your Social Security number except on your initial call to them. For more information on Flood Disaster related scam, please click here.** Information for Flood Victims Please use the links below to navigate: Question About Federal Assistance? - Please let us know if you have a question about your FEMA or SBA flood-related issue. Resources for Homeowners - Provides information and guidelines to those who have suffered home damage. Resources for Business Disaster Recovery - Includes state, community, and federal resources. Provides information on Small Business Administration disaster loans, insurance contact information, and guidelines for how to rebuild your small business. Community Resources - Provides information on health care, appliance repair, legal clinics and shelters. Volunteer Efforts - See where you can go to help. Latest News and Updates May 2, 2011 MEMBERS OF TENNESSEE DELEGATION SEND LETTER TO PRESIDENT SUPPORTING GOV. HASLAM'S DISASTER DECLARATION REQUEST April 25, 2011 DISASTER PREPAREDNESS TIPS COOPER AND RED CROSS TO HOST DISASTER AWARENESS EVENT April 24, 2011 'NASHVILLE RISES' DOCUMENTARY SCREENING January 12, 2011 COOPER COMMENTS ON NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE FLOOD REPORT November 29, 2010 FEMA AWARDS MORE THAN $7 MILLION TO DAVIDSON COUNTY FOR HOME BUYOUTS COOPER CELEBRATES RE-OPENING OF FLOODED HOMES August 4, 2010 COOPER AND DEAN PROMOTE TAX RELIEF FOR FLOOD VICTIMS COOPER CONTINUES RACE TO REGISTER CAMPAIGN IN WEST NASHVILLE August 3, 2010 COOPER CONTINUES RACE TO REGISTER CAMPAIGN IN ANTIOCH COOPER CONTINUES RACE TO REGISTER CAMPAIGN IN ANTIOCH August 2, 2010 COOPER CONTINUES RACE TO REGISTER CAMPAIGN COOPER WILL CONTINUE RACE TO REGISTER CAMPAIGN August 1, 2010 COOPER LAUNCHES RACE TO REGISTER CAMPAIGN July 22, 2010 THE TENNESSEAN PUBLISHES THE FINAL ARTICLE IN MY THREE-PART SERIES EXAMINING THE CORPS' ROLE IN THE FLOOD COOPER TESTIFIES AT CORPS HEARING STATEMENT AT THE SENATE HEARING ON THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS' ACTIONS DURING THE FLOOD July 21, 2010 COOPER CRITICAL OF CORPS' PRELIMINARY FLOOD REPORT July 18, 2010 THE TENNESSEAN PUBLISHES THE SECOND OF MY THREE ARTICLES LOOKING AT THE CORPS' ROLE IN THE 2010 FLOOD July 11, 2010 THE TENNESSEAN PUBLISHES THE FIRST ARTICLE IN MY THREE-PART SERIES EXAMINING THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS' ROLE IN THE 2010 FLOOD July 1, 2010 COOPER PRAISES NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE AND HOME BUYERS TAX CREDIT EXTENSIONS June 25, 2010 FLOOD RELIEF DEADLINES EXTENDED 30 DAYS June 18, 2010 COOPER BLASTS CORPS DECISION ON FLOOD May 27, 2010 NATIONAL EMERGENCY GRANT TO CREATE 2,400 JOBS IN TENNESSEE May 17, 2010 COOPER CALLS FOR FEDERAL INVESTIGATION May 13, 2010 RESOLUTION TO HONOR VICTIMS OF FLOOD PASSES WITH UNANIMOUS SUPPORT May 11, 2010 TENNESSEE DELEGATION REQUESTS FUNDING TO SUPPORT FLOOD CLEAN UP, RECOVERY May 9, 2010 TENNESSEAN OP-ED: TAX BREAK AVAILABLE FOR FLOOD DAMAGE May 7, 2010 PRESIDENTIAL DISASTER DECLARATION APPROVED FOR WILSON COUNTY SECRETARY NAPOLITANO TO VISIT FLOOD DEVASTATION IN MIDDLE TENNESSEE COOPER INTRODUCES RESOLUTION TO HONOR VICTIMS OF FLOOD FLOOD RELIEF COMMUNITY MEETING FOR DOWNTOWN MERCHANTS AND RESIDENTS May 6, 2010 MEETING WITH CHEATHAM COUNTY OFFICIALS ON DISASTER RESPONSE COOPER ISSUES FEMA ASSISTANCE INSTRUCTIONS FOR SMALL BUSINESSES May 4, 2010 COOPER ISSUES FEMA ASSISTANCE INSTRUCTIONS PRESIDENTIAL DISASTER DECLARATION APPROVED FOR TENNESSEE TENNESSEE DELEGATION SUPPORTS GOVERNOR'S REQUEST FOR FEDERAL ASSISTANCE PRESS CONFERENCE WITH RED CROSS ON FLOOD RELIEF EFFORTS May 3, 2010 COOPER STATEMENT ON TENNESSEE FLOODING CRISIS
05.04.2010	There are many local and national organizations that are uniting to help Middle Tennessee recover. Below are a few ideas for what you can do to help. Volunteer through Hands on Nashville Donate to relief efforts through the Red Cross Learn what you can do by visiting The Community Foundation of Middle Tennessee
05.04.2010	May 4, 2010 Members Outline State's Response in Letter to President WASHINGTON, May 4, 2010 - Tennessee's entire Congressional delegation has asked the President to approve Governor Phil Bredesen's request for disaster relief following weekend storms and flooding in Tennessee. "We are writing to express our support for Tennessee Governor Phil Bredesen's request for disaster relief for 52 counties hit hard by recent storms in Tennessee," the state's U.S. Senate and U.S. House Members wrote in their May 4 letter to President Obama. The delegation outlined the diligent work of the Tennessee Emergency Management Agency (TEMA) in coordinating state agencies' response to help families and businesses impacted by the storms and flooding that began April 30. The letter is signed by Senators Lamar Alexander and Bob Corker and Congressmen Marsha Blackburn, Steve Cohen, Jim Cooper, Lincoln Davis, John Duncan, Bart Gordon, Phil Roe, John Tanner and Zach Wamp. "As these disasters have placed a significant financial burden on the State, local government and individuals impacted, the state of Tennessee is requesting joint FEMA-State Preliminary Damage Assessments be conducted as soon as waters have receded enough to make reasonable determinations," the delegation wrote. # # # The full text of the letter follows: May 4, 2010 The Honorable Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President, We are writing to express our support for Tennessee Governor Phil Bredesen's request for disaster relief for 52 counties hit hard by recent storms in Tennessee. Beginning Friday, April 30, 2010, and continuing through the weekend, severe storms, tornadoes and flooding struck numerous counties in our state causing significant damages. Tennessee Emergency Management Agency (TEMA) officials have worked diligently to coordinate the state's response to this tragedy. Governor Bredesen is employing significant resources from several of the state's departments, including TEMA, Department of Environment and Conservation, Department of Health, Department of Human Service, Department of Transportation, Department of Safety, Tennessee Wildlife Resources Agency, and Civil Air Patrol to provide support and relief for the impacted areas. Public Assistance will also be requested in all categories, including Individual Assistance - Individuals and Households Program (IHP); Disaster Unemployment Assistance; Crisis Counseling; Disaster Food Stamp Program; American Bar Association Young Lawyers Legal Aid; and Small Business Administration disaster loans. As these disasters have placed a significant financial burden on the State, local government and individuals impacted, the state of Tennessee is requesting joint FEMA-State Preliminary Damage Assessments be conducted as soon as waters have receded enough to make reasonable determinations. Thank you for your consideration of this request for relief for Tennesseans suffering from these events. Please contact our offices if you have any additional questions. Sincerely, Lamar Alexander, United States Senator Bob Corker, United States Senator Jim Cooper, Member of Congress Bart Gordon, Member of Congress John Duncan, Member of Congress John Tanner, Member of Congress Zach Wamp, Member of Congress Marsha Blackburn, Member of Congress Lincoln Davis, Member of Congress Steve Cohen, Member of Congress Phil Roe, Member of Congress
05.04.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Conference TODAY, May 4th, at 9 AM Nashville - The Red Cross and Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will hold a press conference today at 9:00 AM to address the severe flooding in Middle Tennessee. The event will provide an update on how the Red Cross is responding to this situation including information on resources and available aid. The event is open to all media. Who: Congressman Jim Cooper and Joel Sullivan President of the Nashville Area American Red Cross Chapter Time: Tuesday May 4th, 2010 9:00AM Location: American Red Cross Disaster Operations Center 2201 Charlotte Avenue Nashville, TN 37203 Press is advised to arrive by 8:45AM. Press inquiries can be directed to Mitch Turner in the Nashville Area Red Cross or Peter Boogaard in Congressman Cooper's office.
05.03.2010	May 3, 2010 Nashville - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement on the flooding crisis in Middle Tennessee. "I want to thank Mayor Karl Dean and his team for their extraordinary work these last few days. Their quick action and their dedication saved many lives in Middle Tennessee, and we are all grateful. This morning, my colleagues, Lincoln Davis, Steve Cohen, Marsha Blackburn and I sent a letter to Governor Bredesen asking for his swift action in seeking federal support in the wake of this disaster. Already the Governor has provided substantial support to local governments with needed equipment and resources. I will join the Governor and the Mayor this afternoon to view the devastated area and will work with these leaders and the Obama Administration in the coming days and weeks to generate the necessary response. If Federal Disaster Designation is granted, I will work with all Middle Tennesseans in their efforts to recover from this disaster by use of federal support. Most importantly, I want to convey my sympathy to the families who lost loved ones during this thousand year event." The letter, organized by Cooper, is attached here . # # #
04.30.2010	Under Health Reform, Small Businesses that offer health insurance to their employees can receive tax credits to help offset the cost of coverage. In 2010, Small Businesses will have access to tax credits to help cover the cost of providing health insurance for their employees. These credits are worth up to 35% of what employers pay for their employees' health care coverage. In 2014, the credit value rises to 50%. The credits are based on a sliding scale dependent upon a firms size and average employee wages. As well, starting in 2011, small businesses can get grants for up to five years to establish wellness programs. Here is a calculator to estimate the tax credit. IRS has a variety of information available to help Small Businesses take advantage of these credits: Click here to learn more about the eligibility rules and the 3 simple steps to qualify. There are also Frequently Asked Questions which provide insight into eligibility and the calculation of the credit. Confused about your specific situation? The IRS has a variety of scenarios to help illustrate how the credit applies in different situations. On May 17th, the IRS released more detailed guidance for small businesses who qualify for the tax credit.
04.29.2010	April 29, 2010 Washington- Today, Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) posted a video on his website from an informational health care discussion he hosted earlier this month. This was the 11th event where Cooper has given his health care presentation since reform legislation was signed into law last month. Over 1,100 people have recently attended health care meetings where Cooper was invited to present. "No matter how ‘exciting' my staff tells me my presentations are, I know most people can't make time in their busy schedule to attend," said Cooper. "Even if you haven't had the chance to go to one of my events, I wanted to give everyone the opportunity to hear from me about how this legislation is going to affect Middle Tennesseans." Video from the event is available at www.cooper.house.gov, along with an entire section devoted to health care reform including links to information about how this bill will affect the community and the provisions in the bill that will take effect in the next few months. The video features a slide show by Cooper and remarks from three local health care experts: Dr. Karl VanDevender, President of the Frist Clinic Medical Group, Dr. John Sergent of Vanderbilt Medical Center, and Nancy Anness, MSN, APN and Vice President of Advocacy, Access and Community Outreach at Saint Thomas Health Services. View the video here # # #
04.28.2010	April 28, 2010 University School of Nashville junior, Chelsea Velaga, will have work displayed in U.S. Capitol Nashville-Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) on Saturday hosted the Reception and Awards Ceremony for the 2010 Congressional Art Competition. Congressman Cooper is pleased to announce that this year's winner is Chelsea Velaga, an eleventh grader at the University School of Nashville. Chelsea's winning piece, a pencil drawing entitled "Self Portrait", stood out from over 100 pieces of artwork that entered the competition. Honorable Mention this year goes to McGavock High School Eleventh grader Patrick Cartwright for his pencil drawing entitled "Do You Feel What I See?" "This is one of my favorite events of the year," said Cooper. "I am always impressed by the artistic talent of our students in Middle Tennessee. Chelsea's drawing is a wonderful piece of art, and we all should be proud to have it representing us in Washington." As first place winner from the 5th District, Chelsea's artwork will be displayed in a special exhibit at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. and be seen by millions of people.
04.21.2010	April 21, 2010 "We need to shine a light on the redistricting process. The public deserves to know how this really works." Washington- Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) has co-sponsored bipartisan legislation that would ease Congressional gridlock by letting the public participate in the redistricting process which takes place every ten years after the Census. The bipartisan "Redistricting Transparency Act" (H.R. 4918) seeks to stop political gerrymandering, the drawing of Congressional district lines to protect incumbents. In many districts, incumbents only need to rally their base to secure victory, leaving the minority and independent voices out of the process. "We need to shine a light on the redistricting process," said Cooper. "The public deserves to know how this really works." The "Redistricting Transparency Act" was introduced by Reps. John Tanner (D-TN) and Mike Castle (R-DE) and has been endorsed by the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition. It requires open hearings and a public website in each state with data on Congressional districts so the public can watch and participate in the system by which district lines are drawn following the release of Census data. "Both political parties conspire to produce congressional districts that are either heavily Democratic or Republican," Cooper said. "They draw maps that may look like snakes, salamanders, butterflies and octopuses to zone certain voters in, and out, of districts. This is not only unfair to independent voters, but all voters, because it creates a Congress of highly-partisan representatives when most Americans are centrists. It also means that the most important elections are the party primaries, not general elections. This is wrong and the Tanner bill will help stop it." The 5th District is the most politically balanced in Tennessee at D+3. The public process would be overseen by the state's redistricting entity, whether it is the state legislature or another body, such as an independent commission as outlined in the "Fairness and Independence in Redistricting (FAIR) Act" (HR 3025, Tanner/Castle), a comprehensive redistricting reform bill also endorsed by the Blue Dog Coalition in the 109th, 110th and 111th Congresses. A map of Tennessee's congressional districts can be found here . A summary of the Redistricting Transparency Act and a fact sheet on gerrymandering provided by the Office of Congressman John Tanner are attached. # # # Summary of HR 4918 Gerrymandering by the Numbers
04.20.2010	April 20, 2010 NASHVILLE- Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN) and Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA), the House authors of legislation that would create a bipartisan commission to address the nation's growing debt, released a letter to the newly-formed Commission Chairmen. The letter was submitted as part of the public comment period to the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, whose first meeting is scheduled for April 27th in Washington, D.C. Cooper and Wolf first introduced the SAFE Commission Act (H.R 1557) in September 2007. The bipartisan legislation set a timeline for Congress to act on the nation's long-term fiscal crisis. The SAFE Commission Act would have created a BRAC-style commission to reform spending and taxes in the event that Congress failed to take timely action. For several years, the measure failed to achieve sufficient support in the House and the Senate, including a high-profile vote in the Senate this spring when seven Republican co-sponsors of the legislation abandoned their support when the measure finally came for a vote. In response, President Obama issued an executive order to create a commission based on the SAFE Commission Act. The Commission is being led by two prominent Americans, former Republican U.S. Senator Alan Simpson (WY) and former Clinton White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles. April 17, 2010 Mr. Erskine Bowles The Honorable Alan Simpson Co-Chairmen, National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform c/o Bruce Reed 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, D.C. 20502-0001 Dear Mr. Bowles and Senator Simpson: As members of Congress who authored legislation with 115 cosponsors to establish a bipartisan commission (the Securing America's Future Economy [SAFE] Commission Act) to address our nation's financial crisis, we are critically aware of the tsunami of debt and unfunded liabilities quickly approaching our nation's shores. For some four years we have worked to bring this issue to the forefront of the national conversation. We were disappointed when the Senate in January rejected a similar proposal put forth by Senators Conrad and Gregg, and regret that the House never took a vote on the SAFE Commission. With this absence of congressional action, the reality today is that the president created the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform that you co-chair. Your commission has a formidable task. There are no easy solutions in charting a sustainable financial course for our country. Look at the staggering numbers our nation faces: nearly $62 trillion in unfunded liabilities, nearly $13 trillion in public debt, an annual deficit of over $1 trillion, the $4 billion spent each week solely for interest payments on the debt. In a few positive ways the president's commission is similar to the SAFE Commission. We also called for putting all policy options on the table for discussion - entitlement spending, other program spending, and tax policies - to put America on a sustainable financial path. We also understand that any hope of success in securing our country's financial future must be thoroughly bipartisan. While the president's commission is structured with bipartisan appointments, membership of the bipartisan SAFE Commission would be a mix of members of Congress and the best minds associated with budget and economic policies outside of Congress who can devote the time necessary to this critical process. There are several important differences, however, between the SAFE Commission and the president's commission. We believe for any plan to succeed, the American public must be included and Congress must be required to act. Without those critical components, there exists the distinct probability that any deficit commission's work will be a wasted exercise with its report destined to collect dust on a bookshelf. First, we developed our legislation as an authentic and bipartisan process that involves the American people as partners with the members of the commission. We provided the commission with the time necessary to thoroughly engage the American people in a national dialogue and educate the public about the scope of the country's financial conditions and solutions to the problem. It is crucial that members of the public be allowed to participate and "by in" to this process. Decisions and recommendations cannot be made within the Beltway vacuum or over a weekend at Andrews Air Force Base. We called for the SAFE Commission to spend 12 months conducting town meetings around the country, in every Federal Reserve district, and then to present Congress an initial report describing the long-term fiscal problems, public suggestions and views from the town meetings, and policy options available. We urge you to set up a schedule of public meetings across the country to listen to the American people. Second, the SAFE Commission, unlike the president's commission, mandates that Congress vote up or down on the commission's recommendations. While we understand that both Senator Reid and Speaker Pelosi have said that a vote will occur, a promise of a vote differs substantially from a requirement for a vote. Third, we are concerned that any delay in getting the president's commission up and running may cause the timetable for the commission to be rushed. As you know, the president's commission was established by executive order on February 18. It has taken over two months to appoint the commissioners and set the first meeting on April 27. Under the SAFE Commission legislation, after its year-long public hearings schedule and its initial report, the panel would have 60 days to develop a legislative package and with a bipartisan three-quarters majority vote, send its recommendations to Congress. Then the administration and both the majority and minority in Congress would have an additional 90 days to develop actuarially equivalent proposals to achieve the same debt savings. All plans would then be debated and a vote in Congress would be required. Finding solutions to stop the financial hemorrhaging of our country demands a thoughtful and thorough process. The president's executive order requires your recommendations to Congress by December 1. We understand that there is then a call for Congress to act soon thereafter. With such a short time to deliver, we encourage to move as quickly as possible to engage the public and begin this important national dialogue. We also urge you to immediately make available for the public a mailing address and phone number for the commission, as well as contact information for individual commissioners and the support staff. We appreciate your consideration of our comments. We have been working together across the aisle for some four years because of our sincere concern about the critical importance of solving our country's financial crisis. We would welcome the opportunity to meet with you to further discuss what could well be the most consequential decisions our nation will make in the foreseeable future. Best wishes. Sincerely, Jim Cooper Frank R. Wolf Member of Congress Member of Congress # # #
04.12.2010	"Here's a simple idea for reducing the hassle of paying yourfederal income taxes: Make the IRS do your paperwork." WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) introduced the Simple Return Act (H.R.5050), a bill that would get the IRS to do your taxes for you. The Simple Return would allow the IRS to fill out a basic tax return for every American with the financial information it already receives from each taxpayer’s employer and financial institution: W-2 and 1099. Every American would have the opportunity to review and sign the government return, or simply throw it away and fill out their return on their own. The Simple Return could be used by anyone with basic tax information. It is estimated that around 40 million Americans would be able to use this service saving $2 billion in preparation fees and 225 million hours of preparation time. By converting that time into money, it is estimated that savings could reach $44 billion over 10 years. Cooper wrote an op-ed about the Simple Return Act in the April 15th addition of the Tennessean. It is attached below. Let the IRS Do Your Taxes; They have the PaperworkThe Tennessean By: Rep. Jim Cooper April 15, 2010 Here's a simple idea for reducing the hassle of paying your federal income taxes: Make the IRS do your paperwork. Think about it. The IRS already has much of your personal information like copies of your W-2 and 1099s. Today they use that information to catch you if you make a mistake. Why not get the IRS to use that information to help you instead of punish you? Government should work for you, not against you. President Ronald Reagan proposed this idea 25 years ago. He was ahead of his time. Then the IRS did not have the computing power to calculate millions of tax returns before April 15th. Today they do have that power. What if the IRS sent you your tax return this February showing that, based on your wages, salary and investment income, you were owed a $1,000 refund? You could either sign that tax return or fill out your own, due by April 15th. You choose. I bet most people would want to save the mental hassle of the five hours it takes to fill out an average return, and the estimated $2 billion in tax preparation costs every year. Not to mention your liability if you make a mistake. Most people get a tax refund every year because the government has already withheld so much money from their paycheck. The new system could result in your getting your refund faster. Today, many people are so anxious for that refund they borrow money in anticipation of getting the IRS to write the check. Of course, there would be legitimate worry that the IRS did not understand your situation and was overcharging you. So this isn't for everybody, but it probably could work for an estimated 40 million Americans who have such simple returns that they could trust the IRS to get them right. California tested just such a program several years ago and it was overwhelmingly popular. Surveys indicate that 99% of Californians would use the government return again. Who's against this? The companies that make their money filling out your returns don't like it, whether they are accounting, advisory, or software firms. They have lots of lobbying muscle. But you have even more. I have introduced legislation in Congress that would allow the IRS, on a trial basis, to begin work on doing your taxes for you. This bill, called The Simple Return, is a way to start, not end, the debate. The bill's chances depend on the reactions of people like you. Should Congress try it or not? Would you trust the IRS to do your paperwork for you, or do you want to keep doing it yourself? This legislation is not intended to delay or sidetrack the more important debate that needs to take place on reforming our overall tax code. I've received many good ideas from Middle Tennesseans on ways to do that. Our current tax code is unfair and inefficient. Americans deserve better. The bottom line is this: Even dentists have figured out a way to make drilling painless. It's high time the government did the same thing. # # #
04.02.2010	April 27, 2010 Washington - Today, Congressman Cooper voted in favor of canceling the automatic pay raise for Members of Congress for Fiscal Year 2011. In a time when unemployment is high and families are struggling to make ends meet, it is wrong for Members of Congress to raise their own pay. Members' salaries are set to automatically increase each year under a statutory formula, and it takes an affirmative vote from Congress to freeze them. This is the second year in a row that Members have voted to decline themselves a pay raise and the third time in the last five years. Congressman Cooper has voted in favor of freezing Member's pay each time it has come up for a vote. # # #
03.30.2010	March 29, 2010 "This is great news for Tennessee." NASHVILLE - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) praised today's announcement that Tennessee has been chosen as one of only two Race to the Top grant winners. Tennessee was awarded approximately $500 million to implement their comprehensive school reform plan over the next four years. "This is great news for Tennessee," said Cooper. "Governor Bredesen made education a top priority and rallied the entire state behind these reforms. Our state legislature and the Congressional delegation stepped up to the plate and took full advantage of this opportunity to put our schools on the path of success." Tennessee's award of $500 million is double the amount initially suggested by the Department of Education for a state its size. Delaware, the other state chosen for RTTT funding, was awarded approximately $100 million. Tennessee and Delaware were the only states chosen out of the 16 finalists announced earlier this month. Today's award comes on the back of last week's announcement that $255 million in additional Recovery Act money will be heading to the state to provide funding for more than 3,700 education jobs. Prior to today's Race to the Top announcement, Tennessee had already received $1.57 billion in Recovery Act funding.
03.23.2010	March 23, 2010 Cooper attended bill signing at the White House WASHINGTON, March 23th, 2010 -U.S. Representative Jim Cooper (TN-05) praised the signing of the health care bill by President Obama earlier today. On Sunday, March 21st, Cooper voted for comprehensive health care reform, which passed the House with a vote of 219-212. Cooper was invited to attend the signing at the White House. "This is a good bill and a defining moment for our country. Folks back home sent me here to do what is right for our country, not what is temporarily popular. That's what my 90-year-old mother taught me long ago, and I think that is what every Tennessee family wants for this, the greatest country in the world." Cooper has long been considered one of the experts on health care reform in Congress. Cooper's floor statement on the health care bill was inserted into the Congressional Record is available online. Because of his knowledge on the subject, and his commitment to reform, he was invited to the bipartisan White House meeting on health care in February. A video of his statement at the meeting is available here. Cooper has been advocating for health care reform for nearly two decades and has taught health care policy at Vanderbilt's business school for more than 12 years. # # #
03.23.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Seniors: AARP AAHSA Alliance for Retired Americans American Geriatrics Society American College of Seniors Generations United Leadership Council of Aging Organizations National Council on Aging National Hispanic Council on Aging National Respite Coalition National Senior Citizens Law Center National Senior Corps Association RESULTS Seniors to Seniors Consumer Groups: Consumer Action Consumer Federation of America Consumers Union Consumers' CHECKBOOK/Center for the Study of Services Families USA League of Women Voters of the United States National Consumers League National Consumer Voice for Quality Long Term Care National Consumers League Business Groups: Small Business Majority The Main Street Alliance Vanderbilt University Newspaper Editorial Boards: Chicago Sun Times Commercial Appeal Economist New York Times The News and Observer (Raleigh Durham) Tennessean Washington Post Religious Groups: Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities B'nai B'rith International Catholic Sisters Clergy Strategic Alliances, LLC Faithful Reform in Health Care Faithful America Disciples Justice Action Network Easter Seals Eastern Diocese of the Armenian Church Evangelicals for Social Action Friends Committee on National Legislation Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility Jewish Reconstructionist Federation Lutheran Health Network National Association of Jewish Chaplains NETWORK, A National Catholic Social Justice Lobby Sisters of Mercy of the Americas Institute Justice Team The Shomer Shalom Network for Jewish Nonviolence Union for Reform Judaism Unitarian Universalist Association of Congregations Women of Reform Judaism United Methodist Church - General Board of Church and Society Minority/Ethnic Groups: Asian American Justice Center Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. Japanese American Citizens League Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities Hispanic Federation Hispanic National Bar Association Latin American & Caribbean Office of Planned Parenthood Latinos For National Health Insurance Latinos United For Health Care League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC) MANA - A National Latina Organization Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund NAACP National Congress of American Indians National Congress of Black Women, Inc. National Council of Negro Women, Inc. National Council of La Raza National Hispanic Caucus of State Legislators National Hispanic Medical Association National Hispanic Environmental Council National Hispanic Leadership Agenda National Indian Health Board National Puerto Rico Coalition Racial and Ethnic Health Disparities Coalition US Hispanic Leadership Institute United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Health care and Medical Associations: Academic Medical Centers AIDS Action Council AIDS Institute AIDS Project Los Angeles Alzheimer's Foundation of America American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry American Academy of Family Physicians American Academy of Pediatrics American Academy of Physician Assistants American Art Therapy Association American Association for Cancer Research American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging American Association of Nurse Anesthetists American Association of Pastoral Counselors American Association of People with Disabilities American Association on Health and Disability American Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network (ACS CAN) American College of Nurse Midwives American College of Physicians American Counseling Association American Dance Therapy Association American Diabetes Association American Foundation for Suicide Prevention/ SPAIN USA American Geriatrics Society American Group Psychiatric Association American Group Psychotherapy Association American Heart Association American Medical Association American Mental Health Counselors Association American Music Therapy Association American Nurses Association American Occupational Therapy Association American Osteopathic Association American Psychiatric Association American Psychiatric Nurses Association American Psychological Association American Public Health Association American Public Health Association American Social Health Association American Society of Clinical Psychopharmacology Anxiety Disorders Association of America Arthritis Foundation Asian & Pacific Islander American Health Forum Association for Ambulatory Behavioral Healthcare Association for Clinical Pastoral Education Association for the Advancement of Psychology Association of Asian Pacific Community Health Organizations Association of Hispanic Healthcare Executives Association of University Centers on Disabilities Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America Autism Society of America Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law Black Women's Health Imperative Brain Injury Association of America Breast Cancer Network of Strength Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids Catholic Health Association of the United States Catholic Health World Center for Adolescent Health & the Law Center for Integrated Behavioral Health Policy Center for Medicare Advocacy, Inc. Children and Adults with ADHD College of American Pathologists Colon Cancer Alliance CommonHealth ACTION Communities Advocating Emergency AIDS Relief Coalition Community Health Councils Community Health Partnership: Oregon's Public Health Institute Defeat Diabetes Foundation Doctors for America Eating Disorders Coalition Epilepsy Foundation Health Care For All Health Care for America Now Healthcare Access Project HealthHIV Hispanic Dental Association HIV Medicine Association Malecare Prostate Cancer Support Medicare Rights Center Mental Health America Mental Health Liaison National Academies of Practice National Alliance for Caregiving National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors National Alliance on Mental Illness National Association for Children's Behavioral Health National Association for Rural Mental Health National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders National Association of Area Agencies on Aging National Association of Community Health Centers National Association of County Behavioral Health and Developmental Disability Directors National Association of Hispanic Nurses National Association of Mental Health Planning and Advisory Councils National Association of Psychiatric Heath Systems National Association of Public Hospitals and Health Systems National Association of Social Workers National Association of State Head Injury Administrators National Association of State Mental Health Program National Black Leadership Initiative on Cancer III, Community Networks Program National Breast Cancer Coalition National Center on Caregiving, Family Caregiver Alliance National Cervical Cancer Coalition National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship National Coalition for LGBT Health National Coalition of Mental Health Consumer/Survivor Organizations National Coalition on Health Care Action Fund National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare National Community Pharmacists Association (with caveats) National Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare National Council of Asian & Pacific Islander Physicians National Council of Churches, USA Health Task Force National Disability Rights Network National Down Syndrome Congress National Family Caregivers Association National Federation of Families for Children's Mental Health National Forum for Latino Healthcare Executives National Foundation for Mental Health National Health Council National Health Equity Coalition National Health Law Program National Lung Cancer Partnership National Medical Association National Multiple Sclerosis Society National Native American AIDS Prevention Center National Patient Advocate Foundation National Physicians Alliance National Public Sector HealthCare Roundtable National Resource Center for Hispanic Mental Health National Rural Health Association National Spinal Cord Association National Spinal Cord Injury Association Nurse-Family Partnership National Service Office OCA Opinion Leaders Advocacy Network Our Bodies Ourselves Out of Many, One OWL - The Voice of Midlife and Older Women Paralyzed Veterans of America Partnership for Prevention PHI - Health Care for Health Care Workers Physicians for Reproductive Choice and Health Prescription Policy Choices Racial and Ethnic Health Disparities Coalition Ryan White Medical Providers Coalition Society for Adolescent Medicine South Texas Health Reform State Legislators for Health Care Reform Summit Health Institute for Research and Education, Inc. The Access Project The Arc of the United States The Center for Health Care Policy Research and Analysis The LGBT Cancer Project - Out With Cancer Tourette Syndrome Association United Spinal Association Universal Health Care Action Network (UHCAN) Urban Coalition for HIV AIDS Prevention Services US Psychiatric Rehabilitation Association Us TOO International Prostate Cancer Education & Support Network Washington Health Foundation WISC Health Care Working Group Hospitals: American Hospice Foundation American Hospital Association Andakusia Regional Hospital Association of American Medical Colleges Bourbon Community Hospital Castleview Hospital Centennial Medical Center Clinch Vally Medical Center Crocket Hospital Danville Regional Medical Center Federation of American Hospitals Forrest City Medical Center Hillside Hospital Mayo Clinic Meharry Medical College Mimbres Memorial Hospital National Association of Children's Hospitals Premier Healthcare Alliance (alliance of 2,300 non-profit hospitals) Skyline Medical Center Southern Hills Medical Center Southern TN Medical Center Summit Medical Center Vanderbilt University Insurance: Association of Community Affiliated Plans Health Industry Group Purchasing Association Unions: American Federation of Government Employees American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) American Federation of Teachers American Federation of Television and Radio Artists American Federation of Labor & Congress of Industrial Organization California Public Employees Retirement System Common Cause Communication Workers of America Change That Works CWA & UAW International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW) International Association of Bridge, Structural, Ornamental & Reinforcing Iron Workers International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, IronShip Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers, and Helpers International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers International Brotherhood of Teamsters International Union of Bricklayers & Allied Craftsworkers International Union of Painters and Allied Trades LA County Federation of Labor Labor Council for Latin America Advancement National Education Association National Farmers Union SEIU United Auto Workers United Food and Commercial Workers International Union United Steel Workers Other: Agricultural Retailers Association Alliance for Children and Families American Council of the Blind American Foundation for the Blind American Friends Service Committee American Library Association American Network of Community Options and Resources Americans for Democratic Action ASPIRA Association Association of Assistive Technology Act Programs Building and Construction Trade Department Burton Blatt Institute Center for Clinical Social work Center for Community Change Center for Rural Affairs Center for the Study of the American Electorate CenterLink: The Community of LGBT Centers Child Welfare League of America Children's Defense Fund Children's Leadership Council Clinical Social Work Association Coalition on Human Needs Committee for Education Funding Community Action Partnership Community Catalyst Community Transportation Association of America Consortium for Citizens with Disabilities Consumers' CHECKBOOK/Center for the Study of Services Corporation for Supportive Housing Council for Exceptional Children Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund Division for Early Childhood of the Council for Execptional Children Dolores Huerta Foundation Every Child Matters Education Fund Family Equality Council Family Violence Prevention Fund Family Voices Farmers Union Fight Crime: Invest in Kids First Focus Campaign for Children Friends Fiduciary Corporation Harris Center for Disability and Health Policy Helen Keller National Center Learning Disabilities Association of America Legal Momentum LIVESTRONG McKendree Village, Inc. MomsRising NAADAC, the Association for Addiction Professionals National Association of Human Rights Workers National Association of Neighborhoods National Association of State Directors of Special Education National Center for Learning Disabilities National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs National Coalition on Deaf-Blindness National Council on Independent Living National Gay and Lesbian Task Force National Legal Aid and Defender Association National Partnership for Women & Families National Policy and Advocacy Council on Homelessness National REACH Coalition National Research Center for Women & Families National Women's Law Center Partnership for Prevention Progressive States Network Project Inform Sargent Shriver National Center on Poverty Law School Social Work Association of America Self-Governance Communication and Education Tribal Consortium SER - Jobs For Progress SparkLight Communications The Children's Partnership The Healing of the Nations Foundation The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights (LCCR) Therapeutic Communities of America U.S. PIRG (Public Interest Research Group) U.S. Positive Women's Network United Cerebral Palsy United Neighborhood Centers of America United States Student Association USAction VetsFirst Voices for America's Children Volunteers of America Wider Opportunities for Women Witness Justice Women Together for Change Vanderbilt University: "Vanderbilt University supports the comprehensive health care reform legislation pending before Congress. As one of the largest private employers in Tennessee and the home of one of the nation's leading academic medical centers, Vanderbilt cares deeply about the health and well being of its patients, employees, students and fellow citizens. The mission of our academic medical center is to advance health and wellness for all people through preeminent programs in patient care, education and research. We believe that health care reform is urgently needed and that this legislation will enhance health security, improve the public health care infrastructure, and reduce the impact of uncompensated care on healthcare providers such as Vanderbilt." March 19, 2010 The Tennessean: "And while the bill that is snarled in political debate on Capitol Hill is far from perfect, it will first and foremost give most of this group of Americans a fighting chance. However, it should be delayed no longer. Because of the complexity of the reforms, it will be 2014 before many of the major provisions kick in. That means we who do have insurance must live with the reality that for the next few years, there will be people in our community - relatives, friends, former co-workers, fellow churchgoers, total strangers - dying for the callous reason that no one cared enough to help them. As the shouting reaches a crescendo today, take a little time to put yourself in their place. It might bring the cost of doing nothing home to you." March 21, 2010 American Medical Association: "The pending bill is imperfect, but we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good when it comes to something as important as the health of Americans. By extending health coverage to the vast majority of the uninsured, improving competition and choice in the insurance marketplace, promoting prevention and wellness, reducing administrative burdens, and promoting clinical comparative effectiveness research, this bill will help patients and their physicians." March 19, 2010 American Nurses Association: "On behalf of the American Nurses Association (ANA), the only full-service professional organization representing the interests of the nation's 2.9 million Registered Nurses, I am writing to urge you to vote yes on health care reform. While we recognize that no legislation is perfect, the vote before you represents a rare chance to effect change that will positively impact people's lives. This legislation will enact very real and much-needed insurance reforms, it will place a new focus on wellness and prevention, improving access to primary care and expanding coverage to over 30 million people." March 16, 2010 AARP: "After a thorough analysis of the reform package, we believe this legislation brings us so much closer to helping millions of older Americans get quality, affordable health care. For too long, our members and others have faced spiraling prescription drug costs, discriminatory practices by insurance companies and a Medicare system awash in fraud, waste and abuse." March 19, 2010 Catholic Health Association: "Is (the bill) perfect? No. Does it cover everyone? No. But is it a major first step? Yes. The insurance reforms will make the lives of millions more secure, and their coverage more affordable." March 15, 2010." Federation of American Hospitals: "On behalf of the Federation of American Hospitals (FAH) and our more than 1,000 hospitals throughout the United States, I express our strong support for health reform - both the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Reconciliation Act. This legislation is long overdue, and we urge all Members of Congress to vote for health reform." The following FAH Member Hospitals are in the 5th district: Ardent Health Services, Centennial Medical Center, Essent Healthcare Inc., HCA Hospital Corporation of America, Hermitage Hall, Kindred Hospital Nashville, Nashville Rehabilitation Hospital Select Specialty Hospital, Skyline Medical Center, Southern Hills Medical Center, Summit Medical Center, Vanderbilt Stallworth Rehabiliation Hospital, and Vanguard Health Systems. Mayo Clinic: "Mayo Clinic does not traditionally take public positions for or against overall legislation. Thus, we will not take a position for or against this bill. We will, however, continue to point out provisions that we think move the country toward patient-centered health care as well as areas where we have concerns. We continue to strongly believe that the status quo is not acceptable and have consistently said that there must be two key principles in any successful reform measure: 1)Incentives for doctors and hospitals to offer the highest quality care at the most reasonable cost, and 2) A means to enable all Americans to purchase health insurance." Summit, Skyline, Centennial, & Southern Hills Medical Center: "Simply put, I strongly support this health reform legislation. While I recognize that it is not perfect, it represents the last opportunity to make a real, positive difference to tens of millions of Americans who lack health insurance. Failure to act now will only result in the uninsured crisis continuing to spiral out of control. As you know, the issue of the uninsured is not one of mere numbers on a page. These are people we see every day in our hospital who want health coverage, but simply do not have access or cannot afford it." Premier Healthcare Alliance: On behalf of 2,300 non-profit hospitals across the country, members of the Premier healthcare alliance call on Congress to seize this historic opportunity and pass meaningful health reform legislation as soon as possible. As a nation, we have come too far and have reached too many areas of consensus to accept inaction. Now is the time to move beyond discussions of process, partisanship or political philosophy to enact health reforms that will create system-wide sustainability and improve the quality of care for all Americans. March 19, 2010 American Public Health Association: "We must expand affordable health insurance coverage to those who are uninsured, provide funding for public health and prevention activities, implement much needed insurance and coverage reforms, strengthen the Medicare system and enhance the health care and public health workforce." March 19, 2010 American Heart Association: "We believe the final health reform package would make significant progress towards the Association's core principles for reform by ensuring affordable, quality health care for more Americans. We urge all Members of Congress to understand the urgency of the need and vote in support of this legislation" March 19, 2010 American Thoracic Society: "The ATS is a medical professional organization of over 15,000 members who work to prevent, detect, treat and cure respiratory, sleep and critical care related illnesses through research, clinical care and advocacy. The legislation before Congress, while not perfect, will improve our current system." American Nurses Association: The (ANA), the largest nursing organization in the United States, urges lawmakers to vote ‘yes' on health care reform this weekend. This historic vote represents a rare chance to effect change that will positively impact people's lives. This legislation will enact very real and much-needed insurance reforms, placing a new focus on wellness and prevention, improving access to primary care and expanding coverage to over 30 million people. March 19, 2010 Health Insurance Purchasing Group Purchasing Group: (HIGPA) supports the increased transparency provisions in the health reform bill, and encourages increased openness and accountability across all healthcare-related industries. GPOs are the most transparent industry in the health care sector, aggressively working to promote openness, accountability, and the highest ethical standards in business practices. This legislation will afford patients and hospitals the opportunity to obtain critical information about gifts, honoraria, or other payments that may pose a conflict between doctors and medical manufacturers at the expense of patient care." March 19, 2010 American Diabetes Association: "This is the closest this country has ever been to enacting legislation that will bring important reforms to our health care system. We cannot stop now. Congress must pass this legislation so people with diabetes have access to a health care system that provides them with access to the care necessary to prevent, delay or slow the progression of diabetes. Without adequate care, too many suffer needlessly from preventable life-limiting or life-threatening complications, and require more expensive care later." March 20, 2010 National Education Association: "Health care reform will make health coverage more affordable to individuals and small businesses, hold insurance companies accountable, provide the security of coverage for the insured and uninsured, and bring down costs for everyone. The health care reforms included in the reconciliation bill are vital to the nation's economic recovery and a crucial ingredient for great public schools for all students." March 19, 2010 NETWORK, A National Catholic Social Justice Lobby (representing 59,000 Catholic Sisters in the US): "We join the Catholic Health Association of the United States (CHA), which represents 1,200 Catholic sponsors, systems, facilities and related organizations, in saying: the time is now for health reform AND the Senate bill is a good way forward." Small Business Majority: "We strongly believe the final consensus bill before Congress is the best bill from a small business perspective of all the bills. Small business owners are hopeful that Congress will be successful in passing healthcare reform that will provide access to affordable health care for small business." March 17, 2010 Partnership for Prevention: "Partnership believes this legislation is essential to providing access to quality, affordable medical care. No less important it will help control the ballooning health care costs that threaten to overwhelm our economy and the capability of American business to provide health care to their employees." March 16, 2010 Alliance for Retired Americans: "The Alliance for Retired Americans, on behalf of its nearly four million members throughout the nation, supports the comprehensive health care legislation the House will consider this week. We urge its prompt passage." March 17, 2010 CWA and UAW: "CWA and UAW strongly support the final health care reform legislation that will be produced by this process. On behalf of our over two million active and retired members, we strongly urge you to vote for these measures." March 15, 2010 Families USA: "It makes health coverage affordable by providing tax credit subsidies for middle-class families; eliminates the pernicious "doughnut hole" in Medicare prescription drug coverage; stops insurance company abuses; extends coverage for 32 million uninsured people; and reduces the deficit by $138 billion over the first ten years and by $1.2 trillion in the next decade." March 18, 2010 League of Women Voters: "We have a health care crisis in America. Too many citizens lack adequate health insurance coverage and rising costs threaten everyone. The failure of Congress to act on these issues over decades has both compounded the problems and undermined faith in government." Service Employees International Union's (SEIU): "On behalf of the Service Employees International Union's (SEIU) more than 2.2 million members, I urge you to vote "yes" on the rule and final passage on H.R. 4872, the reconciliation bill modifying H.R. 3950, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, when it is considered on the House floor and to oppose all weakening amendments. The bill takes historic steps to ensure that everyone has access to quality, affordable healthcare. SEIU strongly supports this legislation, including the affordability credits for low- and moderate-income families to access the care they need, long overdue health insurance reforms, improving long term care for vulnerable populations, strengthening Medicare, and making critical investments to create a stable workforce to deliver quality patient care." March 18, 2010 March of Dimes Foundation: "Most of all we think it is long past time to ensure that every American has access to and can benefit from great advances in medicine, in technology, and in the improved quality of health services - just in case. That will only happen by eliminating pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime limits and by expanding access to both private and public coverage for those who are currently uninsured." March 19, 2010 Center for Rural Affairs, National Rural Health Association, & National Farmers Union: "Collectively our organizations represent a broad national constituency of rural people including health professionals, farmers and ranchers, small business owners and rural community leaders. We are united in our belief that the Senate health reform bill, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, takes great steps to improve access to health care for rural people." March 19, 2010 Leadership Council of Aging Organizations: The LCAO, a coalition of national not-for-profit organizations representing nearly 60 million older Americans, urges you to vote in support of the rule for the Reconciliation Act of 2010 (H.R. 4872) and the amendment in nature of a substitute. This health care reform legislation is historic, comprehensive and long overdue. This legislation brings high-quality, affordable health insurance to millions of older adults and other Americans who lack adequate coverage now. Like the momentous enactment of Medicare in 1965, passage of this legislation will save families from choosing between financial ruin and their health. United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce: "While clearly the health reform compromise has its flaws, the costs faced by our small businesses are so great and the need for reforms in the small group insurance market so urgent, that the benefits outweigh the costs for the Hispanic business community. Nearly 98 percent of our Hispanic businesses will benefit from tax cuts and reduced premiums due to the exchange while facing no threat of an employer mandate penalty. While we oppose the use of an employer mandate and the penalties associated with it - they are at least limited to larger businesses and to only 2 percent of Hispanic businesses." March 19, 2010
03.22.2010	March 23, 2010 I've had cancer. The really bad kind. The kind that killed my father. I am thankful to God and to Nashville doctors and hospitals for giving me a new lease on life. When you think about your own health care, isn't your first thought about your doctor and hospital? Physicians and nurses you trust. The hospital you have chosen. Did you know that every single Nashville hospital supported the health reform bill that Congress just passed? That means Saint Thomas, Vanderbilt, Centennial, Meharry Medical Center, Nashville General, Summit, Skyline and Southern Hills. These hospitals disagree on many issues, but they agree that this is a good bill. It's harder to get a read on how local physicians and nurses feel, but the majority of those who contacted my office favor the legislation. Their largest national organizations — the folks that doctors and nurses have hired to read the legislation — strongly favor the health reform bill. That has never happened before. Even on the troubling issue of abortion, 59,000 Catholic sisters and all Catholic hospitals support the legislation. That is a historic level of support for health reform. It's no secret that health insurance companies opposed reform. These are the corporations that trap hard-working people like you with high premiums, poor coverage and fine print. For example, a lady with breast cancer was recently denied care because her insurance company discovered that she had acne as a teenager. Her insurance policy turned out to be a legal fraud. A local businesswoman was sold a cheap "high- deductible" policy. Then her heart failed. She needs a transplant. Her policy will cover the operation but not the life-saving medications she will need after the transplant. Because of the fine print, she can't even get on the waiting list for a new heart. Her insurance policy has become a death sentence. I want to protect your family from these insurance nightmares. I want you to be able to live longer. You wouldn't think that wishing people well would be controversial. It should be like supporting motherhood and apple pie. But in today's super- heated media you can make almost anything look bad. Take a deep breath, count to 10 and remember that, going back to the Declaration of Independence, our founders championed "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." Without good health, you can't have any of these. Of course, the founders did not have good medical care or insurance. But now we do. I believe that the founders would want us to live up to our God-given potential. In today's world, that means good health insurance. Helping more people get health insurance is estimated to save 18,000 to 45,000 lives a year. That's really big. That's like stopping fatal car wrecks or finding a cure for certain types of cancer. I am saddened that our nation is involved in a political dispute that involves partisanship, ambition and money. The real issue is access to medical care for average American families without busting anyone's budget. The bill that the president will sign into law this week achieves that goal. I voted for health reform because healthier families mean a stronger, better America.
03.22.2010	The following groups have voiced their support:AARP American Academy of Pediatrics American College of Physicians American Medical Association American Nurses Association Catholic Health Association of the United States Catholic Sisters Centennial Medical Center Consumers Union Easter Seals Federation of American Hospitals Mayo Clinic National Medical Association Skyline Medical Center Southern Hills Medical Center Summit Medical Tennessean The Main Street Alliance United Methodist Church - General Board of Church and Society Vanderbilt University VetsFirst Vanderbilt University, MARCH 19, 2010 - “Vanderbilt supports the comprehensive health care reform legislation pending before Congress. As one of the largest private employers in Tennessee and the home of one of the nation’s leading academic medical centers, Vanderbilt cares deeply about the health and well being of its patients, employees, students and fellow citizens. The mission of our academic medical center is to advance health and wellness for all people through preeminent programs in patient care, education and research. We believe that health care reform is urgently needed and that this legislation will enhance health security, improve the public health care infrastructure, and reduce the impact of uncompensated care on healthcare providers such as Vanderbilt.” The Tennessean, March 21, 2010 - "And while the bill that is snarled in political debate on Capitol Hill is far from perfect, it will first and foremost give most of this group of Americans a fighting chance. However, it should be delayed no longer. Because of the complexity of the reforms, it will be 2014 before many of the major provisions kick in. That means we who do have insurance must live with the reality that for the next few years, there will be people in our community— relatives, friends, former co-workers, fellow churchgoers, total strangers —dying for the callous reason that no one cared enough to help them. As the shouting reaches a crescendo today, take a little time to put yourself in their place. It might bring the cost of doing nothing home to you.”American Medical Association, MARCH 19, 2010 - "The pending bill is imperfect, but we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good when it comes to something as important as the health of Americans. By extending health coverage to the vast majority of the uninsured,improving competition and choice in the insurance marketplace, promoting prevention and wellness, reducing administrative burdens, and promoting clinical comparative effectiveness research, this bill will help patients and their physicians.” American Nurses Association, MARCH 16, 2010 - "On behalf of the American Nurses Association (ANA), the only full-service professional organization representing the interests of the nation's 2.9 million Registered Nurses, I am writing to urge you to vote yes on health care reform. While we recognize that no legislation is perfect, the vote before you represents a rare chance to effect change that will positively impact people's lives. This legislation will enact very real and much-needed insurance reforms, it will place a new focus on wellness and prevention, improving access to primary care and expanding coverage to over 30 million people.”AARP, MARCH 19, 2010 - “After a thorough analysis of the reform package, we believe this legislation brings us so much closer to helping millions of older Americans get quality, affordable health care. For too long, our members and others have faced spiraling prescription drug costs, discriminatory practices by insurance companies and a Medicare system awash in fraud, waste and abuse.”Click here to view the full list of groups that support this health care bill
03.22.2010	March 22, 2010 Despite vote, amendment narrowly passes and goes to the Senate WASHINGTON - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-5) voted against the so-called reconciliation bill tonight, the add-on provisions to the Senate health reform bill that he supported earlier in the evening. The add-on was approved by the House on a vote of 220-211, despite Cooper's opposition to the provision. Cooper opposed the add-on because passage of the separate Senate bill was sufficient to ensure health care reform for all Americans. In Cooper's opinion, the add-on made health care reform more expensive than necessary. Cooper is looking forward to the President signing the Senate health reform bill that he supported into law in the next few days. The add-on increased the size of the health care bill by $160 billion, added Medicare taxes for the first time on unearned income, included completely unrelated student loan reforms, and will prolong the divisive health reform debate for days, and possibly weeks, in the U.S. Senate. Another key issue was the fact that the add-on reduced the effectiveness of one of the primary cost-containment devices of the Senate bill by as much as 80%. "The excise tax on health insurance plans with Ferrari-type benefits was the most powerful tool for reducing health care costs," said Cooper. "The Reconciliation bill, if approved by the Senate, could significantly reduce these cost savings." Cooper has been consistent in preferring the Senate bill to the earlier House legislation. He has also been consistent in pressing for clear up-or-down votes on separate pieces of legislation in order to promote transparency in government. The reconciliation add-on has the effect of bulking up the Senate bill so that it looks more like the original House legislation. # # #
03.20.2010	March 21, 2010 March 21, 2010 Cooper's full Congressional Record statement I woke up this Sunday morning, said my prayers, and finally decided that I will vote YES on health care reform. Having heard from tens of thousands of Middle Tennesseans on all sides of the issue (including the flood of messages in the last few days and hours), and having spent months studying the various bills, I know that America must improve its health care system because it is unsustainable. This legislation will make it better. Any decision of this magnitude must be made very carefully, after weighing every concern. We Nashvillians are proud of our outstanding health care community that makes us “the nation’s health care industry capital.” Given our community’s expertise, it is interesting to note that: Every Nashville hospital strongly supports the legislation, whether it’s St. Thomas, Vanderbilt (both University and Hospital), Centennial, Meharry Medical School, Nashville General, Summit, Skyline, or Southern Hills. A majority of physicians who contacted me support the legislation and, although the Tennessee Medical Association opposes it, the TMA’s national organization, the conservative American Medical Association, supports it. A majority of local nurses support the legislation, along with the American Nurses Association. · Despite media controversy regarding abortion, the Catholic Health Association, Catholics United, and groups representing 59,000 Catholic Sisters support the legislation. The largest Nashville and national senior organization, AARP, supports the legislation. It means a lot to me that so many local people who know so much about health care agree with my decision. Of course, there are plenty of people who disagree who are also very knowledgeable about health care, and I have great respect for their opinions. I’ve learned a lot from their views. Several of their suggested improvements are already in the legislation. You may be surprised that many of these critics want the legislation to do more, not less. Having taught health policy at Vanderbilt’s business school for many years, I can easily point out many flaws in the legislation myself, both substantive and procedural. I have been working hard in Congress to eliminate those flaws. For example, yesterday we were able to force a clear, up-or-down vote on today’s legislation instead of using the parliamentary maneuver that was favored by some in my own party. Let me make clear that I respect the advocacy of those who are opposed to the legislation. They actually help me make sure that more people in Congress do their homework and pay attention to America’s financial problems. They are strengthening our democracy with their voices. The bottom line is that this legislation offers the only realistic hope that most Americans have for getting a fair deal in today’s private health insurance markets. This is not a government takeover of those markets, but a way to encourage better private-market competition. In the future, private insurance companies should compete to keep us healthy, not drop us from coverage. Tens of millions of Americans will benefit immediately from reform of these insurance markets. Thousands of lives will literally be saved due to the greater affordability of health insurance. This is as major a public health accomplishment as reducing car wrecks or finding a cure for a dread disease. One of the lives saved could be yours. My health insurance is Tennessee Blue Cross/Blue Shield (just like I had when I was a small businessman in Nashville) but, as a congressman, I am able to purchase it as part of a large pool, an exchange. I want every American to have the same purchasing power. No matter what your insurance company is, most Tennesseans are only one illness away, one pink slip away, or one premium hike away from being mistreated by current insurance practices: discrimination against pre-existing conditions, arbitrary premium pricing, and last-minute rescission of coverage when you need it most. This legislation will cover 32 million hardworking, middle-class Americans who are left out in the cold by today’s insurance practices. Rival legislation only attempts to cover 3 million uninsured people, or less than 10% of the problem. America can, and must, do better. The financial issues involved are just as important as the coverage issues, as I pointed out in my remarks at the President’s bipartisan summit on health care at Blair House in February. Will improved coverage increase the deficit, either short-term or long-term? And will this legislation start containing the explosion in health costs that threaten our economy but do not improve our health? Although CBO claims that the legislation will reduce deficits in the first ten years by over $100 billion, and by over $1 trillion after that, you don’t have to believe CBO to realize that, even if you assume zero deficit reduction, this is a huge improvement in the policymaking of recent years. In plain English, this bill is paid for, and may even save big money. Should these projections prove faulty, there are fail-safe mechanisms within the legislation that, with public support, should correct any budget problems. I proudly voted against the 2003 Medicare drug bill because it did not even attempt to pay for itself. That one bill (which very few constituents complained about) added $600 billion to the short-term deficit and as much as $7.8 trillion in the out years. Fiscal conservatives have much more reason to protest that legislation than this. There is a legitimate concern about whether the so-called “doc fix” should have been included in this legislation. It is not. That issue is the result of the 1997 Balanced Budget Act formula that limits the growth of physician reimbursement under Medicare. Since 1997, some doctors have been able to increase their reimbursement more than others, but all are now threatened with a 21% cut. This is a $320 billion problem over the next ten years, and a $4.2 trillion problem in the out years. Unless this issue is resolved, it could have more deficit impact than all of health reform. I think that we must figure out a way to pay for the “doc fix” now, not add it to the deficit. If you really care about the deficit, watch how your elected officials vote on this key issue. This legislation does not do enough to contain medical inflation, but it makes a good start because it contains the largest proposed savings in health costs in history, $600 billion over ten years. To make these savings stick, we will all have to be vigilant because every health care provider will immediately be asking for Congress to reduce or even reverse those savings. For those who sincerely want Congress to have more backbone on these issues, the answer is to support more savings now by asking for tougher follow-on legislation. You won’t achieve more savings by encouraging Congress to slouch away from its responsibilities today. There are many talking heads on television who claim to want more cuts, but their immediate plan is to do nothing. Today the official Republican Party position is to scare seniors about Medicare and, despite a blizzard of words, do nothing. They are behaving as badly as the Democratic Party used to behave when scaring Social Security recipients. If history is any guide, America only has the political will to face up to these issues every 15 years, and, when we did address them, Congress did not make much progress. Neither political party will tell you that the real cost of delaying reform is roughly $16 billion a day. That’s my estimate, based on accrual accounting, of the financial harm being done to America by a failure to resolve these problems on a timely basis. Waiting too long to pass reform could be as terrible a fiscal tragedy as waiting too long to treat cancer. Of course, the pundits have no way of paying for the delay, and the fiscal harm, that they foster. The opportunity cost of endless arguments may even be greater than the cost of solving the problems themselves! Opponents of today’s reform also claim to have a better plan. I’d love to see it. I am thoroughly familiar with their legislative ideas because I have been working in a bipartisan way on these issues for many years. They simply do not have a better plan today that could garner more than a handful of votes, and, given their track record, are not likely to ever present one. There is no magic wand. For example, I’ve tried for many years to promote the bipartisan Healthy Americans Act, H.R. 1321. We ended up with only a handful of cosponsors. Another example is my friend Rep. Paul Ryan’s (R-WI) interesting plan that has made him the darling of The Wall Street Journal. His bill, H.R. 4529, has exactly 13 cosponsors. You need at least 216 votes to get anything accomplished. As intriguing as some of these ideas are, they are not a solution, especially when the meter is ticking at about $16 billion a day. There is a lot of rhetoric about which political party is more sincere about deficit reduction. The facts are that the last Democratic president to have a balanced budget was Bill Clinton, just ten years ago. The last Republican president to have a balanced budget was Herbert Hoover, almost eighty years ago. Today’s Congress has finally passed into law important “pay-as-you-go” legislation that will force Washington to start living within its means. Budget experts think that this is the single most important step toward getting our fiscal house in order. Blue Dog Democrats, of which I am a member, forced this improvement in budgeting. The President has created a bipartisan Fiscal Responsibility Commission that will help Washington face up to its deficit problems. The President is doing his best to implement my bipartisan legislation on this issue, legislation that the Senate failed to pass because seven Republican senators (who are original cosponsors) voted against their own bill! None of these important steps toward fiscal sanity was allowed under the previous Administration. In fact, the previous Vice President, Dick Cheney, was famous for saying, “Deficits don’t matter.” He could not have been more mistaken. Regardless of what happens to this legislation today, America cannot afford to ignore the growing crisis in financing today’s medical system. In the future, we need to focus on these issues every year, not every 15 years. Passage of this legislation is absolutely certain to do that. Flaws will need to be corrected, adjustments made, new ideas explored. I have a list ready. Just as continual advances in medicine must be made, continual advancements in delivery of medical care must be made. Both types of advancements save lives. It is better when the private sector makes these improvements but, when the private sector fails, then government should help the private-sector, not run their businesses for them. I am well aware of the fact that this is a big vote, and perhaps a career-limiting decision. But I think most folks back home want me to do what is right, not just what’s temporarily popular. That’s what my 90-year-old mother taught me. I’ve made tough votes before and been proven right. Against united Republican opposition, I voted for the 1993 Clinton budget that put America on the path to the longest economic recovery in history. Against united Republican leadership, I voted against the 2003 Medicare drug bill that was the largest unfunded expansion of entitlement programs in history. And against united Republican opposition, I voted for the House health reform bill in November of 2009 that enabled us to vote on the much better Senate measure today. I have the honor of representing the Hermitage District. Our greatest hero, Andrew Jackson, said “One man with courage is a majority.” I sure hope he was right. # # # # # #
03.20.2010	March 21, 2010 WASHINGTON - Today, U.S. Representative Jim Cooper (TN-05) issued the following statement regarding his vote on H.R. 3590, the health care reform legislation expected to be considered by the House. "I will vote YES on health care reform. I join Vanderbilt University and every single Nashville hospital including St. Thomas, Centennial, Meharry/Nashville General, Summit, Skyline and Southern Hills in supporting this legislation. I join the majority of local doctors and nurses in their support of the bill. I join the Catholic Health Association and 59,000 Catholic Sisters to protect the lives of the thousands of people who, without this bill, will die this year because they lack quality health insurance." Attached is Cooper's floor statement which will be inserted into the Congressional Record.
03.18.2010	March 20, 2010 Cooper opposed procedural maneuvering WASHINGTON - Today, Democrats in Congress reversed their decision to try to pass the Senate health reform bill without directly voting on it. House Democratic leadership's attempt to use a procedural dodge, "deem and pass," was criticized by Rep. Jim Cooper from the moment he learned of the maneuver. Cooper voted with the Republicans to stop this shortcut around regular House rules. Although that vote failed on a 232 to 218 vote, Cooper was joined by 27 Democrats who also supported a clear up-or-down vote on health reform. "This is a victory for transparent government," said Cooper. "Congress should vote in an open and honest way. I am glad that the Rules Committee changed their mind and now agrees with me to have separate votes on the Senate bill and on the reconciliation bill." # # #
03.17.2010	March 18, 2010 Despite Cooper's opposition, "deeming" or self executing rule still expected WASHINGTON - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) voted against using procedural maneuvering to pass health care reform today, voicing his opposition to the process that would allow reform to pass without separate, up or down votes on both the Senate and Reconciliation bills. Cooper, along with 27 other Democrats, voted with all 175 Republicans on this issue. 3 members from each party did not vote. He issued the following statement into the Congressional Record: "Madam Speaker, I will vote against the Previous Question Motion today because I think the American people deserve a clear, up-or-down vote on health reform. They deserve to know how their elected representative voted, without any parliamentary confusion or obfuscation. In addition to being a transparency and fairness issue, this may also be a constitutional issue because of the consensus that the House and Senate must pass identical bills before they can be sent to the President for signature. With all the publicity surrounding the so-called "self-executing" rule, this procedure will not fool anyone back home, nor should it. It is, however, apparently designed to fool enough members of the House into believing that they did not support the Senate bill, even though, if they support the health reform package, they voted for it as the major component of the health reform. Unless we return to regular House procedure, we will never know how members would have voted on the Senate bill, by itself, and/or the reconciliation amendment, by itself. Since the President is apparently planning on signing the Senate bill before the Senate can take up the reconciliation amendment (as the Senate parliamentarian insists), no one will know who in the House of Representatives, in fact, supported the Senate bill. In simplistic terms, the White House will not know whom to invite to the signing ceremony. All this might be a parliamentary dispute if the possibility did not exist that a constitutional challenge would be brought against health care reform legislation. All it would take is one or two federal judges to void this fundamental reform because of a procedural failing. Supporters of reform will then regret taking this procedural shortcut, while opponents will welcome the opportunity to overturn the law and reopen the debate. I realize that both political parties have used self-executing rules dozens, even hundreds, of times. But, to my knowledge, these rules have never been used on an issue larger than banning smoking on airplanes, a $40 billion deficit-reduction measure, or raising the debt ceiling of the United States. None of these issues compares with the scope of health care reform. To my knowledge, no serious constitutional challenge has been mounted against these lesser uses of the rules, but one is certain to be lodged against the passage of health reform. Voting is the most important part of our job. We must vote honestly and openly on the separate issues that come before us." The final health care language was released today along with analysis from the independent Congressional Budget Office. Cooper is in the process of reviewing both documents, and will make a decision in the next few days. # # #
03.15.2010	March 15, 2010 Initiative sets attainable budgetary goals to limit over-spending WASHINGTON-Today, Reps. Jim Cooper (TN-05) and Mike Quigley (IL-05) introduced a "Sense of the House" resolution that establishes fiscal goals for reining in both the national debt and annual deficit. The measure is critical to show Americans and foreign creditors that Congress is serious about laying the groundwork for a sustainable financial future. "The single most important issue facing America today is the sky-rocketing deficit," said Cooper. "If we continue on our current path, we will bankrupt our country. It is time for Congress to end out-of-control spending and take serious steps towards reducing the debt. Let's start addressing our fiscal situation before it's too late." "The financial path America is on right now is not just unsustainable for tomorrow, it's catastrophic," added Quigley. "The long term projections for our budget are downright scary with entitlement spending set to increase and our public pensions unfunded. Without concrete targets to reach, we risk continuing our same bad habits and losing our ability to meet future challenges. That means making the hard decisions on our budget now so we don't have to make the impossible ones later." The metrics prescribed by the resolution include reducing the debt to 60 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by 2018 and the deficit to three percent of our GDP by 2018. Currently, public debt is projected to rise to more than twice the size of the economy by 2025 and more than three times its size by 2050. It has never risen to even 120 percent of GDP in the modern history of the United States. A high ratio of public debt to GDP results in diminished private investment, forces federal funds to be spent paying down the debt, weakens the dollar, and slows economic growth and job creation. In addition, it undermines confidence in the economy and threatens our ability to borrow in international markets. The "Sense of the House" resolution is expected to be referred to the House of Representatives Budget Committee. ###
03.10.2010	March 10, 2010 "It's time for Congress to lead by example." WASHINGTON- Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) applauded today's announcement by the Appropriations Committee's to reject requests for earmarks that are directed to for-profit entities. Cooper has refused to request any earmarks for the past three years, and restated his commitment to ending this process earlier this month. Cooper had this to say about today's announcement: "With America facing record deficits and a long-term budget crisis, it is time for Congress to lead by example. While this is a good first step, we must to do more to reform the pork barrel earmark process. I hope we can continue this trend of fiscal discipline and start making real changes to government spending." Forgoing the earmark process is just one step Cooper has taken to rein in spending and reduce the federal debt. Cooper praised the President for embracing legislation to create a fiscal commission, a proposal similar to the SAFE commission sponsored by Cooper in the House. The commission would submit a proposal to Congress on how reducing the soaring federal debt. Leaders in the House and Senate have agreed to bring the proposal to a floor vote.
03.04.2010	March 4, 2010 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representatives Marsha Blackburn (R-TN7), Steve Cohen (D-TN9), Jim Cooper (D-TN5), Lincoln Davis (D-TN4), Bart Gordon (D-TN6), Phil Roe (R-TN1), John Tanner (D-TN8), and Zach Wamp (R-TN3) were pleased by today's announcement that Tennessee is one of 16 finalists in the first round of the Federal Government's Race to the Top Assessment competition. In a letter to Secretary of Education Arne Duncan sent in January, the delegation members wrote, "We are writing in strong support of the Tennessee Department of Education's application for the Race to the Top Assessment (RTTT) Program. Governor Bredesen and TDOE believe that RTTT provides a significant opportunity for Tennessee to solidify its ongoing education reform efforts to improve opportunities for all of Tennessee's students." RTTT will award $4.35 billion in competitive grants designed to encourage and reward states that are pursuing education innovation. The U.S. Department of Education announced the first-round finalists earlier today. Forty states and the District of Columbia submitted applications in January. The winners of the first phase of Race to the Top grants will be announced in April. Based on Race to the Top's early positive effect on national education reform, President Obama proposed to continue the program next year by requesting $1.35 billion in the administration's FY 2011 budget. # # #
03.03.2010	March 3, 2010 NASHVILLE - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) applauds the announcement by the Department of Commerce of a $1.3 million broadband infrastructure grant for Middle Tennessee. This investment will fund the construction of four new access points on our existing broadband network to expand broadband internet access and spur economic growth in Middle Tennessee. Cooper had this to say about the announcement: "Investing in technology is like building a strong foundation for a house. You have to lay the groundwork to create a 21st century economy. This grant will ensure that Middle Tennessee businesses have the resources they need to create long-term economic growth." The grant was awarded to Level 3 EON, a subsidiary of Level 3 Communications, Inc., a publicly traded for-profit corporation. The granted was matched by an additional $432,000 from Level 3 to build the four new access points on their existing broadband network. These additional points of interconnection will offer broadband speeds between 50 Mbps and 10 Gbps on an open and nondiscriminatory basis to local Internet service providers, enabling them to provide enhanced broadband capabilities to as many as 188,000 households, 9,600 businesses, and 150 community anchor institutions, including schools, government agencies and healthcare providers.
03.01.2010	February 28, 2010 By U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper Health-care reform summit I was shocked to be invited to this week's health-care summit. Although I've been working to improve U.S. health care for many years (and have taught health policy at Vanderbilt for over a decade), I am hardly a favorite of Democratic leadership in Congress. The speaker had 10 tickets, but 250 House Democrats wanted them. To my surprise, on Tuesday afternoon I was given the last ticket for Thursday's meeting. Why? I am a "Blue Dog" Democrat. Blue Dogs are fiscal conservatives who recently forced Congress to return to pay-as-you-go budgeting. Many budget experts think that "paygo" is the first step toward getting America back on track. Paygo was the law of the land from 1990 to 2002 and helped produce the longest streak of budget surpluses in modern history, three years from 1998-2000. Tragically, Congress let paygo expire in 2002, but Blue Dogs were finally able to revive it last month. Given the nature of politics, people are probably wondering whether the speaker asked me to do anything in order to get the ticket. The answer is no. She did not ask and I certainly did not offer. Her staff knows that I am undecided on President Barack Obama's recent 11-page statement of health-care reform ideas. I'd never been to Blair House before. It's the president's "guest house" and sits directly across Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House. It's spacious inside, with lots of diplomatic reception rooms and chandeliers. President Harry Truman lived there during most of his presidency because the real White House was under extensive renovation. The atmosphere was hectic on the morning of the summit. No president had ever called for a televised discussion on such a complex topic before. People were edgy. One woman turned suddenly with a large purse and, without seeing me, spilled coffee all over me. Not a great way to start a meeting but, fortunately, I was wearing a dark suit. Search for compromise I thought Sen. Lamar Alexander did an excellent job for Republicans in his opening statement. Minority Leader Mitch McCon-nell was shrewd to defer to him. But the president was the one who really showed a remarkable mastery of the issues, as well as of his own emotions, as he fished for bipartisan compromises. The meeting itself seemed to go on forever. Six hours of talking about health legislation can strain anyone's patience. The deficit issues that I care most about were not scheduled to come up until the last half of the meeting. Soon we were running an hour late. Finally, I was recognized for a few minutes about four hours into the meeting. The video is available at my Web site, www.cooper.house.gov. I tried to strengthen the backbone of both parties on deficit reduction issues. When the meeting ended, I thought that the only winners were folks back home. This was a rare look at the legislative process, which has often been compared to sausage-making. It's not pretty, but, when it's done right, the final product tastes really good. It's the system our founders gave us over 200 years ago. And it has produced the greatest nation in the world.
02.26.2010	February 26, 2010 Treasury's annual accounting statement reveals $62 trillion in long-term shortfall WASHINGTON-U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (D-TN) today called on Congress to take urgent action in response to the news that the nation's long-term fiscal shortfall has worsened by $5.5 trillion in the past year. The number was released by the Treasury Department in its Financial Report of the United States, an audited accounting statement released annually. "Once again, the American people can see the true cost of inaction when it comes to our long-term budget shortfall," said Cooper. "We are $62 trillion dollars in debt over the long term, according to the Government Accountability Office, which means more than $203,000 for every person in America. Medicare is $38 in the hole on its own. If this doesn't prove that we need to reform health care, I don't know what will." Cooper praised President Obama for embracing legislation to create a fiscal commission, a proposal similar to the SAFE Commission Act sponsored by Cooper in the House. Unfortunately, seven Republicans members who had co-sponsored the fiscal commission in the Senate, voted against the measure when it came to a floor vote. President Obama has proposed the creation of an executive commission to address this problem. While Cooper believes a statutory commission would have more teeth, he believes the executive commission is the next best thing. "This is one of our last chances to steer clear of a fiscal iceberg," said Cooper. "I welcome the White House initiative to create a bipartisan commission on fiscal responsibility that would prevent Congress from ducking these issues any longer. Of course, it would be even better if Congress rose to the challenge on its own but, rather than wait for Congress, let's help this commission complete its work." Today, the President announced his final four representatives to the commission. They are, David Cote, Ann Fudge, Alice Rivlin, and Andy Stern. These members join former White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles and former Republican Senate Whip Alan Simpson as the President's selections for the committee. The just-released 2009 Financial Report of the United States can be found online at the treasury department website . Cooper's website, https://cooper.house.gov , will link to the report as well.
02.26.2010	February 25, 2010 PRESIDENT OBAMA: Right now, what I want to do is go to Jim Cooper, who I think everybody knows cares pretty deeply about the federal budget. He's been championing this for a very long time. Jim, do you want to address some of the issues that have been raised in terms of both Medicare and Medicaid? COOPER: Thank you, Mr. President. We're all here. We're dressed up. We're on good behavior. But I think folks back home are wondering how we behave when the camera's off. The deficit, in my opinion, is probably the most important single issue we face. Paul Ryan said it well: Health inflation is driving us off a cliff. And I'm kind of intrigued by the conversation, because so far we've heard a lot of folks trying to outdo each other in deficit reduction. I welcome that competition, especially if it's backed up votes, because it's easy to talk tough on this. It's harder to deliver. I personally liked Senator McCain's suggestion. Let's get rid of all of the special deals. That's just a starting point. Paul Ryan is right, again, and Tom Coburn is right when they point out that we're probably wasting a third of medical spending. Medicare alone is $37 trillion in the hole. And that means, for all the folks who want to talk tough and not vote tough, that's not good enough. It means that for all the folks who want to do this next year or next decade or leave it to their successor, that's not good enough. We've had some examples of how we've behaved recently. A wonderful bipartisan measure, the Conrad-Gregg bill, completely bipartisan for years, on a bipartisan fiscal responsibility commission was brought up for a vote in the Senate. We had the 60 votes, but only 53 people showed up for work. Seven people who'd been original co-sponsors of that measure suddenly got different ideas when the moment of truth came. So, Mr. President, I'm thankful you have appointed a presidential fiscal responsibility commission, with Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles, to try to force us as a Congress and force the nation to address these fundamental problems, because if you love Medicare, you need to act to save it fast. Every day matters. A report will come out issued by the Treasury Department. It's come out every year. It'll come out in the next few days. It's the only report that uses real accounting to describe America's fiscal problems, and the news is not pretty. It will reaffirm what's been discussed here about Medicare and Medicaid and other vital American programs being deeply in the hole. And the opportunity of costs for delay is extraordinary. So we can face these problems, Mr. President. We can solve them with political will, but the talking points won't do it. We've got to acknowledge the real questions. And as every business person in America knows, if you can't measure it, you can't manage it. And too many people in the federal government are refusing to measure it, much less take the tough votes that are required, because the reason we have a Medicare Advantage program, Mr. President, as you know, is in 2003, when the other party was completely in charge of everything here, we passed a program that before now was almost completely unfunded and added $8 trillion in one bill to our children and grandchildren. Now, those benefits if offered should be paid for. So this is a challenge for everybody in both parties, because nobody's hands are clean in this, but let's have a new day, a new beginning. I think we could do this. And this bill is a great place to start, because if you don't think this bill reduces the deficit enough, according to CBO, vote for more savings. If you want to reform Medicare some more, vote for it. Don't just talk a good game. So I hope the American people are watching, because -- and they're going to be watching after the cameras are turned off, too. And I'm thankful you called this meeting, because this is a moment of truth for our country. And together, we can solve this problem.
02.24.2010	February 23, 2010 "It's time for Washington to stop bickering and start solving this major problem." Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} UPDATE: To view Cooper's remarks on YouTube, click here. WASHINGTON-U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) will join President Barack Obama, a bipartisan group of Members of Congress and senior administration officials, at the Blair House on Thursday for a bipartisan meeting on Health Reform. "It's time for Washington to stop bickering and start solving this major problem. We should be able to keep the good that's in today's medical system while we improve the bad. I am still hopeful that Congress can rise to the historic challenge." The meeting will include members from both parties, and will be televised live on CSPAN and webcast on the White House website. Cooper is one of 22 Democratic and Republican House members who will attend the bipartisan meeting. He has taught health care policy at Vanderbilt's business school for the last 12 years and has been a health care reform advocate for over two decades. Cooper, a prominent member of the Blue Dog coalition, is known for bipartisanship.
02.17.2010	February 17, 2010 v\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} o\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} w\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} .shape {behavior:url(#default#VML);} Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} NASHVILLE - On the one year anniversary of the passage of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) made available on his website a map of all Recovery Act projects in 5th District. "I've put together this map to show exactly where and how Recovery Act funds are being spent in our community. Tennesseans deserve transparency from the government, and I hope this map provides a straightforward look at how Recovery Act funds are being used to help the economy." See the map here
02.17.2010	February 17, 2010 NASHVILLE - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05), author of a commission to tackle the nation's debt, applauded President Obama's selection of co-chairs for a deficit reduction commission. The President is expected to announce Thursday that the bipartisan co-chairs of the commission include former Senator Alan Simpson (R-WY) and Erskine Bowles, former Clinton White House Chief of Staff. Cooper first proposed a commission with Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA). Cooper-Wolf, H.R. 1557, currently has 114 bipartisan cosponsors. "When we first proposed a fiscal commission three years ago, we agreed that everything has to be on the table. The President must have credible co-chairs so that everyone, including Republicans, will be on board. Senator Simpson is a real deal conservative and well-respected by current GOP leadership. And Erskine Bowles will bring a lifetime of leadership in business and government. This is a major step toward getting the government's finances under control." Cooper said a fiscal commission has the best chance to bring sustainability to our nation's long-term fiscal outlook. The Senate companion bill to Cooper-Wolf, sponsored by Senators Conrad and Gregg, received 53 of the 60 votes necessary for passage earlier this month. Seven of the bill's Republican cosponsors decided to vote "No." In the wake of that vote, the President chose to proceed in creating a commission to reduce the deficit by executive order.
02.16.2010	February 12, 2010 "Getting Americans back to work is our top priority and I am glad the Recovery Act is focused on job creation." NASHVILLE - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) was pleased by the today's announcement by the Department of Labor of a $5,000,000 grant to train Middle Tennessee workers in the health care sector. The grant was awarded to Centerstone of Tennessee Inc, and will offer participants comprehensive education, training, job placement, retention, and supportive services. Cooper had this to say about today's announcement: "Getting Americans back to work is our top priority and I am glad the Recovery Act is focused on job creation. This proposal will provide 600 Middle Tennesseans with the training necessary to excel in the health sector and create nearly 300 new jobs. Nashville has been a leader in health care and these funds will help keep us at the top." Participants will complete training in health care sector occupations that include: Certified Nurse Aide, Licensed Practical Nurse, Registered Nurse, Emergency Medical Technician, Certified Medical Assistant, Pharmacy Technician, Radiological Technician, Surgical Technician, Respiratory Therapist, and Phlebotomist. Centerstone of Tennessee will train 600 participants, of which 420 will complete and receive a certificate or degree and approximately 290 will be placed into employment. # # #
02.04.2010	"Middle Tennessee families are tightening their belts and living on a budget. The Federal Government needs to do the same." WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper said Congress took a big step toward restored fiscal discipline today by passing binding, common-sense "pay as you go" legislation. Cooper was an original co-sponsor of the legislation and had this to say about today's vote: "Middle Tennessee families are tightening their belts and living on a budget. The Federal Government needs to do the same. PAYGO will tighten the federal government's belt, just as it did the last time we had balanced budgets in 1998, 1999 and 2000." Cooper has long championed re-instatement of PAYGO policies and is the Vice Chairman of the Blue Dog Democratic Coalition's Budget Task Force.
01.28.2010	January 28, 2010“These funds will create 1,300 good jobs in Middle Tennessee and will benefit our nation’s economy, national security and environment.” WASHINGTON -- Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) was pleased by the Department of Energy's announcement of a $1.4 billion investment in the Nissan Factory in Smyrna. Secretary of Energy Steven Chu announced that the Department of Energy has closed its $1.4 billion loan agreement with Nissan North America, Inc. to retool its Smyrna, Tennessee factory. Nissan will use funds to build advanced electric automobiles and an advanced battery manufacturing facility. The two projects are expected to create up to 1,300 American jobs Congressman Jim Cooper had this to say about today's announcement: "These funds will create 1,300 good jobs in Middle Tennessee and will benefit our nation's economy, national security and environment. Smyrna's know-how will produce a next generation of clean vehicles and will help America save a quarter of a trillion dollars every year on oil from foreign countries. The Department of Energy Press Release is attached below. ### Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Secretary Chu Announces Closing of $1.4 Billion Loan to Nissan Project expected to provide up to 1,300 Jobs in Tennessee Washington D.C. --- U.S. Secretary of Energy Steven Chu announced today that the Department of Energy has closed its $1.4 billion loan agreement with Nissan North America, Inc. to retool their Smyrna, Tennessee factory to build advanced electric automobiles and an advanced battery manufacturing facility. The two projects are expected to create up to 1,300 American jobs and conserve up to 65.4 million gallons of gasoline per year - an amount equal to six times the oil spilled by the Exxon Valdez in 1989. "This is an investment in our clean energy future. It will bring the United States closer to reducing our dependence on foreign oil and help lower carbon pollution," said Secretary Chu. "We are committed to making strides to revitalize the American auto industry and supporting the development of clean energy vehicles." Nissan plans to use the proceeds from the loan to produce its all-electric vehicle, the LEAF, at its existing Smyrna, Tennessee plant. Nissan will offer electric vehicles to fleet and retail customers, and plans to ramp up production capacity in Smyrna up to 150,000 vehicles annually. Nissan is pursuing a global strategy of transitioning to electric vehicles. Building a state-of-the-art manufacturing plant in Smyrna, to produce 200,000 battery packs annually, is a significant part of that strategy. Nissan is also laying the groundwork in developing an infrastructure in the US to support electric vehicles. The company has formed partnerships with states, counties, municipalities, and electric utilities to prepare markets for the introduction of electric vehicles including the installation of charging stations. Today's announcement marks the third loan arrangement agreement signed by DOE with an advanced technology vehicle manufacturer. In September 2009, DOE signed its first loan agreement for $5.9 billion to Ford Motor Company. Last week, DOE also signed a $465 million loan agreement with Tesla Motors, which will be used to build manufacturing facilities in California for electric power-trains and Tesla's Model S electric sedan. The Department has also signed a conditional commitment with Fisker Automotive to build plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. Tenneco, Inc. became the first advanced technology component manufacturer to obtain a conditional commitment from DOE in October of last year. The Department was provided $7.5 billion for credit subsidy costs by Congress to cover up to $25 billion in direct loans to companies making cars and components in US factories that increase fuel economy at least 25 percent above 2005 fuel economy levels. The agreement was negotiated and signed through the Department's Loan Programs Office, which supports the development of innovative, advanced vehicle technologies to create thousands of clean energy jobs while helping reduce the nation's dependence on foreign oil. ###
01.26.2010	January 26, 2010 "I am very disappointed. This is one of our last chances to steer clear of the iceberg." WASHINGTON - Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) was disappointed by today's vote in the Senate on the Conrad-Gregg fiscal commission. Congressman Cooper is the lead sponsor of similar legislation in the House along with Republican Frank Wolf (VA-10). The Cooper-Wolf bill is also known as the SAFE Commission (H.R. 1557) and has broad, bipartisan support with 112 co-sponsors in the House. Cooper had this to say about today's vote: "I am very disappointed. This is one of our last chances to steer clear of the iceberg. I am glad that a majority of Democrats supported deficit reduction, but I'm very disappointed that a majority of Republicans did not." # # #
01.26.2010	Cooper on Sequestration: "Our military deserves better." Overview News & Updates Links & Additional Information Overview From our active duty troops and Members of the Guard and Reserve to the veterans who have served our nation, my job is to support our Armed Services and keep our military strong. It's an honor to serve on the House Armed Services Committee and work on issues involving our national security. I'm currently the Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces which oversees our nation's strategic weapons, ballistic missile defense, space programs, and Department of Energy national security programs.We must ensure that our Armed Forces remain one of the finest militaries in the world, while making strategic reductions in defense spending that will not jeopardize our nation's security. I've worked on defense acquisition reform for years and even authored a report in 2009 about this issue. I have voted to strip funding for projects like the F-35 alternate jet engine and the V-22 Osprey that the Defense Department didn't want. It's important to keep in mind that the Pentagon already faces more cuts than any other federal agency or program. It must shoulder half of the entire cuts from sequestration, plus another $500 billion in already scheduled cuts. If Congress does not replace these cuts, we must at least give the Pentagon the flexibilty to manage these cuts responsibly and lessen the impact on national security. That's why I joined with House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan (WI-1) to introduce the Defense Flexibility Act. News and Updates August 1, 2013 • Cooper, Ryan Introduce Defense Flexibility Act July 16, 2013 • Cooper Supports Bill to Bring Balance and Transparency to FISA CourtJuly 10, 2013 • Cooper Co-Sponsors Legislation to Improve the Health of Military Exposed to Toxic ChemicalsJune 19, 2013• Cooper Statement on Nuclear Security AnnouncementJune 6, 2013 • Cooper Offers Amendment to Protect Military, Allow Department of Defense to Have FlexibilityMarch 19, 2013 • Congress Should Work Together to Reduce Nuclear RiskMarch 15, 2013 • Cooper Pushes to Preserve Stature of Purple Heart, Bronze Star MedalsFebruary 13, 2013 • Cooper Tells House Armed Services Committee that "America deserves better"January 24, 2013 • Cooper Statement on Lifting of Military Ban on Women in CombatFebruary 9, 2012 • Cooper Releases Dissenting Response to House Armed Services ReportFebruary 6, 2012 • Cooper Calls for More Accountability in Arlington InvestigationAugust 13, 2011 • Washington Post op-ed: A new Arlington CemeteryJune 20, 2011 • Cooper Co-Sponsors bipartisan resolution for the U.S.'s commitment to a negotiated settlement in Israel May 31, 2011 • Cooper Returns from Congressional Trip to Afghanistan May 15, 2011 • Cooper Hosts Veterans Workshop May 2, 2011 • Cooper Statement on the Death of Osama Bin Laden April 14, 2011 • Cooper Statement on at Oversight and Investigations Hearing on Arlington National Cemetery. April 12, 2011 • Cooper Co-Sponsors Legislation Commemorating the 50th Anniversary of the Peace Corps March 31, 2011 • Cooper Statement at HASC Hearing on Libya January 19, 2011 • Cooper to Take on Leadership Role on House Armed Services Committee For older national security news, click here. Links and Additional Information Department of Homeland SecurityHouse Armed Services CommitteeNational Security AgencyThe National Security Council118th Airlift Wing of the Tennessee National GuardUSA Military Personnel and Veterans Department of Veterans Affairs The USO Our Military Kids Wounded Warrior Project
01.26.2010	Overview News & Updates Links & Additional Information Overview Our nation is too dependent on foreign oil. Instead of sending money overseas to unfriendly regimes, we must consider all options to power our country now and in the future. With old-fashioned American innovation and ingenuity, I believe that we can find new, clean solutions for the 21st century.Right here in Tennessee, we already know first-hand how alternative energy solutions can create jobs and boost local economies. Companies like Wacker Chemie AG, Shoals Technology Group, and Nissan have invested across the state in solar power technology, electric automobiles, and advanced batteries. It is no surprise that Tennessee is leading the way toward a safe, clean energy future.Protecting the environment is a responsibility we owe our children and grandchildren. I have one of the strongest environmental records in the South and consistently receive high ratings from groups such as the League of Conservation Voters, the Sierra Club and the Southern Alliance for Clean Energy. I have long supported legislation to strengthen and protect the Endangered Species Act, cosponsored the Clean Water Protection Act, and continue to defend the Clean Air Act against partisan attacks. My advocacy of cap-and-trade goes back to 1990, when I helped craft an amendment to the Clean Air Act that dramatically reduced acid rain. News & Updates August 16, 2013 • Rep. Cooper Recognized for Protecting National Parks July 20, 2013 • Cooper Co-Sponsors the Energy Savings and Industrial Competitiveness Act to Increase Energy Efficiency in Buildings (HR 1616)July 16, 2013 • Cooper Co-Sponsors Bill to Increase the Energy Efficiency of Federal BuildingsApril 20, 2013 • Cooper Honors Local Student, Signs onto Renewable Energy Bill December 4, 2012 • Reps Cooper, Blackburn Laud Energy Efficiency BillSeptember 22, 2011 • Cooper Praises Investment in Green Jobs in TennesseeApril 5, 2011 • Cooper Co-Sponsors Clean Water Protection Act (H.R. 1375) April 4, 2011 • Cooper Letter to Speaker Boehner Supporting the Clean Air Act January 26, 2011 • Cooper Introduces Water Heater Rating Improvement Act (H.R. 482) For older energy and environment news, click here. Links & Additional Information House Committee on Energy and Commerce House Committee on Natural Resources Tennessee's Department of Environment and Conservation Tennessee Office of Energy Policy U.S. Department of Energy USA Environment Information AdministrationU.S. Environmental Protection Agency
01.26.2010	Overview Recent News & Updates Links & Additional Information Overview From educating our children to promoting fair environments for working mothers, policies that strengthen our families are the most important investments we can make for the future of our country. Education is the basis of a child’s future. We need to look at ways to improve outcomes of students and support teachers and staff who are committed to providing the best education possible. It was an honor to support Tennessee’s Race to the Top Grant in 2010. We’re already seeing promising results from this incredible opportunity for Tennessee. Secretary of State Arne Duncan even called Tennessee’s results “remarkable.” But we still have more work to do to ensure every child has a chance at a good education. Higher education is also important in our global society, and I support policies to help keep college affordable. If you know someone considering college, encourage them to visit my Student Financial Aid center. Women are vital to today’s workforce, and we need to do a better job promoting equality in the workplace. Gender should never affect compensation; most Americans believe in equal pay for equal work and an honest day's pay for an honest day's work. Unfortunately, women today make only 77 cents for every dollar earned by men, and in some states the discrepancy is worse. Women and men need to be compensated fairly and equally. That's why I co-sponsored and voted for the Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which became law in 2009. I am also a cosponsor of both the Paycheck Fairness Act and the Equal Rights Amendment to help end discrimination in this country on the basis of gender, race and sexual orientation. I’m also a co-sponsor of the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act to ensure pregnant women are treated fairly on the job. This bill would allow common-sense accommodations so that pregnant workers can protect their families and not risk losing their jobs. Another major challenge we face for the future is reforming our foster care system—a system that I believe is the most broken area of federal law. I’ve supported many bills and laws to improve outcomes in foster care and am working on a book about these issues. I’m also a long-time and current Advisory Board member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI). Though Congress has made some progress on these issues, it has been largely incremental. America’s abused and neglected children are our greatest national tragedy, and we need the ideas of a new generation of reformers to solve these serious problems. Middle Tennessee has some of the finest foster care and adoption advocates, and it’s an honor to recognize our local “Angels in Adoption” every year in Washington. I remain committed to work with our local “Angels” and my colleagues on foster care and adoption reforms that lie ahead. News & Updates July 1, 2013 Cooper Co-Sponsors the Strengthening the Child Welfare Response to Human Trafficking ActMay 28, 2013 • Cooper Calls For Fairness For Pregnant Workers, Co-Sponsors H.R. 1975 April 9, 2013 • Cooper Calls for an end to the Gender Pay Gap February 28, 2013 • Cooper Supports Reauthorization of Violence Against Women Act January 23, 2013 • The Tenessean: Rep. Jim Cooper, Others watching how Tennessee deals with DCS December 14, 2012 • Cooper Statement on Newtown, Conn. School Shooting July 11, 2012 • Cooper Congratulates Martha O'Bryan Center April 27, 2012 • Cooper Statement on Student Loan Interest Relief February 6, 2012 • Cooper Asks Local Students To Make Valentines For Veterans September 15, 2011 • Cooper Applauds Hume-Fogg For Blue Ribbon Award November 20, 2010 • Op-Ed: Give A Foster Child a Reason for ThanksSeptember 28, 2010 • Cooper Announces a Multi Million Dollar Grant to Metro Public Schools March 29, 2010 • Tennessee One of Only Two States to Win Race to the Top Grant January 21, 2010 • Tennessee Congressional Delegation Announces Support for Tennessee's Race to the Top Application For older children & families news, click here. Links and Additional Information Savings and Ownership Caucus (New America Institute) Congressional Coalition on Adoption InstituteCHIPHead StartTN Score
01.22.2010	January 21, 2010 WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Tennessee’s entire Congressional delegation has expressed support for the Tennessee Department of Education’s application for the Race to the Top Assessment Program. In a letter to Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, the delegation members wrote, “We are writing in strong support of the Tennessee Department of Education's application for the Race to the Top Assessment Program. In utilizing these federal funds, Tennessee seeks to capitalize on its assets - a rich pool of data, a plan for revamped standards and assessments, increasing collaboration with high-tech firms and facilities, and an expanded charter school system. Tennessee's RTTT proposal builds upon these assets and will accelerate reforms necessary to support educational achievement and excellence.” Tennessee will now compete with 40 other states and the District of Columbia for a share of more than $4 billion in federal grants in a nation-wide effort to encourage innovative and ambitious education reforms. The Department of Education will review each application and award grants based on each state’s ability to adopt challenging standards that prepare students for college and their careers, adequately measure student achievement and inform faculty of the best way to improve teaching methods, recruit and retain the best teachers, and turn around the lowest performing schools. The winners of the first phase of Race to the Top grants will be announced in April.
01.21.2010	"These children already have families in the U.S.; we can’t delay getting them to their adoptive families” January 21, 2010 WASHINGTON -- Congressman Jim Cooper (TN-05) joined with leaders in the House and Senate urging Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano and Administrator Designate for the U.S. Agency for International Development Dr. Rajiv Shah to work together to coordinate the transfer of orphan children in the process of adoption with an American families. It is estimated that between 500 and 700 children already in the American adoption process are still in Haiti, about 11 from Tennessee. "Though the announcement of Humanitarian Parole was very encouraging, we must ensure these children are joined with their new parents in the safest, swiftest way possible," Cooper said. "These children already have families in the U.S.; we can't delay getting them to their adoptive families." In addition to Cooper, the letter was signed by Senators Mary Landrieu (D-LA), John McCain (R-AZ), Bob Casey (D-PA), Kit Bond (R-MO), Mark Udall (D-CO), John Ensign (R-NV), and James Inhofe (R-OK). They are requesting that all affected children be safely and efficiently evacuated within the next ten days. The letter is attached.
01.20.2010	"Every year that Congress waits, the problem is growing trillions of dollars worse." January 20, 2010 WASHINGTON- Congressman Jim Cooper (D-TN) praised reports that President Obama and Congressional leaders are embracing a fiscal commission designed to address the nation's long term deficit problems. Cooper has long been an advocate for a fiscal commission and introduced the SAFE Commission Act (H.R. 1557) with Representative Frank Wolf (R-VA). The SAFE Commission Act is similar to reports of the President's proposal and has 108 bipartisan co-sponsors. Cooper had this to say about the commission. "The faster Congress reduces low-priority spending and the deficits, the better off America will be. Every year that Congress waits, the problem is growing trillions of dollars worse. I welcome the White House initiative to create a bipartisan commission on fiscal responsibility that would prevent Congress from ducking these issues any longer. Of course, it would be even better if Congress rose to the challenge on its own but, rather than wait for Congress, let's help this commission complete its work." The President's agreement would create an 18-member panel with the power to put all options on the table with regard to the tax code and to federal entitlement programs including Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. ###
01.13.2010	Due to a massive earthquake, a number of Middle Tennesseans currently in Haiti may be in danger. We are working with The State Department as they coordinate the rescue operation, but communication is very limited, so information about the location of Americans on the island is essential. If anyone has friends or family members currently in Haiti to please contact my office immediately by calling 615-736-5295. We need the names, contact information, and most recent known location of anyone who is on the island. The State Department Operations Center has set up the following number for Americans seeking information about family members in Haiti: 1-888-407-4747. INFORMATION ON THE CRISIS IN HAITI The thoughts and prayers of the entire Congress are with the people of Haiti. The United States and Members of Congress remain committed to helping the Haitian people recover from this latest disaster and rebuild their homes, communities, and lives in the days and weeks to come. The Obama Administration has launched a swift, coordinated and aggressive effort to save lives and support the recovery in Haiti, including an immediate investment of $100 million to support the relief efforts for life-saving equipment, food, water and medicine that will be needed. Looking for Relatives Families of Americans living in Haiti who are trying to find the status of their loved ones are encouraged to contact the State Department at 1-888-407-4747. This line is experiencing a high volume of calls at this time, so some callers may receive a recording. To better handle these requests, the State Department has established an e-mail address as well: Haiti-Earthquake@state.gov. A top priority of the State Department is accounting for the thousands of American citizens who are currently in Haiti. US citizens in Haiti have been urged to contact the Embassy via email at ACSPaP@state.gov to request assistance or call the Embassy's Consular Task Force at 509-2229-8942, 509-2229-8089, 509-2229-8322, or 509-2229-8672. The Red Cross has also set up a Family Links website managed by the ICRC, in cooperation with the tracing services of the Haitian Red Cross Society and of National Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies throughout the world, to assist in the process of restoring contact between separated family members: Family Links website for Haiti» Cette page en français» More Resources White House» State Department» USAID» For Information About How You Can Help: The State Department has established a dedicated web page that offers advice for anyone wishing to provide assistance to those affected by the earthquake: State Department Haiti Earthquake website» The Center for International Disaster Information (CIDI) provides information and guidance in support of appropriate international disaster relief: Center for International Disaster Information (CIDI) website» Haitian Earthquake Fraud Alert: The FBI has issued a fraud alert, reminding Internet users who receive appeals to donate money in the aftermath of Tuesday's earthquake in Haiti to apply a critical eye and do their due diligence before responding to those requests. Past tragedies and natural disasters have prompted individuals with criminal intent to solicit contributions purportedly for a charitable organization and/or a good cause. Therefore, before making a donation of any kind, consumers should adhere to certain guidelines, to include the following: Do not respond to any unsolicited (spam) incoming e-mails, including clicking links contained within those messages. Be skeptical of individuals representing themselves as surviving victims or officials asking for donations via e-mail or social networking sites. Verify the legitimacy of nonprofit organizations by utilizing various Internet-based resources that may assist in confirming the group’s existence and its nonprofit status rather than following a purported link to the site. Be cautious of e-mails that claim to show pictures of the disaster areas in attached files because the files may contain viruses. Only open attachments from known senders. Make contributions directly to known organizations rather than relying on others to make the donation on your behalf to ensure contributions are received and used for intended purposes. Do not give your personal or financial information to anyone who solicits contributions: Providing such information may compromise your identity and make you vulnerable to identity theft. To the people of Haiti, we say clearly, and with conviction, you will not be forsaken; you will not be forgotten. In this, your hour of greatest need, America stands with you. The world stands with you. We know that you are a strong and resilient people. You have endured a history of slavery and struggle, of natural disaster and recovery. And through it all, your spirit has been unbroken and your faith has been unwavering. So today, you must know that help is arriving -- much, much more help is on the way. - President Barack Obama, 1/14/10
01.04.2010	Here are some outside articles with very useful information on the health law: Kaiser Family Foundation: "Explaining the Basics of Health Reform" New York Times: Prescriptions Blog White House Website HealthReform.gov FAQ New York Times: How Different Types of People Will Be Affected by the Health Care Overhaul New York Times: How the Health Care Overhaul Could Affect You Wall Street Journal: Health Care Coverage PrognosisWashington Post: What the Health Care Bill Means for You
12.21.2009	"He's a great friend and one of the finest representatives in Washington." December 14, 2009 Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} NASHVILLE -- Congressman Jim Cooper was saddened by the news of Bart Gordon’s intention to retire. He issued the following statement. "For more than 24 years, Bart has been an honest and thoughtful voice for Middle Tennessee. As Chairmen of the Science and Technology Committee and dean of the Tennessee delegation, he has been a leader for good ideas and common-sense legislation. His work with Oak Ridge National Labs to achieve new fuel efficiency standards and his help to tee up the state for becoming a leader in solar energy will be two of his important legacies. He's a great friend and one of the finest representatives in Washington." # # #
12.21.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} “My goal is to protect Tennesseans from unfair and abusive financial institutions." December 11, 2009 v\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} o\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} w\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} .shape {behavior:url(#default#VML);} Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} WASHINGTON– U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper said the U.S. House took an important step toward bringing meaning regulatory reform to Wall Street. Cooper issued the following statement on the passage of the H.R. 4173, The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. “My goal is to protect Tennesseans from unfair and abusive financial institutions. People need access to credit that they can understand and repay. This legislation advances that cause.” # # #
11.21.2009	"Find the good and spread it." NOVEMBER 21, 2009 WASHINGTON—Today, Representative Cooper joins other national, state, and local leaders in commemorating the 10th anniversary of National Adoption Day. National Adoption Day is a collective national effort to raise awareness of the 129,000 children in foster care who are waiting to find families through adoption. Since the first National Adoption Day, more than 25,000 children have joined forever families on this special day. Over the past two decades, the number of children in foster care has nearly doubled, and the average length of stay for a child in foster care has lengthened to three years. With over 25,000 children aging out of foster care each year, the need to find permanent and loving adoptive homes is vital to promote more positive life outcomes for foster care children. Children in foster care are some of the most vulnerable members of our society, and we must do everything in our power to make sure they have the necessary tools to live normal healthy lives. Representative Cooper encourages the people of Tennessee’s Fifth District to take part in this national movement by considering becoming personally invested in the lives of these children through mentoring, foster parenting, or adoption. Discussing his ultimate goal of inspiring others to become involved in the lives of foster care children, Cooper explained, “Raising awareness for these children is critical in order to lend a voice to those that often go unheard. Someone once told me: ‘Find the good, and spread it.’, and I hope to abide by that mantra by encouraging others to join me in the collective effort to offer hope to children of the foster care system.” # # #
11.08.2009	November 10, 2009 “As the Nike slogan says, ‘Just do it’” WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Cooper testified today before the Senate Budget Committee on the SAFE Commission, bipartisan legislation that sets a timeline for Congress to act on the nation’s long-term fiscal crisis. Attached is his full statement to the Committee. “I believe that the greatest threat to our nation’s economic security is our long-term fiscal imbalance. On behalf of my fellow Blue Dogs in the House, I tell the Senate Budget Committee today that we stand ready to work with the members of this panel, the Chairman and Ranking Member if this Committee, the leadership of both chambers, and the White House to work through any differences on the details. We must move this legislation in order to achieve our common goal of bringing sustainability to our nation’s long-term fiscal outlook. As the Nike slogan says, ‘Just do it’”. The bipartisan SAFE Commission Act (H.R. 1557) was reintroduced by U.S. Congressmen Jim Cooper (D-TN) and Frank Wolf (R-VA) in March. It creates a BRAC-style commission to reform spending and taxes in the event that Congress fails to take timely action. In addition to Cooper and Wolf, the bill has 93 cosponsors, 47 Democrats and 46 Republicans. # # #
11.07.2009	WASHINGTON, November 7, 2009 – U.S. Representative Jim Cooper today issued the following statement regarding his vote on H.R. 3962, the health care reform legislation expected to be considered by the House. “I am grateful to the thousands of Nashville-area residents who have shared their opinion on health care reform with me. Everyone feels strongly because health care is so important to our lives. Having read the pending bills and having taught health policy at Vanderbilt business school for twelve years, I have made the following decision: I will vote yes on H.R. 3962. My vote is not an endorsement of all the provisions of the bill because I find much of the bill to be deeply flawed. There is little chance that H.R. 3962 will become law due to the long legislative process. My reason for voting yes is to advance the cause of health care reform by forcing the Senate to act. Without passage of this House bill, the Senate could delay reform indefinitely. That would be the worst possible outcome because our current health-care system is not sustainable. Congress needs to pass good health legislation in the next few months for the good of the country. Passing legislation is a little like writing a term paper in school. The first draft is usually not very good. The second draft is better -- H.R. 3962 is the second draft. The bill that the Senate will vote on will be the third draft, which I expect to show major improvement. The final draft will be written next month when the House and the Senate vote on the same bill. I will continue to work hard to make sure that the final legislation helps all of our families get quality, affordable health care.” # # #
10.28.2009	Most Americans followed the health reform debate closely, and I hope you'll read through the information below on my role in the process. I believe this bill will build a stronger, healthier America and invite you to read my op-ed from the Nashville Tennessean on my decision to vote in favor of the comprehensive health reform bill, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 9590). On April 7, 2010, I hosted an informative health care forum in Nashville to talk about the new law and how it will affect our families. View highlights of the event here. On March 21, 2010, I voted for H.R. 3590. The President signed this bill into law on March 23, 2010. A separate amendment or “fixes” bill to H.R. 4872, The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, was also passed by the House 220-211. I voted against these fixes and you can read my statement here. H.R. 4872 was signed into law on March 30, 2010. In February of 2010, I was honored to be invited to the bipartisan health care summit at the White House, and you can read my remarks here. Links and Additional Information Fact Sheets on the Affordable Care Act - Click for downloadable fact sheets. Small Business Tax Credits - Learn more about health care tax credits for small businesses Frequently Asked Questions About Health Reform - My answers to common questions, concerns and myths surrounding the debate Useful Information from Outside Websites -Check out some links to outside websites with useful information Read the Text of the Final Legislation - Click here for links to the full text Who Supported this Legislation? - Read for statements and articles written by organizations who supported the ACA health reform bill. The Healthy Americans Act - Read about Jim's role in discussing other reform proposals, including the bipartisan Healthy Americans Act.
10.26.2009	October 26, 2009 By Reps. Jim Cooper, Hank Johnson, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Marsha Blackburn and Darrell Issa Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } Special to Roll Call In the long-running feud between singers and radio broadcasters, we believe it is time to correct a historic inequity on behalf of the artists who make the music come alive. We are not against broadcasters, but we believe that performers have a right to benefit from their own labor, and that no radio station should be able to take their recordings without fair compensation. This is, fundamentally, a property-rights issue. The right to be paid for your work is so broadly accepted that every industrialized nation except the United States requires their radio stations to pay performers when their recordings are broadcast. The international rule: You play the music, you pay the piper. In fact, other nations have already collected hundreds of millions of dollars in order to pay U.S. artists, but they will not fork it over until we reciprocate. Meanwhile, U.S. radio stations stiff our own performers as well as foreign artists. Every year we wait to comply with international standards, we deny U.S. artists and performers $100 million collected on their behalf. Although some famous American artists don't need this money, many lesser-known artists do. It's hard to explain to a retired blues singer or guitarist that the stubbornness of the very industry that plays their hits blocks them from receiving their own money from overseas. The U.S. is a legal renegade in other ways as well. Federal law requires all other media that transmit recorded music to compensate the performer. Satellite radio, Internet radio, cable TV music channels and mobile services all must pay performers. Only traditional radio is exempt, and even it must pay performers when that station is heard over the Internet. Of course, traditional radio doesn't want its costs to increase, even to pay the very artists who keep people listening to the station. We are sympathetic to their situation, particularly during a recession, and have reduced the annual charge for small radio stations, including student and nonprofit stations, to as little as $100 a year for unlimited broadcast rights. But there's no such thing as a free lunch or a free hit. The response from the previous head of the National Association of Broadcasters was that he would rather "slit his throat" than negotiate. As it turns out, he is no longer head of NAB. The new head, former Sen. Gordon Smith (R-Ore.), has not tipped his hand. But overwhelming votes for reform in the House and Senate Judiciary committees are putting him under a lot of pressure. It's not just Congress that thinks we should treat our creative artists and performers fairly. Every administration, Democratic or Republican, that has studied this has concluded that reasonable payments are due the performers. Simply playing their songs on air is no longer sufficient compensation for their work, especially when the world acknowledges the unfairness. With a productive negotiation, performers and broadcasters could strengthen, not weaken, the symbiotic relationship that enables both industries to be successful. Rep. Jim Cooper (D) represents Tennessee's 5th district. Rep. Hank Johnson (D) represents Georgia's 4th district. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D) represents Florida's 20th district. Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R) represents Tennessee's 7th district. Rep. Darrell Issa (R) represents California's 49th district.
09.28.2009	Mt. Juliet Couple are 'Angels in Adoption' The Tennessean September 28, 2009 Editorial by Rep. Jim Cooper One of the perks of being a congressman is getting to meet some of the finest people in Middle Tennessee. I am particularly humbled by our neighbors who are devoting their lives to improving our communities. Josh and Katrina Hildabrand of Mt. Juliet are two of these fine people. In 2002, the Hildabrands made the life-changing decision to become foster parents. In addition to raising their own kids (one of whom is adopted), they have already fostered more than 30 children. My wife and I know how hard parenting three kids is, so we have the greatest admiration for the Hildebrands' fateful decision. This week, I am honoring Josh and Katrina as "Angels in Adoption." This national program recognizes outstanding parents across America who are providing children with loving homes. While in Congress, I have worked hard to help our foster and adoptive families. The reason for my interest is that I have met so many former foster youth in the Nashville area who have shared their experiences with me and their ideas for improving the system. Sometimes, they tell me, foster families need more government "help'' and sometimes much less. My goal is to help every one of the 500,000 American children who are living today under government supervision. These precious children have been abandoned or abused by their biological parents, but I think they have the right to join a loving family. The government cannot raise children; we need more families like the Hildabrands. The family is the foundation of life, of any strong community, and of our nation. The best school system cannot fill the void left by a broken home. The most determined congregation cannot instill the morality, integrity and sense of right and wrong that should be taught at the dinner table. Foster parents like Josh and Katrina are unsung heroes. While others look the other way, the Hildabrands see the opportunity to be "part of something bigger than ourselves." They stepped up when others stepped out. The Hildabrands provide stability where once was crisis; compassion where once was indifference. Kids need mentors, too We've all heard sad stories about foster care, but there are many more joyous ones. You don't even have to be a foster or adoptive parent to help these children; you can be a mentor, "respite care" provider, or just a friendly neighbor. Giving just a little of your free time — and a piece of your heart — can make you an angel in the eyes of a foster child. Today in Tennessee, there are more than 7,500 children living in some form of out-of-home care. The need is great, and, although we call ourselves the Volunteer State, we simply do not have enough volunteer parents. Clip out this column, and mention it to a friend. Talk to your pastor about it. If every congregation in Tennessee could identify just one couple who could take on this awesome responsibility — ideally, with the help of their congregation — we could solve this children's crisis in our state. As Katrina Hildabrand said recently, "Any efforts to help will never be wasted; no matter the magnitude of your gestures, you will be touching lives and helping to change the future." In other words, YOU, yes YOU, can change a child's world. Tennessee children need your help now. Calling all angels.
09.18.2009	September 1, 2009 U.S. Representative Jim Cooper has selected Josh and Katrina Hildabrand of Mt. Juliet as the 2009 Angels in Adoption from Tennessee’s 5th District for their outstanding advocacy of foster care issues. Cooper, who serves on the advisory board of the Congressional Coalition of Adoption Institute, has chosen the Hildabrands because of their extensive involvement with the foster care system and their dedication to improving the lives of foster youth. Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} NASHVILLE—U.S. Representative Jim Cooper has selected Josh and Katrina Hildabrand of Mt. Juliet as the 2009 Angels in Adoption from Tennessee’s 5th District for their outstanding advocacy of foster care issues. Cooper, who serves on the advisory board of the Congressional Coalition of Adoption Institute, has chosen the Hildabrands because of their extensive involvement with the foster care system and their dedication to improving the lives of foster youth. The Hildabrands first became foster parents in 2002 and have since served over 30 children in their home, in addition to raising their own daughter and adopting a son. The third generation in her family to become involved with adoption or foster care, Katrina also worked with foster children while pursuing her Bachelor’s degree in social work, an experience that she credits as the beginning of her passion for helping children of the foster care system. “The Hildabrands are exceptional people whose compassion and commitment deserve to be recognized, and I am honored to nominate them for the Angels in Adoption program,” Cooper said. “Their life story is remarkable and their love for foster youth is contagious.” The Hildabrands will travel to Washington to receive their award. They will continue to encourage others to become involved and say any efforts to help the lives of youth will never be wasted. “No matter the magnitude of your gestures, you will be touching lives and helping to change the future,” said Katrina Hildabrand. Sponsored by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute, The Angels in Adoption program was established in 1999 as a way for Congress to recognize individuals who have enriched the lives of foster children and orphans in the United States and abroad. The program strives to raise public awareness about the issue of adoption and concludes in an awards gala for its honorees in Washington, D.C. For more information, visit https://www.ccainstitute.org/. ####
09.10.2009	There are at least four lessons that we should learn from the unspeakable tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001. Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Lessons of tragedy reverberate todayThe TennesseanSeptember 11, 2009By Rep. Jim Cooper Other Views There are at least four lessons that we should learn from the unspeakable tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001. 1. Never again. We must protect our country from all enemies who seek to destroy us. National defense is the first duty of government. We have the finest military, intelligence and domestic security agencies in the world, but we were caught off guard by the coordinated hijacking of commercial airliners for use as guided missiles. We did not understand the nature of the enemy well enough to detect or disrupt the conspirators. We need sustained alertness — vigilance but not paranoia — to keep us safe. After Pearl Harbor at the start of World War II, America vowed to never again be surprised by a foreign enemy. For 60 years, our oceans helped protect us. Today new threats like cyber-war have shrunk the globe. 2. Thank our first responders. Until disaster struck, most Americans did not adequately appreciate our firefighters, police, emergency medical workers and other first responders. These brave men and women sacrifice for us every day because they are ready for the car wrecks, fires, crime, tornadoes, hurricanes, epidemics or terrorist attacks that threaten us. They face dangers much larger than any paycheck could compensate. Many of them are volunteers. No medal can give them the honor they deserve; we owe them our heartfelt praise. Some of the bravest first responders wore no uniform and had no training. They were the passengers on Flight 93 who took down their own plane over Pennsylvania so that it could not be used to destroy our nation's capitol. 3. Harden our targets. In the event that our efforts at self-protection fail, we must be prepared to limit the collateral damage. This requires a tough-mindedness and self-discipline that our pioneer forefathers lived. Whether it is limiting the spread of this fall's H1N1 flu virus with better hygiene, protecting our computers and identities from theft, paying attention to tornado alerts, or refusing to panic after the sound of an explosion, we can limit our vulnerability. Don't give our adversaries a bigger target than our open society already offers them. When we are unprepared, we can end up being our own worst enemies. 4. Sharpen our strategy. Just as our enemies' tactics evolve, we must remain flexible enough to keep them off balance. A fascinating debate is occurring now on whether our war in Afghanistan is working after eight years. At a recent roundtable discussion of retired generals in Nashville, all but one expressed serious misgivings about our continued military presence in that nation. The key is not so much whether we give the recently promoted Gen. Stan McCrystal a chance to deploy his new approach in Afghanistan, but whether we can always have a civil discussion in this country about our realistic military options around the world. To be able to debate the merits of war without impugning anyone's patriotism is a great source of strength. America's greatest resource is our resilience, our ability to bounce back from tragedy. We bounced back after 9/11 and, as long as we retain that ability, we will remain the greatest nation on earth.
09.02.2009	Let's Get Fundamental The New York Times By David Brooks, September 4, 2009 NYT columnist David Brooks says we need fundamental change and says the Wyden-Bennett bill is a comprehensive way to make that happen. Brooks writes: If I had a magic hour with the president, I’d tell him this is his ninth-inning chance. He can stay on the current path. He might be able to pass some incremental bill that extends coverage. But he won’t have tackled the fundamental problems that first drove him to this issue. He won’t have cut health care inflation. He won’t have prevented a voracious system from bankrupting the nation, defunding the schools, pushing down wages and impoverishing the young. On the other hand, he can shift back to the core issue: the perverse incentives that make this system such a mess. He can embrace proposals—like the Brookings proposals or, more comprehensively, the Wyden-Bennett bill — that address the structural problems instead of simply papering over them... This is not the time to get incremental. It’s the time to get fundamental. Reform the incentives. Make consumers accountable for spending. Make price information transparent. Reward health care, not health services. Do what you set out to do. Bring change. Real Choice? It’s Off Limits in Health Bills The New York Times By David Leonhardt, August 26, 2009 The only bill introduced in Congress with “real choice” is the Healthy Americans Act. David Leonhardt writes: Real choice is not part of the bills moving through the Democratic-led Congress; even if the much-debated government-run insurance plan was created, it would not be available to most people who already have coverage. The best-known proposal for giving people more choice is the Wyden-Bennett bill… The immediate advantage would be that people could choose a plan that fit their own preferences, rather than having to accept a plan chosen by human resources. You would be able to carry your plan from one job to the next — or hold onto it if you found yourself unemployed. You would never have to switch doctors because your employer switched insurance plans. The longer-term advantage would be that health insurance would become fully subject to the brutal and wonderful forces of the market. Insurers that offered better plans — plans that drew on places like the Mayo Clinic to offer good, lower-cost care — would win more customers. A Market for Health Reform The Washington Post By Ezra Klein, July 29, 2009 Based on the principles of the Healthy Americans Act, Ron Wyden believes there is a way to open more choices for all Americans with the Free Choice Act. Ezra Klein writes: [The Free Choice Act] would open the exchanges to all Americans and all businesses. It would also let those of us with employer-based insurance take the money our employers are paying for our insurance and use it on the exchange instead. This idea wouldn't take away what anyone has. But it would allow those of us who don't like what we have to change it. More so than any other idea in the health-care debate, it offers a concrete way that reform could benefit the insured. It gives them a way out of a health-care system that is eating through their wages and limiting their choices. And that's no small gain. The only way that health-care reform will truly give us a more efficient, more effective, more affordable health-care system is if it begins to fundamentally change the inefficient, ineffective, unaffordable system we have now. The strength of the health insurance exchanges is the key to that transition. That is not to underplay the political or policy challenges. Change is scary. But it's what Obama promised, and it's what the health-care system needs. A Bipartisan Plan on Health Care? Try Two The Washington Post By Ruth Marcus, July 29, 2009 President Obama has repeatedly stated that he wants a bipartisan plan that works for everyone. The Healthy Americans Act is already bipartisan and it’s Ruth Marcus’s preferred choice. Ruth Marcus writes: If only Democrats and Republicans could get together and produce a health-care bill that would expand coverage and control costs. But wait -- there is such a proposal. In fact, there are two. The first, which would, in a more perfect world, be my preference, is the measure devised by the odd couple of the Senate... This bill not only has the merit of being demonstrably bipartisan but has been scored by the Congressional Budget Office as fully paid for. These would be huge changes, which may be why, despite its sponsors' indefatigable efforts, the proposal hasn't gotten traction. Something for Nothing The New York Times By David Brooks, June 23, 2009 Columnist David Brooks writes on the merits of the Healthy Americans Act and why some in Congress are slow to follow suit. On May 12, the Senate Finance Committee held a hearing on health care reform… Democratic Senator Ron Wyden piped up and noted that he and Republican Senator Robert Bennett have a plan that repeals the [tax] exemption and provides universal coverage. The Wyden-Bennett bill has 14 bipartisan co-sponsors and the Congressional Budget Office has found that it would be revenue-neutral... Now you might think that in these circumstances someone might take a second look at the ideas incorporated in the Wyden-Bennett plan, which already has a good C.B.O. score, bipartisan support and a recipe for fundamental reform. If you did think that, you are mistaking the Senate for a rational organism. For while there are brewing efforts to incorporate a few Wyden-Bennett ideas, there is stiff resistance to the aspects that fundamentally change incentives. Wyden's Third Way The Wall Street Journal By Collin Levy, June 22, 2009 Senator Ron Wyden is interviewed on HAA and explains why he thinks it may be the most viable health care option. Collin Levy writes: The idea, Mr. Wyden says, is to harness the Democratic desire to get everyone covered to the Republican interest in markets and consumer choice. "The most conservative Republicans accept the idea that they didn't accept in '93, that you've got to cover everybody to organize the market," [Wyden] says….The Healthy Americans Act transitions poor people out of Medicaid and will give them choices of private plans like members of Congress… Mr. Wyden has been meeting with the president on the issue, so is Mr. Obama committed to the public option, I wonder? Mr. Wyden won't tell, but directs me instead to review Mr. Obama's book, "The Audacity of Hope." In it, he says, "he talked about a system like what we're talking about in the Healthy Americans Act." The 'Rock' In Health Reform The Washington Post By David S. Broder, June 11, 2009 A bipartisan health care bill already exists thanks to Sen. Ron Wyden and Sen. Bob Bennett. Will the President ever consider the bill? David Broder writes: Their bill -- in the simplest terms -- would have guaranteed portable, affordable health insurance to every American…Most remarkably, the sponsors obtained an estimate from the Congressional Budget Office and independent auditors that their plan would be self-financing after a short transition period and might save a trillion dollars over 10 years. The time may come -- either before or after the House votes on its bill -- when Obama may have to demonstrate his flexibility on the issue of a government-run option. Wyden and Bennett are potential allies if he removes what Bennett calls "the rock" blocking a bipartisan bill. And the president couldn't wish for better partners.
09.02.2009	H.R. 1321, The Healthy Americans Act Also known as the Wyden-Bennett Bill in the Senate, HAA was a bipartisan bill that would provide quality, affordable, comprehensive health insurance to all Americans. Although it was introduced to Congress in 2008, it did not get enough support and was ultimately not the chosen path for reform. See below for some facts on the proposed legislation. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said that it was budget neutral within the first year of implementation. Modeled after the current Federal Employee Health Care System, HAA allows you to have health care on the same level of your Congressman. Links and Additional Information 1. Highlights of the Healthy Americans Act - What are the principles of the bill? Read this two page summary of highlights and more information.2. What are People Saying about the HAA? - Read recent news quotes and articles about the bill.3. Watch my YouTube Video on the HAA4. The Congressional Budget Office Letter on HAA from 2008
09.02.2009	Health reform is actually two separate laws: The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (P.L. 111-148) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (P.L. 111-152).The path to Health Reform becoming law:The House of Representatives considered two bills on Sunday March 21st, the bill passed by the Senate in December and separate legislation that includes changes, HR 4872. H.R. 3590, The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act , was previously passed with 60 votes in the Senate on December 24, 2009. I voted for the bill, and it passed the House by 219-212. Click here to read my statement on my vote. You can read the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office analysis of the bill here. H.R. 3590 was signed into law by the President on March 23, 2010.HR4872: The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, made changes to the Patient Projection and Affordable Care Act, and was passed by the House 220-211. I voted against these changes. Click here to view my statement. Thenonpartisan Congressional Budget Office released its analysis of HR 4872 on Thursday, March 18. H.R. 4872 was signed into law on March 30, 2010.
07.26.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Reluctant 'no' to House bill The Tennessean July 26, 2009 By U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper This morning, I will appear on CBS' Face the Nation to discuss health-care reform with President Barack Obama's adviser David Axelrod and Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal. I will probably be asked how I intend to vote on the House bill that is scheduled for a vote this week. Sadly, my answer will be "no." As Obama's campaign chairman in Tennessee, as a longtime instructor of health policy at the Owen Business School at Vanderbilt University, and as a veteran of the disappointing health-care debates of the early '90s, I am dismayed at the prospect of voting "no." I want to vote for health-care reform. Every American deserves comprehensive health care. It is a moral imperative. But the House bill, at least as I have closely reviewed the June 19th and later drafts, is not good enough to earn the support of Nashville-area voters. Bill fails on key points The president said on television that he will not sign legislation that adds to the deficit, worsens long-term budget projections, or fails to "work." The House bill, as currently drafted, fails to meet the first two criteria according to the Congressional Budget Office. In my judgment, it also fails the third. The president is put in a terrible spot by his own Congress. He doesn't want to make too many committee chairmen mad, so he may well feel forced to support the House bill just to "move the process along," knowing that the ultimate bill will be decided in the Senate. The question is whether I should be forced to make the same compromises as the president, when I am more in support of the president's fundamental goals than the powerful House committee chairmen. In other words, does passing a bad bill yield a good result? I don't think so. There is time to make the legislative changes that we need. We are still on the first drafts of reform. Congress should work during August, and we should listen to folks back home. The president asked that legislation be completed by the end of the year. We can and should meet the president's deadline. Blue Dogs share Obama's goals My fellow Blue Dog Democrats and I have been working overtime to get substantive changes in the bill. Washington Post columnist Steve Perlstein wrote on Friday, "We can now thank the Blue Dogs for pushing House leaders to be more aggressive in making the kind of fundamental reforms in the way health care is delivered and paid for, which experts say is the surest way to reduce waste, improve health outcomes, and put the brake on health spending." House leaders are making a mistake by forcing a vote on a House bill that is poorly drafted and poorly understood. We can improve the bill during August and have a bill we can be proud of by early September. President Obama deserves a health-care reform bill worthy of the hope and change that he promised during the campaign. Congress should work harder to give him that bill.
07.23.2009	June 23, 2009 WASHINGTON—Eva Morrman, a former Metro Nashville Public School teacher, retired from Hillwood High School in Nashville in September of 2008. Ms. Morrman is currently in Washington, D.C. and took her grandson to the First Grandmothers “Read to the Top” event at the U.S. Department of Education. Ms. Morrman stopped by Congressman Cooper’s office on her way to the event, where the Congressman thanked her for her years of dedicated service to MNPS. “Ms. Morrman, it is an honor to have you visit in Washington. Your invaluable contributions to the lives of Nashville’s students will continue to benefit our community, and I admire your continued dedication by participating in the “Read to the Top” program.” “Read to the Top,” the Department of Education’s weekly summer reading campaign, features a variety of children’s books read to children by leading Administration officials. The campaign aims to combat the potential decline in children’s reading achievement over the summer by finding new ways to give children access to books during summer break. Speaking about the Department meeting, Ms. Moran stated that she was thrilled to be in DC with her grandson and delighted to bring a little Tennessee flavor to Department of Education today.
07.14.2009	[youtube:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jfbY1jeTYw0 400px 400px] Jim speaks with CBS's Bob Schieffer on the newly released health care bill in the House. 7/15/09 [youtube:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dl0aC4VoSlM 400px 400px] Jim talks defense spending with Sec. Gates, Adm. Mullen. 5/13/09 [youtube:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=clEU1HlhneY 400px 400px] Jim joins House leaders to discuss deficits. 1/7/09 [youtube:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lxFjnO4mgz0 400px 400px] Jim is ceremonially sworn in as a member of the 111th Congress. 1/6/09 [youtube:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FECr293mkqQ 400px 400px] Jim demands answers from Greenspan, Cox on fiscal crisis. 10/24/08 [youtube:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=an3VSDa2RLQ 400px 400px] Jim talks to CNBC about Greenspan hearing. 10/23/08 [youtube:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QcmpyHe-bxk 400px 400px] Jim makes an opening statement on the Cooper-Wolf SAFE Commission Act, H.R. 3654, at a House Budget Committee hearing. 6/24/08 [youtube:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-bcE0wZ5b_8 400px 400px] Jim urges reform of the U.S. foster care system while speaking on the Fostering Connections to Success Act, H.R. 6307. 6/24/08 [youtube:https://youtube.com/watch?v=Cw0NoYndWsU 400px 400px] Jim questions Adm. Michael Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, on the division of labor among our military services. 2/6/08 [youtube:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vEASgzcRDo 400px 400px] Jim and Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) appear on Bloomberg TV to discuss the prospects for passing an economic stimulus package. 1/17/08 [youtube:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=phgJzN0A0bU 400px 400px] Jim questions Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke about economic stimulus and the country's long-term fiscal future. 1/17/08 [youtube:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4zdyEJsqZmA 400px 400px] Jim joins fellow Blue Dog Democrats to demand that Congress pay its bills rather than running up the federal credit card. 12/12/07 [youtube:https://youtube.com/watch?v=O2Qkg0h5_ho 400px 400px] Jim urges colleagues to support the SAFE Commission Act, a long-term fiscal reform bill, House Floor Speech, 10/30/07 [youtube:https://youtube.com/watch?v=5jYD68tEXbk 400px 400px] Jim questions US government officials about private military contractors in Iraq, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Hearing, 10/2/07
07.09.2009	Agreement between online music companies and record labels is a step in the right direction Tuesday, July 7th 2009 “Online music companies and record labels reaching an agreement is great news,” said Rep. Jim Cooper, Nashville’s Congressman and a supporter of the Performance Rights Act. “The negotiated rates will let new media grow and prosper while ensuring that our local artists are paid for their work. Everyone wins when music fans can listen to songs online and music makers get a fair deal. “I’m encouraged to see that the consensus around the Performance Rights Act is growing stronger,” continued Cooper, who is a banjo picker himself. “Our music industry will only be successful by working with new media companies to build business models for the 21st century. Today’s news is music to my ears.” ###
06.23.2009	Tuesday, June 23Rep. Cooper praises Nissan's plan to retool its Smyrna, Tennessee, plant Below is a statement from U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (D-TN) on the news that Nissan will retool its Smyrna, Tennessee, plant to build advanced electric vehicles and batteries: “Today’s announcement is great news for Tennessee. Nissan’s commitment to producing an affordable, all-electric car in Smyrna will position our state as a leader in the 21st century American economy and create as many as 1,300 green Tennessee jobs. This investment will grow our state’s middle class, reduce America’s dependence on foreign oil and lessen the harmful effects of climate change. “The Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program is working just the way Congress intended when we funded it in 2008. Under this program, President Obama and Secretary Chu are investing in innovative companies that create green jobs for the future. Naturally, I think they’re off to a great start.” “Above all, I’m proud that Tennessee is becoming known as a hub for clean energy technologies and automotive innovation. We will lead the way to a more sustainable, prosperous future.” # # #
06.23.2009	Thursday, June 18 Democrats and republicans must work together to achieve health care reform v\:* { BEHAVIOR: url(#default#VML) } o\:* { BEHAVIOR: url(#default#VML) } w\:* { BEHAVIOR: url(#default#VML) } .shape { BEHAVIOR: url(#default#VML) } @font-face { font-family: Calibri; } @page Section1 {size: 8.5in 11.0in; margin: 1.0in 1.25in 1.0in 1.25in; mso-header-margin: .5in; mso-footer-margin: .5in; mso-paper-source: 0; } P.MsoNormal { FONT-SIZE: 12pt; MARGIN: 0in 0in 10pt; LINE-HEIGHT: 115%; FONT-FAMILY: "Times New Roman"; mso-style-parent: ""; mso-pagination: widow-orphan; mso-bidi-font-size: 2.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri } LI.MsoNormal { FONT-SIZE: 12pt; MARGIN: 0in 0in 10pt; LINE-HEIGHT: 115%; FONT-FAMILY: "Times New Roman"; mso-style-parent: ""; mso-pagination: widow-orphan; mso-bidi-font-size: 2.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri } DIV.MsoNormal { FONT-SIZE: 12pt; MARGIN: 0in 0in 10pt; LINE-HEIGHT: 115%; FONT-FAMILY: "Times New Roman"; mso-style-parent: ""; mso-pagination: widow-orphan; mso-bidi-font-size: 2.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri } DIV.Section1 { page: Section1 } @font-face { font-family: Calibri; } @page Section1 {size: 8.5in 11.0in; margin: 1.0in 1.0in 1.0in 1.0in; mso-header-margin: .5in; mso-footer-margin: .5in; mso-paper-source: 0; } P.MsoNormal { FONT-SIZE: 12pt; MARGIN: 0in 0in 10pt; LINE-HEIGHT: 115%; FONT-FAMILY: "Times New Roman"; mso-style-parent: ""; mso-pagination: widow-orphan; mso-bidi-font-size: 2.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri } LI.MsoNormal { FONT-SIZE: 12pt; MARGIN: 0in 0in 10pt; LINE-HEIGHT: 115%; FONT-FAMILY: "Times New Roman"; mso-style-parent: ""; mso-pagination: widow-orphan; mso-bidi-font-size: 2.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri } DIV.MsoNormal { FONT-SIZE: 12pt; MARGIN: 0in 0in 10pt; LINE-HEIGHT: 115%; FONT-FAMILY: "Times New Roman"; mso-style-parent: ""; mso-pagination: widow-orphan; mso-bidi-font-size: 2.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri } DIV.Section1 { page: Section1 } WASHINGTON--A group of Members of Congress—two Democrats and two Republicans—today emphasized the need for health care reform to be bipartisan. On the day after three former Senate majority leaders released their bipartisan health care reform proposal, Reps. Jim Cooper (D-TN), Mike Castle (R-DE), Parker Griffith (D-AL) and Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO) called for similar bipartisanship in the House and Senate. “Health care reform should be our top priority, period,” said Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN). “But the Senate’s restrictive reconciliation process will make real reform impossible. That’s why Democrats and Republicans must work together to pass a bill that meets President Obama’s goals, lowering cost, raising quality and covering all Americans. Yesterday Tom Daschle, Bob Dole and Howard Baker showed it can be done. Today a bipartisan group of members of Congress said we’re ready and willing to make it happen.” “Real reform in Congress is best done when we work together,” said Rep. Mike Castle (R-DE). “Improving health care is indisputably one of the most important things we can do to make a difference in the lives of Americans, but we must begin the conversation with cost in mind, not as an afterthought. Costs should be lower and quality must be higher.” “For health care reform to be the success that Americans want and deserve, we need a plan with bipartisan support. Our goal is to create a plan that is uniquely American, and this requires input and compromise from all sides,” said Rep. Parker Griffith (D-AL). “Successful health care reform will make our nation and our people stronger and healthier – both physically and economically. The decisions made this summer will affect everyone, and Americans are counting on the leaders in Washington to work together and make wise decisions as health care reform comes before the House and the Senate.” “Health care cost and access are issues for Americans regardless of their political beliefs, and members of Congress ought to be working across the aisle to solve these problems,” said Rep. Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO). “Clearly, the one-party solutions on the table are even more expensive than anyone anticipated, and it will take responsible ideas from both members of both parties in order to bring cost and access into balance. I’m excited and proud to be a member of this open-minded group of members who are taking both the cost and the access issues seriously in the quest for workable, affordable health care reform proposals.” ### Health Care Reform and Bipartisanship Remarks as Prepared for Delivery Rep. Jim Cooper 6/18/09 Hi, I’m Jim Cooper. I’m a Democrat and I represent Nashville, Tennessee. Right off the bat, I want to be clear: I support health care reform, as does everyone on this stage. I share all of the goals laid out by the President in his June 2 letter. I believe that every American should have high-quality, affordable health care. And I believe that reforming health care should be Congress’s top priority. Let me repeat that: health care reform should be Congress’s top priority. We are not here to slow it down. That’s the Senate’s job. So don’t believe the phony talking points that are being circulated that we’re trying to “slow down the process.” The process is already creaking under its own weight and we haven’t even seen full bill text yet. Don’t take my word for it; just read your own publications. On the contrary, we are trying to ensure that reform actually happens. We are here because we see health care reform bogging down in the Senate, and we worry that the chance to achieve this great victory for the American people is slipping out of reach. Here’s why what’s happening in the Senate worries me so much. If reform gets bogged down, it will have to go through the Senate’s reconciliation process. This is not good news for supporters of health care reform. In fact, it’s awful news. Reconciliation is just what the trillion dollars of vested interests who want to kill health care reform are hoping for. That’s because they know something that few people in Washington have figured out: the Senate’s very restrictive reconciliation rules will prevent a true health care reform bill from passing. Has anyone here actually looked at the reconciliation process and the Byrd rule? Every committee would have to report a bill that reduced the deficit by $1 billion in five years. It would have to be deficit-neutral each year after that. It couldn’t include “extraneous” material—like all the vitally important changes to our health care delivery system. Or, if we couldn’t find the savings, our grand health care reform achievement would have to sunset. In short, health care reform under reconciliation wouldn’t be health care reform at all. It would be a deficit reduction bill relating to health care. Or a reform package with an expiration date. And hey, you know me, I think deficit reduction is great. But this is about passing a robust health care reform bill. One that provides every American with low-cost, high-quality health insurance. One that focuses on prevention. One that keeps people healthy. One that gives them choices. One that modernizes our delivery system. And one that lowers cost. After all, the out-of-control cost of health care is bankrupting the American people. Something major happened yesterday. Democrats and Republicans, working together, unveiled a bipartisan comprehensive health care reform plan. Tom Daschle, Bob Dole and Howard Baker did what Congress is failing to do. They met all of President Obama’s goals, and they fully financed their proposal. And the White House released a statement praising this bipartisan leadership. In the House of Representatives, meanwhile, we are explicitly told not to work with Republicans. Now, my personal belief is that Congress could begin marking up the bipartisan Wyden-Bennett Healthy Americans Act right away. Smart commentators like Jonathan Cohn at The New Republic and Ezra Klein at the Washington Post have praised this bill. It’s progressive, it’s bipartisan and it’s deficit-neutral. But on that point, I don’t speak for everyone up here. All I know is that health care reform is on life support because the Senate can’t figure out how to pay for it. Jon Cohn and Ezra Klein are worried. I’m worried. And I’m speaking out today because I’ve been through a failed health care reform process before. We can’t afford to repeat those mistakes this year. Let’s follow President Obama’s lead and work together to finally provide health care to every American. And let’s do it right now. I’d now like to turn it over to Mike Castle, my good friend and—I might add—a fellow cosponsor of the Healthy Americans Act. Thanks. ###
06.17.2009	Curing medicine's problemsNashville Post June 15, 2009 By U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper This summer could be one of the most important in American history. Every modern U.S. President has tried to make the care provided by doctors and hospitals more affordable to patients, but all have failed. Health care costs continue to skyrocket, hurting America’s families. President Barack Obama is trying to make care affordable, but he will need our help. Many people like the current medical system because they have enough money and are satisfied with the quality of care they are getting. Reformers should respect these lucky people. But tens of millions more people have no health insurance, have substandard coverage, or are about to lose their insurance. The best doctors tell us that we should be worried about the quality of our care because as many as 98,000 Americans die prematurely every year due to preventable medical errors. That’s the equivalent of a jumbo jet crashing almost every day. We would never allow this situation in aviation, so why in health care? There are ways to fix the problems in our system. For example, under pressure from the White House, health insurance companies agreed two weeks ago to drastically simplify the paperwork that ties up our physicians and nurses. That’s good news, but it’s also about 30 years late. Another example of sensible reform is the recent programs by Wal-Mart, Kroger and others to sell many prescription medicines for $4. Think how many years we paid much higher prices for the same medicines! But once large companies bargained with the drug companies for lower prices, we benefited. And these companies are still making good money at $4! Our medical system is so crazy that similar towns in the same state can spend twice as much on health care without any health benefits. Read the recent New Yorker article by Dr. Atul Gawande, a former staffer of mine, to find out the bizarre things happening in states like Texas. We will hear a lot of overheated rhetoric this summer, but the only opinion that matters is yours. I hope you will tune in to the debate and decide for yourself who’s right. There will be $2.4 trillion of vested interests in health care trying to persuade us to do nothing because everything is fine. And there will be folks like me, and Nancy-Ann DeParle (a Tennessean who is now leading the White House reform effort), trying to cure the problems in today’s system without harming the good. This may look like an impossible task except for the fact that we are probably wasting $700 billion a year in health care. Those dollars can be put to much better use to help everyone get better health care. If you don’t believe me, look what the major health industries told President Obama a month ago: that they could come up with $2 trillion in savings without harming anyone. It’s time to make them practice what they preach. Jim Cooper is the Congressman for Tennessee's Fifth District. He serves on the Armed Services, Budget, and Oversight and Government Reform committees. ###
06.11.2009	Washington Post reporter Ezra Klein interviews Jim Cooper on health care issues. An Interview With Jim Cooper WASHINGTON POSTWednesday, June 10 By Ezra KleinIn recent weeks, we've talked about the administration's idea for controlling health-care costs by allowing the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission to make Medicare reforms without requiring congressional approval. It's a big, bold idea, that first found expression in legislation from Sen. Jay Rockefeller. Late last week, Rep. Jim Cooper introduced a version of Rockefeller's bill in the House. We spoke about the idea this morning, and Cooper's argument is really worth a read. It's not just an argument for his legislation. It's an argument against a broken Congress that's too riddled with special interests and parochial cowardice to perform its basic functions. Many of his colleagues, he argues, don't even know the difference between Medicare and Medicaid. Should they really be in charge of the two programs? What follows is a lightly edited transcript of our chat. -- Ezra.You've introduced the companion plan to Senator Jay Rockefeller's MedPAC reform act, which would make MedPAC an executive branch agency and, following a Federal Reserve model, allow it to implement its proposed Medicare reforms without coming to Congress for a vote. Why?We need to take politics out of health care. Congress will cave to pretty much any special interest on the subject. Meanwhile, we're facing a financial calamity in the growth of Medicare and Medicaid. The financial safety of America is at risk. I think the MedPAC people do a great job. I've loved their reports for years. But Congress routinely ignores their findings. I think it's very appropriate to elevate their standing. Now, this is an opening legislative bid. And Congress would retain ultimate control. But it would relieve Congress of a lot of technical responsibilities. By getting expert help and consumer-friendly help, we can improve the situation. A recent MedPAC initiative was to require physicians to report industry relationships. That's a necessary step. But Congress will never do it on its own. All it takes is a doctor complaint from back home and Congress backs off.You said Congress would retain ultimate control. How?We could abolish MedPAC entirely. If Congress wanted to intervene with the Federal Reserve, well, we created the Federal Reserve. We could uncreate it. But would you want Congress regulating the money supply? We'd have drowned in inflation, or gone bankrupt, decades ago.Why take it from Congress at all? Don't seniors and other constituent groups deserve to have their representatives making these decisions. Isn't that the point of our political system?You remember, a few years ago, how Congress didn't know the difference between Sunni and Shi'a? Ask folks about the difference between Medicare and Medicaid, you'd be surprised.Do your colleagues confuse them?Routinely. for example, a lot of my rural friends will say we can't recruit doctors to rural areas because Medicare pays too little. But Medicare pays pretty much market rate. Medicaid pays much less than that. So I'll say don't you mean Medicaid? Then they'll say that they're not on the Health Committee. But these are the most important programs in the country for their constituents! I hope you understand my motivations, I'm for keeping these programs strong. I'm not for hurting them or eliminating them. My constituents rely on them. We need to keep them strong. Look at issues raised in [Atul Gawande's] New Yorker piece. Tell me how Congress is going to solve that problem. Probably right now the doctors in El Paso, Texas, are saying they want to be paid as much as the doctors in McAllen! And do you think the congressmen in McAllen are saying, "this is terrible, my doctors are being paid too much?" In Congress, it's all pork, all the time. You know, Alain Enthoven once said that the perfect weapons program would be built in all 435 districts at once and it wouldn't work. Politically, that would be ideal. For national security, it would be a disastrous outcome.What about the idea of making it a BRAC-style commission that could get a quick vote from Congress rather than a Federal Reserve-stlye agency?Someone may offer an amendment to make it BRAC style. I could probably settle for that. But as an opening position, I think the Federal Reserve model makes the most sense. You know, if you read this year's Medicare Trustees Report, on page 209, the dead last page, you'll see the actuary's letter. It says something like, "the preceding report assumes we will cut physician pay by 38 percent over the next few decades." Basically, this whole report is a lie. That's not cost savings. It's putting physicians out of business. We're not doing that. Congress has never, and probably will never, whack physicians by 38 percent. if you base the report on more realistic assumptions, though, Medicare is in trouble a lot earlier.Click here to view the interview online.
06.09.2009	Tuesday, June 9 U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper will join President Barack Obama at the White House for an announcement about the need for the federal government to pay for its spending policies. WASHINGTON--"Today, I will join President Obama and other Members of Congress at the White House to discuss statutory PAYGO, a law that would require Congress to pay for its spending policies. "President Obama inherited an economy in freefall and a $10.6 trillion national debt. While short-term spending was necessary to get the economy moving again, it's now even more urgent that we get our fiscal house in order. PAYGO is an important first step in that difficult process."Click here for a link the the official White House website to view a video of the President's remarks.
06.08.2009	Joint purchasing puts the nation firstPoliticoJune 7, 2009 By U.S. Rep Jim Cooper Perhaps the toughest job in government is getting more value for our defense dollars. Do our troops really have what they need? Did the Pentagon get ripped off when it paid the bill? Will we be ready for the next threat, the next conflict and the next war? We’ve tried to reform Pentagon purchasing 131 times since World War II. The latest effort came just last month with the Weapon Systems Acquisition Reform Act of 2009. The bill made necessary changes but has not corrected the fundamental problem in defense purchasing. The Pentagon bureaucracy is so vast that people have trouble seeing what’s really happening inside. For example, there are 50,000 private-sector contractors whose job is to oversee a much larger number of additional private-sector contractors. The organizational charts and acronyms are mind-boggling. No wonder they call the Pentagon the Puzzle Palace. The fundamental problem is that the military services, rather than the secretary of defense, are still making purchasing decisions. Two decades ago, after pressure from Congress in the Goldwater-Nichols Act of 1986, the services learned to fight jointly, but they still have not learned to purchase jointly. Just as joint war-fighting is a force multiplier, joint purchasing could be, as well. Don’t get me wrong. The services have the expertise that we need to make wise purchasing decisions. But this expertise usually puts the services’ interests ahead of the national interest. I would move the services’ acquisition staffs into the office of the secretary so that purchasing decisions can be made jointly. Defense Secretary Robert Gates is trying to reorder Pentagon spending priorities, but his type of intervention is rare, not yet successful and, without institutional changes, likely to be overturned. The services have overwhelming control over the current process and will never relinquish it voluntarily. For the past 40 years, the Army, Navy and Air Force have divvied up defense spending equally, regardless of the threats to the nation. How could our service shares remain constant (plus or minus 2 percent) during the Cold War, hot wars and no wars? This 40-year truce between the services has led to stagnation, making it harder to get the mine-resistant ambush-protected vehicles, up-armored Humvees and body armor to our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. It’s also forced some services to stay attached to weapons programs longer than they should in an effort to keep their budget share intact. And when creativity is truly needed, as with pilotless drones, the services have sometimes turned their backs on innovation. The irony of Pentagon purchasing is that some of the most patriotic men and women in America are trapped in a system that fails to put the country first. Sometimes the interests of the services coincide with the national interest, but this doesn’t happen frequently enough. Sometimes brave colonels and captains put the national interest first, but they know they are risking their careers to do so. A joint purchasing board under the direction of the office of the secretary of defense would better align the interests of the services with those of the nation. Warriors who have returned from joint commands would no longer have to revert to favoring their own service. Purchasing decisions could be vetted more carefully and for the benefit of all. Cooperation is not as radical as it may seem. President Harry Truman lamented that he wished the services would fight the enemy as hard as they fought each other. President Dwight Eisenhower advocated that all general officers wear a purple uniform common to all the services in order to limit the harmful effects of rivalries. Congress is constitutionally responsible for providing for the nation’s defense, and acquisition needs our attention. Twenty-three years after Goldwater-Nichols, we should make joint purchasing a reality. ###
06.05.2009	Friday, June 5MedPAC Reform Act would take politics out of Medicare reimbursement decisions WASHINGTON--U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (D-TN) introduced a key health care reform bill designed to take politics out of costly and controversial Medicare reimbursement decisions. The MedPAC Reform Act of 2009 (H.R. 2718) would convert MedPAC, which is currently the agency that advises Congress on Medicare payment decisions, into an independent executive branch agency modeled after the Federal Reserve. Companion Senate legislation was introduced in May by Senator John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV. “Every year, MedPAC advises Congress to reform Medicare, and every year, lobbyists and special interests intervene to stop those reforms in their tracks,” said Congressman Cooper, longtime advocate for health care reform. “The government is spending billions of tax dollars on health procedures that don’t improve Americans’ personal health but do jeopardize our nation’s fiscal health. Meanwhile, expert MedPAC reports gather dust on the shelf. We can no longer afford to let politicians keep ignoring these problems when health care professionals have already found the solutions.” “We need to take the politics out of MedPAC, and transition MedPAC into an independent but publicly accountable agency—away from the influence of special interests,” said Senator Rockefeller, Chairman of the Senate Finance Subcommittee on Health Care. “I am glad Congressman Cooper is taking the lead on this legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives—it’s time for Congress to leave Medicare reimbursement rules to the independent health care experts once and for all.” The MedPAC Reform Act would empower MedPAC, currently an advisory commission made up of 17 health experts, to make binding recommendations to reduce cost and improve quality in Medicare. This week, President Barack Obama voiced support for a similar approach to finding savings in Medicare. Background: The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) is an independent agency established by the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (P.L. 105-33) to advise the U.S. Congress on issues affecting the Medicare program. The MedPAC Reform Act of 2009 will work to make Medicare payment decisions more effective and efficient, ensuring that Medicare beneficiaries get the right care at the right time. This legislation will revise MedPAC’s mission to: • Reform MedPAC as Executive Agency Modeled After the Federal Reserve Board; • Elevate MedPAC to be an independent, executive branch entity, like the Federal Reserve, with the power to implement recommendations that are more insulated from special interests, and more accountable to the American people; • Inform new research in health services to adequately address deficiencies in the evidence; • Test new and innovative payment models for provider reimbursement; and • Expand the capacity to evaluate basic and health services research for reimbursement. ###
05.27.2009	Today's summit could help metro area's next big leapThe Tennessean May 27, 2009 By U.S. Rep Jim Cooper We all love living in Middle Tennessee and want to keep our quality of life. As more and more people move here, however, we face lots of growth issues. We can solve these problems if we just work together. Nashville must always be "better than Atlanta." People commute to work in Nashville from miles away, and Nashvillians return the favor. Everyone depends on Nashville's wonderful airport, sports, cultural, and educational institutions. We are a world-class city that still retains its small-town charm. Some of the biggest obstacles we face in our regional economy are the invisible county and city lines that can sometimes get in the way of progress. These lines were drawn almost 200 years ago to please politicians, not citizens. No one dreamed back then that Nashville would be Music City, a publishing, health and automobile capital, or home of the Titans, Predators and Sounds. Brilliant Nashville leaders like George Cate and Cecil Branstetter had the vision in the 1950s to see that Nashville had already outgrown its limits. These men helped erase the invisible line between city and county when they persuaded voters to merge Nashville with Davidson County. Instead of paying two sets of government employees to provide electric, water, sewer, fire and police service, we cut government with "Metro." We take this reform for granted today, but it set Nashville apart as one of the most farsighted, dynamic cities in America. What should we be doing now to keep ahead of the curve? This is for local people to decide, with the advice of local planning agencies. We have a wide range of choices that we can make to maintain our quality of life while sharing it with more and more outsiders who have "discovered" Nashville and its surroundings. Local groups like Cumberland Region Tomorrow, and the Nashville MPO, are working with Mayor Karl Dean's office, Gov. Phil Bredesen's office and the Tennessee Department of Transportation to explore new ideas to ease our growth problems. These are decisions that you cannot delegate to "experts" because you are the expert when it comes to your commute, your family, and your lifestyle. Do you want to spend 27 minutes in your car twice a day to get to work, or is there a better way? Should skyscrapers be built near your subdivision? How much are you willing to pay for eight-lane highways, smart buses, or commuter rail? If we build it, will you come? These are just some of the issues that Nashville and other top U.S. cities are dealing with. We can learn from them and they can learn from us. The key will be to find Nashville solutions because we are different (and, I think, better) than other cities. What works in Portland, Ore., or Austin, Texas, won't necessarily work here. We have a forward-looking Nashville Area Chamber of Commerce and other civic groups that are helping us think about our growth options. Today's regional summit on transportation options will focus our attention on lots of issues regarding cars. This will be a great chance to get your seat at the table so that all the good ideas are presented, and no one is overlooked. Government should work for you, not against you. In America, and especially in Middle Tennessee, the people rule. ### ###
05.26.2009	Tuesday, May 26Rep. Cooper praises President Obama's nomination of Sotomayor for Supreme Court Justice NASHVILLE—Congressman Jim Cooper issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s nomination of Judge Sonia Sotomayor to serve on the United States Supreme Court: “President Obama's Supreme Court nominee has a distinguished record and is viewed as a rigorous judge who applies the law fairly and impartially. Judge Sonia Sotomayor certainly embodies the American dream: she grew up in housing projects, worked hard and eventually graduated at the top of her class at Princeton. If confirmed, she would make history as the first Hispanic American to serve on the Supreme Court. She clearly is a scholar, not an ideologue, having been nominated to the federal bench by George H.W. Bush. “I don't have a vote on her nomination, but like all Americans I look forward to learning more about Judge Sotomayor over the next several weeks. She seems to possess a sharp legal mind and has earned a reputation as a fair-minded judge. By all accounts, President Obama has made a good choice.” ###
05.20.2009	Commentary: Fixing Foster Care Nashville City Paper May 20, 2009 By U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper How much do you know about our national foster care system? Consider these basic facts: Each year, more than 800,000 American children are in foster care, most because they have been neglected or abused. Many of the kids do not receive adequate health care and education. Currently, in Tennessee, there are over 9,000 children in foster care. They are left without supportive, loving families, may be separated from their siblings, and often “age out” of the system without the security of an adoptive family to fall back on. They are less likely to earn a high school diploma or a bachelor’s degree than their peers, and when they grow up, they are less likely to have a job or health insurance. They are also more likely than their peers to remain unemployed, homeless, and in need of public assistance. To put it simply, America’s abused and neglected children are our greatest national tragedy. These children are everyone’s problem because they come from every neighborhood and every zip code. Though federal and state governments spend over $25 billion each year to assist foster children, no one thinks that government is capable of raising them well. The central irony of our struggling child welfare system is that many good, even saintly, people are working in it. They are doing some remarkable things. The Tennessee Department of Children’s Services is reducing the number of foster children in their care by placing them in permanent, loving homes. Nonprofits like Renewal House, YouthVillages, and the Oasis Center work outside of the system to improve the lives of at-risk youth and families. Foster parents and youth are increasingly speaking out about the need for reform. In Washington, Congress unanimously passed a bill called the Fostering Connections to Success and Increasing Adoptions Act. It marked the most significant reform to the child welfare system in over a decade and was signed into law last October. And recently, the House passed a bill to recognize May as National Foster Care Month and reaffirm the commitment of the House to improve the foster care system. We are making progress by raising public awareness. But there is more work to be done. As a start, during National Foster Care Month, I encourage everyone to learn more about the foster care system and how it affects our communities. You can visit sites like www.fostercaremonth.org, www.tennessee.gov/youth/fostercare.htm, and www.raisemeup.org to get more information. In a perfect world, there would be no need for foster care. But if every child cannot be born into a loving family, we should make sure they get the love they need and deserve. Improving these children’s futures should be our top priority. ###
05.08.2009	Rep. Cooper recognizes importance of public charter schools NASHVILLE—U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper released the following statement in observance of National Charter Schools Week, 2009: “I’m proud to join President Obama in recognizing the important role public charter schools play in educating America’s children. Charter schools are hubs for innovation, and working in partnership with public school administrators, these schools prepare students for success throughout life. “The President has called on federal, state and local officials to work together make public charter schools successful. In his proclamation recognizing National Charter Schools Week, 2009, he praised public charter schools’ “dedication and commitment to achievement in education.” I second that commendation. “We must do whatever it takes to improve our schools and help our children succeed. Public charter schools are a key part of achieving that goal.” # # #
05.04.2009	May 5, 2009 NASHVILLE-Congressman Jim Cooper celebrated National Teacher Day a few days early this year by paying a visit to Southside Elementary School in Lebanon. On Friday, May 1, Cooper met with the school's students and teachers, where he spent the morning learning about the environmentally friendly projects going on at Southside. "I am amazed at what Southside's teachers, students and parents have done to go green," said Cooper. "They've created recycling centers, planted educational gardens, and reduced carbon emissions through carpooling. And the school's efforts have had a ripple effect on Southside's students, who bring Earth-friendly living into their homes. It's just like my family: the children are teaching their parents about being responsible for the environment." National Teacher Day, which is this year observed on May 5, honors the work of teachers across America. Congress first recognized the occasion in 1953. "Teachers like those at Southside give children the skills to be successful and responsible throughout life," said Cooper. "We owe all of America's teachers our thanks. I'm particularly encouraged to see record numbers of young men and women signing up to be math and science teachers in our schools, and participating in programs like Teach for America. Thanks to them, our future is in good hands." ###
04.21.2009	April 20, 2009 By U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper Last week, a nearly 50-year-old Scottish woman named Susan Boyle became the world's latest YouTube sensation. Her heartwarming appearance on Britain's Got Talent was posted online, and it has been viewed millions of times by people around the globe. Boyle is frumpy and awkward and, when she talks in her thick brogue, the audience laughs at her. Notoriously hard-to-impress judge Simon Cowell rolls his eyes. But then Boyle opens her mouth and sings a moving rendition of "I Dreamed a Dream" from Les Miserables. The crowd leaps to its feet, many with tears in their eyes. Afterward, the judges give her unanimous approval. A record deal is already rumored to be in the works. Susan's story shows us how much the world of music and entertainment has changed in the Internet age. One day, a woman lives in a small Scottish town with only her cat to keep her company. The next, she is a worldwide star with a recording contract and tour dates. (Her dream, she told one newspaper, is to see her name in lights.) None of this would be possible without the Internet. Even if Susan had wowed the British television audience, her celebrity would have ended at the water's edge. Instead, Susan has built a global fan base. If people remain impressed by her singing, and not just her one-time television appearance, she can sell music, concert tickets and merchandise around the world. But as we know in Nashville, the Internet has been a double-edged sword for the music industry. It builds audiences, but it also makes it easier for people to download and share music illegally, cheating the many people who work hard to create it. In the last 10 years, CD sales have dropped 50 percent. Unfortunately, online revenue from legally downloaded music hasn't come anywhere close to making up the difference. When the music industry suffers, we all suffer. Songwriters and recording artists don't get paid their fair share for the art they create. Retail music stores close. (Remember Tower Records?) People who make and sell microphones, speakers and mixing boards lose jobs. Restaurants lose business. We all have a stake in keeping Nashville's music industry strong. One way to ensure the industry's vibrancy is to modernize our laws to suit the times. That's why I co-sponsored the Performance Rights Act, which ensures that artists are paid a fair royalty when their music is played on terrestrial radio. This requires striking a delicate balance of interests, because we don't want to cheat songwriters or hurt small radio stations. And I'm sure there is room for further improvement in the bill. But the music industry's problems won't be solved in Washington. The iPod is here to stay, and digital music won't be going away either. Nashville is a vibrant city full of smart, innovative artists and businesspeople. Our music industry should be able to lead the way into a future of streaming digital music delivery, and should be able to do it fairly and profitably. The Internet has transformed human existence, and it is transforming Music Row, too. We can't afford to be threatened by YouTube sensations or digital downloads. We should be structuring profitable deals to bring the next undiscovered star from Mt. Juliet - or Mt. Kilimanjaro - to worldwide fame. The next Susan Boyle's story still can start in Music City U.S.A. ###
04.15.2009	Deadline is Friday, April 17, 2009 at 5pm The Congressional Art Competition is open to high school students in Tennessee's Fifth Congressional District. Submissions may be dropped off at Congressman Cooper's office at 605 Church Street in Downtown Nashville. Congressman Cooper's Art Competition Reception will be held in his Nashville office on Saturday, April 25th from 10am until 12pm. This event is open to the public. For more information about submissions and the reception, please contact Kathy Buggs at (615) 736-5295.
04.06.2009	Says important national priority can and must be achieved this year Jim's interview with The New Republic can be found here .
04.03.2009	Recovery funds and shovel-ready courthouse project are priorities for Middle Tennessee U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper released the following statement after announcing that he would not seek earmarks in FY2010 appropriations bills: "In last five months, our economy has lost 3.3 million jobs. These are tough times for all Americans. So when Congress spends taxpayer money, we should be spending it on projects that get the economy moving again. While some earmarks create jobs, many just get members of Congress reelected-and in some cases, investigated by the FBI. "Instead of earmarks based on Washington politics, we need full transparency and a fair system to fund projects that put people to work. That's why I've been working with colleagues to address the backlog of federal courthouses that are ready to be built around the country. In Nashville, we have a courthouse project that's shovel-ready and long overdue; it just needs funding. I'd rather see Congress spend taxpayer money on that project before we dole out any more earmarks." ###
04.03.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} By Rep. Jim Cooper April 3, 2009 It looks like green jobs are real. Recently, two solar energy companies - Hemlock Semiconductor Corp. and Wacker Chemie AG - announced billion dollar investment plans to build plants near Clarksville and Chattanooga. Another solar company, Shoals Technology, has set up headquarters in Gallatin. That's three major investments in our state in a few months. Meanwhile, Americans are spending a quarter of a trillion dollars each year to buy oil from countries that support terrorists. Aren't we tired yet of paying for both sides of Persian Gulf wars? We pump billions of tons of carbon dioxide pollution into the atmosphere every year. Increased carbon emissions will raise global temperatures by 3-7 degrees. (If you think that doesn't sound like a lot, think how you feel when your body temperature is not 98.6 but 101.6.) Our energy policies pose economic, national security, and environmental threats. Yet as we've seen in Tennessee, new ideas can create economic opportunities and thousands of jobs. President Obama has made energy reform and climate protection main priorities for his administration. Congress will take up legislation to advance these goals later this year. One solution to stop global warming is "cap and trade." This is a system that sets limits on greenhouse gas emissions and creates a market where businesses can buy and sell the right to pollute. It uses market forces to reward efficient businesses instead of centralized bureaucratic control. We used this approach to reduce acid rain in the 1990s, and it has been remarkably successful. Republicans claim that cap and trade is really "cap and tax," and that Americans will suffer as energy costs rise. Cap and trade does make the cost of emitting carbon pollution more expensive. But under President Obama's proposal, Americans will receive tax cuts to compensate for any increase in energy prices. If we sell those pollution permits instead of giving them away for free, Tennesseans could receive $1-6 billion in tax cuts. Still, many companies argue that they should be given those permits for free. Free permits would amount to billions of dollars in corporate welfare. We don't like propping up dying banks or car companies. Why should we give billions of dollars - the country's biggest earmark - to coal companies just so they can continue poisoning our environment? Though cap and trade uses market economics to reward innovative businesses, we know that markets don't work perfectly. This is why I recently introduced a bill with Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Tex.) to ensure an honest market and stable prices. Under our plan, an independent Board will regulate the market and prevent price hikes that hurt consumers. Think of it as training wheels for cap and trade. Our legislation is only one piece of energy reform. Congress will continue to work with the President to find innovative, efficient solutions to our climate crisis. By acting now, America will become the global leader in energy technology. We must strengthen our economy and save our environment. We can do both.
03.24.2009	First Cap-and-Trade Related Bill Filed in this Congress Brings New Members to Climate Agenda WASHINGTON-- Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, and Rep. Jim Cooper (D-Tenn.), a co-author of the 1990 acid rain cap-and-trade system, are introducing the Safe Markets Development Act, an innovative piece of climate legislation that will ensure emission reduction goals while containing costs, avoiding volatility in emission allowance prices and preventing market manipulation that could lead to destructive booms and busts in a US carbon market. Rep. Doggett commented: “Legitimate concern over speculation in fossil fuel and financial markets must not stand in the way of new energy policy. Proper action now on climate change will spur both job growth and energy independence. Inaction will only wreck our economy and our environment. Overcoming the high obstacles to fulfilling President Obama’s commitment to a cap and trade system requires continual cooperation, collaboration, and a willingness to consider new ways of resolving old problems.” “This bill represents one significant, new element of the broader legislation that must be developed through joint action of the House Energy and Commerce and Ways and Means Committees and others. It offers a way to avoid the volatility in carbon allowance prices that might otherwise occur in the initial years of a cap-and-trade system without sacrificing strong science-based limits on carbon pollution.” “There is a role for everyone willing to work in good faith based on good science to end obstruction and to reduce the real threat of global warming. The more members we bring together, the more successful we will be in enacting a solution. This bill represents the type of legislation that I intend to continue offering -- building block by building block to help us achieve a comprehensive solution." Rep. Cooper commented: “We have to thread the needle very carefully if we’re going to implement a successful carbon cap-and-trade program. An efficient, stable carbon market will produce the necessary reductions at a dependable price. Environmental and business groups alike should welcome the Safe Market Development Approach because it provides the right amount of protection and certainty in the early years of this important program.” ** “The Safe Markets Development Act is a new idea that should appeal to all those who are looking for an acceptable, middle ground solution to passing climate legislation. This bill will meet our environmental goals, create predictable prices and prevent market manipulation and excess speculation in the early years of a cap and trade program.” -- Ned Helme, President, Center for Clean Air Policy ** “We are particularly pleased that this legislation seeks to establish price certainty while achieving the environmental goals that are a necessity for any meaningful climate legislation. It is a predictable and measured way to approach cap and trade and addresses many of the concerns about potential wide swings and volatility in the carbon market.” -- Mark Heesen, President, National Venture Capital Association ** “We offer our strong support for the approach presented in the “Safe Markets Development Act of 2009” to set stable prices in carbon markets while maintaining firm pollution reduction targets” -- Brent Blackwelder, President, Friends of the Earth What the bill does: The Safe Markets Development Act provides an innovative auction mechanism for cap-and-trade legislation that guarantees science-based reductions of carbon pollution while ensuring market stability. The bill would rely upon an independent Board to determine the annual allowance prices necessary to meet emissions targets from 2012 to 2020. The U.S. Treasury Department would conduct quarterly allowance auctions designed to maintain prices determined by the Board. The Board must conduct an annual review of its success in meeting the emissions goals and adjust the forecasted prices to ensure we stay on track to meet the 2020 emissions goal. In short, this new legislation is not a complete global warming bill, but it offers one key component to improve price predictability that business needs to achieve the science-based cuts in greenhouse gas emissions. Cosponsored by a broad coalition of House members, including members of the conservative Blue Dog Coalition, such as Representative Jim Cooper and Heath Shuler, as well as members of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, the Safe Markets Development Act was drafted in cooperation with the Center for Clean Air Policy which works closely with businesses, nongovernmental organizations and governments to develop smart climate policies that balance environment with economic development. Video of Congressman Doggett’s remarks is available online at: https://www.house.gov/doggett/speeches/2009-03-23_SafeMarkets.wmv Rep. Lloyd Doggett Introduction of Safe Markets Development Act March 23, 2009 With all the recent talk about unearned bonuses, I want to talk about a bonus that we Americans can give to ourselves and the world. We can do that by approving President Obama's plan to "make clean, renewable energy the profitable kind of energy." Because we can build a clean energy economy by reducing greenhouse gas emissions --carbon pollution -- through a market-based system, as the President has proposed, I am, today, together with a number of House colleagues, introducing the Safe Markets Development Act. This legislation will help to ensure that any future market for carbon allowances is not abused by price speculators or undermined by excessive price volatility. This is the first cap-and-trade measure to be filed in this Congress and it is unique -- both in responding to concerns about market manipulation, and in its broad support -- bringing new Members and a broader array of interests behind this new idea on how to resolve one aspect of our transition to a cleaner world. This Safe Markets bill offers an approach that will provide a narrow auction and trading environment for the start-up phase of a cap-and-trade or cap-and-invest system. Experts on commodities markets tell us that price volatility is not unusual with new markets. Certainly, legitimate concern over recent speculation in fossil fuel and financial markets must not stand in our way of new energy policy. How does this bill achieve science-based emission reductions? It relies on an independent Board, with strict conflict of interest provisions and post employment restrictions, to determine the annual prices per ton of carbon necessary to meet science-based annual emissions targets from 2012 to 2020. The Treasury Department would conduct quarterly allowance auctions designed to maintain this price. Under the legislation, the Board must conduct an annual review of its success in meeting emissions goals in order to adjust forecasted prices to ensure compliance with the next year’s targets. Just as a child removes training wheels after becoming comfortable cycling, as young swimmers start in the shallow end of the pool before moving to the deep end, so too after we gain experience over this first eight years before we can move to a more traditional cap-and-trade system. Like President Obama, I believe that the best approach is one that relies upon a 100% auction – that does not give away to polluters “pollute free” cards. Budget Director, Dr. Peter Orszag has correctly noted that giving away allowances “would represent the largest corporate welfare program that has ever been enacted in the history of the United States.” As noted in another recent statement by over 600 economists calling for auctioning all allowances, free allocations do little or nothing to protect families and businesses from higher energy costs. The significant shortcomings of the European cap-and-trade system are largely linked to the pursuit of this politically easy but very ineffective course. An abundance of free allocations lead to major price speculation and would only hinder the ability of the system to properly reduce emissions. This bill I am introducing today represents the type of legislation that I intend to continue offering -- building block by building block to help us achieve a comprehensive solution. Next will be a plan to ensure the competitiveness of American importers and exporters in a new energy economy. I am pleased this legislation enjoys support from a number of Blue Dog Coalition members, such as Representative Jim Cooper and Heath Shuler, as well as members of other caucuses here in Congress and a broader array of business interests -- such as the National Venture Capital Association. Last week, Speaker Pelosi brought together key House committee chairs to sign a statement that they are uniting behind one bill to achieve our shared goal with President Obama of a more accessible, affordable health care system for every American. I believe we need to do the same in order to resolve global warming. Today’s bill represents one new element of the broader legislation that must be developed through cooperation and collaboration of the House Energy and Commerce and Ways and Means Committees as well as many other members. A role exists for everyone willing to work in good faith based on good science to end obstruction and to reduce the real threat of global warming. The more members we bring together, the more successful we will be in enacting the solution President Obama has offered to move us to a clean energy economy. ###
03.19.2009	Wednesday, March 18Rep. Cooper emphasizes the urgency of combating $11 trillion national debt WASHINGTON—As America’s national debt topped $11 trillion, U.S. Congressmen Jim Cooper (D-TN) and Frank Wolf (R-VA) this week reintroduced the SAFE Commission Act (H.R. 1557), bipartisan legislation that sets a timeline for Congress to act on the nation’s long-term fiscal crisis. The bipartisan SAFE Commission Act creates a BRAC-style commission to reform spending and taxes in the event that Congress fails to take timely action. In addition to Cooper and Wolf, the bill has 52 original cosponsors, 26 Democrats and 26 Republicans. “Last week, China’s premier worried out loud that American Treasury bonds were no longer a safe investment,” said Cooper. The credit default swap market is expressing unprecedented concern that our country will default on sovereign debt. And this week, the national debt set a new record of 11 trillion. We have really stumbled into uncharted waters. If Congress doesn’t act now, America tands to lose its AAA credit rating. And let’s be clear: the collapse of AIG would look like nothing compared to the collapse of the world’s safest investment, the Treasury bond. It would cripple our economy for generations.” “I have never been more concerned about the future of our country,” said Wolf. “Americans are hurting. Many have lost their jobs, are unable to pay their mortgage, don’t have health insurance and are struggling to make ends meet. Small businesses have especially felt the brunt of the recession. The unprecedented amount of borrowing and spending in the recently enacted economic stimulus package will place a tremendous burden of debt on present and future generations.” The Securing America’s Future Economy (SAFE) Commission Act would create a 16-member panel comprised of the White House OMB Director and Treasury Secretary; four members appointed by the Senate Majority Leader and four appointed by the Speaker of the House; three appointed by the House Minority Leader and three appointed by the Senate Minority Leader. No more than four Members of Congress could sit on the commission. It would be tasked with holding town hall meetings around the country and then submitting a report that balances long-term spending and revenue scenarios for the nation. If Congressional leaders fail to introduce their own proposal, the SAFE Commission’s legislative proposal is automatically brought to the House floor. If passed, it is sent to the Senate for similarly expedited consideration. “The world is getting nervous that America will drown under the weight of our growing debt burden,” said Cooper. “Let’s keep our social safety net strong. Let’s get our economy moving again. And let’s start addressing our fiscal situation before it’s too late.” # # #
03.09.2009	Monday, March 9 "American taxpayers must be protected while the country is protected" WASHINGTON—Congressman Jim Cooper today announced his appointment to the newly formed House Armed Services Committee Panel on Defense Acquisition Reform. The panel will meet for six months to study the thorny issues surrounding Pentagon procurement. Its final report is expected to guide the committee as it writes the Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2011. Building on the work done by the panel on Roles and Missions he chaired last year, Cooper and his fellow members will take a fresh look at a perennial problem caused by deeply entrenched flaws in the process. “Chairman Skelton and President Obama have correctly identified defense acquisition as an area where reform is needed,” said Cooper. “In the middle of an economic downturn and two wars, we can’t afford to waste any taxpayer money on outdated or unneeded projects. I look forward to studying the defense spending process with my colleagues and putting some concrete recommendations into law. We must ensure that taxpayers are protected while the country is defended.” Click here for the full text of the HASC press release. See also an article from Monday’s Washington Post. # # #
03.07.2009	Reps. Eshoo, Emerson, Cooper, Castle, Wasserman-Schultz, and Harman Introduce Bill to Fix Broken U.S. Health Care System WASHINGTON–Today, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO), Jim Cooper (D-TN), Mike Castle (R-DE), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), and Jane Harman (D-CA) introduced the Healthy Americans Act (H.R. 1321), legislation to provide affordable health care coverage for all Americans. Health care spending in the U.S. is increasing at a rate that is double that of inflation, with over two trillion dollars spent in 2008 alone. The Healthy Americans Act ensures that every American will be able to afford quality, private health insurance. It gives Americans a choice in where they get their care. It makes heath care portable, so a job loss doesn’t mean the loss of health insurance. It promotes prevention and wellness, and reforms the insurance market so that insurers are forced to compete on price, benefits, and quality. All this has been scored by the Congressional Budget Office to be budget neutral by 2014.“The Healthy Americans Act will create a comprehensive health care plan that will cover every American for less than we spend on health care today,” said Eshoo. “In a country as wealthy in research, talent, and resources as the United States, it’s unacceptable that our health care system ranks dead last among other major industrialized nations for quality, access, and efficiency.” “The Healthy Americans Act is a bipartisan indication that we are taking the issue of health care reform seriously in Congress. The model of health insurance coverage in place isn’t working for millions of American families. We obviously need reform, and I think this legislation includes the good ideas that ought to at least inform a meaningful debate in which every member of Congress should participate. We all represent Americans who lack health insurance, and we all bear the obligation to improve the system,” said Emerson. “Record numbers of Americans are finding themselves out of work this year, which means they’re finding themselves out of health care too,” said Cooper. “You couldn’t have a clearer wake-up call: we need to reform our antiquated health care system so all Americans have affordable coverage. The Healthy Americans Act is bipartisan, it saves us money and it lets every American choose a plan with the same level of benefits I get as a member of Congress. Americans can’t wait for us to study the issue any longer. We should build off of this consensus bill and pass health reform now.” "By providing coverage for all Americans with market-driven health care choices like those that members of Congress have today, HAA is a starting point for the debate on how best to reform a crumbling system," said Castle. "The bipartisan and bicameral support for HAA signals a commitment to prioritizing reform that ensures better access and quality in our health care system, improves individuals' health, and lowers U.S. health care costs." “It’s estimated that thousands of Americans die every year because millions of people don't have health insurance,” said Wasserman Schultz. “This landmark legislation guarantees affordable, private health care for all Americans, saving not only money, but lives.”“As the daughter and sister of medical doctors, I’ve seen the best and worst of the US healthcare system. Now, as more Americans are losing their jobs and forced to cut essential expenses, the moment couldn’t be riper for universal coverage that is both comprehensive and affordable,” said Harman. “I look forward to working with my congressional colleagues and the Obama Administration on finally getting this right.” The Healthy Americans Act will pay for itself by eliminating administrative costs and reforming an outdated tax code that gives businesses write offs for even the most expensive health plans. Individuals and families will get a tax credit to purchase insurance and will be provided subsidies so that all Americans can afford coverage, regardless of their income. ###
02.25.2009	Tuesday, February 24 Nashville native wins drawing to attend President’s first speech to Congress NASHVILLE— Nashville native Catherine Lovett has won U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper’s drawing to attend the first Congressional address by President Barack Obama. Lovett, 23, will sit in the House Gallery for tonight’s speech to a joint session of Congress as a special guest of Cooper.Lovett, a graduate of Martin Luther King Jr. Magnet High School and Spelman College, currently serves as program assistant for the Southern Education Foundation, a nonprofit that does education policy and advocacy work for students, particularly low-income students, in the south. Her parents are both educators.“This is beyond a dream for me,” said Lovett, who recently attended a Women in Public Policy seminar in Washington and is currently applying to graduate school. “I really enjoyed the seminar, and it kind of motivated me to get more involved in policy work…. This opportunity is the icing on the cake.”“I’m pleased to be able to welcome a Middle Tennessean to Washington for President Obama’s first speech to Congress,” said Cooper. “I can’t think of a more appropriate person to join me tonight. Catherine is a hard worker who’s already devoting her career to make the world a better place. I hope President Obama inspires her to keep pursuing those dreams.”
02.23.2009	Without swift action, gargantuan debts could soon destroy Uncle Sam's credit rating. Obama inherited a fiscal disaster. Now what?Without swift action, gargantuan debts could soon destroy Uncle Sam's credit rating. By Jim Cooper from the February 18, 2009 edition Washington - Few Americans have any idea how bad the financial problems are that President Obama inherited from the Bush administration. Never mind the housing bubble, the bank meltdown, or the bailout scandals – I am talking about the failure of federal government to honestly account either for its own actions or for America's most important programs: Medicare, Social Security, and Medicaid. George W. Bush took office after three years of budget surpluses under President Bill Clinton. Eight years later, Obama walked into the Oval Office to find – gift-wrapped with a bow, as he recently joked – almost $11 trillion in Treasury debt, and deficits of more than $1 trillion a year for the foreseeable future. That's a $30,000 burden on every man, woman, and child in America, on top of the taxes they are already paying. Under better management, that number could have been zero. If this weren't bad enough, President Bush's financial legacy is marred by other fundamental problems. Bush's team borrowed more than $1 trillion from the Social Security "trust fund" and seemed to spend it on everything except Social Security. Like Blanche DuBois in Tennessee Williams's "Streetcar Named Desire," Social Security now depends on the kindness of strangers – namely, future taxpayers and foreign lenders. Worse, the Bush administration refused to tell the public about the extraordinary underfunding or overpromising of our major entitlement programs. According to an audited Treasury report, Medicare is $34 trillion in the hole and Social Security is another $13 trillion. We don't even know how to measure Medicaid's problems, but some estimates put the shortfall around $30 trillion. To put this in perspective, the entire fiscal gap for America is at least four times as great as our total annual gross domestic product. The US Treasury's Financial Report of the US Government is the key document for understanding these problems because it is the only place where Uncle Sam uses real accounting and audited numbers, just as every major company, charity, or state or local government is required to do by law. It is released every Dec. 15, and is available on the Treasury website. Until now, you have probably never heard of the Financial Report. To its credit, the Obama White House has added a link to the Financial Report on its website, a step the Bush administration never took. The report will tell you that the per capita share of America's total obligations, including entitlements, is more than $184,000 each. The typical American family's share is roughly half a million dollars. The truth hurts. But the real news is that the 2008 fiscal gap was more than $3 trillion and worsening fast due to our entitlement problems. Hardly any reporter covered this story. And this was before the cost of economic recovery or shoring up our financial system. Including these costs, the 2009 fiscal gap could approach $5 trillion. Whether due to tradition, inertia, or ignorance, Uncle Sam refuses to weigh himself on an honest scale. It's a decision with serious consequences. Two leading credit rating agencies on Wall Street, Standard & Poor's and Moody's, projected – while Bush was still president – that the US Treasury bond could lose its AAA rating as soon as 2012. If we allow this projection to come true, the US will have plummeted from the prospect of being debt-free to destroying its credit rating in only eight years. Standard & Poor's was unusually specific in its projection. It said that the US could have the same credit rating as Estonia or Greece by 2015, Poland or Mexico by 2020, and Panama by 2025. Panama's debt is below investment grade; it's junk. How can the greatest nation in the world be reduced to such comparisons? The answer is eight years of financial mismanagement. The first rule of holes is to stop digging. President Bush not only failed to stop digging, he used a power shovel. The giant task of the Obama administration will be to build a tall enough ladder to help us climb out. This is a job that will take many years – perhaps decades. The construction project starts Feb. 23, when Obama is expected to host a fiscal responsibility summit at the White House. His first challenge will be to explain the massive scope of the problem; next, he will have to convince Americans that he wants to preserve and strengthen the social safety net, not weaken it, as naysayers claim. Finally, Republicans and Democrats will have to agree to share some sacrifice. Nothing is off-limits: taxes and spending must both be on the table. I have proposed forming a bipartisan fiscal reform commission that would hold public meetings around the country and then propose a framework for tax and entitlement reform. The chief virtue of the commission approach is that it starts the clock: If Congress, or the White House, has another solution, it will be considered alongside the commission's proposal. What matters is that we solve these problems, which grow worse every day. All good-faith ideas must be welcomed. Jim Cooper is a Democratic congressman from Tennessee. https://www.csmonitor.com/2009/0218/p09s02-coop.html
01.21.2009	With Obama, Congress to get fiscally responsible and pragmatic OPINION: THE WEEKEND INTERVIEW Jim Cooper The Blue Dogs Have Their Day Moderate Democrats may hold the balance of power in the Obama presidency. By COLLIN LEVY Washington "Barack totally gets it . . . He is smarter than Bill Clinton and disciplined." So says Tennessee Democratic Congressman Jim Cooper on the Thursday before Mr. Obama's inauguration. Sitting in his office a stone's throw from where the festivities will take place, I ask about his role in the big transformation coming to Washington. He's one of the leaders of a gang of moderate Democrats called the Blue Dogs. They're meeting their first Democratic president in a while, and Mr. Cooper may have a big effect on the agenda. He smiles gently and says, "If we were to ally with the Republicans, we could swing any vote in the House of Representatives." He hastens to add, "We don't want to do that, we aren't planning on doing that." With the victories of a number of conservative Democrats in the last election, the Blue Dogs have grown to 51 in number from 46, with more applications pending. "For a long time we had to limit our numbers because we actually need to be able to fit in one room," he tells me. "So it's been an increasingly popular, and I think influential, group." Indeed, the way the Blue Dogs flex their muscle may become one of the defining issues of the Obama administration's opening months. If they are inclined to wrangle with Nancy Pelosi and the more liberal contingent in the Democratic Party, they will drive policy, especially as a check on spending. "Ideally the White House will see things our way, so they will present legislation on the Hill that we find acceptable," Mr. Cooper says. "If they stray too much from that or if a certain part of Congress strays too much from that, then we may have to object." So far, however, the Blue Dogs seem to believe that Barack Obama is one of them, a fiscal reformer, and their last best hope for true change on entitlement spending and economic responsibility. Mr. Obama has announced he will convene a fiscal responsibility summit in February to bring together Blue Dogs and other folks to discuss the long-term problems of the economy, including entitlement spending. "We've kicked this can down the road and now we are at the end of the road," the president-elect told the Washington Post this week. Blue Dogs are already taking their first leap of faith on the stimulus package that will define the president's first days in office. They might have been expected to balk at a measure with a trillion-dollar price tag and no deference to "paygo," the rules championed by budget hawks, whereby new spending or tax changes must be made "neutral" by corresponding offsets. Instead many of the Blue Dogs, including Mr. Cooper, seem on-board with the plan. Are Blue Dogs really OK with signing off on a trillion-dollar stimulus? "I didn't vote for the first stimulus package, because that was just writing small checks to people. What does that do? Nothin'. I didn't vote for the auto bailouts," he says. "But I think there are infrastructure things that are legitimate to spend money on," like the interstate highway system. "For the stimulus package to work in the economy, you have to have long-term credibility. If people think we are inviting inflation back in, or if we're not going to prudently manage the nation's finances, the stimulus package is largely a waste of time." A great thing about Mr. Obama's plan, he says, is the tax cuts. "I think stimulus can come in a variety of forms, but I think the key message is Democrats are not for tax increases. Democrats can be for tax cuts when appropriate, when needed, when targeted. We can argue about the type of cut, but the key element of this proposal was facing the payroll tax. That is the most regressive, most antijob tax in America and very few presidents in American history have touched it. And Barack is touching it in this package. That is an achievement of immense proportions in and of itself." His detailed knowledge of the stimulus package is part of the extreme nerdiness on which Mr. Cooper prides himself. His bookcase displays a "Nerd Pride" mug from a former staffer now at MIT. He tells me happily about his fondness for slideshows. At several points throughout our hour-long conversation, he shuffles through papers looking for various documents. He even hands me a handsomely bound copy of "The Financial Report of the United States Government." It didn't really fly off the bookstore shelves, he confesses. But it should! The problems of the deficit are staggering, and have been Mr. Cooper's long preoccupation, as well as the essence of his Blue Dog soul. He was among a number of members who once left signboards outside their offices in the Longworth office building tracking the share of the national debt per capita including unfunded Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security costs (now around $180,000). "Then they banned signage," he grumps. "I think it's a free speech issue but they say it's a fire safety issue." It's even worse than most people think, he says, because of dodgy accounting used by the federal government. While we've been warned about the trillion-dollar deficit Mr. Obama is facing, accrual accounting and properly audited numbers from the U.S. Treasury Department would show the deficit last year was $3 trillion, according to this former Rhodes scholar and investment banker. "The U.S. government uses cash accounting," he says. "That is illegal for any enterprise of any size in America except for the U.S. government. Every for-profit business, every not-for-profit business, every state and local government has to use real accounting except for Uncle Sam." The difference is because the reported national debt does not reflect the IOUs implied by Medicare and Social Security promises to future beneficiaries. If you are a business that has committed to spend $100 in the future, you have to acknowledge it now in your accounting instead of treating it as a free lunch. Failing to do so would be a criminal offense for Dow Jones, he tells me, so why does the government get away with it? "Medicare alone is $34 trillion in all. We don't even know how to measure Medicaid, but it's probably an equal amount. So just right there Barack Obama is inheriting over $60 trillion of problems. This is not counting the bailout, or Social Security or anything." He continues, "The argument as a Democrat is that the best way to preserve those programs is to prepare for their needs. The way to destroy them is to ignore their needs." Continuing to gloss over the numbers has real consequences. Last year, for instance, Standard & Poor's reported that the U.S. Treasury bond would lose its AAA rating by 2012 because of the way Washington has been carrying on. America would have the same credit rating as Estonia and Greece, and then the same as Poland and Brazil, and then it would be like . . . Mexico. "Yet no one knows about this," he says. One item likely to hit the agenda during Mr. Obama's early weeks that the Blue Dogs can be instrumental on is health care. Here Mr. Cooper has some history of his own. Back in 1992 and '93, when HillaryCare was in full throttle, he came up with an alternative plan that attracted wide bipartisan support -- eventually garnering 58 co-sponsors in the House and earning him Mrs. Clinton's wrath. Now, the moment for real reform has arrived. He feels Mr. Obama is in a position to get what would be "the signature achievement of a half-century" done in his first few months. The plan Mr. Cooper favors is the Wyden-Bennett bill -- named after Oregon Democratic Sen. Ron Wyden and Utah GOP Sen. Bob Bennett -- which he says would basically give everyone in American the same coverage Congress has. "There has never been a bill with so much bipartisan support before the swearing in of a new president," he says. "The challenge now for Democrats is whether we let the best be the enemy of the good. There are many Democrats who want a single-payer program." It's hard to teach old Democrats new tricks. But Mr. Obama didn't campaign on single-payer; he campaigned on a mixed system. Incoming Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Daschle has said in confirmation hearings that he wants a 70-vote majority or better for health-care reform, and not just to squeak by. "Every day we wait risks the end of the honeymoon and failure of this grand initiative," Mr. Cooper advises. Foreign policy will also be on top of Mr. Obama's agenda. At her Senate hearing on Thursday, U.N. Ambassador-designate Susan Rice explained that she will be especially focused on warming up the country's relationship with the United Nations. Mr. Obama "has a built-in advantage" as a popular president, Mr. Cooper says. "And in the Arab world, to have a president with the middle name of Hussein is the best PR we could ever have. When are they going to elect a leader whose middle name is Smith? Not in my lifetime. They are not even going to have an election, let alone elect a leader like that." Despite the headiness of it all, there will be growing pains in the transition, as was evident in Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's prickly statement last week that he didn't work "for" the president, and he didn't intend to be as deferential as Republicans were to the White House of President Bush. But Democrats are new to power, Mr. Cooper reminds me: "This is part of governing, the discomfort you feel when suddenly you control all the federal government." He goes on: "Most people in Congress have never served with a Democratic president. And those who have, served with Clinton, who was being impeached or . . . who had other issues. You have to go back to the Carter administration and Carter was a lame duck fairly soon after he was elected. So you really have to go back to LBJ. And I think there is only one member here who served with LBJ -- John Dingell." When the concerts and fireworks and crowds have subsided next week, the work of governance will begin for the Democrats. Mr. Cooper is worried about expectations. "It's an exciting historic moment," he says, "but it's a challenging time because Democrats are out of practice." Ms. Levy, based in Washington, is a senior editorial writer at the Journal.
01.13.2009	Tells David Shuster that saving Social Security and Medicare must be an immediate priority for Obama Click here to watch the video on Jim's YouTube channel.
01.07.2009	January January 6, 2009 COOPER MARKS OPENING OF 111TH CONGRESS 2008 News Items
01.06.2009	Tuesday, January 6 "A moment that calls us to overcome our differences and work together as fellow citizens" WASHINGTON--U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper was sworn in today for his fourth term as Congressman for Tennessee’s Fifth District and his tenth overall term in the U.S. House of Representatives. Cooper released the following statement upon taking the oath of office: “I am proud to represent the people of Middle Tennessee as we work to confront the many challenges facing our country. This is a historic time for America, a moment that calls us to overcome our differences and work together as fellow citizens. “I am optimistic about what we can achieve. Congress and President Obama must move quickly to get our economy back on track, invest in future generations, reform health care, develop clean energy technology, keep our nation secure, and reverse the effects of climate change. We must also start making hard choices in order to bring fiscal responsibility back to government. “Our work is clearly cut out for us. Americans are at their best when confronted with great challenges, and we will rise to the current occasion. I look forward to hearing from my fellow Tennesseans in the coming weeks and months.” # # #
12.17.2008	Tuesday, December 16 Obama volunteers, African-American leaders, community members to get tickets NASHVILLE—Congressman Jim Cooper today announced plans to distribute tickets to the 2009 Presidential Inauguration to local Obama campaign volunteers, community leaders and dozens of other Middle Tennessee residents. Cooper will award about three dozen tickets by random drawing, while the rest will be distributed to community members and volunteers who have already made contact with his office. Cooper said he was especially focused on ensuring that African-Americans got to participate in the inaugural ceremony due to record interest in the swearing-in of America’s first black president. Cooper received over 6,000 requests for 198 tickets. “Clearly, Nashvillians of all ages, races, religions and backgrounds are excited about the inauguration of Barack Obama,” said Cooper, a longtime Obama supporter. “I wish I had enough tickets for everyone who wanted one, but I’ve tried to be as fair as possible with the few I was given. This will be a historic occasion for our country.” Only those who contacted Cooper’s office by last month’s cutoff date will be eligible to participate in the drawing. They have been contacted by mail or email and must respond by Thursday, December 18, to confirm their interest in tickets. Cooper and his staff are staying in touch with everyone who contacted the office about inaugural tickets in an effort to let them know about free public events in Washington during the January 18-21 Inaugural festivities, which coincide with the Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday. The National Mall will be open to the public for the occasion. “No matter where you celebrate the occasion, all Americans have a reason to be proud on January 20,” said Cooper. “We face many huge challenges, but never before have I seen the country so ready for shared sacrifice and so optimistic about the next chapter in our history.” More information about the inaugural can be found at the official inaugural web sites: https://pic2009.org and https://inaugural.senate.gov/. ###
12.15.2008	"This report should serve as a wakeup call to Congress and the country" Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON-U.S. Congressmen Jim Cooper (D-TN) and Ron Kind (D-WI) today released the following statements in response to news that the nation's 2008 budget deficit topped $1 trillion, and that the US government faces a shortfall of more than $50 trillion in funding for Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and other government promises. The news was contained in the 2008 Financial Report of the United States Government, released by Treasury after markets closed on Monday, December 15. "This report should serve as a wakeup call to Congress and the country," said Cooper, a Blue Dog Democrat and deficit hawk. "It should really scare people about the future of the economy. We must get our economy back on track in the short term, but we can only do it in a way that restores balance to our long-term budget process. I look forward to working with President-elect Obama to get a handle on our fiscal crisis. We can't afford to wait any longer." "For too long we have been financing government with money we don't have, on the backs of our kids and grandkids," said Kind, a prominent member of the New Democrat Coalition. "It is my hope that now, armed with this report, we can finally convince our colleagues in Congress to get serious about the long term fiscal health of this country. I believe that any additional efforts to stimulate our economy must also include a plan to pay for it in the long run - through a bipartisan budget summit, or the like. We are encouraged by indicators that the incoming Obama Administration will be focused on this issue, and look forward to working with them." ###
12.08.2008	Contents Overview News & Updates Links & Additional Information Overview Tennessee's Fifth Congressional District is home to Nashville, also known as Music City, USA. Music is the lifeblood of Nashville, and it's everywhere you turn in our city. We've got it all: recording artists, musicians, songwriters, record labels, manufacturers, retailers, and service providers. Visitors come from far and wide to enjoy our musical culture, the Grand Ole Opry, the Country Music Hall of Fame and our rich Motown heritage in the Jefferson Street Music District. Music policy is so important to Nashville, and that's why it is one of my top priorities. Along with some of my Tennessee colleagues in Congress, I co-sponsored the Songwriters Tax Simplification Reauthorization Act to reinstate an important tax method for people who write and publish music. This bill would encourage investment in Nashville's songwriters and publishers, and simplify provisions that unnecessarily burden them. Intellectual property is almost exclusively the subject of federal legislation, and music policy that affects us locally is hatched in Washington, D.C. I'm a strong supporter of intellectual property rights and rights-holders and believe that intellectual property laws need reevaluating when significant new technologies reach the marketplace. My goal is to make sure any new laws serve the public's interest in progress, civic discourse, investment and innovation. I am currently involved in the drafting of “rogue sites” legislation that would enable law enforcement the power to require internet service providers to block international websites that peddle illegal products. News & Updates July 18, 2013 • Cooper, Blackburn Reintroduce the Songwriters Tax Simplification Reauthorizations Act (HR 2731)May 8, 2012 • Cooper Testifies at Hearing on RELIEF ActNovember 3, 2011 • Cooper Introduces Songwriters Tax Simplification Reauthorization Act (HR 3343) October 20, 2011• Cooper Introduces the RELIEF ACT to protect musicians' antique instruments July 7, 2011 • Music, Movie, TV and Broadband providers announce partnership to curb intellectual property theftMarch 12, 2011 • Cooper Honors Little Jimmy Dickens with a Congressional Resolution February 19, 2011 • Cooper Votes to Support the ArtsOctober 12, 2010 • Cooper Supports Rogue Sites Legislation to Protect CopyrightsOctober 3, 2010 • Cooper Op-Ed: Obession Gone Hands Free September 23, 2010 • FCC Announces White Space Interference Protection to Protect Wireless Microphone Users August 30, 2010 • Commerce Secretary Visits Nashville to Discuss Intellectual Property April 1, 2010 • Department of Commerce Endorses Performance Rights Act March 28, 2010 • Soundexchange • The Tennessean asks: Are you registered? Make sure you are getting paid when your work is getting played. For older music and entertainment news, click here. Links & Additional Information United States Copyright Office United States Patent & Trademark Office Nashville Convention and Visitors' Bureau National Endowment for the Arts Corporation for Public Broadcasting
11.25.2008	Cooper reacts to Obama's Economic Plan, Budget Cuts NASHVILLE—Congressman Jim Cooper (D-TN) released the following statement in response to President-elect Barack Obama’s announcement that cuts and sacrifices would be needed in order to return the nation to sound fiscal footing: "Two months before his inauguration, President-elect Obama is already making good on his campaign promise to change the way Washington does business by reforming the budget process and cutting wasteful spending. He has my full support in this effort. "For too many years, Washington has lived a fantasy, putting our national priorities on a credit card from the bank of China. We don’t have that luxury anymore. In this time of economic distress, of course government should jumpstart our economy by spurring job creation. But over the long term, we must restore fiscal discipline to government. We’ve made trillions of dollars of promises to our children and grandchildren that we can’t keep. President-elect Obama serves our country well by calling on us to sacrifice today so that tomorrow can be better. “Finally, Congress’ loss is America’s gain. Peter Orszag understands the challenges we face—he has testified many times about our dangerously unsustainable fiscal course—and is committed to tackling them. He knows that reforming our broken health care system is key to solving the nation’s biggest problems. I look forward to continuing to work with Peter, President-elect Obama and members of both parties to make America stronger.” ###
11.17.2008	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} President and First Lady present historic group with prestigious award Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} NASHVILLE-U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (D-TN) today joined dignitaries from around the country at the White House for a ceremony honoring the Fisk Jubilee Singers, 2008 winners of a National Medal of the Arts. The Jubilee Singers were among nine recipients of the prestigious award, presented annually by the President and First Lady, along with National Humanities Medals. "This is a tremendous, well-deserved honor for Fisk University and the Fisk Jubilee Singers," said Cooper, who has cosponsored numerous bills honoring the Jubilee Singers. "Nashville should be proud of the historic accomplishments of this fine group, and I know everyone in Tennessee would have been awe-struck by the beautiful music they made this afternoon at the White House. The President and First Lady, and dozens of their guests, were obviously amazed and inspired." The National Medal of Arts is the highest award given to artists and arts patrons by the United States Government. The National Medal of Arts is awarded by the President of the United States to individuals or groups who, in his judgment, "...are deserving of special recognition by reason of their outstanding contributions to the excellence, growth, support and availability of the arts in the United States." Since 1871, the Fisk Jubilee Singers have preserved and performed the sacred African-American spiritual around the world. They have performed for kings and queens and presidents, inspiring thousands with songs of hope, suffering and praise. In 2007, the Jubilee Singers traveled to Ghana at the invitation of the U.S. Embassy, joining Ghanaians in celebrating the nation's 50th independence anniversary. Video and audio of today's ceremony, and a transcript of the President's remarks, can be found at https://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2008/11/20081117-2.html. ### RECOGNIZING THE AFRICAN AMERICAN SPIRITUAL AS A NATIONAL TREASURE Remarks in the House of Representatives - February 07, 2007 Mr. COOPER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from California for yielding. I would like to lend my voice and praise of the African American spiritual and a group that I consider to be the leading practitioners of today and for the last 135 years, namely the Fisk Jubilee Singers. As the Representative from Nashville, Tennessee, I have the honor of representing Fisk University, which, under the able leadership of President Hazel O'Leary, is achieving new heights and excellence. The Fisk Jubilee Singers have been there since 1871, singing some of the most beautiful music in the world and a music that is laden with a God-given message. No other music that I am familiar with covers the range from agony to inspiration, from the depths of human misery and despair all the way up to religious bliss. This is remarkable music, and I would suggest to you if you haven't heard the Fisk Jubilee Singers sing it under the able direction of Dr. Paul Kwami, you have not fully lived. This is a truly remarkable group and a remarkable inspirational message. So let's praise today the anonymous African American genius that has allowed these songs to flourish and survive some of the toughest conditions on our planet, and let's honor groups like the Fisk Jubilee Singers that keep that tradition alive and fresh for each new generation. Yes, Mr. Speaker, this is truly a national treasure. We need to honor and preserve it and spread its wonderful message all around the world. The African American spiritual is part of God's great heritage. On February 7, 2007, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed H. Res. 120, a resolution recognizing the African American spiritual as a national treasure.
11.15.2008	Discusses Obama's Transition, Financial Crisis Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Click here to access the interview on the Channel 5 (WTVF) website.
11.11.2008	Tells "All Things Considered" we must overcome $2 trillion in vested interests Click here to access the story (with audio) on NPR's website.
10.30.2008	Tennessee native will focus on intellectual property and music industry Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} NASHVILLE—U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (D-TN) today announced that he has appointed Sam Reed to the newly created position of staff attorney, with a specific focus on intellectual property, music and entertainment issues. Before joining Cooper’s office, Reed worked as a lawyer at the Nashville-based firm Waller Lansden Dortch & Davis. “As Music City’s congressman, I know how important intellectual property laws are to maintaining the integrity and vitality of the music industry,” said Cooper, who has represented Nashville since 2003. “Sam is already well-versed in the complex world of IP law, and I welcome his counsel as we make public policy that meets the challenges of the 21st century entertainment industry.” Reed is a 2005 graduate of the University of Tennessee College of Law. He earned an LL.M. from the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in 2006. Reed completed his undergraduate studies at the University of Miami and is a native of Memphis, Tennessee. He will work in Cooper’s Washington office. “It’s an honor to be a part of Congressman Cooper’s amazing staff,” said Reed. “I’ve already witnessed the way he approaches his job—with intellectual vigor, purpose and a real sense of service—and the energy is contagious. I’m thrilled for the opportunity to make a difference, and I know I’m in the right place to do it.” ###
10.24.2008	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 "Have you done anything...to highlight the real numbers for America?" Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON-At a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing this morning, U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper questioned former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, SEC Chairman Christopher Cox and former Treasury Secretary John Snow about their efforts to prevent an even bigger fiscal crisis that threatens to overwhelm America with debt. Brandishing a copy of the official Financial Report of the United States Government, Cooper explained the $54 trillion fiscal gap America faces if the government doesn't change course. "Why is this document so hidden? Because it contains such bad news," Cooper said to the witnesses. "On your watch, did you do anything to publicize this report, to make sure that everybody in America knew the real story about the real numbers for America?" Cooper also demonstrated that Cox, who professes concern about the long-term fiscal shortfall, doesn't even know how big it is. Video of the questioning can be found here. Cooper's appearance on CNBC this morning can be found here. ###
10.23.2008	Says government must learn from former Fed chairman’s mistakes https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=an3VSDa2RLQ
10.22.2008	Sierra Club, which boasts membership of 7,000 in Tennessee, cites Cooper's dedication to various environmental issues In a letter to the editor of the Tennessean, published on October 22nd 2008, Bill Terry of the Sierra Club praised Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) on his dedication to addressing environmental issues. The letter is copied below and can also be viewed at https://www.tennessean.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20081022/OPINION02/81021037/1008/OPINION01 Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} To the Editor: A front-page, local section news article recently highlighted the organization Greenpeace, which it said had just landed in Nashville to try to influence Rep. Jim Cooper about a particular bill addressing global warming. The article seemed to place Rep. Cooper in a negative position with regard to environmental issues. Well, I beg to differ with Greenpeace. The environmental community in the Fifth District is united behind Jim Cooper. The Sierra Club, for example, has been an active participant in Tennessee on various environmental fronts since 1970 and currently has about 7,000 members statewide. I am the co-chair of the Political/Legislative Committee of the Tennessee Chapter of the Sierra Club, and the Sierra Club has endorsed Jim Cooper for re-election to Congress. As a matter of fact, this is the third election cycle in a row in which we have endorsed Rep. Cooper. Why? Jim Cooper has had an outstanding voting record in Congress on environmental issues during his entire service as a representative from the Fifth District as well as his prior service in the Fourth District. His exemplary record covers the entire spectrum of issues and not just one bill. The League of Conservation Voters recently released its 2008 scorecard giving Jim Cooper a 100 percent rating. It is hard to get better than that. Jim Cooper has given Tennesseans outstanding representation in Congress and has pledged to continue to do so. Thank you, Rep. Cooper. Bill Terry, TENNESSEE CHAPTER, SIERRA CLUB, NASHVILLE 37215
10.14.2008	Cooper speaks with The Tennessean about financial crisis and economic rescue plan On Monday, October 13th, Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5) was interviewed by The Tennessean. The topics discussed were the current economic crisis and the congressional rescue plan. Below is a transcript of the interview, which was published in The Tennessean on October 14, 2008. --- U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper, D-Nashville, answered questions about the economic bailout in a live video session on Tennessean.com Monday. Here are excerpts from the interview, conducted by Senior Editor Deborah Fisher and Assistant Business Editor Ryan Underwood: It appears that the government is going to inject money directly into banks, which would give the federal government an ownership stake. What's your reaction to that? As the crisis has worsened, stronger and stronger medicine seems to be necessary. Just two or three weeks ago, government ownership of private banks would have been almost unthinkable in this country. It hasn't happened since the Depression. But as I've said for weeks now, we need to do whatever it takes to get the economy back on track. I think Americans have always been practical people who are willing to do what's necessary to strengthen the economy, to keep jobs and incomes strong. Should the government be an owner of banks? That idea really turns some people off, especially since they are banks the government regulates. But remember that we Tennesseans are a practical people. Should the government own the power company? Well, you can have a hot debate, but it's called TVA. Should the government own the retail distributor of electricity? We can have a hot debate, but it's called NES.Markets needed more confidence than was available with the prior relief. So it looks as if this further step is necessary. Do you think this would last forever? Is this a fundamental change?No. People forget their American history. We've bailed out groups before. In fact we bailed out Chrysler, we bailed out Lockheed — two private U.S. companies. The government got an ownership stake, and when those companies got back on their feet, the taxpayer made a profit. That's what we should be looking to do this time — a temporary government stake, so that we can ease the liquidity crisis and hopefully the taxpayer can make a profit. Was this cash injection always a piece of the bailout legislation? So much of what was talked about was purchasing "toxic assets." Is this something new? The Treasury Secretary had very broad authority in the legislation, including buying ownership stakes. For example, he had already done that with the purchase of AIG, we got 80 percent of that. But the Treasury Secretary made it clear that he did not want to have equity ownership stakes, that it would be a last resort — or near the last resort. And now it turns out a few weeks later we're closer to that resort and he's got the authority to do that.I would expect him to exercise this authority in a measured and prudent basis. There's a column today you may want to take a look at, Paul Krugman in The New York Times, which points out that Gordon Brown and the Chancellor of the Exchequer in England have actually pioneered this strategy. It seems a little radical for us, but it seems to work great in England.So on a temporary basis, maybe we can do it. It's not unheard of in this country. It happened in the Great Depression. It happened in the New Deal. So there are precedents for it in this country. Along those same lines, and in mentioning AIG, what is there to prevent the kinds of executive excess like Sen. Obama mentioned in last week's debate, where there was something like a $400,000 retreat given after the bailout? That was also part of the bailout measure that passed. It places limits on executive compensation because when the taxpayers get an ownership stake, the taxpayers get rights in the company that can determine executive compensation. So I think you're going to see much, much tougher limits on executive compensation. Taxpayers are outraged by golden parachutes, things like that.Would that be something that would be able to prevent the kinds of things like this $400,000 retreat at AIG? Is this enough to be able to prevent a similar situation? We need to watch these executives like a hawk. We know from their past behavior that they have sometimes abused their shareholders' rights. We need to make sure they do not abuse tax-holder rights. Now that the taxpayer is going to be at least partial owner of some of these companies, the companies need to behave. But who gets to decide? Is the latitude just given to Henry Paulson to decide what is too much on executive compensation? Usually what happens is the government puts a designated board member or board members on their board of directors and the board has the legal responsibility for determining the compensation, and in fact, for hiring and firing managers. So it depends on the size of the ownership stake. But given the need for government capital, I would expect the taxpayers to get a much larger ownership stake than you would probably expect in a regular market transaction. These companies need our help right now, and they should pay dearly to get that help. So I think you're going to see a very loud voice of Sec. Paulson's designate in terms of determining compensation and overall company behavior. Would the government buy normal shares of a company or would there be preferred shares issued? It's usually preferred shares because you want the taxpayer to be in a preferred position. And that means they have a senior claim on the assets of the companies. So just in case something does go wrong, the taxpayer would come first. The regular, common equity shareholder would not fare so well. This is a very careful negotiation that's worked out, but usually government investment comes in the form of preferred shares. We have a question from a reader who wrote about Henry Kissinger's plan for a new international monetary regime and was wondering if there was anything in this bill that would set up a World Trade Organization or NAFTA for currency? No, the last International Monetary Fund was set up in the so-called Bretton-Woods agreement back in the 1940s. That set up world monetary policy after World War II. It's true, there was a finance meeting in Washington this weekend of the G-7 nations, the G-20. The different advanced nations of the world are trying to figure this out, and we are so fortunate, America, because we have by far, thank goodness, the strongest position. Another reader asks, in the bailout bill, the debt limit was raised to $11.3 trillion from $10 trillion, freeing up about $1.3 trillion. But the bailout was $700 billion. So why the difference in that amount? Well, the reader hadn't realized that the debt limit had already been increased to around $10.6 trillion. So the increment increase is for exactly the $700 billion. The last time we checked in with you was right before the second House vote on the bailout bill. What have you heard from constituents since it passed? It's been pretty amazing. I've been going to every public event I can find the last several days, and I haven't gotten a single word of criticism … I think increasingly as people have learned about our complex, modern economy and how inter-connected everything is, even Tennesseans who have never been to New York and don't care a thing about Wall Street are now starting to realize that part of their home mortgage or their credit card line or their car loan probably originated somewhere on or near Wall Street. But we better make sure those loans are still available because, like it or not, the American economy depends on credit. And if credit were to dry up, we'd really be in a world of hurt. Did you hear from anybody though, amid the sharp losses last week, asking why hasn't the bailout worked?You know, they advertise instant relief drugs on TV. But most of the time when you go to the doctor and get a shot, you don't feel instant relief. It takes a while. The body has to heal itself. Now, medicine can help, but it takes a period of healing, especially when you're talking about a worldwide market crisis. The fundamental problem is a lack of confidence. Gradually that confidence is being restored. We have to acknowledge that too many companies borrowed too much money. I even know some individuals who maybe borrowed too much money because we were being tempted every day. It just seemed so easy. They advertised the monthly car payment, and it just seemed so low. But that assumed you'd keep your job. And that assumed you wouldn't have a pay cut. Some of those assumptions turn out to be invalid. https://www.tennessean.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20081014/BUSINESS01/810140327/1003/NEWS
10.01.2008	Normal 0 MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman";} Prevent disaster, then reduce debt It’s outrageous that Wall Street has put America in the position where we have to use tax dollars to keep our economy from collapsing, but that’s the situation we face. If the federal government fails to act, we risk an economic downturn not seen since the Great Depression. After studying the data, I am persuaded that immediate action is required. So what’s a good solution to this bad situation? I don’t support the Wall Street bailout proposed by Treasury Secretary Paulson. I do support a “Depression Prevention” plan that rescues the economy while protecting taxpayers. As a teacher, former businessman and congressman, I have never seen a more serious threat to the American economy—one that imperils Tennesseans’ jobs, homes and ability to feed their families—in my lifetime. Our economy is built on credit, and if it dries up then no one can get a car loan, student loan, home loan or even a decent credit card. People’s savings and retirement accounts must be kept absolutely safe. Late last week, the Bush administration presented Congress with a three-page bailout plan that proposed giving the Treasury Secretary $700 billion dollars of your tax dollars to inject in the capital markets. It attached no conditions to that funding and provided for no oversight by Congress. It even said the Treasury Secretary’s decisions would be considered above the law, unreviewable by federal courts. Needless to say, that proposal was dead on arrival because it gave Wall Street a blank check. Congress quickly began negotiating with Treasury to develop a better rescue package. First of all, if we are going to ask taxpayers to loan money to our financial system, we should make sure that taxpayers benefit. The American people should be paid back first, and the Treasury should buy assets at prices that unclog credit markets, return solvency to our financial sector and position taxpayers, if possible, to make a profit. Next, we should punish the Wall Street executives who got us into this mess. Third, we should provide relief to homeowners trapped in bad mortgages, relief that will both help Tennesseans avoid foreclosure and keep the economy moving. Fourth, we must—repeat, must—reform financial market regulation once we get past the current crisis. It’s time to watch over Wall Street so our country never faces this crisis again. Finally, Congress and the President must immediately begin working to dig America out of our deep deficit hole. I have a bill with 100 cosponsors that would bring Democrats and Republicans together to begin tackling our-long term fiscal problems. It’s called the SAFE Commission (HR 3654), and it’s so important to our country’s economic health that a leading Capitol Hill newspaper, Roll Call, this week editorialized that Congress needs to pass my bill before another crisis occurs. I believe a majority of members of Congress are trying to do the right thing for America. A handful are clinging to ideology or politics instead of working in good faith to solve problems. I am working hard and praying that Congress will act in the best interest of our country.
09.28.2008	Legislation improves accountability and oversight in federal government WASHINGTON— Three decades after Congress created inspectors general (IGs) to be the watchdogs of federal government, the U.S. House and Senate have passed landmark reform legislation championed by Congressman Jim Cooper, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Henry Waxman and Ranking Member Tom Davis. The Inspector General Reform Act of 2008 strengthens IGs, protects them from political interference and increases transparency and accountability in their oversight work. Cooper, who first introduced IG reform legislation in 2003, praised Congress for passing the bill with unanimous votes in both the House and Senate. He also commended Sen. Claire McCaskill for leading the IG reform effort in the Senate. “Inspectors general are our first line of defense against waste, fraud and abuse in government, and in recent years they’ve been working overtime,” Cooper said. “This reform bill restores integrity to government by holding IGs accountable and giving them the independence to do their jobs. I’m proud that Congress passed this watchdog reform bill unanimously. I appreciate Chairman Waxman, Ranking Member Davis and Sen. McCaskill’s leadership, and I look forward to the president signing our bill into law.” “This legislation is an important step forward in enhancing the independence and accountability of Inspectors General,” Waxman said. “I applaud Rep. Cooper and Sen. McCaskill for their great leadership on this issue. Their legislation enjoys strong, bipartisan support because it strengthens the IGs, our first line of defense against waste, fraud, and abuse in federal programs.” “We all agree that IGs should operate independently, free from political interference,” Davis said. “I believe that this bill strikes the right balance between IG independence and the appropriate management role of inspectors general, and I applaud the Congress for its work on this legislation.” This measure will provide greater independence for the IGs from the administration and agency officials, ensure that their oversight of government agencies is transparent and available to the public, and establish a council to share best practices, enhance training, develop inter-agency information-sharing policies, and generally strengthen the IG community. Specifically, the Inspector General Reform Act of 2008 requires that: Congress is notified 30 days in advance of a proposed removal of an IG, along with the reasons for the removal. All IGs have access to independent legal counsel, avoiding potential conflicts of interest with agency counsels. A Council on Integrity and Efficiency for Inspectors General is established. The mission of the Council is to address integrity, economy, and effectiveness issues that transcend individual government agencies and to increase the professionalism and effectiveness of IG personnel by helping to establish well-trained and highly skilled IG office workforces. Within the Council, an Integrity Committee must be created to investigate allegations of wrongdoing that are made against inspectors general or certain other staff members. Budget requests for each IG’s office must specifically identify how much money is being requested for training and how much is requested for the IG Council, helping to improve IG funding through greater visibility. All IG websites be directly accessible from the home page of agency web sites. All public IG reports must also be posted on agency websites within 3 working days of release. In the event of an IG vacancy, the Council for Integrity and Efficiency will recommend possible replacements. The president’s budget delineate how much money is requested for each IG office, as well as the funding level the IG requested for their office, allowing Congress to identify whether agencies are interfering with the work of an IG office through funding cuts. No IG may accept a bonus or a pay raise from their agency to discourage agencies from using monetary incentives to pressure IGs. All IGs be appointed without regard to political affiliation and on the basis of integrity, and demonstrated ability in accounting, auditing, financial analysis, law, management analysis, public administration, or investigations. Pay is increased for all IGs to ensure enhanced independence, make their pay comparable to other senior agency officials, and to compensate for the prohibition on bonuses. ###
09.09.2008	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Says training Afghan military and police must be primary focus Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} NASHVILLE-On Monday, September 8th, U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper returned from a five-day congressional visit to Afghanistan and Pakistan. The delegation met with Afghan President Hamid Karzai and Pakistan Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani, U.S. Ambassador to Pakistan Anne W. Patterson, General David D. McKiernan, Commander of the International Security Assistance Force. Cooper, the only Tennessean on the House Armed Services Committee, also praised the recent shift in forces from Iraq to Afghanistan, cautioning that while violence in Iraq has decreased, the situation remains tense. He noted that there are many causes for the recent decrease in violence, including the troop surge and U.S. payments to former Sunni insurgents. "We still don't know if the enemy has quieted down or is just reloading," he said. "There are a number of factors at play in that country and ... and it is still a very dangerous place." Cooper said that based on his most recent visit, more troops are needed in Afghanistan, particularly to train the Afghan military and police. The strategy for Afghanistan must be different than the one used for Iraq, Cooper said, because the two countries are extremely different socially, politically and economically. Traveling with Cooper were Congresswoman Nancy Boyda (D-Kansas), Congressman Thomas Petri (R-Wisconsin), Congressman Jon Porter (R- Nevada), and Congressman Dave Reichert (R-Washington). More coverage of the visit, and Cooper's statement on the president's decision to shift more troops into Afghanistan, can be found here and here. ###
09.08.2008	Normal 0 MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman";} Funding will go to Metro Police, Sheriff, Courts and other departments Normal 0 MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (D-Tenn. 5th), U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), and Nashville Mayor Karl Dean today announced that the U.S. Department of Justice’s Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program has awarded Nashville $292,000 to prevent and control crime in Middle Tennessee. Public safety funding will go to the Metro Nashville Police Department, Davidson County Drug Court, Davidson Country Sheriff’s Office, Metro Nashville Public Schools, Davidson County District Attorney, Nashville Justice Integration Services, Davidson County Juvenile Court, Nashville Public Defender, and Metro Parks and Recreation Department. “In a city the size of Nashville, improving public safety should always be one of our chief concerns,” Cooper said. “These taxpayer funds from the Justice Department will be used to control crime and improve coordination among all the local agencies that work together to protect our citizens. I’m pleased that Nashville can target these federal resources to prevent crime from occurring in our neighborhoods.” “I’m glad to see this funding coming to the Nashville area to support the local government and law enforcement,” Alexander said. “This Byrne grant will allow Davidson County and Nashville to better address crime in the area and give the people of Davidson County a safer community.” “I’m pleased that Nashville is a recipient of this grant and I will continue working to find ways the federal government can partner with the state of Tennessee to make our communities safer,” Corker said. “By leveraging resources at all levels of government and giving local leadership the discretion to distribute funds based upon local needs, this award will support law enforcement efforts to reduce crime throughout Nashville and Davidson County.” “Public safety is a top priority. When people feel safe, they use our parks, our schools and businesses, and communities thrive,” Dean said. “I thank Congressman Cooper and Senators Alexander and Corker for bringing these additional resources to our city and to an area that is vital to our city’s continued success.” The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant was created by the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988. The award was named for named for a twenty-two year old New York City police officer who was killed in the line of duty in February 1988. By law, Byrne-JAG grant funds can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support and information systems for criminal justice. ###
09.04.2008	Funding will develop affordable housing programs in Nashville Normal 0 MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman";} WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) and U.S. Representative Jim Cooper (D-Tenn. 5th) said today that the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund has awarded the Nashville Housing Fund $1.1 million for its affordable housing loan funds and to develop a new training program for affordable housing developers. “At a time when many Tennesseans are struggling with their mortgage payments, this funding will help support loans for affordable housing in the Nashville area,” Alexander said. “By working to stabilize the housing market, we can help protect family budgets while putting our economy back on the right track.” “This funding will help the Housing Fund bring the dream of affordable homeownership to more individuals and families in the Nashville area,” Corker said. “At a time when foreclosures are on the rise, I appreciate this commitment to supporting efforts in Tennessee and throughout the country to improve the standard of living of our citizens.” “Many Americans are having a hard time making ends meet this year, so we should be doubly sure to preserve affordable housing options in Middle Tennessee,” Cooper said. “These federal funds will help achieve that goal. One of the best things we can do for our economy, and for hundreds of Middle Tennesseans, is to keep the goal of home ownership within reach for as many families as possible.” The Housing Fund was established to finance affordable housing and neighborhood revitalization projects throughout Middle Tennessee and Allen, Edmonson and Warren counties in Kentucky. Since being incorporated in 1996, it has lent over $49 million, which has leveraged over $250 million in private financing. ###
08.21.2008	Normal 0 MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman";} Webb graduate returns to Tennessee after receiving bachelor's from Harvard Normal 0 MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman";} NASHVILLE-U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper today announced that he has appointed Effie Johnson to the position of staff assistant. Johnson, a resident of Murfreesboro, Tennessee, will work closely with the chief of staff and communications director, while also providing general administrative support to the staff. "I'm very pleased to have Effie join our staff," said Cooper. "Her poise and professionalism quickly impressed me, and she's already done wonderful work in her short time here. I look forward to working with her even more in upcoming years." Johnson graduated this year with a bachelor's degree in government from Harvard University. She is a 2004 graduate of The Webb School in Bell Buckle, TN. While at Harvard, Johnson was very active in the Institute of Politics at the Kennedy School of Government. During the summer of 2007, Johnson also served as an intern with the Central and West Africa (CEWA) division at the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs in Washington, D.C. "I am so honored to have the opportunity to work for Congressman Cooper, who has proven to be one of the smartest and most sincere people on Capitol Hill," said Johnson. "His district and Washington D.C. staffs have welcomed me with open arms, and like them, I hope that I am able to use my resources to serve the great people of Middle Tennessee to the best of my ability." ###
07.09.2008	Bipartisan bill offers affordable, private health coverage choices for all Americans WASHINGTON-U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper and 18 bipartisan colleagues today introduced legislation that will repair the nation's broken health care system. The Healthy Americans Act will enable every American to buy affordable, private health insurance while streamlining overall health care costs to the national economy. "This landmark bill will provide health care to all Americans, regardless of age, region or pre-existing medical condition," said Cooper (D-TN). "It offers everyone choices-the opportunity to pick from a menu of coverage plans, just the way I do as a member of Congress. It's a tremendous breakthrough." The Healthy Americans Act is the most bipartisan, comprehensive health reform bill in over 13 years. In addition to guaranteeing that every American can afford quality, private health insurance, the bill would: give Americans choice in where they get their health care; modernize the employer-employee relationship by making health care portable from job to job (and continue if you lose your job); promote personal responsibility and preventative medicine; and reform the insurance market so that insurers are forced to compete on price, benefits and quality. The Healthy Americans Act was first introduced by Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Bob Bennett (R-UT), and is cosponsored by a bipartisan group of 16 senators, including Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Bob Corker (R-TN). The lead House sponsors are Congresswomen Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (D-FL) and Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO). "Jim Cooper was a pioneer in forging bipartisan consensus around health reform in the 1990's," said Wyden. "He's widely respected for his expertise in health care and budget issues, and I'm thrilled to have him as one of the driving forces in the House behind the Healthy Americans Act." The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) and the Joint Committee on Taxation released a report that found the Healthy Americans Act would be roughly budget-neutral in 2014 and that implementing the Act would actually create surpluses after that year. Further proof of the bill's financial benefits was provided by an independent analysis conducted by the non-partisan Lewin Group, the gold standard of health care policy analysis. The analysis estimates that covering all Americans, the Healthy Americans Act could save more than $1.5 trillion in health care spending over the next 10 years. "This bill will provide affordable, transportable, user-friendly health insurance to all Americans, and it will save our country money in the long run," said Cooper. "If we work across party lines, I'm confident we can make health reform happen after the next president takes office. In hard economic times, with medical bills causing thousands to declare bankruptcy, Americans can't afford for us to wait." ### Photos of Wednesday press conference available upon request.
06.26.2008	Cooper and Committee unearth fraud in electric co-op industry--and their lobbyist doesn't like it WASHINGTON--Congressman Jim Cooper and fellow members of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee today held a hearing on fraud and abuse in the electric co-op industry, but two key witnesses didn't show. Bennie Fuelberg and W.W. Bud Burnett, the former general manager and president of Texas' Pedernales Electric Cooperative, evaded Congressional subpoenas, indicating through attorneys that if they had testified before Congress they would have invoked their Fifth Amendment right not to self-incriminate. Fuelberg and Burnett are accused by angry co-op members of stealing millions of dollars of customer money, spending it on their own exorbitant salaries, lavish trips and even second homes in nearby New Mexico. Pedernales' exploits have been documented by reporter Claudia Grisales of the Austin American-Statesman. A civil lawsuit in the case is currently on appeal. Cooper, meanwhile, documented a pattern of co-op mismanagement in an article he wrote for the Harvard Journal on Legislation. The article was included in the Congressional record at today's hearing. "Too many electric co-ops have turned away from their historic role as exciting, pro-consumer organizations and have instead taken on deeply troubling anti-consumer behaviors," Cooper wrote in the article. "Carefully considered, member-friendly reforms are long overdue in order to protect the rights of the co-ops’ legal owners, including members’ rights to receive refunds of $3 billion to $9 billion of capital credits. In addition, the conservation and environmental impact of co-op decision-making must be considered. It is time for members to take back their property and their co-ops, for the good of themselves and their country." Glenn English, lobbyist for the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association (NRECA), an industry group, was called to respond to allegations raised by the Committee. After repeatedly denying that there were systemic problems in the co-op industry, English claimed that Cooper was under investigation for accessing the industry's secret, password-protected web site without authorization. Cooper responded that an NRECA insider gave him authorization to access the site, which he documented in footnotes to the article. "We have a chance today to help 17 million co-op customers, and probably 40 million rural and suburban residents, get better treatment from their co-op," Cooper said in his opening statement (below). "In my state alone, hundreds of thousands of co-op customers own close to a billion dollars in co-op equity that they have never been told about, and never received a penny of in 70 years. "Co-op customers are getting electricity today, but most of them don't have much power, and virtually all of them are in the dark." ### COOPER STATEMENT ON LOBBYIST ACCUSATION I was attacked today by a desperate Washington lobbyist who found it easier to make false charges against me than to defend the scandals in his industry. After a four-hour hearing on electric co-ops, the head of the trade association for co-ops, Glenn English, got tired of defending the wrongdoing by a Texas co-op and lashed into me. Two top executives from the Texas co-op are currently evading subpoenas from federal marshals, and Mr. English did not want that to be the headline. He did not want people to know that his clients had stolen millions of dollars from their customers. So instead he made a false accusation against me. Mr. English's specific charge is that he was told that I was under investigation for accessing his trade association's password-protected website without authorization. That is not true: I had full authorization, repeatedly, from a top co-op insider. That insider gave me their name and password to use for the website. If Mr. English wants to get mad at someone, perhaps he should look at his own organization. Mr. English is trying to prevent Tennessee co-op customers from ever receiving the refund check that I think co-ops owe them. Tennessee co-ops hold nearly $1 billion of customer money, or roughly $1,800 per customer, but have never told Tennesseans exactly what they own, or how to get the money. I have been fighting Washington lobbyists in order to get Tennesseans their money back. Naturally, the folks who currently enjoy the benefits of that $1 billion are fighting back, hard. ### STATEMENT FROM HOUSE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN HENRY WAXMAN In 1994, when I was investigating the tobacco industry, a cigarette company threatened me with jail unless I turned over my files to them.&nbsp; Their lawsuit was quickly thrown out of court, but it gave me first-hand experience with corporate intimidation. In my view, attempting to intimidate the Committee when we are investigating serious issues is a mistake. We won't be intimidated and we will continue to try to protect the interests of co-op customers by looking into any credible allegations of misconduct by the co-op boards. ### OPENING STATEMENT OF REP. JIM COOPER, AS PREPARED FOR DELIVERY Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Opening Statement of Rep. Jim Cooper June 26, 2008 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I regret that we must have this hearing. I love rural electric co-ops and don't want to see any of them harmed... but I also don't want to see any co-op customers harmed. I don't even like to draw attention to co-ops because I know how publicity-shy they are. So far, I have not introduced any legislation to change co-ops because my only goal is to return them to their roots. My father helped start a rural co-op and I have represented the customers of over 20 co-ops during my time in Congress, perhaps more than any other member. I started learning about co-ops almost two decades ago when I first attended a co-op annual meeting in my district. For almost ten years I have been talking privately with co-op leaders, speaking at co-op conventions - both state and national - to warn them about problems that even I could see as a co-op observer. I've worked hard for many years to solve co-op problems within the co-op family. But I was rebuffed at almost every turn, so here we are today with 1) the largest electric co-op in America in a serious scandal, 2) its former leaders hiding from federal marshals, and 3) loads of other co-op problems bubbling, publicly, to the surface. For much of the last ten years, I didn't know for sure whether my co-op worries were justified. But then I saw the outstanding reporting of Margaret Newkirk at the Atlanta Journal-Constitution and of Claudia Grisales at the Austin American-Statesman chronicling the abuses of Georgia and Texas co-ops. I also found that TVA Inspectors General had been complaining about Tennessee co-op misbehavior for a long time but, due to co-op pressure, hiding their report from Congress and, as the IG put it, "shrill media attention." I also stumbled upon the national co-op trade association's own secret, password-protected website and discovered that some of my worst fears were substantiated by the NRECA itself, the same organization that had been stonewalling me. That's when I decided to write a law review article which is being published this week by the Harvard Journal on Legislation. If you've got to wash your dirty laundry in public, you might as well get it clean. I want to make seven quick points: If you think Pedernales is the only electric co-op scandal, then you believe that there can be only one cockroach. If such abuses can happen in the largest co-op in America, founded by a former U.S. President [SHOW Picture of LBJ], within sight of regulators in the Texas state capitol in Austin, they can happen anywhere. Co-ops serve portions of 47 states. [SHOW MAP and keep it up there] We already know of other, completely unrelated, co-op scandals near Atlanta, Birmingham, and Ft. Worth. Is your state next? How would you even begin to know, unless you've seen your co-op's audited financial statements? Or do you just take the co-op lobbyist's word for it? That's exactly what legislators in Texas did for too many years. Co-ops don't have to be mired in scandal to have serious problems. It doesn't take a spike in temperature; this chronic, low-grade fever could even be the most damaging to co-op health. The NRECA has been issuing reports for over 30 years warning all co-ops that they need to be refunding more money to customers because, if they don't, they risk losing their tax-exempt status. For decades, too many co-ops have turned a deaf ear to their own trade association on this other issues regarding their precious tax-exemption. Why would NRECA go to so much trouble, and pay for such expensive, secret reports as this one [Cooper: WAVE Report], unless they were really worried about an IRS crackdown? Much of this hearing will be spent reinforcing NRECA's own message to its members. Are co-op customers being treated fairly? Remember, co-ops were founded under Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal to be the most pro-consumer organizations in America. Co-ops brag about the "Co-op Difference." Yet NRECA itself has written that countless co-op customers pay an extra $220 a year -- why? -- just so their co-op can remain inefficient. [Cooper: SHOW "A Framework for Change."] According to the NRECA itself, if small co-ops simply merged with other co-ops, they could save their customers two months of electricity bills every year. Wouldn't it be nice to give customers a two-month holiday from their light bills? Private property rights. Co-op customers really do own their co-op. And this isn't like taxpayers who, in theory, own an undivided interest in, say, the Smithsonian Museum. Co-op customers literally have, or will have, legal title in their own name to their piece of $31 billion of co-op equity, which is roughly the market value of Amazon.com. This averages out to $1,824 per customer, an amount comparable to the economic stimulus checks that Congress passed this spring. [PICTURE of Stimulus Check and keep it up] Yet how many co-op customers have ever been told exactly what they own? Have any? I have not found one yet, except for one top power company executive who got all his money out every time he moved from one co-op to another. Why can't regular customers get this benefit, or is it reserved for VIPs? After all, internal co-op software calculates individual ownership to the penny; co-ops just run out of ink on their monthly bills before they disclose that ownership stake. All this leads me to conclude that this $31 billion is probably the largest lost pool of capital in America. I estimate that co-ops could safely return $3 billion to $9 billion of customer funds this year. That money could help millions of rural ratepayers today who are having a hard time in a soft economy. And it's not a government handout; it's just returning their own money! When co-ops do not tell their customers the truth about exactly how much of the co-op they own, they break faith with their customers and they effectively confiscate customer property without permission. What if your bank or credit union refused to tell you how much is in your account? And when co-ops fail to make any refunds, they are unable to settle the accounts of former customers. As a result, many co-ops today are increasingly owned by dead people and people who have moved away, possibly destroying the legal status of the cooperative itself. Co-ops were never intended to be ghost houses. This year, giant energy companies are trying to take advantage of co-ops' strong balance sheets and tax-exempt borrowing authority in order to finance new power generation, particularly new coal-burning units. They want co-ops to generate more power, to increase pollution, and to issue billions of dollars of bonds to be sold on Wall Street. The last time co-ops fell for such a sales pitch was in the 1970s and 1980s, and many co-ops went bankrupt as a result. I think co-ops should make energy conservation their first priority and then, once they have helped reduce their customer's bills, think about other ventures. Let's keep co-op customers healthy and take care of Main Street before we take care of Wall Street. We need more disclosure from co-ops because sunshine is the best disinfectant. Today, even the richest co-ops insist on receiving full federal subsidies, even though some of them don't let the government, or even their own customers, look at their books. Without full disclosure, co-op democracy is a sham and co-op regulation is impossible. The official biography of the lending arm of co-ops, CFC, says that it was formed to tell Wall Street how rich co-ops are, while NRECA is telling Washington how poor they are. When did this double-talk become part of the honorable co-op tradition? Why do co-ops spend almost as much money as Boeing trying to influence Congress? If all co-ops are really as good as motherhood and apple pie, why do they have to spend so much money on politicians? Or are these political contributions just a narcotic to keep the regulators and watchdogs asleep? Thank you again, Mr. Chairman, for holding this hearing. Thanks also to the best staff on Capitol Hill. We have a chance today to help 17 million co-op customers, and probably 40 million rural and suburban residents, get better treatment from their co-op. In my state alone, hundreds of thousands of co-op customers own close to a billion dollars in co-op equity that they have never been told about, and never received a penny of in 70 years. Pedernales also never refunded a penny in 70 years until it was forced to, under pressure. Our job today is to persuade electric co-ops, these wonderful New Deal organizations, to give today's customers a better deal. Co-op customers are getting electricity today, but most of them don't have much power, and virtually all of them are in the dark. ###
06.24.2008	Experts say Cooper-Wolf SAFE Commission would force Congress to take action on long-term budget shortfall WASHINGTON-At a House Budget Committee hearing this morning, experts including David Walker, former U.S. Comptroller General, praised Congressman Jim Cooper's bipartisan plan to avoid long-term fiscal disaster. The Cooper-Wolf SAFE Commission Act (H.R. 3654), would create a bipartisan commission tasked with reducing the shortfall in funding for Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security before it drowns the government in red ink. "I support the need to establish a capable, credible and bipartisan commission to address at least four issues-statutory budget controls, comprehensive Social Security reform, and round one of both comprehensive tax and health care reform. The Securing America's Future Economy Commission Act (SAFE Commission Act), or H.R. 3654, whose primary co-sponsors are Congressmen Cooper and Wolf, is intended to do just that," said Walker, who recently resigned his post as head of the Government Accountability office to become CEO of the Peter G. Peterson foundation. "How could anyone vote against a bill with a name like that if they have a chance to vote, and provided that its provisions are consistent with its name, which I believe they are?" In addition to Walker, the Committee heard testimony from former Commerce Secretary Peter G. Peterson and think tank scholars Robert Greenstein, Henry J. Aaron and Alison Acosta Fraser. While their analyses differed, all experts agreed that the nation's long-term forecast for Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security was dire. "I worry history will call us the ‘Ostrich Congress,' " said Cooper, a senior member of the Budget Committee, after the hearing. "The shortfall is coming and will destroy the social safety net if we let it-and yet we stick our heads in the sand and do nothing. I'm urging my colleagues to pass this bill now, before the presidential election, so we can keep America strong for our kids and grandkids. We have almost 100 bipartisan cosponsors. Let's take action today." Separately, the Tennessee Chamber of Commerce & Industry announced its endorsement of the Cooper-Wolf SAFE Commission. "The United States government faces what looks to be a bleak financial future, with an economic slowdown and substantial government spending above revenue collections totaling over $50 trillion according to the Treasury Department and the GAO," wrote Deborah K. Woolley, Chamber president, in a letter to Cooper and Congressman Frank Wolf (R-VA). "As our state's leading advocate for business, the Tennessee Chamber and our members understand the long-term effects that unfunded obligations can have on a balance sheet and likewise our economy. "We commend those members of our Tennessee congressional delegation who have cosponsored the bill with you: Rep. Lincoln Davis, Rep. Bart Gordon, Rep. John Tanner, Rep. John J. Duncan, and Rep. Zach Wamp. Thank you all for supporting this important legislation." Video of the hearing is available here . Cooper's opening statement can be viewed here . ###
06.24.2008	Says McDermott bill is a start, but much more needs to be done WASHINGTON--Congressman Jim Cooper today called on Congress to reform the foster care system. Cooper, a longtime advocate of adoption reform, last week participated in a symposium on child welfare jointly hosted by the Congressional Urban Caucus and Rural Working Group. Today he spoke on behalf of the Fostering Connections to Success Act (H.R. 6207), which was introduced by Rep. Jim McDermott (D-WA). It passed by voice vote. Video of Cooper's remarks is available here.
06.03.2008	State's winners all from Fifth District, celebrated with official trip to Washington NASHVILLE-U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper last week congratulated Michael and Barbara Turney and Sheila McLendon, Tennessee winners of the U.S. Small Business Administration's 2008 Small Business Awards. The Turneys were named "Small Business Persons of the Year," while McLendon collected the "Small Business Subcontractor of the Year" award. In visits to the winners' businesses on Friday, Cooper praised their entrepreneurial spirit. "People like Michael, Barbara and Sheila, and everyone who works with them, understand the hard work and risk involved in running a small business," said Cooper. "I'm here to congratulate them for having the determination and skill to make their entrepreneurial ideas become reality. In Nashville, small business owners keep our community strong and our economy resilient, and I'm proud that SBA recognized Michael, Barbara and Sheila with this honor." Based on his wife's reputation for crowd-pleasing homemade pies, Mike and his wife Barbara founded Mama Turney's in 1996 with the goal finding a way to mass produce quality homemade-tasting pies. To help with business growth, the Turneys got help from the Nashville Chapter of SCORE which helped them prepare a business plan. They received two SBA-guaranteed loans to finance various phases of the business's growth, and today the company has nine employees, sales of almost $1.1 million, and services more than 2,500 commercial accounts throughout Tennessee and eight other states. Their clients range from The Kroger Corporation to the Tennessee Titans. (Source: U.S. Small Business Administration) Empirical Laboratories was founded in 1967 as an in-house laboratory for a national environmental consulting firm. After several ownership changes, Sheila McLendon, a finance and business executive with over 15 years experience in the environmental laboratory marketplace, acquired majority ownership of the company. Empirical Laboratories is now an independent, full-service environmental laboratory headquartered in Nashville, providing environmental testing services directly to a variety of private companies and government agencies. As president and CEO, Sheila provides leadership, guidance and support to the company's staff of 35 employees, which is capable of handling large site investigation and remediation projects. She is proud that the company operates as a fully independent entity, with no outside corporate obligations or control administered by a larger parent company. Empirical is certified as a woman- owned business and a HUBZone firm, and has applied for renewal as a Small Disadvantaged Business. (Source: U.S. Small Business Administration. See also https://www.empirlabs.com/SBASCoY_2008.html) ###
05.06.2008	Antioch High School senior will have work displayed in U.S. Capitol NASHVILLE-U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper today announced that Francis Torres, a senior at Antioch High School, is the 2008 Congressional Art Competition winner for Tennessee's 5th District. Torres will have his work, a graphite drawing entitled "The Reunion," displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year starting in late June. "This is always one of the highlights of my year," said Cooper. "I am amazed at all the artistic talent of Middle Tennessee students, and frankly a little jealous of them. Francis' detailed drawing is a wonderful piece of art. He, his school and everyone in the 5th District should be proud to have it representing us in Washington." Since it was founded by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 1982, the Congressional Art Competition, entitled, "An Artistic Discovery," has given over 650,000 student artists nationwide the opportunity to have their work displayed in the Capitol exhibit. In addition to having his artwork shown in the national exhibit in Washington, D.C., Torres will also receive an invitation to attend the exhibit's ribbon-cutting ceremony at the Capitol on June 25, 2008. Additionally, he will be awarded three round-trip tickets to the event from Southwest Airlines, a private tour of the Capitol and an Artistic Honors Scholarship in the amount of $5,000 to Savannah College of Art and Design. ### Congressman Jim Cooper, Antioch teacher Pat Smith and Francis Torres
04.20.2008	Cap and Trade is Good, But is it Enough? by Rep. Jim Cooper April 20, 2008 The old way of reducing pollution was “command and control” from Washington, an omniscient and omnipotent bureaucracy policing every boiler and smokestack. In 1990, Congress set a new standard for environmental policy called “cap and trade.” The new approach allowed industry to reduce pollution by harnessing market forces. Industry was given strict targets for reduction but was allowed to meet them by trading with other firms, not just obeying orders from Washington. I am proud that my amendment to the Clean Air Act was the legislative beginning of “cap and trade” approaches to reducing air pollution. Congress passed the Cooper-Synar Amendment, which I co-wrote with the late Mike Synar, a wonderful congressman from Oklahoma. Our amendment covered coal-burning electric utilities. “Cap and trade” is one of the most effective steps that government has ever taken to control pollution. Many business schools teach it today as an example of government using an innovative, market-based approach to accomplish an important public goal. Since industry knew their boilers and smokestacks better than Washington, the results were better than anyone dreamed. Experts had predicted that it would cost $1,000 per ton of SO2 removed, but the price was closer to $100. This kept electric rates down, employment up, and the air cleaner. Should “cap and trade” be applied to global warming? You probably expect me to say yes. But “cap and trade” is not perfect, and may not be the best way to control carbon dioxide. CO2 is not SO2. And almost everyone adds CO2 to the atmosphere, not just electric power companies. Can we develop an honest market in reduction credits, both here and overseas? China alone could warm the planet beyond recognition; will anyone be able to police Chinese cars, factories and power plants? Another concern is gaming. Every company is demanding to be given credits from the start, credits that could easily be worth billions or trillions of dollars. Will Congress be able to resist the lobbying by powerful groups for special favors? I’m glad that “cap and trade” has gained widespread acceptance, but it may not fit our needs. The nascent European market has been riddled with problems. Even the U.S. House of Representatives has already been ripped off by an unscrupulous “cap and trade” vendor. How fast can we fix these problems? Can we learn from others’ mistakes? What’s the alternative to “cap and trade”? Almost every economist will tell you that taxing pollution is the most efficient answer. After all, a CO2 tax would reduce emissions without giving bad actors the right to pollute or profit, as could be the case under “cap and trade.” Of course, taxes aren’t any fun, but are they effective? It is widely thought that mentioning the “t-word” in Congress will kill global warming legislation. Congressman John Dingell, the Detroit representative who is considered an automotive industry apologist, has been promoting the idea. So it must be bad, right? Not necessarily. Our own Al Gore has been helping us understand the urgency of this vital issue for decades. We should have the courage to recognize the truth, and do the best we can to be good stewards of our planet. “Cap and trade” is probably the minimum we should do, if we can design it carefully. But there may be even better ways. # # #
04.01.2008	"These are the real numbers. And they are so scary that no politician in Washington wants you to know about them." NEW YORK-Congressman Jim Cooper recently visited with the Editorial Page of the Wall Street Journal to discuss the true nature of America's deficit, long-term financial obligations and growing dependence on foreign creditors. Cooper explained to Assistant Editorial Page Editor James Freeman that the $163 billion deficit number that President Bush and administration officials like to use is based on cash accounting, not the accrual accounting that is the gold standard in the private sector. Video of Cooper's discussion with Freeman is available here. Using cash accounting produces terribly misleading figures on the deficit, Cooper said. The use of accrual accounting would yield deficit at least $200 billion larger because it would include the borrowing every year from the social security trust fund. "But it's even larger than that if you count federal employee retirement and health benefits," Cooper continued. "Right now the federal government isn't even accounting for the retirement benefits for our own employees. That would put you in jail in or prison in the private sector." "A single, standalone McDonalds has a tougher accounting standard than the Pentagon or the federal government," Cooper said. Cooper also explained that the Financial Report of the United States, an official document produced by the government's top auditor and signed by the Treasury Secretary-which uses real accounting-shows a deficit of at least $700 billion. "These are the real numbers. And they are so scary that no politician in Washington wants you to know about them," said Cooper. Cooper, along with Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA), has sponsored a bill to get the nation's fiscal house in order through the establishment of a bipartisan, 16-member commission that would come up with a plan to start balancing the government's future spending promises and revenues. Current projections show a $50 trillion gap between what the nation is earning and what we've promised to spend on Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans benefits. The SAFE Commission Act currently has 75 co-sponsors, the support of both Democratic and Republican House leaders and the backing of a number on non-partisan experts on the budget.
03.25.2008	Immigration enforcement program that Cooper helped secure is producing thousands of cases that a judge should hear locally NASHVILLE-Congressman Jim Cooper on Monday announced that he has partnered with Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-TN) to push for a much-needed federal immigration judge to preside in Nashville. The new judge would begin hearing locally the thousands of new immigration violation cases that have come as a result of Nashville's implementation of a program allowing local law enforcement personnel to serve as deputized federal immigration officials. Cooper and Alexander made the announcement at a Monday morning press conference coinciding with the one-year anniversary of the Davidson County Sheriff's Office's participation in the immigration enforcement program, known as 287(g) for the section of the 1996 law that created it. The 287(g) program allows local law enforcement personnel - in this case members of the Sheriff's Office who book all persons arrested in Nashville into jail - to run instant immigration checks on suspected illegal immigrants and non-resident aliens. In the first year the program has been on line in Nashville, specially-trained Sheriff's Deputies have identified nearly 3,000 persons as illegal immigrants. "What this is all about is law enforcement, criminal law enforcement," said Cooper, who was instrumental in having Nashville's 287(g) application approved by the Department of Homeland Security. "What we're trying to do here is clean up the nation's immigration mess, and we're starting right here in our community." The tremendous volume of immigration cases now arising in Nashville has prompted Cooper to call on DHS to take the next step. Nashville is one of only a handful of communities across the country taking a proactive roll in enforcing our federal immigration laws, and sitting an immigration judge in the community will help strengthen law enforcement efforts and save taxpayers dollars. "Currently, all persons processed under 287(g) must report to Memphis or Oakdale, Louisiana, for an immigration hearing. They are transported to Memphis or Oakdale at considerable cost and at considerable time burdens. Installing an immigration judge in Nashville would ease these additional costs," Cooper and Alexander wrote to DHS Assistant Secretary for Immigration and Customs Enforcement Julie Myers on March 6, 2008. "We were able to cut through some of Washington D.C.'s red tape in getting 287(g) up and running in Nashville," Cooper said. "But we've got more cutting to do. It makes absolutely no sense at all to have our local law enforcement agencies initiating thousands of federal immigration cases every year only to have local taxpayers pay to transport those thousands of individuals across the state or to Louisiana for their court hearings." Along with Cooper and Alexander, Davidson County Sheriff Daron Hall, Nashville Chief of Police Ronal Serpas, and Nashville Immigration Bar President Elliott Ozment joined in calling for the installation of an immigration judge in Nashville to help alleviate the backlog of immigration cases arising from 287(g).
03.20.2008	Military, intelligence leaders and experts talk with Cooper about the work of his Armed Services Roles and Mission Panel WASHINGTON-On Tuesday, March 11 - four days after the House Armed Services Roles and Mission Panel released its landmark report looking at how the U.S. military infrastructure can adapt to the changing nature of global conflicts - the Center for Strategic and International Studies hosted a roundtable discussion on the report, in which Rep. Jim Cooper, the panel's chairman, and Rep. Phil Gingrey, the panel's ranking Republican, discussed the panel's work with dozens of members of the nation's military and intelligence community, as well as experts in those fields. The report represents the first Congressional review of the proper roles and missions of the armed forces in 15 years. "It's a forward looking project, to see how we can keep America No. 1," said Cooper. Cooper and Gingrey, as well as Michèle Flournoy, Senior Associate at CSIC and President Co-Founder of the Center for a New American Security, and James Kitfield the Senior Defense Correspondent at the National Journal, fielded a number of questions on the report, "Initial Perspectives," a series of essays divided into three categories: Inter-agency problems of coordination on nation-building, Africom, and the use of American soft power; Pentagon-wide problems of procurement, management and strategic vision; and Inter-service rivalry over which branch of the military controls drones, airlift, or even the infantry. "We are genuinely soliciting your input," Cooper told the audience. "All we're doing with this is planting a few seeds. Because the scope of this project is so great, we need all the help we can get. We want your wisdom." See video and hear audio footage from the roundtable here . CSIS , a non-partisan think tank, is one of the world's preeminent international policy institutions focused on defense and security, regional stability and transitional challenges.
03.17.2008	December December 15, 2008 COOPER, KIND RESPOND TO TREASURY DEPARTMENT RELEASE OF FINANCIAL REPORT OF US GOVERNMENT November November 11, 2008 COOPER TALKS HEALTH CARE REFORM ON NPR November 15, 2008 COOPER APPEARS ON INSIDE POLITICS WITH PAT NOLAN November 17, 2008 COOPER JOINS FISK JUBILEE SINGERS AT WHITE HOUSE FOR NATIONAL ARTS MEDAL CEREMONY November 25, 2008 COOPER STATEMENT ON OBAMA LONG-TERM FISCAL DISCIPLINE EFFORTS October October 1, 2008 COOPER REACTS TO ECONOMIC CRISIS October 14, 2008 COOPER DISCUSSES FINANCIAL CRISIS, NEXT STEPS TO TAKE October 22, 2008 LOCAL GROUP HAILS COOPER AS "OUTSTANDING" ON ENVIRONMENT October 23, 2008 COOPER PREVIEWS GREENSPAN HEARING ON CNBC October 24, 2008 COOPER DEMANDS ANSWERS FROM GREENSPAN ON FISCAL CRISIS October 30, 2008 COOPER NAMES REED STAFF ATTORNEY September September 4, 2008 COOPER JOINS ALEXANDER, CORKER TO SUPPORT $1.1 MILLION FOR NASHVILLE HOUSING FUND September 8, 2008 COOPER, ALEXANDER, CORKER, DEAN ANNOUNCE NEW CRIME PREVENTION FUNDING FOR NASHVILLE September 9, 2008 COOPER RETURNS FROM CONGRESSIONAL VISIT TO AFGHANISTAN, PAKISTAN September 27, 2008 COOPER IG REFORM BILL PASSES CONGRESS, AWAITS PRESIDENT'S SIGNATURE August August 21, 2008 COOPER NAMES JOHNSON STAFF ASSISTANT July July 9, 2008 COOPER INTRODUCES LANDMARK HEALTH CARE REFORM BILL June June 24, 2008 COOPER CALLS FOR REFORM OF U.S. FOSTER CARE SYSTEM June 24, 2008 HOUSE COMMITTEE HOLDS HEARING ON COOPER-WOLF COMMISSION, TN CHAMBER ENDORSES June 3,2008 COOPER CONGRATULATES TENNESSEE WINNERS OF NATIONAL SMALL BUSINESS AWARDS May May 6, 2008 COOPER CONGRATULATES CONGRESSIONAL ART COMPETITION WINNER FRANCIS TORRES April April 1, 2008 COOPER DISCUSSES REAL FINANCIAL REPORT OF U.S. WITH WALL STREET JOURNAL EDITORIAL PAGE April 20, 2008 TENNESSEAN OP-ED: "CAP AND TRADE" IS THE LEAST WE CAN DO TO STOP GLOBAL WARMING March March 24, 2008 COOPER PUSHES FOR ARRIVAL OF A FEDERAL IMMIGRATION JUDGE IN NASHVILLE March 20, 2008 COOPER LEADS DISCUSSION OF ROLES AND MISSIONS AT CSIS March 13, 2008 COOPER TO FORGO EARMARKS IN FY '09 BUDGET March 10, 2008 ROLL CALL OP-ED: DON'T REPEAT PAST HEALTH CARE MISTAKES March 6, 2008 COOPER-LED ARMED SERVICES PANEL RELEASES LANDMARK REPORT February February 29, 2008 TENNESSEAN EDITORIAL PRAISES APPROACH TO MEDICARE REFORM February 15, 2008 TENNESSEAN OP-ED: BUDGET SHOULD REFLECT REALITY OF THE TIMES February 8, 2008 COOPER SECURES MAJOR FUNDING INCREASES FOR HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES February 5, 2008 NEW YORK TIMES COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS RECOUNTS 'THE COOPER CONCERNS' January January 31, 20008 NASHVILLE CITY PAPER AGAIN PRAISES COOPER FOR SEEING LIGHT ON ECONOMY January 30, 2008 NASHVILLE CITY PAPER EDITORIAL CALLS COOPER 'VOICE OF REASON' IN CONGRESS January 16, 2008 RICHMOND TIMES-DISPATCH LAUDS COOPER, WOLF FOR SAFE COMMISSION PUSH January 16, 2008 COOPER ANNOUNCES OVER$2 MILLION IN HOME HEATING HELP FOR TENNESSEANS January 11, 2008 COOPER RESPONDS TO REPORT THAT U.S. GOVERNMENT MAY LOSE AAA CREDIT RATING January 9, 2008 TENNESSEAN OP-ED: U.S. MUST MAKE EFFORT TO UNDERSTAND CONFLICT January 2, 2008 TENNESSEAN OP-ED: VOTERS, OFFICIALS MUST END ATM 'POLITICS' 2007 News Items
03.13.2008	Calls for Congress to reform spending practices immediately WASHINGTON-U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper (D-TN) today took the next step in his call for Congress to reform its wasteful spending habits, announcing that he will not submit “earmark” funding requests for fiscal year 2009. In foregoing earmarks, Cooper said he would support a Congress-wide moratorium this year as well as a bipartisan review of directed spending, such as one proposed yesterday by Congressman Ron Kind (D-WI). “With America facing record deficits, a serious economic slowdown and a long-term budget crisis, now is the time for Congress to lead by example,” said Cooper, a senior member of the House Budget Committee. “For a dozen years, no one minded the store in Washington, and pork-barrel spending got out of control. We in the 110th Congress should be the ones who put a stop to that. Let’s place a moratorium on earmarks until Congress can decide the most equitable and efficient way to fund projects that benefit the American people.” By 2005, earmarks had risen to consume $23.5 billion of federal spending, according to the nonpartisan group Taxpayers for Common Sense. In 2007, after taking control of Congress, Democrats introduced new transparency requirements and aimed to reduce the number of earmarks inserted in spending bills. However, money directed for special projects still takes up $18.3 billion of federal spending in 2008. Cooper has long called for an end to the earmark process (see op-ed below), earning past praise from good government groups for his 100 percent voting record on “Flake amendments” to strip wasteful spending projects. According to media reports, he becomes the fourth House Democrat to call for a one-year moratorium on earmarks. In the Senate, the three leading presidential candidates of both parties have joined the call for a moratorium. "This is a great opportunity to do what's right and put a stop to ATM politics," said Cooper. "I believe Americans are way ahead of their elected leaders on some pretty basic wisdom: don't spend money you don't have, and what you do have, spend wisely. Congress should live up to such a reasonable standard." The Tennessean January 3, 2008 Thursday Voters, officials must end 'ATM politics' U.S. REP. JIM COOPER Congress should stop earmarks. When senators can get $500 million of taxpayer funds to grease their re-election bids, and even freshman congressmen can get $50 million, our government is terribly broken. Let me be clear: I play today's political game so that the Nashville area will not be disadvantaged. But I still fight to change the rules of this awful game by publicizing all my requests ("sunshine is the best disinfectant") and voting against every earmark I see ("I don't care who's twisting my arm"). This doesn't make me popular with my colleagues, but it's the right thing to do. Earmarks proliferated in the 1990s after Republicans took control of Con-gress. This is not a partisan statement; earmarks were relatively rare during the previous 40 years of Democratic majorities. Sadly, many Democrats are now addicted to this political drug. They agree with Republicans that it increases their career longevity. Politicians of both parties love earmarks because they opened a back door into the federal treasury. While it is theoretically possible for saintly statesmen to fund only worthy projects, the reality is that convicted lobbyists like Jack Abramoff soon took over what he called "the congressional favor fac-tory." Easy path to corruption Earmarks are the "currency of corruption" because projects can be funded with little scrutiny and no competition from other projects. Some politicians de-nounce the "unelected federal bureaucrats" who administer regular federal spend-ing, but I prefer them to politicians who use earmarks to build their own po-litical machines. Earmarks funded Alaska's "Bridge to Nowhere," Iowa's "Indoor Rain Forest," and, most recently, "Coconut Road," a Florida highway demanded by an Alaska congressman for a big contributor! Sadly, these are only the most fa-mous abuses; there are many hundreds more. The good news is, the Democratic Congress has reduced the number and cost of earmarks. The bad news: There are still roughly 11,000 earmarks, costing taxpay-ers $13 billion annually. Even one wasteful or fraudulent earmark can damage the image of Congress, already at an all-time low. The bad apples are spoiling the barrel. Stopping earmarks will be a small step in the right direction. Our nation's "fiscal gap" and annual deficits are so large, even eliminating earmarks will help only a bit. But every dollar we save makes America stronger by reducing foreign borrowing. Earmarks should be abolished because they allow politicians to quietly, some-times secretly, take taxpayer dollars for their own purposes. This temptation is too much for Congress and for many constituents. If you are a charity, why raise money on your own if you can tap the U.S. Treasury for millions? D.C. lobbyists send out letters asking charities nationwide for $100,000 retainers in return for the promise of a million bucks a possible 10-1 return. Most of Abramoff's clients were nonprofits bent on raiding the treasury. If you know the secret code, you can get taxpayer money from your congress-man. This "ATM politics" is threatening good government. Instead of asking me for the code, I hope you'll help me shut down the ATM for everyone.
03.06.2008	Roles and Missions Panel report looks at how the country's national security infrastructure can continue to succeed in the 21st century Congressman Jim Cooper today announced the release of the final report of the House Armed Services' Roles and Missions Panel, chaired by Cooper , which in July 2007 was charged with analyzing the changing responsibilities of the U.S. military services. The report of the Roles and Missions Panel represents the first branch-by-branch Congressional evaluation of threats facing American and the capability of our U.S. military to respond since the 1994 Commission on Roles and Missions. "When you are the world's only superpower, how do you stay Number One? That is the simple question this Report tries to answer," Cooper wrote in the report's introductory letter. "In this volume, my colleagues and I want to challenge our colleagues and fellow citizens to join us in rethinking national security." The 96-page report is a series of discussions and essays divided into three main categories: Inter-agency problems of coordination on nation-building, Africom, and the use of American soft power. Pentagon-wide problems of procurement, management and strategic vision. Inter-service rivalry over which branch of the military controls drones, airlift, or even the infantry; "We do not attempt to define the wisest foreign or military policies, but to start probing some of the U.S. institutional weaknesses in the implementation of any security policy. American strength requires that we are able to achieve our policy goals," Cooper wrote. "Normally confined to the Pentagon, the recent need for nation-building has broadened security thinking to agencies outside the Department of Defense. The task of our "Panel on Roles and Missions" is to examine the roles of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, and Coast Guard, as well as the particular missions of the Armed Services, Intelligence Agencies, State Department, the National Security Council and other agencies, in protecting American security." Cooper has served on the House Armed Services Committee since his return to Congress in 2003. The panel also included Rep. Phil Gingrey (R-GA), Ranking Member, and Reps. Rick Larsen (D-WA), Kristen Gillibrand (D-NY), Joe Sestak (D-PA), Geoff Davis (R-KY) and Michael Conaway (R-TX). The entire Roles and Missions Report can be viewed here . In anticipation of and since the release of the report, a number of media outlets have discussed the work of the Roles and Missions Panel. Below are some of those news stories, the first of which is an essay Congressman Cooper penned for the Armed Forces Journal. Request for proposals By U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper; Armed Forces Journal Report calls for roles and missions debate By William H. McMichael; Military Times Congress: Why should each military branch get same budget? By Gordon Lubold; The Christian Science Monitor This Week in Defense News with Vago Muradian WUSA-9 Washington, DC; 3/2/08 episode On March 11 the Center for Strategic and International Studies hosted a discussion on the Roles and Missions report. Cooper and Rep. Phil Gingrey, who served as the Panel's Ranking Republican, discuss the report and field questions from veteran defense officials and experts in the audience. ###
02.29.2008	The Tennessean Friday, February 29, 2008 President Bush has some intriguing ideas about how to address Medicare drug costs, but ultimately his plan for addressing problems in the system are far short of what's needed. Democrats have quickly criticized the president's proposals, but it's important to point out that Democrats haven't exactly offered a lot of great ideas to shore up Medicare. The country needs to see substantive action. The president wants to charge higher premiums for participants in the Medicare drug program among those who have higher incomes, calling for individuals making more than $82,000 a year ($164,000 per couple) to pay more. The exact increase in what those premiums would be isn't known. Other aspects of the president's proposal would limit damages in malpractice cases, which is a bad idea; give the secretary of health and human services authority to require use of electronic health records; and ramp up efforts to link the amount of payments in Medicare to the quality of care provided. The use of electronic records is where the entire health-care system should be headed, as is the push for linking pay to quality. As for capping non-economic and punitive damages, that limits the costs to health-care providers by denying justice to victims of malpractice, which is downright immoral. The president's proposal does score points in that it recognizes the need for changes in Medicare, and it recognizes that middle- and lower-income Americans are being severely squeezed by health-care costs. But the best way to save money in the Medicare drug program is the same as always: Allow the government to negotiate lower drug prices from the pharmaceutical companies. Democrats say the president's plan to require more from higher-income participants is a case of laying the rising costs on beneficiaries. They call more for plans that would reduce payments for private Medicare insurers under Medicare Advantage, which can include prescription drug coverage. Insurers aren't root of problem The Democrats continue to see the overall health-care crisis in terms of what insurers are paid, which is a bit off-target. The root of the problem is the cost of care. Ideally, in the basic health-care system, insurers should be needed only for serious conditions. Patients should be able to afford routine health-care procedures, because those services should be reasonably priced. Currently, they're not reasonably priced. As long as Democrats limit their thinking to insurance plans, they're only adding to the bureaucracy and haggling over the costs of a middleman. The emphasis on streamlining costs with electronic records and making providers compete on price and quality would be more effective. The basic health-care system should either be a purely free-market system, which it currently is not, or a single-payer government-run program. Medicare has been a very popular government-run program. The reality is that politics is going to drive the health-care debate, including discussion of Medicare. Tough decisions on taxes and the amount paid to providers must be made. The best solution probably can be found in a proposal by U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper of Nashville, who advocates a special commission on entitlements like Medicare and Social Security, which could work devoid of political influence. All the other proposals only seem to nibble on the edges.
02.11.2008	Asks Adm. Michael Mullen why budget shares have remained static over a half-century of war and peace Click here to visit Jim's video page.
02.05.2008	Columnist recalls 1993 health care debate By DAVID BROOKS I'm not a Hillary-hater. She's been an outstanding senator. She hung tough on Iraq through the dark days of 2005. In this campaign, she has soldiered on bravely even though she has most of the elected Democrats, news media and the educated class rooting against her. But there are certain moments when her dark side emerges and threatens to undo the good she is trying to achieve. Her campaign tactics before the South Carolina primary were one such moment. Another, deeper in her past, involved Jim Cooper, a Democratic congressman from Tennessee. Cooper is one of the most thoughtful, cordial and well-prepared members of the House. In 1992, he came up with a health care reform plan that would go on to attract wide, bipartisan support. A later version had 58 co-sponsors in the House - 26 Republicans and 32 Democrats. It was sponsored in the Senate by Democrat John Breaux and embraced by Daniel Patrick Moynihan, among others. But unlike the plan Hillary Clinton came up with then, the Cooper plan did not include employer mandates to force universal coverage. On June 15, 1993, Cooper met with Clinton to discuss their differences. Clinton was "ice cold" at the meeting, Cooper recalls. "It was the coldest reception of my life. I was excoriated." Cooper told her that she was getting pulled too far to the left. He warned that her plan would never get through Congress. Clinton's response, Cooper now says, was: "We'll crush you. You'll wish you never mentioned this to me." In the weeks and months following that meeting, the Clinton administration reached out to Cooper. As David Broder and Haynes Johnson wrote in "The System," their history of the health care reform effort, President Bill Clinton invited Cooper to go jogging and play golf. Others in the Clinton White House thought Cooper was right on the merits, and privately let him know. But Hillary Clinton set up a war room to oppose Cooper, who was planning to run for the Senate in 1994. As the Broder and Johnson book makes clear, Clinton and her aides believed Cooper was pursuing his own political agenda. They accused him of crafting his plan in order to raise money from the insurance and hospital industries. They said he was in league with the for-profit hospitals to crush competitors and monopolize the industry. They did this despite the fact that Cooper's centrist health care approach was entirely consistent with his overall philosophy. At one meeting in the West Wing, a source told Broder and Johnson, Clinton "kind of got this evil look and said, ‘We've got to do something about this Cooper bill. We've got to kill it before it goes any further.' " Clinton denounced the Cooper plan as "dangerous and threatening." Deputies were dispatched to Tennessee to attack his plan. Senator Jay Rockefeller said that Cooper is "a real fraud. I hope he doesn't make it to this place." According to Newsweek, Clinton brought an aide with a video camera to a meeting with senators and asked the senators to denounce Cooper on the spot. The Clinton effort backfired. It temporarily raised his profile back home. Her health care reform failed, too. She says she's learned the lessons from that failure, but she remains icy toward Cooper. Her health care memos, including a three-page memo drafted in preparation for her meeting with Cooper, have not been made public by the National Archives. Moreover, the debate Clinton is having with Barack Obama echoes the debate she had with Cooper 15 years ago. The issue, once again, is over whether to use government to coerce people into getting coverage. The Clintonites argue that without coercion, there will be free-riders on the system. They've got a point. But there are serious health care economists on both sides of the issue. And in the heat of battle, Clinton has turned the debate between universal coverage and universal access into a sort of philosophical holy grail, with a party of righteousness and a party of error. She's imposed Manichaean categories on a technical issue, just as she did a decade and half ago. And she's done it even though she hasn't answered legitimate questions about how she would enforce her universal coverage mandate. Cooper, who, not surprisingly, supports Barack Obama, believes that Clinton hasn't changed. "Hillary's approach is so absolutist, draconian and intolerant, it means a replay of 1993." He argues that her more coercive approach would once again be a political death knell. No Republican will support it. Red state Democrats will face impossible pressures at home. It's smarter to begin by offering people affordable access to coverage and evolve from there. Cooper is, of course, a man who has been burned in the past. But it is legitimate to wonder if adults can really change all that much. A defter politician would have reached out to Cooper and made an attempt to address the concerns he represents.
01.17.2008	Says Democrats and Republicans must work together to provide immediate, targeted, short-term boost Click here to visit Jim's video page.
01.17.2008	Bernanke agrees that stimulus must not worsen nation's long-term fiscal situation Click here to visit Jim's video page.
12.21.2007	Middle Tennessee resident remains in Nicaraguan custody Dear Friends, As I'm sure you've heard by now, a Nashvillian named Eric Volz is being held in Nicaraguan custody in violation of an appeals court order to release him. On December 17 the Nicaraguan Court of Appeals overturned Eric's earlier murder conviction and ordered him released immediately. The local judge who presided over his original trial defied the appeals court's order, and as of this writing on December 21, he remains in custody while the prosecutor appeals his case to the Supreme Court. As Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said yesterday, "The court has spoken. We expect him to be released." Many of you have called for an update, so I wanted to let you know what we've been doing in Washington and in Nashville. My staff and I have kept in close touch with Eric's family, the State Department, fellow Congressional offices and others about this situation, and I have repeatedly encouraged the department to do everything in its power to bring Eric home safely. Secretary Rice is monitoring the situation, as is the White House. This is a crucial time for diplomatic efforts, and for prevailing upon the better instincts of the Nicaraguan government to abide by the rule of law. We will continue our efforts to reunite Eric with his family in Tennessee. I assure you that the highest officials in our government are working hard on his behalf. Please keep Eric and his family in your thoughts and prayers. Sincerely, Jim
12.21.2007	Nashville man's ordeal ends in Christmas reunion Dear Friends, I just got word from the State Department that Eric Volz has been released from custody and is on an airplane headed home to Nashville. Thanks to the efforts of hundreds of people in Nashville, Washington, Nicaragua and around the world, Eric will be free to spend Christmas with his family. We are all thankful for this holiday reunion. Have a wonderful season. Jim
11.25.2007	Editorial Calls Long-Term Fiscal Reform Bill a "Bipartisan Ray of Sunlight" Editorial: The 110th's budget challenge Washington Times November 25, 2007 Two rays of bipartisan sunlight appear to be trying to shine through the clouds casting dark shadows on the nation's long-term fiscal horizon. Even if these narrow rays, which involve the creation of bipartisan commissions, manage to break through next year, there is no doubt that partisan budget battles will intensify throughout the 2008 congressional and presidential election campaigns. In fact, a national debate about America's fiscal future - even an intensely partisan debate - would be a worthwhile exercise. However, after the election results are final, regardless of which party prevails, it will be necessary for both Republicans and Democrats to address the fiscal future in a responsible manner - if the financial problems bearing down on us are to be avoided. The Senate Budget Committee held an important hearing on Oct. 31. The panel appearing before the committee included Comptroller General David Walker of the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO), who has been spearheading a nationwide Fiscal Wake-up Tour, which began in September 2005 and will continue at least through the 2008 presidential election; Bill Novelli, CEO of AARP, a major lobbying group for the elderly; and Bill Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a bipartisan budget watchdog group. Here are just a handful of the details revealed either at the hearing or during Mr. Walker's tour or in the government's annual report on the consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2006: • A "unified budget" deficit of $318 billion was achieved in 2005 only after the "off-budget" Social Security surplus of $173 billion was applied against an "on-budget" deficit of nearly $500 billion. Even this "on-budget" deficit of nearly half a trillion dollars seriously understated the fiscal situation that year. According to the "Financial Report of the United States Government (2005)," the negative "net operating cost" for fiscal 2005 totaled $760 billion. Among other items, the "net operating cost" concept includes several charges involving increases in retirement liabilities incurred in 2005 that are not part of the "unified budget" deficit: (1) military health and pension benefits, $170 billion; (2) veterans' compensation, $198 billion; and (3) federal civilian-employee health and pension benefits, $62 billion. • The Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board, whose promulgations required the government to add the pension and health liabilities cited above to determine the annual "net operating cost," is now discussing whether to include annual accrued costs for Medicare and Social Security. This is serious money. As of Dec. 31, the trustees for Social Security and Medicare reported that the present value of unfunded liabilities over the next 75 years were as follows: Social Security, $6.8 trillion, including $2 trillion of bonds in the Social Security trust funds, which will have to be redeemed by borrowing or by using general tax revenues (e.g., income-tax receipts); Medicare Part A (hospital insurance), $11.6 trillion; Medicare Part B (outpatient services and doctors' fees), $13.9 trillion; Medicare Part D (prescription drugs), $8.4 trillion. These present-value unfunded liabilities (over 75 years) exceed $40 trillion, which was more than three times the 2006 gross domestic product (GDP). Here is what the present-value concept means: The federal government would have to deposit $40 trillion today in an interest-bearing account in order to finance over the next 75 years the Social Security and Medicare commitments that exceed the projected revenue and premium streams. • Of course, the $40 trillion in unfunded liabilities is above and beyond America's official national debt, which now exceeds $9 trillion. • Between 2005 and 2030, the GAO has estimated that the GDP will increase by 72 percent in real (i.e., inflation-adjusted) dollars, while real spending for Social Security, Medicaid and Medicare over the same period will increase by 147 percent, 166 percent and 331 percent, respectively. • The GAO simulations "show that balancing the budget in 2040 could require actions as large as cutting total federal spending by 60 percent or raising federal taxes to two times today's level." To those who say we can "grow our way" out of this problem, the GAO replies: "Closing the current long-term fiscal gap based on reasonable assumptions would require real average annual economic growth in the double-digit range every year for the next 75 years." By comparison, the economy grew at an average annual rate of 3.2 percent during the 1990s. • At the Oct. 31 Senate Budget Committee hearing, Mr. Walker reported that the GAO's "preliminary estimate is that the nation's total liabilities and [the present value of its] unfunded commitments [over 75 years] increased during the last [fiscal] year from about $50 trillion to about $53 trillion. By doing nothing," he explained, "they go up $2 [trillion] to $3 trillion a year because of known demographics, rising health care costs and compounding interest costs." The two rays of bipartisan sunshine take the form of legislative proposals working their way through House and Senate. Both would establish bipartisan commissions to examine long-term options to address the nation's relentlessly evolving entitlement crisis that will reach its peak sometime during the retirement years of the 76 million baby boomers. On the House side, Reps. Frank Wolf (Virginia Republican) and Jim Cooper (Tennessee Democrat) have already gathered 48 co-sponsors for their SAFE Commission Act, a proposal to create a long-term spending reform commission. The 16-member bipartisan SAFE Commission would include the White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB) director, the Treasury secretary and 14 members appointed by congressional leaders from both parties. No more than four members of Congress could serve on the SAFE Commission. After holding townhall meetings around the country in 2008, the SAFE Commission, having "explicitly put all options on the table," would then "propose a solution that brings spending and revenues into balance over the long term," as Messrs. Wolf and Cooper explained in an Oct. 19 letter to all declared presidential candidates. In 2009, if congressional leaders and/or the president failed to offer their own proposals, the SAFE Commission's plan would automatically come to the House floor. If passed, it would move to the Senate for action. On the Senate side, Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad (North Dakota Democrat) and Ranking Member Judd Gregg (New Hampshire Republican) have introduced the Bipartisan Task Force for Responsible Fiscal Action Act, which would also establish a 16-member commission. The Conrad-Gregg commission would include eight Democrats and eight Republicans. Congressional leaders would designate 14 members of Congress to serve on the commission, which would be chaired by the Treasury secretary and would include one other member of the Bush administration. After a year of townhall meetings and hearings examining all options, the Conrad-Gregg commission would develop a plan detailing how to substantially improve the long-term fiscal balance. To guarantee the solutions are bipartisan, at least three- quarters of the commission, or a minimum of 12 members, would have to approve the plan before it could be submitted to Congress. The tentative date for submitting the report is Dec. 9, 2008. However, some proponents of the Conrad-Gregg commission have urged that the plan not be submitted until February 2009 so that the incoming administration could offer its own input. The plan would be fast-tracked for final consideration in the House and Senate, where supermajorities of 60 percent (again, to ensure bipartisanship) would be needed to pass it in each chamber. At the end of the Oct. 31 hearing, Mr. Gregg expressed the right attitude: "I look forward to working with both sides of the aisle to advance this important legislation that is so critical to the economic well-being of future generations." Seemingly, the 110th Congress fully appreciates the fiscal clouds hovering over the nation's short- and long-term futures. We encourage both houses to continue moving in the right direction with deliberate bipartisan discourse.
11.19.2007	Adoption Equality Act would help special needs children find loving homes WASHINGTON-U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper today recognized Adoption Awareness Month by introducing commonsense adoption reform legislation. The Adoption Equality Act would allow all special needs children in foster care to receive federal adoption assistance payments, opening the door for increased numbers of children to be placed with loving families. National Adoption Awareness Month and National Adoption Day are celebrated every November to raise awareness of the tens of thousands of children in the U.S. foster care system waiting to be adopted. National Adoption Day fell this year on Saturday, November 17. "Every child deserves a loving family, but too many children in this country are still waiting for one to adopt them," said Cooper, a longtime advocate of adoption and foster care reform. "Frankly, government should be doing more to help. That's why my colleagues and I introduced the Adoption Equality Act, which will extend assistance payments to families who adopt children with special needs. This is simply about giving kids the opportunity to get a good start in life." Cooper's bill, H.R. 4091, has already garnered the support of a number of child advocacy organizations, including Pew Charitable Trusts, which joins Congressman Cooper in supporting the Adoption Equality Act and recognizing National Adoption Awareness Month. Hope Cooper, director of the Pew Charitable Trusts' foster care initiative (and no relation to Jim), said: "This month marks the 10-year anniversary of the passage of the Adoption and Safe Families Act, and there are still over 100,000 children in foster care waiting to be adopted. We believe that there is an urgent need for public policy reforms, such as the Adoption Equality Act, that promote families for all children in foster care." Congressman Cooper also commends the Tennessee Department of Children's Services for their recent adoption successes. DCS set a new record this federal fiscal year when it finalized the adoptions of 1,217 children. All of these children had been in the custody of the state and now have a home to call their own, providing them much-needed permanency and a good foundation for the future. "We are making progress, but until every child has a loving family to care for her, there will be work to be done," said Congressman Cooper. "As families across America gather to celebrate the holidays, let's focus on giving each child something to be thankful for." ### National Adoption Day 2007 On National Adoption Day 2007-Saturday, November 17-an unprecedented number of courts and communities across the nation came together to finalize thousands of adoptions of children from foster care and to celebrate all families who adopt. The Day brings together hundreds of judges, attorneys, adoption agencies, adoption professionals, and child advocates who are dedicated to creating forever families for waiting children. Goals of National Adoption Day 2007 Finalize adoptions from foster care in all 50 states Celebrate and honor all families who adopt Raise awareness about the 114,000 children in foster care waiting for adoption Encourage others to adopt children from foster care Build collaboration among local adoption agencies, courts, and advocacy organizations Communicate availability and need for post-adoptive services History of National Adoption Day National Adoption Day 2007 builds on incredible efforts over the last eight years by The Alliance for Children's Rights through the generous support of the Freddie Mac Foundation, the Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption and others. In November 2000, National Adoption Day sponsors worked with law firms, foster care departments, child advocates, and courts to complete hundreds of foster care adoptions in nine jurisdictions across the country. In just seven years National Adoption Day has truly grown into a national celebration, with 3,300 adoptions finalized in 2006 as part of 250 events in 50 states and the District of Columbia. National Adoption Day Sponsors A coalition of national partners - The Alliance for Children's Rights, Casey Family Services, Children's Action Network, Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute, Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption and Freddie Mac Foundation- sponsor National Adoption Day to draw special attention to foster children waiting for permanent families and to celebrate all loving families that adopt.
10.31.2007	House Majority Leader, Comptroller General praise Cooper-Wolf approach WASHINGTON-House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD), U.S. Comptroller General David Walker and other experts today praised a bill introduced by Reps. Jim Cooper (D-TN) and Frank Wolf (R-VA) designed to address America's long-term fiscal crisis before it bankrupts the U.S. government. Their comments came at a Senate Budget Committee hearing called by Chairman Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Ranking Member Judd Gregg (R-NH), who have also introduced legislation that would spur Congress to make entitlement programs solvent for future generations. "The bottom line is this: Turning a blind eye to our long-term challenges would not only be irresponsible, it would be dangerous to our nation's continued success," Hoyer said. "I believe we should move forward next year with enabling legislation providing for the establishment of a commission or task force so that work on developing recommendations can begin quickly after our new President is inaugurated." Hoyer cited specific provisions of the Cooper-Wolf SAFE Commission Act that would allow Congress and the President to act quickly and build consensus around changes in long-term spending and revenue. "Both the Senate and the House have before them bills that seek to create vehicles for executive-legislative bipartisan development of credible, specific, legislative proposals to put us back on a prudent and sustainable fiscal path in order to ensure that our future is better than our past," said Walker, referring to the Cooper-Wolf SAFE Commission proposal in the House. "We owe it to our country, children, and grandchildren to do no less." Walker joined Hoyer in praising specific aspects of the Cooper-Wolf SAFE Commission bill. Also testifying at the hearing were former House Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta, who served as White House OMB Director and Chief of Staff to President Bill Clinton and currently co-chairs the Committee on a Responsible Federal Budget; Robert Bixby, Executive Director of the Concord Coalition; and Bill Novelli, CEO of the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP). "Kent Conrad and Judd Gregg are leading the fight for fiscal responsibility in the Senate, and they're doing it in a bipartisan way-the only way it will be successful," Cooper said. "I appreciate their leadership and hope we will continue to move a long-term fiscal reform commission forward in both the House and Senate. Our bills have some minor differences, but we agree on the big issues. In the House, Frank Wolf and I will continue working to bring our colleagues-and presidential candidates of both parties-onboard." The bipartisan Cooper-Wolf SAFE Commission Act was introduced in September with support from U.S. Comptroller General David Walker, the Concord Coalition, the Brookings Institution, the Heritage Foundation and the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. In the weeks since its introduction, the Cooper-Wolf bill has been endorsed in principle by House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer and has garnered praise from New York Times columnist David Brooks, and Washington Post columnists Robert Samuelson and David Broder. It currently has 55 House cosponsors. The bill would create a balanced, 16-member panel comprised of the White House OMB Director and Treasury Secretary; four members appointed by the Senate Majority Leader and four appointed by the Speaker of the House; three appointed by the House Minority Leader and three appointed by the Senate Minority Leader. No more than four Members of Congress could sit on the commission. It would be tasked with holding town hall meetings around the country and then submitting a report that balances long-term spending and revenue scenarios for the nation. If Congressional leaders fail to introduce their own proposal, the SAFE Commission's legislative proposal is automatically brought to the House floor. If passed, it is sent to the Senate for similarly expedited consideration. ### What others are saying about the SAFE Commission Act: Roberts Samuelson, Newsweek/Washington Post: Escaping the Budget Impasse "It would be revealing if some of the hopefuls-Democrats and Republicans-would show that they grasp this by providing their endorsements." David Brooks, New York Times: The Entitlements People USA Today: Social Security Hits First Wave of Boomers House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer: Fighting for America's Future
10.30.2007	Middle Tennessee youth invited to learn more about service academies COOPER ANNOUNCES 2007 ACADEMY DAY TO BE HELD SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10 AT DOWNTOWN LIBRARY Middle Tennessee youth invited to learn more about service academies On Saturday, November 10, 2007, U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper will hold an information session for middle and high school students and their families who want to learn about educational opportunities at America's service academies. Representatives from the U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, Merchant Marines, Tennessee National Guard, ROTC programs and U.S. State Department will be in attendance. Cooper's annual Academy Day presentation is designed to answer questions from prospective students and their families about educational opportunities available at one of the service academies, or through other service-related programs. Registration begins at 9:30 AM at the Downtown Public Library at 615 Church Street. The program begins promptly at 10:00 AM. Academy day activities are open to all 8th-12th grade students and their families in the 5th Congressional District, which includes Nashville, Mt. Juliet, Lebanon, Pegram and Pleasant View. For more information, call Brenda Wynn at (615) 736-5295. ###
10.30.2007	A Can't-Miss Event for the Next President A Can't-Miss Event for the Next President By David S. Broder Washington Post Tuesday, October 30, 2007; A15 If I had the power to summon all 16 of the people running for president to be in one place, I would want them in a Senate hearing room for a session that is taking place tomorrow morning. The hearing has been arranged by Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the Democratic chairman of the Budget Committee, and Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, the Republican ranking member. They have invited David Walker, the comptroller general of the United States and the head of the Government Accountability Office, an arm of Congress; William Novelli, the head of AARP, the senior citizens lobby; Rep. Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the House majority leader; and Leon Panetta, the former White House chief of staff, budget director and former congressman. What brings all these worthies together is an effort to revive the idea of a bipartisan effort to head off the bankrupting of America by runaway entitlement programs. They and others, including Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson, clearly see that unless ways are found to reform the financing and benefits of Social Security and Medicare, the demands imposed by the retirement of millions of baby boomers will consume the federal budget and blight the prospects of the next generations. Because neither party can solve this problem by itself, Conrad and Gregg have proposed the creation of a bipartisan task force, whose recommendations to the president and Congress chosen next November would be guaranteed to receive quick consideration. The idea was greeted favorably by leaders of both parties in the Senate, and Paulson found support for it in the White House. But it has encountered criticism from the opposing flanks. Vice President Cheney objected publicly to any consideration of tax increases, and Speaker Nancy Pelosi threw cold water on the idea. Apparently, she does not trust the administration to deal fairly, or she may want the Social Security issue saved for Democrats in the coming campaign. So Conrad and Gregg backed off and decided to begin again -- making the case, through expert testimony, that a policy of inaction, looking the other way, is dangerous to the country's fiscal health. As Gregg has noted, the first of the baby boomers filed for Social Security benefits this year -- and millions more will soon follow. By most official estimates, by 2034 Medicare and Social Security will eat up 20 percent of the gross domestic product -- equivalent to the entire federal budget of today. To Gregg, that flashes a clear warning that "the next president, if he or she serves eight years, will find themselves in very dangerous waters. There is no way to support this system as it is constituted." Conrad, who says he inherited a fear of debt from his Depression-era ancestors in North Dakota, said he laments that the government has added $500 billion to the national debt this year, just as those boomers are starting to retire. "You see the dollar going down, and interest rates going up," he said. "And there's more to come." Neither man expects a quick fix -- but both insist that delay is the most costly and wasteful strategy. The task force idea that they developed during a congressional trip to South America this past winter is an effort to assure all parties a voice -- and a fair process. It would have 16 members, equally balanced between Republicans and Democrats. Fourteen would be members of Congress, chosen by the leadership and presumably representing the major economic policy committees. Two would be from the administration, with one of them, the secretary of Treasury, serving as chairman. It would take 12 of the 16 votes to submit a report -- guaranteeing each party a voice in the outcome. And the report would be translated into bill form and given a fast track to a final vote in both the House and Senate, with a requirement of 60 percent support for it to go to the president -- again, protection for the minority. A similar proposal has been introduced in the House by Republican Rep. Frank Wolf of Virginia and Democratic Rep. Jim Cooper of Tennessee. Despite all these safeguards, neither Cheney nor Pelosi is satisfied, and without their backing, prospects seem dim. But the issue will haunt the next president -- unless at least the first steps to deal with it are taken now. That is why those candidates ought to be at this hearing. davidbroder@washpost.com
10.23.2007	'If you win, we have the perfect gift for you. It's a lasting solution to the long-term spending problem-the biggest you will face as president" FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 23, 2007 COOPER, WOLF WRITE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES URGING SUPPORT FOR SAFE COMMISSION"If you win, we have the perfect gift for you. It's a lasting solution to the long-term spending problem-the biggest you will face as president" WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressmen Jim Cooper (D-TN) and Frank Wolf (R-VA) today released a letter sent to all presidential candidates calling on them to support the Cooper-Wolf proposal to create a long-term spending reform commission. The SAFE Commission Act (H.R. 3654) has already drawn bipartisan support from 48 cosponsors and been heralded by national commentators. "The slow collapse of Medicare, Social Security, and other entitlement programs threatens to cut every senior's benefits, raise every worker's payroll taxes, and bankrupt America-and it will all occur on the next president's watch. We want to help you avoid this national nightmare," write Cooper and Wolf in the letter, which was mailed last Friday. "We write today to let you know that if you win, we have the perfect gift for you. It's a lasting solution to the long-term spending problem-the biggest you will face as president." Cooper and Wolf describe the 16-member, bipartisan "commission with teeth" and urge the candidates to lend it their support. "By running for president in 2008 you have volunteered to stop the treacherous decline in U.S. financial strength," they write. "The American people deserve to know the extent of the financial straits we face. It will be your job to stem the tide, and we believe this commission is the answer." The bipartisan Cooper-Wolf SAFE Commission Act was introduced in September with support from U.S. Comptroller General David Walker, the Concord Coalition, the Brookings Institution, the Heritage Foundation and the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. In the weeks since its introduction, the Cooper-Wolf bill has been endorsed in principle by House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer and has garnered praise from New York Times columnist David Brooks and Washington Post columnist Robert Samuelson. The bill would create a balanced, 16-member panel comprised of the White House OMB Director and Treasury Secretary; four members appointed by the Senate Majority Leader and four appointed by the Speaker of the House; three appointed by the House Minority Leader and three appointed by the Senate Minority Leader. No more than four Members of Congress could sit on the commission. It would be tasked with holding town hall meetings around the country and then submitting a report that balances long-term spending and revenue scenarios for the nation. If Congressional leaders fail to introduce their own proposal, the SAFE Commission's legislative proposal is automatically brought to the House floor. If passed, it is sent to the Senate for similarly expedited consideration. "Please support prompt passage of the Cooper-Wolf bill so that the commission can report back in time," the letter to presidential candidates concludes. "Our gift is not just for you, but for America. It's a life raft that's big enough for all of us." # # #What others are saying about the SAFE Commission Act: Roberts Samuelson, Newsweek/Washington Post: Escaping the Budget Impasse"It would be revealing if some of the hopefuls-Democrats and Republicans-would show that they grasp this by providing their endorsements." David Brooks, New York Times: The Entitlements People USA Today: Social Security Hits First Wave of Boomers House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer: Fighting for America's Future ###
10.19.2007	Reward internal watchdogs with protections, not muzzles Our view on good government: Reward internal watchdogs with protections, not muzzlesInspectors general save tax dollars, expose abuses. Keep them brawny. Editorial USA Today October 19, 2007; 23A Calling someone "a skunk at a picnic" wouldn't ordinarily be taken as flattering. But flattery is what Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, intended when he used that term recently to describe federal inspectors general. And he was right. When the IGs, as they are known, are at the top of their game, they are making life miserable for the heads of federal agencies - and making government work better. Little known outside the nation's capital, inspectors general poke into bureaucrats' business at more than 60 agencies, working to uncover fraud, waste and other wrongdoing. So it's small wonder that they're frequently under fire, as the CIA's inspector general is now, or that members of Congress who care about good government want to protect them. But their efforts are drawing a veto threat from the White House, where closer scrutiny of the administration's behavior rarely is seen as a good thing. In recent years, aggressive IGs have helped save taxpayers billions of dollars and alerted them to everything from threats to civil liberties to air safety risks: * In March, the Justice Department's IG revealed that the FBI improperly used a law passed after 9/11, intended to catch terrorists, to collect information on innocent U.S. citizens. Absent those revelations, the abuses might have gone on unchecked. * Over the past five years, successive Transportation Department IGs have revealed potential risks posed by the airline industry's increased outsourcing of maintenance work and the failure of federal inspectors to keep up with the change. They have also documented the industry's inability to live up to customer service pledges. While the president nominates inspectors general at 30 of the largest agencies, others are appointed by agency chiefs. It's easy to see how conflicts can develop. Clark Kent Ervin, former inspector general at the Homeland Security Department, for example, frequently pointed out the agency's failure to shore up all sorts of holes in the nation's security net. In 2004, his temporary appointment was allowed to expire and he was not confirmed by the Senate. Just last week, several lawmakers chastised CIA Director Michael Hayden for launching an internal inquiry of the spy agency's inspector general, John Helgerson. Helgerson has issued reports embarrassing to the CIA and is investigating the agency's controversial interrogation and detention programs. Helgerson declined to comment, and the CIA insisted its "straightforward, focused management review" isn't designed to chill his independence. Perhaps. Such situations can be murky and the pressures subtle, but even perceived attempts to stifle IGs can undercut their authority and effectiveness. That's why a measure to insulate IGs from politics - approved by the House 404-11 this month - makes so much sense. It would give them seven-year terms. It says they can only be fired for specific causes, such as malfeasance, and requires that Congress be informed of the reasons for an IG's removal. It gives them more control over their budgets, so agency chiefs can't starve them into inaction. Despite administration objections that the measure intrudes on presidential power, the Senate should follow the House's lead. Anything that keeps these watchdogs independent and unmuzzled is good for government and good for taxpayers. Inspectors general, by the numbers1976:Congress creates the first inspector general (IG), at the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. 1978:Congress expands the IG law and adds 12 offices. 64:Number of inspectors general today. $1.9 billion:Budget for 64 offices (fiscal 2006). $6.8 billion:Recoveries made after IG investigations (2006). 8,410:Successful prosecutions growing from IG probes (2006). 201,000:Complaints to IG hotline (2006). Sources: Congressional Research Service; President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency; Government Accountability Office.
10.10.2007	Says Congress should act soon to promote responsible government Unmuzzling the Federal Watchdogs Editorial New York Times October 10, 2007; A22 In a bipartisan rebuff of White House hubris, the House has overwhelmingly endorsed an overhaul of the inspector general process to insulate it from the waste, fraud and political meddling that are a hallmark of the Bush administration. The vital measure would strengthen the independence of inspectors general so they can blow the whistle on internal agency abuses without fear of retribution. It sets seven-year terms and narrows the grounds for removing an inspector general to specified causes, not political vagaries. It also strengthens the budget resources of investigators, and creates an oversight council that would encourage professionalism but also investigate allegations about abusive inspectors. The need for bolstering some 50 federal inspectors general has become a grim subtheme of the Bush administration's arrogant massing of executive power. Most recently, State Department employees accused the White House-appointed inspector general, Howard Krongard, of blocking rather than abetting their efforts to uncover fraud and abuse in the contract billions being showered on Iraq and Afghanistan. Mr. Krongard denies serving as the administration's lap dog against embarrassment. Critics accuse him of delaying investigations, censoring reports on security weaknesses in Baghdad and tipping off a fellow political appointee of a pending inquiry. Other allegations of compromised investigations have been raised about inspectors general at the Commerce Department, NASA, the Smithsonian Institution and the Legal Services Corporation. Clearly, the inspector general process, created in 1978 to protect the taxpayers' interests, needs bolstering against the political meddling of this and future administrations. The House voted 404 to 11 for reforms, despite the White House's threat of a veto. The Senate should show comparable determination to see fraud and abuse weeded out by in-agency investigators. The inspector general problem is one more barn door to be closed on an irresponsible administration. The sooner Congress acts, the better for responsible government.
10.08.2007	80 million Americans will soon start draining the Social Security trust fund--and Medicare is next By Richard Wolf, USA TODAY Click here for full story with graphics EARLEVILLE, Md. - When Kathleen Casey-Kirschling signs up for Social Security benefits Monday, it will represent one small step for her, one giant leap for her baby boom generation - and a symbolic jump toward the retirement system's looming bankruptcy. Casey-Kirschling - generally recognized as the nation's first boomer (born in Philadelphia on Jan. 1, 1946, at 12:00:01 a.m.) - won't bankrupt the Social Security system by taking early retirement at 62. But after her, the deluge: 80 million Americans born from 1946 to 1964 who could qualify for Social Security and Medicare during the next 22 years. The first wave of 3.2 million baby boomers turns 62 next year - 365 an hour. About 49% of the men and 53% of the women are projected to choose early retirement and begin drawing monthly Social Security checks representing 75% of the benefit they'd be entitled to receive if they waited four more years to retire. In 2011, they'll turn 65 and be eligible for Medicare. In 2012, those who didn't take early retirement benefits will turn 66 and qualify for their full share. "Once it starts to happen, and it's going to start in January, you're going to see millions of baby boomers starting to take it," says Casey-Kirschling, a retired seventh-grade teacher and nutrition consultant. By 2030, Social Security's caseload will be 84 million people, up from 50 million today. Medicare will go from 44 million beneficiaries to 79 million. That will leave barely more than two workers paying payroll taxes for every retiree. The boomer retirements have demographers, actuaries and economists worried as they prepare for an estimated $50 trillion in future obligations over the next 75 years. Social Security will rise from 4% to 6% of the nation's economy. Medicare will go from 3% to 11%. "This," says Brian Riedl of the conservative Heritage Foundation, "is the single greatest economic challenge of our era." Medicare's hospital insurance fund now pays out more than it takes in. Barring action by Congress, Social Security will start doing so in 2017. In 2019, the hospital insurance fund is projected to run out of funds. In 2041, the Social Security Trust Fund will run dry. All the while, Medicare's payments for doctors and prescription drugs are projected to rise faster than the nation's overall economic growth. Beneficiaries' premiums, deductibles and co-payments will rise faster than their incomes, the government says. It's a coming financial implosion that Washington hasn't mustered the will to confront. Fixing Social Security solely with higher taxes or cuts in spending would mean a 16% increase in the payroll tax or a 13% cut in benefits. Medicare's needs would be far greater: a 122% payroll tax hike or a 51% reduction in spending, just for hospital care. Each year action isn't taken, the prognosis gets worse and the cure more expensive. It's "the power of compounding," says David Walker, the nation's comptroller general. "Right now, it's working against us." On this one issue, liberals and conservatives agree: It's an unsustainable path, it must be altered, and Democrats and Republicans must do it together. "Partisanship on this issue is as foolish as a food fight on the Titanic," says Rep. Jim Cooper, D-Tenn. Adds Rep. Frank Wolf, R-Va.: "It's not red or blue." So far Washington has done little. President Bush and Congress cut taxes in 2001 and 2003, which has left federal revenue at a level that Walker says will not support promises to future retirees. Congress added $768 billion over 10 years to Medicare in 2003 by creating a prescription-drug benefit. Two years later, lawmakers nicked Medicaid's projected cost by $5 billion over five years, but the Congressional Budget Office still projects the program to grow by about 8% a year. Bush tried to overhaul Social Security and create private investment accounts in 2005 but was blocked by Democrats, who said it would drain money from the Social Security Trust Fund. Last week, his administration renewed an effort to charge upper-income seniors more for Medicare's prescription-drug coverage - a plan Congress ignored earlier this year. Now a few lawmakers and budget analysts are sounding the alarm. Three commissions have been proposed to study the issue, recommend changes and, in two cases, force Congress to vote. Walker is headlining a group of analysts from the political left and right on a nationwide "Fiscal Wake-Up Tour," speaking to dozens of Rotary clubs and newspaper editorial boards. Pollsters are holding focus groups in which citizens, once informed of the nation's fiscal future, usually say they'll accept tax increases or cuts in benefits. Casey-Kirschling recently moved with her husband, Patrick Kirschling, a university professor who turns 62 in March, into what had been their summer home on Maryland's Bohemia River. After years of working, they want the good life: time with family and friends, volunteer work, a villa in Florida and a 42-foot trawler to get them there. Its name: "First Boomer." In deciding when to take Social Security benefits, the couple did the math and agreed Casey-Kirschling would take the money next year. They estimate she will get $240 less per month than she would have if she waited four years, but the money she'll receive - she wouldn't say precisely how much that will be - initially will stop her from having to tap other investments, she says. "I could be dead next year," she says, "so why not take it this year?" A retiree for every couple The imbalance between workers and beneficiaries didn't happen overnight. In 1945, a decade after Social Security was created, there were 42 workers paying into the system for each retiree. Today, there are three. By 2030, Riedl says, "Every couple will have their own retiree to support." Lawmakers have long known this. But in recent years, the short-term deficit picture has improved, masking the long-term problem. The annual budget deficit dropped from $413 billion in 2004 to about $161 billion this year, but much is not included in that calculation: money owed to the Social Security Trust Fund, future federal and military retirement costs, obligations to veterans and more. Nothing drives the problem home better than the baby boom generation. The impact of baby boomers on the Social Security and Medicare systems started in about 1990, when they began entering their 40s and were more prone to getting hurt or sick. The number of Americans claiming disability benefits doubled from 4.2 million in 1990 to 8.4 million in 2006. "This has been going on for some years already," says Rick Foster, Medicare's chief actuary. Now the boomers are readying for retirement. The Class of 1946 features some big names: President Bush, Laura Bush, former president Bill Clinton. (Hillary Rodham Clinton follows a year later.) Also turning 62 next year are five U.S. senators and 22 House members. In each retiree's case, the decision on whether to take Social Security benefits now or later hinges on two issues: life expectancy and investment acumen. Those who take Social Security at 62 will get only 75% of their full benefit each month for the rest of their lives. Those who put off receiving the benefits get a higher percentage of their full benefit, up to 100% for those who wait until age 66 to retire. Those who wait up to age 70 can get 132% of their full benefit. If you expect to live to a ripe old age, financial planners say, it may be worth waiting for the larger benefit at age 66 or later. But if you're investment-savvy or can put the money to good use now, it may be worth taking early retirement. "Most people are claiming (benefits) in their early 60s," says Andrew Eschtruth of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. Average age: 63. The actuaries at Social Security have accounted for such decisions. Because benefits are reduced for early retirement, the choices retirees make won't affect the long-term solvency of the system, says Stephen Goss, Social Security's chief actuary. The Medicare situation is far worse. As baby boomers age, so will the average age of beneficiaries, and with it the medical costs that accompany longevity. Recognizing that health care costs present the greatest threat to the federal budget and economy, the Congressional Budget Office has revamped its operation to find new ways to lower costs. Taking the show on the road While bickering over $22 billion that Democrats want to add to Bush's 2008 budget of $2.9 trillion, the White House and Congress realize bigger issues lie ahead. "In 10 years, Social Security will turn upside down," says White House budget director Jim Nussle, referring to when paid benefits will outweigh taxes coming in. "Anything we can do to wake people up to this challenge is important." That's where the "Fiscal Wake-Up Tour" comes in. The presentation by the traveling troupe of policy watchdogs - hardly anyone's idea of entertainment - has appeared in 22 states so far, seeking to ignite public interest and political action. "The American people are starved for two things: truth and leadership," Walker says. Robert Bixby of the Concord Coalition, which organized the tour, opened a recent event in Manchester, N.H., with a reference to that state's first-in-the-nation presidential primary. "The first thing I want to do is assure you that none of us is running for president," he said. "After you hear what we have to say, you'll understand why." During the next hour, the local chamber of commerce was treated to a series of PowerPoint presentations with arrows that invariably pointed the wrong way. Negative savings rates. Rising health care costs. An aging population. Pushing aside her chicken and rice in the back of the room, Manchester insurance agent Kathy Sousa, 55, started jotting down fixes she would be willing to consider. The first one was profound: stopping heroic care for the terminally ill, which costs Medicare billions. "This gets to be a very emotional conversation," she said. It's getting emotional in Washington as well. Even the debate over immigration is connected, because an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants make up a growing share of the payroll tax-paying workforce. The influx of immigrants helps to slow down the inexorable decline in the number of workers per retiree. Cooper and Wolf last month proposed a panel that would force Congress to vote up-or-down on a fiscal fix - akin to the process now used to close military bases. That's because the solutions aren't pretty: raising the retirement age for full Social Security benefits past 67, the current limit for people born in 1960 or later. Charging wealthier Medicare beneficiaries more - a new reality for doctors' care - or giving them less. Raising or eliminating the $97,500 wage cap for payroll taxes. Perhaps all of that and more. Drinking tea on their porch, Casey-Kirschling and her husband say they're willing to do their part on behalf of their two daughters, who are socking money away for retirement because they don't expect much government help. "I can't imagine what's going to happen with our children and our grandchildren," Casey-Kirschling says. "They're not going to be able to retire."
10.03.2007	Escaping the Budget ImpasseBy Robert J. Samuelson Washington Post Wednesday, October 3, 2007; A23 Almost everyone knows that the next president will have to wrestle with the immense costs of retiring baby boomers. Comes now a small band of Democrats and Republicans who want to do the new president a giant favor. They want to force the new administration to face the problem in early 2009. Why is this a favor? Because dealing with this issue is so politically unsavory that resolving it quickly would be a godsend. Otherwise, it could haunt the White House for four years. Let's review the problem (again). From 2000 to 2030, the 65-and-over population will roughly double, from 35 million to 72 million, or from about 12 percent of the population to nearly 20 percent. Spending on Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid -- three big programs that serve the elderly -- already represents more than 40 percent of the federal budget. In 2006, these three programs cost $1.1 trillion, more than twice defense spending. Left on automatic pilot, these programs are plausibly projected to grow to about 75 percent of the present budget by 2030. Stalemate results because all the ways of dealing with these pressures are controversial. There are only four: (a) massive tax increases -- on the order of 30 to 50 percent by 2030; (b) draconian cuts in other government programs (note that the projected increases in Social Security and Medicare, as a share of national income, are more than all of today's domestic discretionary programs); (c) cuts in Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid -- higher eligibility ages or lower benefits for wealthier retirees; or (d) undesirably large budget deficits. The proposed escape seems at first so drearily familiar and demonstrably ineffective that it's hardly worth discussing: a bipartisan commission. But what would distinguish this commission from its many predecessors is that Congress would have to vote on its recommendations. The political theory is that, presented with a bipartisan package that cannot be amended, most politicians would do what they believe (privately) ought to be done rather than allow pressure groups, including retirees, to paralyze the process. There is precedent for this approach. Since 1988, Congress has allowed more than 600 military bases and facilities to be closed or streamlined using a similar arrangement. An independent Base Realignment and Closure Commission evaluates the Pentagon's proposed closings and listens to objections. With the president's approval, it then submits its own list, which goes into effect unless vetoed by both houses of Congress. This process provides members of Congress bipartisan "cover" and prevents amendments from weakening the package. Two prominent proposals would adapt this approach to the budget. The first, offered by Sens. Kent Conrad (D-N.D.) and Judd Gregg (R-N.H.), the chairman and ranking minority member of the Budget Committee, would create a 16-member commission, evenly divided between Democrats and Republicans. All eight Democrats would be from Congress, as would six Republicans. The administration would have two members, including the secretary of the Treasury. Conrad's notion is that the impasse is political and that only practicing politicians -- people with "skin in the game" -- can craft a compromise that can be sold to their peers. The commission would report in December 2008. Twelve of its 16 members would have to support the plan, with congressional passage needing 60 percent approval (60 senators, 261 representatives). These requirements, Conrad and Gregg argue, would ensure bipartisan support. The other proposal comes from Reps. Jim Cooper (D-Tenn.) and Frank Wolf (R-Va.). It would also create a 16-member commission, with two major differences. First, only four of its members would be from Congress. Second, though Congress would have to vote on the commission's proposal, there would be some leeway for others -- including the president -- to present alternatives as long as they had the same long-term budget impact. Any proposal, however, would have to be voted on as a package without amendments. A combination of these plans might work best. A 20-member group would be manageable and should include four outsiders to provide different perspectives and, possibly, to build public support. Perhaps the head of AARP should be included. And it would be a mistake to present the next president with a take-it-or-leave-it package. The Cooper-Wolf plan would allow a new administration to make changes -- and get credit -- without being able to start from scratch. This commission approach has potential pitfalls: It might create a face-saving package that does little. But everything else has failed. The main political beneficiary would be the next president. It would be revealing if some of the hopefuls -- Democrats and Republicans -- would show that they grasp this by providing their endorsements. Otherwise, the odds that Congress will even create the commission are slim.
10.03.2007	Inspectors general strengthened to provide independent oversight of federal agencies WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper released the following statement in anticipation of bipartisan passage of H.R. 928, the Improving Government Accountability Act: "Inspectors general are important watchdogs who identify waste, fraud and abuse in government. The 58 current IGs have saved taxpayers millions of dollars and justified their salaries many times over. "Too often, however, IGs are subject to pressure by political appointees who want to stifle negative findings about their agencies. In other cases, errant IGs violate rules with impunity because administrators don't want to be seen firing the watchdog. "H.R. 928 addresses all of these concerns. It strengthens inspectors general, protects them from political interference and holds them accountable for their independent oversight work. It sets a fixed term for service, gives them more independence from agency heads and sets out specific grounds for their removal. In short, it makes government work the way it's supposed to. "Transparency and accountability are the keys to good government, and this bill improves both. It makes government work on behalf of the American people. "I applaud the bipartisan majority that voted to pass it, and I look forward to Senate consideration so we can send this bill to the president's desk." ###
09.28.2007	"Commission with teeth" could break through "Mardi Gras rules" of Washington spending WASHINGTON, D.C. - In today's New York Times, columnist David Brooks bemoans Washington budget trickery, singling out legislation by Congressmen Jim Cooper (D-TN) and Frank Wolf (R-VA) and Senators Kent Conrad (D-ND), Judd Gregg (R-NH) and George Voinovich (R-OH) as an exception to the status quo. Of the country's current path to fiscal disaster, Brooks writes, "The facts are indisputable, and everybody agrees abstractly that something really must be done. But then the conversation is over and most people are relieved to slip back into a different reality." Brooks describes the "Mardi Gras rules" of Washington spending, writing that "The Mardi Gras norms are built on a fiction - that the current budgetary path is sustainable - and once you enter that fiction, then all sorts of other fictions become necessary and trickery piles upon trickery until all the standards of behavior are turned upside down." Finally, Brooks praises efforts to solve the problem, describing the bipartisan "commission with teeth" advocated by Cooper, Wolf, Conrad, Gregg and Voinovich: "The commission probably couldn't control underlying health care costs, which are driving all this. But it would at least define deviancy upward, and puncture the Mardi Gras rules." The full article is available at https://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/28/opinion/28brooks.html. The bipartisan SAFE Commission Act (H.R. 3654), which was introduced this week with support from U.S. Comptroller General David Walker, the Concord Coalition, the Brookings Institution, the Heritage Foundation and the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, currently has 15 cosponsors. # # #
09.28.2007	Cooper-Wolf bill would put "all options on the table" WASHINGTON, D.C. - In a speech this afternoon at the National Press Club, House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer called for a bipartisan commission to tackle long-term fiscal reform efforts. Singling out proposals by Congressmen Jim Cooper (D-TN) and Frank Wolf (R-VA) and Senators Kent Conrad (D-ND, Chairman, Senate Budget Committee), Judd Gregg (R-NH, Ranking Member, Senate Budget Committee) and George Voinovich (R-OH), Hoyer said Congress should move forward with such a task force to require the legislative and executive branches to address the nation's long-term fiscal crisis before it's too late. "It is imperative that we get serious about our long-term fiscal challenges," said Hoyer, according to remarks as prepared for delivery. "While I would like to believe that Congress could address these issues through the regular legislative process, the experience of recent years suggests that this is extremely difficult in the current political environment. "Thus, I support the Conrad-Gregg and Cooper-Wolf proposals in concept, although I have concerns about several specific provisions." In response, Cooper said: "I appreciate the Majority Leader's continued leadership on fiscal discipline and am pleased he has endorsed our plan. This is truly a bipartisan idea designed to preserve the social safety net for our children and grandchildren. Congressman Wolf and I will continue to solicit support from across the political spectrum, and we hope the full House will act soon to save our country from financial ruin. Every day we wait, the looming crisis grows nearer and more severe. Only bipartisan leadership can prevent it." Wolf, who originally introduced the SAFE Commission bill in January 2007, added: "I am pleased Mr. Hoyer has supported this legislation. I would also like to note that the Republican leader, Mr. Boehner, has been on my original bill since March." The Cooper-Wolf SAFE Commission Act, H.R. 3654, creates a 16-member bipartisan commission of executive and legislative branch members and outside appointees tasked with developing a long-term plan to balance the nation's books. If Congressional leaders fail to introduce their own proposal, the SAFE Commission's legislative proposal is automatically brought to the House floor for a vote. If passed, it is sent to the Senate for similarly expedited consideration. # # #
09.26.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Bipartisan SAFE Commission would force tough choices before it's too late WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressmen Jim Cooper (D-TN) and Frank Wolf (R-VA) today introduced legislation requiring Congress to address the nation's looming fiscal crisis before spending on Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid bankrupts the federal government. The SAFE Commission Act of 2007, H.R. 3654, would require Congress to vote up-or-down on a plan to overhaul spending and revenue, as drafted by a 16-member, bipartisan commission made up of members and outside appointees of the legislative and executive branches. "It's a shame that we have to set up a BRAC-style commission to force Congress to do its job, but we can't afford to keep our heads in the sand any longer," said Cooper, a member of the House Budget Committee. "Every day that we do nothing means bigger tax hikes and more draconian benefit cuts in the future. There's no excuse for us to push this burden onto our children when we have all the tools to confront it now. So we'll force the issue-before a $50 trillion shortfall destroys our credit rating, doubles tax rates or leaves our grandchildren without a social safety net. This is a moral imperative for our generation." "We owe it to our children and grandchildren to start the process today," said Wolf, creator of the Iraq Study Group. "We cannot continue to avoid our responsibility to future generations of Americans by passing on a broken system in the form of unfunded Social Security and Medicare and obligations and unsustainable spending. We cannot continue to keep borrowing and mortgaging our future to countries like China and Saudi Arabia that carry obscene amounts of our debt." As a growing chorus of outside experts has recognized, America's long-term fiscal situation is dire. The Treasury Department this week reported a $13.6 trillion future shortfall in Social Security funds, and GAO reports a $50 trillion shortfall for all social insurance programs, including Medicare. Meanwhile, Congress is poised to raise the debt ceiling beyond $9 trillion as the value of the U.S. dollar hit 15-year lows-spurred on by America's crushing debt burden. Little wonder Standard & Poor's projects that the U.S. will lose its AAA bond rating by 2012 and issue the equivalent of junk debt by 2025. Little wonder, too, that Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson this week released a white paper on Social Security declaring that if the program isn't shored up soon, there will be a "significant cost" to future generations. The Securing America's Future Economy (SAFE) Commission Act of 2007 would create a balanced, 16-member panel comprised of the White House OMB Director and Treasury Secretary; four members appointed by the Senate Majority Leader and four appointed by the Speaker of the House; three appointed by the House Minority Leader and three appointed by the Senate Minority Leader. No more than four Members of Congress could sit on the commission. It would be tasked with holding town hall meetings around the country and then submitting a report that balances long-term spending and revenue scenarios for the nation. If Congressional leaders fail to introduce their own proposal, the SAFE Commission's legislative proposal is automatically brought to the House floor. If passed, it is sent to the Senate for similarly expedited consideration. "The one thing President Bush and Congress thus far agree on is that Americans shouldn't have an honest discussion about the country's long-term fiscal outlook," said Cooper. "That may make political sense today, but it will cripple our economy in the not-too-distant future. The SAFE Commission takes the politics out of long-term tax and spending questions and puts them in the hands of a capable bipartisan commission." The SAFE Commission Act was introduced by Wolf in January with a Senate counterpart introduced by Sen. George Voinovich (R-OH). Cooper and Wolf, meanwhile, are also introducing companion legislation (H.R. 3655) to a bill introduced last week by Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Ranking Member Judd Gregg (R-NH). "We are open to our colleagues' ideas about how to solve our long-term economic problems," said Wolf. "What's important is that we begin right away. Our children and grandchildren cannot afford it if we wait." # # #
07.25.2007	WASHINGTON -U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper has been named chairman of a newly created House Armed Services Committee panel that will study the changing responsibilities of the U.S. military services. Roles and Missions Panel Will Examine Changing Responsibilities of Military Services July 25, 2007: WASHINGTON -U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper has been named chairman of a newly created House Armed Services Committee panel that will study the changing responsibilities of the U.S. military services. The Roles and Missions Panel, which was announced today by House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton (D-MO) and Duncan Hunter (R-CA), represents the first branch-by-branch Congressional evaluation of threats and capabilities since the 1994 Commission on Roles and Missions. Cooper, who has served on the House Armed Services Committee since his return to Congress in 2003, released the following statement about the new panel: "The military finds itself facing unpredictable threats in a dangerous new world. Our military services have responded bravely to these challenges and are completing missions they never anticipated. Marines operate hundreds of miles inland. Members of the Air Force help secure convoys. The Navy operates in the Mountains of Afghanistan. Army Officers build schools and advise city councils. "The Roles and Missions Panel will explore the changing missions of the military services, identify gaps in our capabilities, and propose options that ensure the United States can defend itself against every threat to national security. I look forward to beginning this important work with my colleagues." A release from the House Armed Services Committee follows. ### House Armed Services Committee SKELTON AND HUNTER ANNOUNCE ROLES AND MISSIONS PANEL Washington, DC - House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton (D-MO) and Ranking Member Duncan Hunter (R-CA) announced the creation of a committee panel to examine the roles and missions of the military services. The following members have been named to serve on the Roles and Missions Panel: Congressman Jim Cooper (D-TN), Chairman Congressman Rick Larsen (D-WA) Congresswoman Kristen Gillibrand (D-NY) Congressman Joe Sestak (D-PA) Congressman Phil Gingrey (R-GA), Ranking Member Congressman Geoff Davis (R-KY) Congressman Michael Conaway (R-TX) "The basic structure of the Department of Defense and the division of labor between the military services has not dramatically changed since the late 1940s. Ensuring that the military services are working on the appropriate roles and missions is key to our national security and Congress has an important role to play in this effort. Under the able leadership of Chairman Jim Cooper and Ranking Member Phil Gingrey, we will evaluate and identify options in order to maintain the fighting force our nation needs to protect the American people," said Chairman Skelton. "We look forward to working with our colleagues on this important issue. The assignment of roles and missions to the Armed Services has always been a critical element to America's security. I'd like to thank Rep. Gingrey, Rep. Conaway, Rep. Davis and all of the other members of the panel for agreeing to undertake this important endeavor," said Ranking Member Hunter. "The military finds itself facing unpredictable threats in a dangerous new world. Our military services have responded bravely to these challenges and are completing missions they never anticipated. This panel will explore the changing missions of the military services, identify gaps in our capabilities, and propose options that ensure the United States can defend itself against every threat to national security. I look forward to beginning this important work with my colleagues," said Congressman Cooper. "This panel will allow us the opportunity to study an issue vital to our nation's Armed Forces. I am honored to serve as Ranking Member of the panel, and look forward to working together with Chairman Cooper and other panel Members on this important undertaking," said Congressman Gingrey.
07.23.2007	WASHINGTON - It looks like the "Mr. Fiscal Responsibility" nickname is catching on. July 23, 2007 Cites stewardship of federal dollars, including recent "Fiscal Wake Up Tour" event WASHINGTON - It looks like the "Mr. Fiscal Responsibility" nickname is catching on. This week, the Democratic Leadership Council named U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper its "New Democrat of the Week," citing his work on federal budget issues, including hosting the Fiscal Wake Up Tour in Nashville last Monday. " Referred to as ‘Mr. Fiscal Responsibility,' Rep. Jim Cooper is committed to ensuring that the citizens of Tennessee not only understand the nation's long-term fiscal problems, but work together to create the solutions," wrote the DLC on its website. The nonprofit organization will hold its 2007 National Conversation in Nashville beginning this Friday. The DLC is chaired by former U.S. Congressman Harold Ford, Jr., a Tennessean. "The Democratic Leadership Council is a leading national voice on progressive policies that will keep America strong in the 21 st Century," said Cooper. "I appreciate their recognition and support as we work to solve our nation's fiscal problems before they grow unmanageable. I look forward to welcoming them to Nashville this weekend." A link to the DLC citation can be found here.
07.19.2007	WASHINGTON -U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper issued the following statement in response to President George W. Bush's comments during his Thursday visit to Nashville: July 19, 2007 "We can solve these problems, but it will require honesty from our elected officials" WASHINGTON -U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper issued the following statement in response to President George W. Bush's comments during his Thursday visit to Nashville: "I don't blame President Bush for emphasizing positive economic news. But he has borrowed more money from foreign nations than every President in American history combined. His own Treasury Department says that the true budget deficits in recent years are twice as large as the President admits. The Comptroller General says that federal obligations were $20 trillion when Bush took office but have skyrocketed to $50 trillion just six years later. The leading credit analyst on Wall Street, Standard & Poors, is projecting that the U.S. will lose its AAA credit rating by 2012. These aren't Democratic attacks, but truthful statements from the nation's top budget experts. "On Monday, U.S. Comptroller General David Walker and a bipartisan group of leading policy experts came to Nashville to talk about the true state of our nation's finances. And each member of the ‘Fiscal Wake Up Tour' delivered the same message: our nation long-term financial outlook is dire. We must act soon to prevent fiscal disaster. "We can solve these problems before they get out of hand, but it will require honesty from our elected officials. President Bush missed a great opportunity today."
07.18.2007	WASHINGTON - The U.S. House of Representatives yesterday approved an amendment by Congressman Jim Cooper that would boost funding for Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Historically Black Graduate Institutions (HBGIs) by $125 million. By voice vote, the House shifted the monies away from administrative and overhead costs and into a fund for HBCUs and HBGIs, increasing their funding level by 40%. July 19, 2007 Amendment increases HBCU, HBGI funds by $125 million WASHINGTON - The U.S. House of Representatives yesterday approved an amendment by Congressman Jim Cooper that would boost funding for Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Historically Black Graduate Institutions (HBGIs) by $125 million. By voice vote, the House shifted the monies away from administrative and overhead costs and into a fund for HBCUs and HBGIs, increasing their funding level by 40%. "This is a long overdue shot in the arm for our nation's historically black colleges, universities, and graduate schools," Cooper said after the vote. "I'm proud to represent fine institutions like Fisk University, Tennessee State University, and Meharry Medical College, which will gain access to these much-needed funds. This increase will help schools across the country fulfill their historically vital public service mission for many years to come." Cooper, who offered the amendment on the House floor yesterday afternoon with Congressman Steve Cohen, noted that HBCUs and HBGIs have seen no funding increases in recent years, and that the small increase provided in the current appropriations bill is a good start, but insufficient. The House is expected to pass the full bill, including Cooper's amendment, later today before sending it to the Senate for approval. ### Below is an excerpt from Cooper's remarks as delivered on the House floor: "These are marvelous, historically black institutions, but today they serve a wide spectrum of people of all races and backgrounds. But most important, so many of these people are first generation college students. They deserve a chance to live the American dream, to become the doctors, the lawyers, the artists, the poets, the engineers, the scientists of the future. "These institutions serve a vital role in our society. As the gentleman from Memphis [Cohen] pointed out, their funding has essentially been frozen for the last four or five years. To offer them only a 4 or 5 percent increase this year is good, but it's not enough. That's why I think we need to reach deep, to increase the funding substantially, so that they know that the year 2007 was the year in which they saw a dramatic increase, as opposed to the prior years of funding freeze." ###
07.10.2007	NASHVILLE - U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper today criticized President George W. Bush for continuing to mislead Americans about the country's true financial state. The administration announced this afternoon that the federal budget deficit for this fiscal year would be $205 billion, lower than it had publicly anticipated. ANNOUNCES U.S. COMPTROLLER GENERAL WILL VISIT NASHVILLE On Monday, Tennesseans will hear the truth from the nation's chief accountant July 11, 2007: NASHVILLE - U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper today criticized President George W. Bush for continuing to mislead Americans about the country's true financial state. The administration announced this afternoon that the federal budget deficit for this fiscal year would be $205 billion, lower than it had publicly anticipated. "The number the president announced today is more happy talk from a guy who seems to have learned accounting from his friends at Enron," Cooper said. "The real, audited federal budget deficit is 15 times larger-about 3 trillion dollars. And what's more, we have a long-term spending crisis on our hands that will literally bankrupt the country unless we take action soon. President Bush does the nation a disservice by pretending things are just fine. It seems we have a leadership deficit, too. "The good news is that a group of patriotic experts is taking this urgent warning directly to the American people," Cooper continued. "On Monday, U.S. Comptroller General David Walker and a bipartisan panel of economists will be in Nashville to give us the real numbers. The Fiscal Wake Up Tour is coming to the Downtown Library, and I encourage all Middle Tennesseans to come hear their important message. Your children will thank you for refusing to bankrupt future generations." ### FISCAL WAKE UP TOUR Monday, July 16, 10 a.m. Downtown Library U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper U.S. Comptroller General David Walker Robert Bixby, Concord Coalition Stuart Butler, Heritage Foundation Isabel V. Sawhill, Brookings Institution MORE INFORMATION (CONTROL-CLICK FOR LINKS) Washington Post, "Stumping for Attention to Deficit Disorder," June 21, 2007 CBS' 60 Minutes story on David Walker and the Fiscal Wake Up Tour, July 8, 2007 Concord Coalition event website GAO Fiscal Wake Up Tour website
06.20.2007	WASHINGTON - A House Oversight Subcommittee held a hearing Wednesday on legislation introduced by U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper that would give new independence to inspectors general throughout federal government. Inspectors general, or IGs, serve as presidentially-appointed or executive-level watchdogs at a host of federal agencies. June 21, 2007 H.R. 928 provides independence, strengthens inspector general watchdog role WASHINGTON - A House Oversight Subcommittee held a hearing Wednesday on legislation introduced by U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper that would give new independence to inspectors general throughout federal government. Inspectors general, or IGs, serve as presidentially-appointed or executive-level watchdogs at a host of federal agencies. Cooper's bill, the Improving Government Accountability Act, strengthens the IG position by establishing seven-year terms for IGs and granting them new budgetary independence. It also sets out specific grounds for their removal. The bill aims to insulate IGs from political interference, allowing them to perform their invaluable watchdog role. "When a presidentially-appointed IG can be removed for any reason, when an agency-appointed IG can be removed for any reason, that really gives you slender comfort," Cooper said during the hearing. "We've tried to come to a reasonable compromise between differing points of view." At the capacity-crowd hearing, current and former IGs from various agencies, including the Defense Department, the Agriculture Department and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), testified about the importance of maintaining independence for agency watchdogs. Calling service as an IG "among the greatest honors of public trust that government has to offer," former Transportation Department IG Kenneth M. Mead praised Cooper's bill as a balanced attempt to update the IG system without overhauling it. Members of the subcommittee from both parties called Cooper's bill a good framework to move through the legislative process. Cooper, for his part, said agency watchdogs were among the most important members of federal government. "With recent scandals at the Justice Department, Interior Department and NASA, the crucial role of inspectors general in policing the federal government is clearer than ever," he said. "By acting to keep these watchdogs honest and independent, Congress can show that we take our oversight role seriously."
06.11.2007	NASHVILLE - For the second year in a row, U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper has released a complete list of appropriations requests he submitted on behalf of the Tennessee National Guard and other organizations in the Fifth District. He is one of a small handful of members of Congress who makes his list public. June 12, 2007 Calls for a renewed commitment to transparency NASHVILLE - For the second year in a row, U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper has released a complete list of appropriations requests he submitted on behalf of the Tennessee National Guard and other organizations in the Fifth District. He is one of a small handful of members of Congress who makes his list public. "As most people know, I think Congress should do away with the earmark process altogether," said Cooper, referring to lawmakers' practice of designating funds for specific projects in their districts. "But if we're going to use this system, we should at least be willing to sign our names under the projects we're supporting. I released my funding requests again this year because I believe honesty and transparency are the keys to holding government accountable." Cooper, who serves on the Armed Services, Budget, and Oversight Committees, has represented Middle Tennessee in the U.S. House of Representatives since 2003. FY08 Appropriations Requests - Submitted TN Guard Submitted Requests ###
04.24.2007	WASHINGTON (April 25) - U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper today praised the House of Representatives for passing House Concurrent Resolution 121, which expresses support for school-based music education. The resolution, which was introduced by Cooper and Rep. Jon Porter (R-Nev.), passed unanimously on Wednesday and will be sent to the Senate for its concurrence. In addition to Cooper and Porter, the resolution had 34 co-sponsors. H Con Res 121 recognizes importance of school-based music education WASHINGTON (April 25) - U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper today praised the House of Representatives for passing House Concurrent Resolution 121, which expresses support for school-based music education. The resolution, which was introduced by Cooper and Rep. Jon Porter (R-Nev.), passed unanimously on Wednesday and will be sent to the Senate for its concurrence. In addition to Cooper and Porter, the resolution had 34 co-sponsors. "I'm pleased that Congress speaks with one voice when it comes to music education for children," said Cooper. "Music education has the power to shape young minds by stimulating creativity, sharpening critical thinking skills and improving overall student performance. When kids learn to make music, they gain insights into themselves, discovering that with practice, teamwork and care, they can create something meaningful and beautiful. These are powerful lessons for life." The Resolution states that learning music in schools is important because it develops skills needed by the 21 st century workforce such as critical thinking, creative problem solving, effective communication and teamwork; keeps students engaged in school and makes them more likely to graduate; and helps students achieve in other academic subjects such as math, science and reading. "A lot of folks who have had the privilege of a music education take it for granted," Cooper said in remarks on the House floor. "But 30 million or more of our children across this country every day are being deprived of that chance.... Whether it's band or whether it's orchestra or whether it's students on their own learning the guitar or other instruments, it's a wonderful way to not only enjoy life but to enhance their skills." The full text of the resolution follows. ### 110th CONGRESS 1st SessionH. CON. RES. 121 CONCURRENT RESOLUTION Whereas school music programs enhance intellectual development and enrich the academic environment for students of all ages; Whereas students who participate in school music programs are less likely to be involved with drugs, gangs, or alcohol and have better attendance in school; Whereas the skills gained through sequential music instruction, including discipline and the ability to analyze, solve problems, communicate, and work cooperatively, are vital for success in the 21st century workplace; Whereas the majority of students attending public schools in inner city neighborhoods have virtually no access to music education, which places them at a disadvantage compared to their peers in other communities; Whereas the arts are a core academic subject, and music is an essential element of the arts; and Whereas every student in the United States should have an opportunity to reap the benefits of music education: Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That it is the sense of the Congress that music education grounded in rigorous instruction is an important component of a well-rounded academic curriculum and should be available to every student in every school. Passed the House of Representatives April 25, 2007.
03.14.2007	September September 29, 2006 RECOGNIZING VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF NURSING AND GODCHAUX HALL September 29, 2006 IN RECOGNITION OF NASHVILLE'S SCHERMERHORN SYMPHONY CENTER September 29, 2006 SALUTING THE NATION'S TOP BLACK COLLEGE RADIO STATION: FISK UNIVERSITY'S WFSK-FM September 21, 2006 TRIBUTE TO MATTHEW KENNEDY September 6, 2006 COMMEMORATING MT. JULIET'S HEROES THIS PATRIOT'S DAY July July 26, 2006 RECOGNIZING THE BETHLEHEM CENTERS OF NASHVILLE AS ONE OF THE TOP RATED CHILD CARE CEN July 19, 2006 PAYING TRIBUTE TO CHARLIE LOUVIN June June 29, 2006 HONORING SERGEANT KEVIN DOWNS, 278TH ARMORED CAVALRY REGIMENT June 15, 2006 COMMEMORATING THE 150TH ANNIVERSARY OF CHEATHAM COUNTY, TN June 9, 2006 APPLAUDING THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF MUSIC ROW PRODUCER BUDDY CANNON March March 30, 2006 CELEBRATING GOSPEL MUSIC WEEK March 28, 2006 A SALUTE TO THE WILSON CENTRAL HIGH SCHOOL GIRLS' BASKETBALL TEAM February February 28, 2006 SALUTING TUSKEGEE AIRMAN DR. JOSEPH WHITE February 15, 2006 HONORING THOSE WHO SERVED IN THE UNITED STATES COLORED TROOPS DURING THE CIVIL WAR February 01, 2006 HONORING A NATIONAL LEADER IN CHILD SAFETY: DR. ROBERT SANDERS January January 31, 2006 SALUTING THE TENNESSEE ARMY NATIONAL GUARD'S 168TH MILITARY POLICE BATALLION
03.14.2007	2007 April 13, 2007 THE INCUMBENT PARTY - Wall Street Journal 2006 September 19, 2006 GET REAL ABOUT BUDGETING BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE - Roll Call July 06, 2006 WHICH WAY WILL PAULSON LEAN ON THIS CORE ISSUE? - The Financial Times May 01, 2006 A TRUER MEASURE OF AMERICA'S BALLOONING DEFICIT - The Financial Times 2005 July 14, 2005 BUSH HAS FAILED IN HIS FISCAL DUTY - The Financial Times March 25, 2005 A TALE OF CREDITORS AND DRUNKEN SAILORS - Nashville Business Journal March 15, 2005 THE MISSING-IN-ACTION PRESIDENT - The Tennessean, Roll Call March 11, 2005 RESCISSION TIME IN CONGRESS - The New York Times February 18, 2005 DON'T BE FOOLED BY SLEIGHT OF HAND ON SOCIAL SECURITY - The Tennessean 2004 December 16, 2004 REMEMBER TINY TIM - Nashville Today September 10, 2004 THIS PATRIOT'S DAY, THANK THOSE WHO SERVE - The Wilson Post August 16, 2004 PASS THE 9/11 REFORMS NOW! - The Tennessean April 12, 2004 CITIZENS, HOLD THOSE ELECTRIC CO-OPS ACCOUNTABLE FOR HOLDING YOUR MONEY - The Tennes 2003 November 3, 2003 DON'T LET CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET CUTS SLOW THE WAR AGAINST CANCER - The Tennessean July 14, 2003 REPUBLICAN LAWMAKERS AMBUSH OUR SENIORS IN THE STILL OF THE NIGHT - The Tennessean March 17, 2003 HOW HARD IT IS TO COME OUT CLEAN IN CONGRESS - The Tennessean
03.14.2007	December December 17, 2007 COOPER SAYS U.S. FINANCIAL REPORT DEMANDS URGENT ACTION FROM CONGRESS November November 19, 2007 COOPER RECOGNIZES NATIONAL ADOPTION MONTH BY INTRODUCING ADOPTION REFORM BILL October October 31, 2007 SENATE BUDGET COMMITTEE HOLDS HEARING ON LONG-TERM FISCAL REFORM LEGISLATION October 30, 2007 COOPER ANNOUNCES 2007 ACADEMY DAY TO BE HELD SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10 AT DOWNTOWN LIBRARY October 30, 2007 WASHINGTON POST COLUMNIST DAVID BRODERS PRAISES LONG-TERM REFORM COMMISSION October 23, 2007 COOPER, WOLF WRITE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES URGING SUPPORT FOR SAFE COMMISSION October 19, 2007 USA TODAY EDITORIAL COMMENDS COOPER IG BILL October 10, 2007 NEW YORK TIMES EDITORIAL PRAISES COOPER WATCHDOG REFORM BILL October 3, 2007 HOUSE PASSES COOPER WATCHDOG REFORM BILL BY A VOTE OF 404-11 October 3, 2007 WASHINGTON POST COLUMNIST ROBERT SAMUELSON DISCUSSES COOPER-WOLF COMMISSION BILL September September 28, 2007 MAJORITY LEADER STENY HOYER ENDORSES LONG-TERM FISCAL REFORM COMMISSION PLAN September 28, 2007 NEW YORK TIMES COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS PRAISES COOPER-WOLF FISCAL REFORM BILLS September 26, 2007 COOPER, WOLF INTRODUCE BILLS REQUIRING CONGRESS TO TACKLE LONG-TERM FISCAL CRISIS July July 25, 2007 COOPER NAMED CHAIRMAN OF NEWLY CREATED HOUSE ARMED SERVICES PANEL July 19, 2007 DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP COUNCIL NAMES COOPER 'NEW DEM OF THE WEEK' July 19, 2007 COOPER: PRESIDENT BUSH MISSED A GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO BE TRUTHFUL ABOUT OUR NATIONS' FINANCES July 19, 2007 COOPER BOOSTS FUNDING FOR HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES July 11, 2007 COOPER CALLS BUSH DEFICIT NUMBERS "MORE HAPPY TALK" - ANNOUNCES U.S. COMPTROLLER GENERAL WILL VISIT NASHVILLE June June 21, 2007 HOUSE OVERSIGHT SUBCOMMITTEE HOLDS HEARING ON COOPER GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY ACT June 12, 2007 CONGRESSMAN JIM COOPER RELEASES FY 2008 APPROPRIATIONS REQUESTS April April 25, 2007 HOUSE PASSES COOPER MUSIC EDUCATION RESOLUTION April 13, 2007 THE INCUMBENT PARTY - Wall Street Journal February February 14, 2007 COOPER SAYS AMERICAN TROOPS DESERVE A BETTER STRATEGY IN IRAQ February 11 , 2007 COOPER REMARKS ON BUSH'S BUDGET IN WASHINGTON POST February 7, 2007 U.S. HOUSE DECLARES AFRICAN AMERICAN SPIRITUAL "NATIONAL TREASURE" January January 17, 2007 COOPER TO PLAY STRONG OVERSIGHT ROLL IN 110TH CONGRESS January 11, 2007 COOPER CALLS ON PRESIDENT TO SIGN LIFE-SAVING STEM CELL BILL January 05, 2007 COOPER PRAISES EARLY WORK OF 110TH CONGRESS 2006 Press Releases
03.14.2007	January | February | March | April | May | June | July | September | October October October 26, 2006 COOPER WINS TOP LAW DAY AWARD FROM AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION October 19, 2006 COOPER RECEIVES AWARD FROM NATIONAL GUARD October 05, 2006 COOPER MOVES CONGRESSIONAL OFFICE TO DOWNTOWN LIBRARY BUILDING September September 20, 2006 COOPER JOINS CONRAD IN DISCUSSION OF NEW, MORE ACCURATE BUDGET MEASURES September 19, 2006 GET REAL ABOUT BUDGETING BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE - Roll Call July July 29, 2006 LEBANON POLICE DEPARTMENT GRANT WILL GIVE OFFICERS INSTANT ACCESS TO LOCAL RECORDS July 20, 2006 COOPER SAYS IT'S TIME FOR HONESTY IN FEDERAL BUDGET PROCESS July 19, 2006 COOPER CRITICAL OF BUSH STEM CELL VETO July 06, 2006 NASHVILLE GENERAL TO LEAD NATIONAL HEALTH INITIATIVE, COOPER ANNOUNCES July 06, 2006 WHICH WAY WILL PAULSON LEAN ON THIS CORE ISSUE? - The Financial Times June June 27, 2006 COL. DEERING JOINS U.S. REP. JIM COOPER'S STAFF June 26, 2006 COOPER WARNS AMERICANS AGAINST FINANCIAL PREDATORS June 21, 2006 COOPER PRAISES AGREEMENT BUT SAYS DELAY IN REPEALING WRIGHT AMENDMENT WRONG June 12, 2006 CONGRESS REMEMBERS THE LIFE OF WORLD WAR II CODE TALKER ROBERT YAZZIE June 09, 2006 MUSIC ROW PRODUCER BUDDY CANNON HONORED BY CONGRESS June 08, 2006 COOPER STATEMENT ON THE DEATH OF ABU MUSAB AL-ZARQAWI June 06, 2006 NASHVILLE FAMILIES CLAIM MILLIONS IN FEDERAL REFUNDS THIS TAX SEASON May May 23, 2006 LOCAL STUDENT ART WORK TO REPRESENT NASHVILLE IN NATIONAL ART EXHIBIT AT U.S. CAPITOL May 08, 2006 COOPER INVITES AREA ART STUDENTS, TEACHERS TO CONGRESSIONAL ART SHOW AND RECEPTION May 05, 2006 COOPER WORKS TO RECOGNIZE THE AFRICAN AMERICAN SPIRITUAL AS A NATIONAL TREASURE May 01, 2006 A TRUER MEASURE OF AMERICA'S BALLOONING DEFICIT - The Financial Times April April 25, 2006 COOPER TO HOST THIRD ANNUAL PROCUREMENT CONFERENCE FOR SMALL BUSINESSES March March 31, 2006 COOPER PUSHES FOR EARMARK REFORM IN BUDGET COMMITTEE MARK-UP March 31, 2006 COOPER AMENDMENT TO GIVE CLEARER BUDGET PICTURE March 28, 2006 CONGRESS CHEERS ON THE BLUE AND GOLD March 27, 2006 COOPER JOINS WITH STUDENTS AND AREA MUSICIANS TO RECOGNIZE THE IMPORTANCE OF MUSIC IN March 21, 2006 CONGRESSIONAL ART COMPETITION DEADLINE APPROACHING March 08, 2006 COOPER VISITS KATRINA-RAVAGED AREAS March 02, 2006 NEW REPORT SHOWS BUDGET DEFICIT MORE THAN TWICE AMOUNT STATED IN PRESIDENT'S BUDGET February February 22, 2006 COOPER STATEMENT OPPOSING DEAL ON PORT SECURITY February 10, 2006 COOPER SAYS HE WILL FIGHT AGAINST CUTS IN VETERANS BENEFITS PROGRAM February 03, 2006 COOPER URGES RUMSFELD TO KEEP NATIONAL GUARD AT CURRENT LEVEL January January 25, 2006 FREE TAX HELP COULD RETURN MILLIONS TO NASHVILLE AREA WORKING FAMILIES January 23, 2006 12 AREA STUDENTS NOMINATED FOR FULL SCHOLARSHIPS TO SERVICE ACADEMIES January 11, 2006 COOPER INVITES AREA STUDENTS TO SHARE THE LOVE WITH VETERANS THIS VALENTINES DAY
02.13.2007	WASHINGTON (Feb 11) - Experience has taught us that the Bush administration's budget cannot be judged by its cover -- or by the cover letter the president puts at the start of each year's volume. The message he released last week was headlined by the Page 1 declaration that "the Budget I am presenting achieves balance by 2012." It would be wonderful were deficits to disappear -- if only it were true. But on the final page of the document, in Table S-10 on Page 172, one learns the disturbing truth. In fiscal 2012, the president's target year, the gross federal debt will -- by his own estimate -- grow by $372 billion. How can this be? Well, the Page 1 claim is achieved by ignoring or minimizing a bunch of real-world challenges. For example, the president proposes just a one-year patch for the growing problem of the alternative minimum tax, which is whacking more and more middle-class families who thought they were beneficiaries of the Bush tax cuts. The one-year fix would cost the Treasury $47.9 billion, but no revenue is lost in the next four years -- because Bush just ignores the problem. Similarly, he assumes that the cost of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars will drop dramatically from $142 billion next year to $50 billion the following year. And he takes advantage of all the arcane bookkeeping rules that exclude major costs and embrace more helpful numbers. Rep. Jim Cooper of Tennessee, a Democratic crusader for honestly balanced budgets, pointed me to another back-of-the-book table that illustrates the point. As he noted, Table S-7 shows that the $61 billion surplus Bush claims for 2012 -- using all the gimmicks he can find -- is achieved only by counting on the $248 billion in anticipated Social Security surpluses that year to wipe out the $187 billion deficit rolled up by all the other activities of the federal government. In other words, Bush is borrowing from Social Security to achieve his budget surplus -- and that money will have to be repaid out of future taxes, or beneficiaries will suffer. What's sad about this chicanery is that, in some other respects, this budget is an improvement over its predecessors from Bush. Responding to a congressional mandate, he has put the short-term costs of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan into the regular budget, rather than withholding them until months later and then sending the big bill to Capitol Hill. Bush also has described, in blunt terms, the dismal financial prospects for Medicare -- premiums will have to increase fivefold to sustain the program unless some way is found to curb health-care inflation. As a start on alleviating that crisis, Bush has proposed $66 billion in savings over the next five years, achieved mainly by trimming payments to providers and boosting premiums for the well-to-do. Congressional Democrats are screaming even about these modest changes, but the problem is real. Bush would be in a stronger position to secure these savings if he were not pretending that he can balance the budget by 2012 while preserving all his tax cuts. As Cooper says, "The happy talk from the White House will sap Congress's will to tackle the entitlement issues." The figures in Table S-10 are stark -- and they underline Cooper's warning. In fiscal 2006, the past year, the total federal debt was $8.45 trillion. In 2012, by Bush's optimistic estimate, it will reach $11.49 trillion. That is $3 trillion of added debt in just six years. More and more of that debt is held by foreign countries. Another table, buried back on Page 234 of a supplemental volume, shows that the foreign holdings of U.S. government securities have more than doubled in the past five years, going from just over $1 trillion to $2.1 trillion. Japan and China are our largest creditors, increasing their leverage over our economy. And Uncle Sam has become the world's biggest borrower. That's another fact you won't find anywhere in this budget.
02.11.2007	Experience has taught us that the Bush administration's budget cannot be judged by its cover -- or by the cover letter the president puts at the start of each year's volume. The message he released last week was headlined by the Page 1 declaration that "the Budget I am presenting achieves balance by 2012." It would be wonderful were deficits to disappear -- if only it were true. But on the final page of the document, in Table S-10 on Page 172, one learns the disturbing truth. In fiscal 2012, the president's target year, the gross federal debt will -- by his own estimate -- grow by $372 billion. How can this be? Well, the Page 1 claim is achieved by ignoring or minimizing a bunch of real-world challenges. For example, the president proposes just a one-year patch for the growing problem of the alternative minimum tax, which is whacking more and more middle-class families who thought they were beneficiaries of the Bush tax cuts. The one-year fix would cost the Treasury $47.9 billion, but no revenue is lost in the next four years -- because Bush just ignores the problem. Similarly, he assumes that the cost of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars will drop dramatically from $142 billion next year to $50 billion the following year. And he takes advantage of all the arcane bookkeeping rules that exclude major costs and embrace more helpful numbers. Rep. Jim Cooper of Tennessee, a Democratic crusader for honestly balanced budgets, pointed me to another back-of-the-book table that illustrates the point. As he noted, Table S-7 shows that the $61 billion surplus Bush claims for 2012 -- using all the gimmicks he can find -- is achieved only by counting on the $248 billion in anticipated Social Security surpluses that year to wipe out the $187 billion deficit rolled up by all the other activities of the federal government. In other words, Bush is borrowing from Social Security to achieve his budget surplus -- and that money will have to be repaid out of future taxes, or beneficiaries will suffer. What's sad about this chicanery is that, in some other respects, this budget is an improvement over its predecessors from Bush. Responding to a congressional mandate, he has put the short-term costs of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan into the regular budget, rather than withholding them until months later and then sending the big bill to Capitol Hill. Bush also has described, in blunt terms, the dismal financial prospects for Medicare -- premiums will have to increase fivefold to sustain the program unless some way is found to curb health-care inflation. As a start on alleviating that crisis, Bush has proposed $66 billion in savings over the next five years, achieved mainly by trimming payments to providers and boosting premiums for the well-to-do. Congressional Democrats are screaming even about these modest changes, but the problem is real. Bush would be in a stronger position to secure these savings if he were not pretending that he can balance the budget by 2012 while preserving all his tax cuts. As Cooper says, "The happy talk from the White House will sap Congress's will to tackle the entitlement issues." The figures in Table S-10 are stark -- and they underline Cooper's warning. In fiscal 2006, the past year, the total federal debt was $8.45 trillion. In 2012, by Bush's optimistic estimate, it will reach $11.49 trillion. That is $3 trillion of added debt in just six years. More and more of that debt is held by foreign countries. Another table, buried back on Page 234 of a supplemental volume, shows that the foreign holdings of U.S. government securities have more than doubled in the past five years, going from just over $1 trillion to $2.1 trillion. Japan and China are our largest creditors, increasing their leverage over our economy. And Uncle Sam has become the world's biggest borrower. That's another fact you won't find anywhere in this budget.
02.07.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C., Feb. 7---The United States House of Representatives today officially recognized the African American spiritual as a national treasure, unanimously passing H. Res. 120, which was co-sponsored by Congressman Jim Cooper. The resolution, which declares African American spirituals "one of the most significant segments of American music in existence," calls upon President George W. Bush to join the House in proclaiming them a national treasure. Below is an excerpt from Cooper's remarks on the House floor. His full remarks, and the complete text of the legislation, can be found at www.congress.gov. ### "As the representative from Nashville, Tennessee, I have the honor of representing Fisk University, which under the able leadership of Hazel O'Leary is achieving new heights in excellence. The Fisk Jubilee Singers have been there since 1871 singing some of the most beautiful music in the world, and a music that's laden with a God-given message. "No other music that I'm familiar with covers the range from agony to inspiration, from the depths of human misery and despair all the way up to religious bliss. This is remarkable music, and I would suggest to you that if you haven't heard the Fisk Jubilee Singers sing it, under the able direction of Dr. Paul Kwami, you have not fully lived. This is a truly remarkable group and a remarkable, inspirational message. "So let's praise today the anonymous African American genius that's allowed these songs to flourish and survive some of the toughest conditions on our planet. And let's honor groups like the Fisk Jubilee Singers that keep that tradition alive and fresh for each new generation. "Yes, Mr. Speaker, this is truly a national treasure. We need to honor and preserve it and spread its wonderful message all around the world. "The African American spiritual is part of God's great heritage. Thank you."
01.17.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C., Jan. 17---U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper's ninth term in Congress will be marked by strong oversight of the federal government as he adds a new committee assignment and new subcommittee assignments to his legislative portfolio. In the 110 th Congress, Cooper will continue to serve on the House Committee on Armed Services and House Committee on the Budget. He will also rejoin the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, on which he served in 2003-2004. The Oversight and Government Reform Committee has broad jurisdiction to monitor and investigate all activities of the federal government. In the Armed Services Committee, Cooper will serve on the newly formed Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, and the Strategic Forces Subcommittee. In the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Cooper will serve on the National Security and Foreign Affairs Subcommittee. "Committee oversight is one of the most important jobs Congress does, and frankly, we haven't done much of it in recent years," Cooper said. "In all my work in the 110 th Congress, I will serve as a watchdog for taxpayers. Working with great chairmen like Ike Skelton, John Spratt, and Henry Waxman, I expect to uncover waste, fraud, and abuse, and then on a bipartisan basis, we will begin to solve the problems that cause them. We will make sure our soldiers are fully equipped to perform their missions, we will make sure the federal government is doing everything it can to protect America, and we will start to address the problem of runaway deficit spending before it's too late." "I'm delighted Jim Cooper is back on the Committee," said Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. "Jim's tremendous ability and his experience on the Armed Services Committee will enable him to make invaluable contributions both to the full Committee and the National Security and Foreign Affairs Subcommittee." For his part, Cooper is excited to get down to business. "We have our work cut out for us in the 110 th Congress," he said. "This will be the Congress that reintroduces oversight and accountability to the federal government, and I will be there to ask hard questions and solve problems that affect all Americans."
01.11.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C., Jan. 11---In a speech delivered this morning on the floor of the House of Representatives, U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper urged President Bush to sign life-saving stem cell legislation. This afternoon, the House passed H.R. 3, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007, by a vote of 253-174. Cooper was an original co-sponsor of the bill. Below is an excerpt from his remarks. Many millions of American families face dread diseases-cancer, diabetes, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, you name it-and today we have an exciting opportunity to vote for a chance of curing those diseases. Last year, in the Republican Congress, the vast majority of this body and this Senate voted for embryonic stem cell research. This year the majorities will be even larger. I would urge the President not to veto this legislation as he did last year. It's the only veto of his entire presidency. He is the first president since Thomas Jefferson to have vetoed so few bills, but he chose last year to veto hope. I urge the President not to veto hope this year. Cooper, a cancer survivor, has supported expanding stem cell research for years, and in 2005 he served on the team of lawmakers who helped rally support for stem cell legislation that eventually passed the House. He also believes that safeguards on research are essential and supports limits such as those recommended by the National Academy of Sciences. Cooper has voted for legislation that makes it illegal to perform research on human embryos created only for research purposes. Jeffrey R. Balser, M.D., PhD and Associate Vice Chancellor for Research at Vanderbilt Medical Center, also said that medical researchers are at a critical point in stem cell research. "Vanderbilt and other leading academic medical centers are on the threshold of phenomenal progress in stem cell research, but we are being slowed by these federal restrictions. The potential benefit to patients for this research is staggering." Vanderbilt's efforts in stem cell research are largely focused on diabetes and heart failure. Vanderbilt is the coordinating center for the NIH (National Institutes of Health) beta cell consortium, a leading international effort in stem cell research. "As a cancer survivor, I know the importance of supporting medical research," Cooper said. "Our medical research institutions have done great work in recent years, but there is so much more we should be doing to help families confronting serious disease. Congress is once again trying to give these families hope for the future; the president should be proud to put his name on this bipartisan bill. I encourage him to sign it when it arrives at his desk."
01.05.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C., Jan. 5---U.S. Congressman Jim Cooper released the following statement at the end of the 110 th Congress' first two legislative days: "I'm excited and honored to be a part of this history-making 110 th Congress. In little more than 12 hours, we elected the first female Speaker of the House and passed sweeping ethics reforms to get Congress back to work and back on track. Members will no longer be able to quietly tuck earmarks into bills; from now on, all members will sign our spending requests (as I've already done) and list them in an open and honest fashion. We are dismantling the revolving-door connection between the Capitol and lobbyist offices on K Street. And most importantly, we are starting to hold ourselves accountable by enacting ‘pay as you go' rules to shrink the deficit. No more writing checks we can't pay for. "I'm particularly proud of the role my fellow Blue Dog Democrats and I have played in bringing about these changes. As House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer said at a press conference with us today, ‘No one has worked harder than the Blue Dogs to sound the alarm on our dire fiscal course.' I'm encouraged that our new Democratic leadership is listening to voices of moderation and responsibility in our party. And I'm pleased to report that the Blue Dogs have grown to 44 members. "All of these changes represent a first step in the right direction, but there's a lot more work to be done. The 110 th Congress will face tough decisions as we try to balance the federal budget while giving our troops all the resources they need. Our first two days of business have gotten us off to a good start, and I plan on working with members of both parties to solve problems and create opportunities for all Americans."
10.26.2006	Nashville - U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper has received the top award in an annual competition sponsored by the American Bar Association (ABA). The ABA announced that Cooper won the 2006 Judge Edward R. Finch Law Day Speech Award. The award honors individuals for remarks at a Law Day observance that helps to build a broader understanding of key aspects of American law. Cooper was awarded first prize for his speech that focused on the importance of the balance of powers: "Executive Overreaching v. Congressional Underperformance." Cooper's speech was first presented at the Nashville Bar Association's annual Law Day Luncheon on April 28th. "We are very pleased that Congressman Cooper's speech was chosen as this year's ABA Judge Edward R. Finch Law Day Speech Award winner," said Sheree Wright, president of the Nashville Bar Association. "His speech was timely and thought provoking. Congressman Cooper's focus on how current events were tied to the ABA Law Day theme of separation of powers was insightful. "It brought to light issues that many of us in our daily lives do not focus on," Wright added. "And we were especially honored to have a second winner from Nashville, after Jim Neal's third place award in the 2005 competition." "After having served in Congress, off and on, for almost 24 years, I can testify that we are in grave danger of damaging beyond repair the constitutional structure that our Founders gave us," Cooper said in the winning speech. "Despite my legislative background, I am an advocate for a strong executive because I believe the President, as the leader of the world's only superpower in the information age, needs the speed and agility which Congress simply cannot provide," Cooper wrote. "But I believe also that President George W. Bush has been far too aggressive in claiming the powers of other braches of government. "But I urge you to hear also the main part of my message, which condemns congressional underperformance on a bipartisan basis," Cooper added. "I believe that White House overreaching would not be possible without congressional complicity and negligence." The Judge Edward R. Finch Law Day Speech Awards were established by the ABA in 1968. Individuals from law, government, education and other fields nationwide participate in the ABA's annual Law Day by giving speeches around the country. In addition to Cooper's selection as the first prize winner in 2006, second place went to William P. Carlucci, immediate past president of the Pennsylvania Bar Association and third place to California Superior Court Judge Alice Vilardi. The complete text of Congressman Cooper's winning speech is available on his website at www.cooper.house.gov
10.19.2006	Nashville---U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper was the recent recipient of the prestigious Charles Dick Medal of Merit,presented by the National Guard Association of the United States for his contributions to the National Guard. The presentation was made by Brig. Gen. Stephen M. Koper (Ret), President of the association, during the Change of Command ceremony at the 118th Airwing of the Tennessee National Guard on October 14. Also participating in the ceremony was Maj. Gen. Gus Hargett, Jr., Tennessee's Adjutant General. "I am honored and humbled to be recognized by the heroic men and women of the National Guard with this award," Cooper said. "It is their dedication and selfless service to our country that inspires and protects each of us every day. I can think of no greater honor than to be saluted by the outstanding men and women of the Tennessee National Guard." Congressman Cooper is a member of the House Armed Services Committee. According to the Tennessee National Guard, the Charles Dick Medal of Merit was established in 1988 to recognize extraordinary long-term support of the National Guard by a state legislator, governor or member of Congress and is one of the highest awards bestowed by the National Guard Association of the United States. The criterion for the award is that the individual must have distinguished him or herself over extended periods of time in their support of the National Guard. Superior performance of normal duty alone does not justify award of this medal. An individual must have provided exceptionally strong support to the National Guard to clearly merit this medal. The support of the individual must be such that it has had a lasting effect on the future of the National Guard. The positive effect and the results of the act should outlast the tenure in office of the individual. The medal is name in honor of Maj. Gen. Charles Dick, who was president of the National Guard Association of the United States from 1902 to 1909, a major general in the Ohio National Guard, a Congressman and later a Senator. Gen. Dick was responsible for the passage of the Dick Acts of 1903 and 1908 that established the foundation of today's modern National Guard.
10.05.2006	NASHVILLE, Tenn. - U.S Representative Jim Cooper (D, Tenn., 5th Congressional district), has announced that he will move his congressional office from the Doctor's Building at 706 Church St. to vacant retail space at the Main Library building on Church St. The downtown library was planned with retail space available to the market to provide a revenue stream for the Nashville Public Library Foundation, which helps support library. "We're happy about this move," Cooper said. "It allows us the space to serve constituents conveniently, while remaining centrally located to their communities." Official business and meetings with constituents will be conducted by Cooper at the new office, which is leased by the Nashville Public Library Foundation for a two-year period. By federal law, Cooper is prohibited from electioneering or campaigning in the new space, and must abide by library policy regarding the distribution of political materials. "Libraries are essential institutions in a democratic society," said Donna Nicely, director of Nashville Public Library, "and we're pleased that Congressman Cooper is locating his office here." Renovations have now begun on the space, located in the storefront area of the downtown library adjacent to Provence Bakery & Café at 601 Church St. About Nashville Public Library Foundation The Nashville Public Library Foundation provides private funding for enhancements to library buildings, programs and collections. Recent gifts have funded a youth empowerment program and professionally curated art exhibits, as well as Bringing Books to Life, a pre-school literacy program, and the "Puppet Truck," which brings the library's historic marionettes to children throughout Nashville. About Nashville Public Library The Nashville Public Library offers a collection of more than 1.4 million circulating items including books, videos, DVDs, CDs and eAudiobooks, as well as more than 600 public-use computers, 24/7 reference assistance, and free monthly exhibits and programs including the marionette shows by Wishing Chair Productions seen by nearly 5,000 children each month. For more information, call 615-862-5800 or visit www.library.nashville.org.
09.20.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-5-D) joined Sen. Kent Conrad (ND-D), the ranking member of the Senate Budget Committee, in a press conference today to discuss new, more accurate, measures of the federal budget deficit. The 2005 deficit is at least two times, and probably ten times, larger than the Bush Administration will admit. Instead of being $318 billion, the real deficit was $760 billion (if you count veterans and civil service benefits) or $3.3 trillion (if you also count Social Security and Medicare obligations). This means that, if you include Social Security and Medicare, the deficit for 2005 was larger than the entire federal budget. The Bush Administration and many major media outlets have suppressed this information although it was produced by the Bush Administration itself in the annual Financial Report of the United States, issued by the Treasury Department. These new deficit numbers are produced using the accounting that all large U.S. businesses are required by federal law to use: accrual accounting. The U.S. Government may be the last large entity in America to still use cash accounting. Only accrual accounting can handle credit cards and other future obligations. WARNING: Cash accounting is a controlled substance. Highly addictive pain medication and anti-depressant. May cause false sense of well-being and delusions. Do not operate heavy machinery after taking. See Financial Report of the U.S., by the Dept. of Treasury Your share of the federal debt, as a working American, is already $375,000, and doubling every five years. America's credit rating is literally being destroyed. Standard & Poor's, the leading credit analyst, projects that U.S. Treasury bonds will lose their AAA rating by 2012, and will become junk bonds by 2025. Cooper focused on the new book, Financial Report of the United States: The Official White House Annual Report, published on August 15, 2006 by Nelson Current, a division of Thomas Nelson. Cooper wrote the Foreword to the book, which is a reprint of the 2005 official U.S. Treasury Financial Report, issued on Dec. 15, 2005. The information in this press conference is detailed in his Foreword, and in columns that Cooper has written for the Financial Times, Roll Call, and other publications. More information is available at Cooper's website, www.cooper.house.gov.
07.29.2006	- $13,000 U.S. Department of Justice grant will purchase wireless network NASHVILLE - The City of Lebanon has been awarded a grant of over $13,000 from the U.S. Department of Justice to purchase a wireless network that will support mobile data terminals for the Lebanon Police Department and Wilson County Sheriff's Department, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper announced today. "This grant is great news," Cooper said. "It means the brave men and women in uniform who protect our communities will be able to access the information they need at critical times in their work. My congratulations to Chief Bowen and the City of Lebanon on winning this important grant." The $13,054 will be used to purchase and install a wireless network that police officers will be able to connect to from laptops in their patrol cars. It will give them instant access to local records and ‘wanted' lists and will allow them to make license and registration checks directly from their location in the field. Currently, they have to make calls to the local dispatcher to retrieve that information. Lebanon Police Department Chief Scott Bowen hopes to have the wireless network in place later this year. "The Lebanon Police Department is very happy to receive this grant," Bowen said. "These funds will be used to purchase cutting edge technology for the department." The funding is part of the 2006 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program, administered by the U.S. Department of Justice. The JAG program supports a broad range of activities across the country to prevent and control crime in communities based on local needs and conditions.
07.20.2006	- current budget process ignores long-term, future obligations; introduceslegislation to require Congress to adopt standard business accounting methods WASHINGTON - U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper is urging Congress to start talking honestly about the federal deficit first by admitting that the current budget process uses accounting procedures that ignore long-term, future obligations. "What is going on in the federal government needs to be brought out in the open so taxpayers know the truth about the federal deficit," Cooper said. "The federal government is keeping two sets of books but they only want taxpayers to see one of them. I think it is time to make the government budget the same way they make American businesses operate." According to Cooper, the "President's Budget," issued by the Office of Management and Budget and used by Congress to develop the annual budget, is based on cash-accounting. The "Financial Report of the United States," issued by the Department of the Treasury, uses accrual-basis accounting. Federal law requires all businesses with revenues of $5 million or more to use accrual accounting. The Financial Report and accrual accounting take into account future obligations of the federal government, presenting a clearer, more understandable picture of federal finances. "General Motors, Ford and the United States are doing well financially if you use cash accounting," Cooper said. "Under accrual accounting, however, all are in serious trouble, primarily due to promises made to retirees, the sick and disabled. "Cash accounting ignores these vulnerable people and the commitments we've made to them," Cooper added. "Accrual accounting remembers them and our financial liabilities." What difference does it make to taxpayers? The Budget says the deficit was $319 billion in 2005 while the Financial Report says it was $760 billion, or over twice as large. David Walker, Comptroller General of the United States, has been clear on the question of cash basis accounting. "Continuing on this unsustainable path will gradually erode, if not suddenly damage, our economy, our standard of living, and ultimately our national security." In order to give taxpayers a truer measure of America's financial status, Cooper just introduced two separate bills that urge Congress to consider accrual and long-term budgeting when planning next year's federal budget. Cooper introduced a similar amendment in the House Budget Committee in March. It received unanimous approval by the full House but was removed from the budget resolution in conference with the Senate. While the Federal Budget is widely distributed to every member of Congress and the national media when it is released by the President, the Administration does little to bring attention to The Financial Report. It is distributed to fewer than 20 members of Congress and is released in the midst of the Christmas holiday season with no accompanying press release or media announcement. "We can't fix our deficit problem if we don't acknowledge a problem exists," Cooper added. "Considering accrual accounting is an important first step." ###
07.19.2006	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper today criticized President Bush for his veto of legislation that would enhance stem cell research and offer hope to millions of American families. "Why, Mr. President, are you vetoing hope for Parkinson's victims, vetoing hope for cancer victims, for diabetes victims, for Alzheimer's victims," Cooper asked in remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives. "Why, Mr. President, are you alone standing in the way of hope and progress for our people? "This is a sad day for America because the President has never vetoed any other bill," Cooper said. "He is the first President since Thomas Jefferson to endorse all of our legislation as if it were perfect, except for this one bill - the bill that gives hope to virtually all American families." The President's veto came one day after the Senate passed legislation that would expand federal support for embryonic stem cell research. The House of Representatives passed the same legislation last year. Cooper, a recognized leader in health care reform, has been a supporter of expanded stem cell research for some time. He served on the team of lawmakers who helped rally support for stem cell legislation that passed the House in 2005. He believes that safeguards on research are essential and supports limits such as those recommended by the National Academy of Sciences. Cooper has voted in support of legislation that makes it illegal to perform research on human embryos created only for research purposes. Jeffrey R. Balser, M.D., PhD and Associate Vice Chancellor for Research at Vanderbilt Medical Center, also said that medical researchers are at a critical point in stem cell research. "Vanderbilt and other leading academic medical centers are on the threshold of phenomenal progress in stem cell research, but we are being slowed by these federal restrictions. The potential benefit to patients for this research is staggering." Vanderbilt's efforts in stem cell research are largely focused on diabetes. Vanderbilt is the coordinating center for the NIH (National Institutes of Health) beta cell consortium, a leading international effort in stem cell research.
07.06.2006	-$3 million for Nashville pilot project to serve as national model for battling chronic diseases NASHVILLE-Nashville General Hospital at Meharry (NGHM) has been selected to lead a national pilot project to help those at-risk for chronic diseases, it was announced today by U.S. Representative Jim Cooper and NGHM. Nashville General has been awarded $3 million to support the opening of a new clinic in north Nashville that will be the model clinic for a national program. Nashville General is the only hospital in the country to receive the award. The Nashville General clinic will target patients who are most at-risk for chronic diseases. The grant was awarded by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Office of Minority Health. "It is time we declared war on chronic disease and put the nation's best assets to work helping folks who are facing these serious health challenges every day," Cooper said. "This pilot project recognizes Nashville General's potential to be a national leader in this field and gives our city the opportunity to lead the nation in the fight to save lives threatened by chronic disease." "This is exciting news for all of Nashville, putting the city and Nashville General at the forefront of the battle to control this national health problem," said Mayor Bill Purcell. "I thank Congressman Cooper for his work to involve the CDC and I look forward to working with Nashville General as this pilot project begins serving those in need in Nashville." Reginald W. Coopwood, M.D., FACS, Chief Executive Officer of the Metropolitan Nashville Hospital Authority, said he is proud that Nashville General is the first hospital in the country to be selected for this program. "This is a great honor and an important opportunity for Nashville General. We are committed to making a positive difference in the lives of those in Nashville who are threatened by chronic disease. I appreciate the work Congressman Cooper has done to position Nashville General alongside the CDC and the Office of Minority Health as we all come together to battle this national problem." According to Dr. Coopwood, the new clinic will be located in north Nashville. It is expected to open in the fall. It will help patients who are at-risk for developing a chronic disease as well as those who have already been diagnosed. The clinic will provide education and treatment services including individualized lifestyle assessments, weight loss plans, strategies to enhance physical activity, customized nutritional plans and educational classes to increase awareness of high blood pressure and diabetes numbers. To ensure continuity of care, the clinic will use the hospital's state-of-the-art information technology to maintain electronic medical records for each patient. "The idea of empowering patients to take control of their health and to encourage physicians to talk with their patients about risk factors such as high blood pressure, lack of physical activity, or poor nutrition is often overlooked in a clinical setting," Dr. Walter W. Williams, the CDC's Associate Director for Minority Health said in a statement. "Nashville General Hospital at Meharry will be in a good position to test innovative approaches about what is most effective in reaching higher risk populations." The clinic and its services are designed to improve the health profile of patients dealing with what is increasingly known as metabolic syndrome. According to medical professionals, metabolic syndrome is a collection of risk factors such as obesity, high blood pressure and elevated blood sugar levels that can increase an individual's risk of heart disease, diabetes and stroke. The clinic will operate in partnership with the Meharry Medical College and the Nashville Safety Net Consortium. The clinic and its services will be open to all Nashville residents but it will specifically target patients who are at higher risk of developing chronic diseases. For example, black men in north Nashville are three times more likely to have diabetes. Black women in north Nashville are nearly twice as likely to suffer from diabetes. White Nashvillians, by contrast, have a slightly higher cholesterol rate. The $3 million is to support the startup and operating costs for the project over a three year period. Nashville General will launch a city-wide outreach program to inform potential patients about the clinic and its services in the coming months. Nashville General currently serves more than 80,000 individuals in the area each year. ### For additional information contact: Murfy Alexander or Anne Smart Office of U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (615) 736-5295 Judith McCoy Director of Public Relations and Community Development Metropolitan Nashville Hospital Authority (615) 341-4082
06.27.2006	-calls for financial literacy education as part of Congressional Savings and Ownership Caucus initiative WASHINGTON - U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper is calling for greater support of financial literacy education to help American consumers fight back against financial predators. "This is the golden age for financial predators in America," Cooper said. "Financial literacy is necessary and essential, but that's playing defense. To play offense you have to crack down on financial predators. We need a good defense and offense so consumers don't have to worry about being taken to the cleaners." Cooper made the remarks at a discussion on Capitol Hill hosted by the New America Foundation in association with the Congressional Savings and Ownership Caucus. He was joined by U.S. Reps. Judy Biggert of Illinois and Ruben Hinojosa of Texas and the Honorable Dan Iannicola, Jr. from the U.S. Department of the Treasury to talk about the importance of financial education for America's youth. The discussion comes at an important time. The Jump Start Coalition for Personal Financial Literacy, a national nonprofit organization, recently released the findings of a nationwide survey indicating that American high school students have a lot to learn about personal finance. The national average for high school students who took the personal finance test was 52.4 percent. Tennessee high school students earned an even lower average with 48.9 percent. The test covered questions on money management, savings, spending and debt. Cooper said that financial education is essential for all young people to learn and he pointed to recent Congressional spending as an example. "Just take a look at our behavior. We need financial literacy in Congress as well," he said. "Because of irresponsible government spending, the nation is at least $8.3 trillion in debt. You can't be a saver or an owner without financial literacy," he said. As co-chair of the bipartisan, bicameral Congressional Savings and Ownership Caucus, Cooper is working to advance policies in Congress that help build personal savings and assets for all Americans and low-income Americans in particular. In addition to Cooper, the 31-member Congressional Savings and Ownership Caucus includes co-chair U.S. Rep. Harold Ford, Jr. and Reps. Lincoln Davis, and John Tanner, all of Tennessee. NASHVILLE - Colonel (Ret.) Don Deering, former Executive Director of the National Guard Association of Tennessee, has joined the office of U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper. He will work out of Cooper's office in downtown Nashville as a community liaison representative. "Colonel Deering has served in leadership positions for the Tennessee National Guard for more than a decade," Cooper said. "His knowledge of the day to day operations of the Guard as well as his experience helping Guard members and their families will be a great addition to my staff. I am honored that he has chosen to work with me to serve the needs of folks in the 5 th Congressional District." From 1994 until his retirement in April 2006, Col. Deering served as Executive Director of the National Guard Association of Tennessee and represented the approximately 15,000 Tennessee National Guard members on issues relating to the Guard on the local, state and federal levels. He is a member of the National Guard Association of Tennessee, National Guard Association of the United States, where he serves as a member of the Board of Directors and Insurance Trust, and a member of the National Guard Executive Directors Association. During his almost forty years of military service as an office and enlisted solder, Colonel Deering has served in various command and staff positions which included commanding an Armor Battalion, and during Operation Desert Storm he served as Mobilization Readiness Chief for Tennessee. At the time of his retirement from the service in 1994, he was Commandant of the Tennessee Military Academy. Raised in Madison, TN, Colonel Deering attended Madison High School before graduating from Officers Candidate School in 1961, Armor Officer Basic in 1962, CBR in 1974, Armor Officer Advance in 1977 and Command & General Staff College in 1981. He lives in Goodlettsville with his wife, the former Antonia Joyce Gambill of Old Hickory, TN. They have one son, Michael Ray Deering.
06.26.2006	-calls for financial literacy education as part of Congressional Savings and Ownership Caucus initiative WASHINGTON - U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper is calling for greater support of financial literacy education to help American consumers fight back against financial predators. "This is the golden age for financial predators in America," Cooper said. "Financial literacy is necessary and essential, but that's playing defense. To play offense you have to crack down on financial predators. We need a good defense and offense so consumers don't have to worry about being taken to the cleaners." Cooper made the remarks at a discussion on Capitol Hill hosted by the New America Foundation in association with the Congressional Savings and Ownership Caucus. He was joined by U.S. Reps. Judy Biggert of Illinois and Ruben Hinojosa of Texas and the Honorable Dan Iannicola, Jr. from the U.S. Department of the Treasury to talk about the importance of financial education for America's youth. The discussion comes at an important time. The Jump Start Coalition for Personal Financial Literacy, a national nonprofit organization, recently released the findings of a nationwide survey indicating that American high school students have a lot to learn about personal finance. The national average for high school students who took the personal finance test was 52.4 percent. Tennessee high school students earned an even lower average with 48.9 percent. The test covered questions on money management, savings, spending and debt. Cooper said that financial education is essential for all young people to learn and he pointed to recent Congressional spending as an example. "Just take a look at our behavior. We need financial literacy in Congress as well," he said. "Because of irresponsible government spending, the nation is at least $8.3 trillion in debt. You can't be a saver or an owner without financial literacy," he said. As co-chair of the bipartisan, bicameral Congressional Savings and Ownership Caucus, Cooper is working to advance policies in Congress that help build personal savings and assets for all Americans and low-income Americans in particular. In addition to Cooper, the 31-member Congressional Savings and Ownership Caucus includes co-chair U.S. Rep. Harold Ford, Jr. and Reps. Lincoln Davis, and John Tanner, all of Tennessee.
06.21.2006	NASHVILLE-U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper today praised a recent agreement to repeal the Wright Amendment but said that waiting eight years to fully implement the deal is unfair to Nashville. "For 26 years now, the Wright Amendment has limited our ability to get the lowest priced tickets when traveling to Dallas and North Texas. I am glad to see that all the parties involved in this debate have agreed that this practice is wrong and must stop," Cooper said. "But if the Wright Amendment was wrong all along, why is eight more years of wrong right? They shouldn't continue to penalize Nashville travelers by denying them direct service to Dallas." Cooper has long been a cosponsor of legislation in the House of Representatives calling for the amendment's repeal. The Wright Amendment, which limits the number of destinations airlines can fly to from Dallas's Love Field, became law in 1980. It was designed to encourage flights into the Dallas/Ft. Worth International Airport. Southwest Airlines has been seeking changes in the law for years. For example, the Wright Amendment currently prohibits Southwest from offering flights between Nashville and Love Field, even though the airline serves both airports. The City of Dallas, the City of Ft. Worth, Southwest Airlines, American Airlines and DFW International Airport recently announced they have reached a tentative agreement to seek legislation to repeal the Wright Amendment. Under the agreement, airlines serving Dallas' Love Field will be able to offer direct ticketing to destinations within the 50 states after eight years following the enactment of legislation. In the meantime, through ticketing from Dallas's Love Field will be available. "The Metropolitan Nashville Airport Authority strongly endorses any enhanced service from Music City and the Mid-South, and our goal is to provide the most competitive environment possible to ensure that our customers are the ultimate beneficiaries," said Raul Regalado, President & CEO of the MNAA. "The tentative agreement among the four parties will result in greater convenience and affordability for our customers. Repeal of the Wright Amendment will allow for a competitive environment, and we are hopeful that Congress will approve the agreement." Cooper said he will be working to make sure a bill calling for the repeal is voted on in the House before the end of the year.
06.12.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C.- The life of World War II veteran and code talker Robert H. Yazzie was remembered by Congress in remarks made by U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper earlier this week. Yazzie, who served his country from 1942 to 1945 as a Navajo code talker, passed away in Madison, TN this Memorial Day, Monday May 29, 2006. He was 81. "Mr. Yazzie was always very humble about his contributions to the war effort," Cooper said in his remarks. "After the war, he never received public recognition because code talkers were considered such valuable assets to the military. In 2003, I had the great honor of awarding Mr. Yazzie a Congressional Silver Medal for Distinguished Service at a special ceremony in Nashville." Born on June 1, 1924 in Arizona, Yazzie grew up in an Episcopal orphanage on a Navajo Indian reservation. He enlisted in the Marines at the age of 17 to serve his nation as a code talker in World War II. He and the other code talkers used their native language to develop a code that was used to communicate commands, tactics and troop movements of the Marines in the Pacific. There were only about 400 Native Americans trained as code talkers during World War II and their contributions to the war effort were critical in the Pacific theater. The Navajo code was used in every Marine assault and it helped the U.S. win victories at key battles including Guadalcanal, Tarawa and Peleliu. In the battle of Iwo Jima, the code talkers sent and received over 800 messages without a single miscommunication. In fact, the Japanese never once decoded the code talkers' messages throughout the duration of the war. "We just sent messages," Mr. Yazzie said in 2003. "We were sending codes on the radio, and we would just talk on the radio using my language." The Navajo code was especially effective because Navajo was an unwritten language, spoken by a relatively small number or people, limited to small geographic area in the Southwest United States. At the time of the war, only 30 non-Navajos were believed to understand the language. In addition, the code talkers could transmit messages with unparalleled speed and accuracy. During tests conducted by the Marines, code talkers could encode, transmit, and uncode a 3-line message in 20 seconds while machines took 30 minutes to do the same. After the war, Yazzie was discharged as a Private First Class in 1945. He married his wife, Carrie, and moved to Nashville shortly thereafter. He raised a family and earned a living as a welder. Yazzie battled diabetes for the last 35 years of his life, suffered heart problems and passed away peacefully at in his home in Madison. "I am proud to salute the remarkable life and contributions of Mr. Robert Yazzie," Cooper said. "His legacy of courage and patriotism will live on."
06.09.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Yesterday the U.S. House of Representatives honored the achievements of Music Row veteran Buddy Cannon in remarks made by U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper. As one of Nashville's most respected music professionals, Cannon has produced for some of the most successful artists in country music. Last month he was honored by the Academy of Country Music (ACM) as Producer of the Year. In addition to this award, Cannon is also celebrated as a songwriter. "Buddy Cannon's passion for music and respect for musicians is well known in Nashville and the music world," Cooper said in his remarks. "I join with so many others in congratulating Buddy on his latest achievement - being named Producer of the Year. But I also join with so many others in thanking Buddy for his many important contributions to the global music community and to my hometown, Nashville." Raised in Lexington, TN, Cannon grew up loving music. He saved his earnings from working in a cotton field to pay the $13 for his first guitar. In high school, he played in several bands and performed at venues like the American Legion and National Guard Armory. He married his high school sweetheart, Billie, moved to Nashville and started a family, raising three girls, at the time his music career got its start in the early 1970's. Cannon played bass with Grand Ole Opry performer Bob Luman then spent 11 years working with Mel Tillis, who recorded one of his songs. He played in Tillis' band and worked for his publishing company and moved on to spend another 6 years with PolyGram's Mercury Records. Afterwards, he started his own company, BudRo Productions with Norro Wilson. Cannon has helped launched the careers of superstars like Shania Twain, Kenny Chesney, Sammy Kershaw and Billy Ray Cyrus. As one of the hardest-working producers on Music Row, he's worked with Reba McEntire, Chely Wright, John Michael Montgomery, Sara Evans, George Jones and Kenny Chesney. After winning the award for Producer of the Year, Cannon went straight back to work in the studio: "I was flattered," Cannon said of the award, "but I had to go back to work and didn't think about it." In addition to his hard work and talents as a producer and songwriter, Cannon is respected throughout the music community for his generosity of spirit and willingness to spend time with young artists still developing their own sound. His contributions to the music industry extend far beyond the #1 spots on the Billboard charts and platinum-selling records. He's a man of great talent, skill, generosity and professional integrity. "It is with honor and respect that I congratulate Buddy Cannon on his ACM award for Producer of the Year," Cooper said. "And on behalf of the Fifth District of Tennessee, I thank him for his many contributions to the music industry and the Nashville community.
06.08.2006	WASHINGTON - "He was our worst enemy in Iraq. Now we need to make sure his next-in-command does not takeover. Our troops, particularly the Nightstakers, deserve great credit for this success."
06.06.2006	NASHVILLE - Nashville's community-wide Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) effort and free tax assistance sites paid off this tax season - to the tune of $8.6 million in federal refunds for area taxpayers and the local economy. More than 5,900 Nashville families received free tax help at one of twelve tax prep sites around the city during the 2006 tax season, according to the Nashville Wealth Building Alliance (NWBA). That number represents a 28% increase in tax returns filed at the ten free tax sites last year. "I'm pleased that more Nashville families were able to claim the federal refunds they earned this year," U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper, a member of NWBA, said. "This means more money is returning to the hard-working taxpayers who earned it and more money is being saved or invested in the Nashville economy." The coalition of government, non-profits, churches and businesses works together to help area families build financial stability and take advantage of the EITC. From January through April 15, 2006, 165 IRS-trained volunteers provided over 2,500 hours of free tax assistance to working families across Nashville. The average federal refund was $1,692 for those who filed at the free tax preparation sites. Of the nearly 6,000 taxpayers who filed at a free tax prep site, 613 had not filed their taxes in the previous year. Additionally, 1,087 of the tax filers had used a paid service to prepare their taxes for them in 2005. NWBA attributes the increase in participation to the numerous companies and organizations that took an active role in educating their employees about the free tax help and the EITC refund. In addition, NWBA's partnership with United Way's 2-1-1 hotline played a key role in helping taxpayers find the tax prep site closest to them. Along with United Way of Metropolitan Nashville, the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, the State of Tennessee, the Tennessee Department of Revenue, the Internal Revenue Service and Congressman Cooper, key support for the NWBA and the EITC effort came from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, the Tennessee Department of Financial Institutions, SunTrust Bank and Wachovia. The EITC has become an increasingly important part of the U.S. tax code since it was launched in 1975 under President Nixon. It is now considered one of the most successful anti-poverty programs ever developed, lifting nearly 5 million people above the poverty line every year. It is a refundable federal income tax credit that can provide substantial benefits - up to $4,400 to qualified filers in tax year 2006, depending on income, family size and marital status.
05.23.2006	-USN's Maria Lombardy named first place winnerof the 5th District's Congressional Art Competition NASHVILLE - The work of University School senior Maria Lombardy will represent Tennessee's 5th District at a special art exhibit in our nation's capital, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper announced. Lombardy's oil painting on canvas, entitled "Mom and Me," was awarded first place in Cooper's Congressional Art Competition. The announcement was made by Cooper at Saturday's Congressional Art Show, which brought together area high school art students, their families, art instructors and the competition's judges to recognize all the entries. "I just painted it for my mom for Mother's Day," Lombardy said. She worked from a photograph of herself around age four or five and her mother, although she did make some adjustments in the process of painting. The piece took about three months to complete, with Lombardy working on it sporadically. Lombardy took up painting only a year ago, in the spring semester of her junior year at USN. She will continue to paint while attending Vanderbilt University, where she plans to study foreign languages and the humanities. Second place was awarded to Ashley Parkes from St. Cecilia Academy for her work, "Bunky" and third place went to Samuel Barringer from Father Ryan High School for his painting in acrylic, "Bob Marley." McGavock Comprehensive High School's Riki Roman was named honorable mention for his self portrait in pencil. Twelve high schools from across Davidson, Wilson and Cheatham counties were represented in this year's Congressional Art Competition. These pieces will be on display in Cooper's Nashville and Washington offices throughout the year. "This is such a great opportunity for high school artists," Cooper said of the Congressional Art Competition. "It's a chance to show off the young talent we have here in Middle Tennessee. I hope all these young folks continue to cultivate their artistic skills - these wonderful works of art could be worth a lot of money one day!" Judges for this year's competition were local artists Marilyn Brisbois, Sandra Duncan, Amy Smith-Earhart, Alice Waugh, Sharon Midget and Mary Neville. As the first place winner, Lombardy also won three round-trip tickets to Washington, D.C. from Southwest Airlines to attend the opening reception of the Congressional Art exhibit at the Capitol in June, a private tour of the Capitol, and a $3,000 scholarship from Savannah College of Art and Design. To view all of the 5th District Art Competition entries and photos from the Congressional Art Show, visit Cooper's website at www.cooper.house.gov.
05.08.2006	- Winner of 5th District Congressional Art Competition to be announced NASHVILLE - Students from across the 5th District are invited to a Congressional Art Show and Reception on Saturday, May 20 at 11:00 a.m., U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper announced. The exhibit will feature art work of high school students who entered the 2006 Congressional Art Competition. Congressman Cooper will announce the runners-up and first place winner of this year's Art Competition. All high school art students, teachers and families are invited to see the array of student artwork, meet the judges, and learn more about the competition. The art show and reception will be held at Congressman Jim Cooper's office at 706 Church Street in downtown Nashville. "I encourage all student artists, their families and art teachers to come together and recognize the incredible artistic talent we have right here in Middle Tennessee," Cooper said. "And for the winner of the Congressional Art Competition, this competition means a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to have their work displayed at the Capitol in Washington. I hope this year's participants, their teachers and family members will be able to attend on May 20th." The first place winner from the 5th District will have his or her artwork displayed at a special exhibit at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. for a year and seen by millions of people. The winner will also receive an invitation to attend the exhibit's ribbon-cutting ceremony on Wednesday, June 28, 2006. Additionally, the winner will be awarded two round-trip tickets to the event from Southwest Airlines, a private tour of the Capitol and an Artistic Honors Scholarship in the amount of $3,000 to Savannah College of Art and Design. The 5th District runners-up will have their work displayed in the Congressman's Washington and Nashville offices. Since it was founded by the House of Representatives' Congressional Art Caucus in 1982, the Congressional Art Competition has given over 650,000 student artists nationwide the opportunity to have their work displayed in the Capitol exhibit. All high school art students were invited to submit two-dimensional pieces to the Congressional Art Competition by May 12, 2006. Competition details and guidelines are available on Cooper's website at www.cooper.house.gov.
05.05.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper is helping to lead efforts in Congress to recognize the African American Spiritual as a national treasure. "Spirituals are a central part of our musical and religious traditions in Tennessee," Cooper said. "This legislation is one way to officially recognize the contributions spirituals made to our history, culture, and faiths. It also commemorates the healing and hope for freedom that this music represents and continues to inspire today." House Resolution 790, Recognizing the African American Spiritual as a national treasure, states that spirituals are a powerful and significant form of American music, it also expresses gratitude and honor to the former slaves for their gift and calls upon the President to proclaim the spiritual a national treasure. As the resolution states, the spiritual is a uniquely American form of music. It originated and evolved between 1619 and 1865 when African-Americans were enslaved. Slaves used their knowledge of the English language and the Christian faith to weave stories of their own survival and desire for freedom into songs. Because slaves were forbidden to speak their native languages and practice their traditional religious beliefs, they relied on their African oral tradition of song and story to communicate and create the musical form now known as the spiritual. Frederick Douglass, a former slave and one of the leading abolitionists in American history, remarked that spirituals "told a tale of woe which was then altogether beyond my feeble comprehension; they were tones loud, long, and deep; they breathed the prayer and complaint of souls boiling over with the bitterest anguish. Every tone was a testimony against slavery and a prayer to God for deliverance from chains..." The text of the resolution states,"Therefore, be it Resolved that the House of Representatives - (1) recognizes that African American spirituals area poignant and powerful genre of music that have become one of the most significant segments of American music in existence; (2) expresses the deepest gratitude, recognition, and honor to the former enslaved Africans in the United States for their gifts to our Nation, including their original music and oral history; and (3) requests that the President issue a proclamation that reflects on the important contribution of African American spirituals to American history, and naming the African American spiritual a national treasure." Cooper is an original cosponsor of the legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut. Other original cosponsors include U.S. Reps. John Lewis and Sanford Bishop, Jr. of Georgia. The resolution has now been referred to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. ###
04.25.2006	NASHVILLE - U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper announced that he will host the Third Annual Federal Small Business Procurement Conference on Friday, May 5, 2006. The conference will be held at David Lipscomb University in Nashville and will begin at 8:30 a.m. The conference will bring together small businesses, including minority-owned and disadvantaged companies, with federal, state, and local government agencies and prime contractors. In addition, this year's conference will have a special focus on veteran-owned businesses. "Middle Tennessee businesses have many of the products and skills the government is seeking," Cooper said in making the announcement. "This program is designed to help put local entrepreneurs in touch with federal contractors and get a shot at the more than $350 billion that the government is expected to spend on contracts in 2006." According to Cooper, one of the most valuable opportunities the conference provides is direct contact with the government contractors. One-on-one sessions will bring local business owners together with federal agencies and prime contractors. Last year, approximately 150 Tennessee companies participated in the conference. In the past, several of local businesses have obtained contracts with the government as a result of the contacts they made at Cooper's Procurement Conference. Participating agencies include the Metropolitan Government Office of Minority and Small Business Assistance, Oak Ridge National Laboratories, the State of Tennessee Department of General Services, the State of Tennessee Department of Transportation, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, the U.S. General Services Administration, the U.S. Small Business Administration and the Veterans Administration. Corporate sponsors of the Federal Small Business Procurement Conference include the Center for Veterans Business Enterprise, Lipscomb University, the Nashville Electric Service, the Tennessee Valley Authority, the University of Tennessee Procurement Technical Assistance Center. Participants must pre-register for the conference by calling Brenda Wynn in Cooper's office at 615-736-5295. The registration fee is $35.00 and includes continental breakfast, lunch, and conference materials.
03.31.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper introduced an amendment in House Budget Committee on Wednesday that would help to reform the growing practice of earmarks. "This would not end earmarks but it would curb the practice of ‘stealth' earmarks," Cooper said. "It would require that earmarks in the future have to be part of statutory language in the bill. They couldn't just be part of a report which is seldom read by anybody." Cooper introduced a bill earlier this year with U.S. Rep. Jeff Flake (R-AZ) that also mandates that all earmarks be included in the text of a spending bill. Members of Congress are only able to amend actual bill text. Currently, earmarks are most often contained in committee or conference reports. The Congressional Research Service has found that there were 15,877 earmarks in 2005, almost four times as many as in 1994, when Democrats last held a House majority. The total bill to taxpayers for those earmarks was $47.4 billion. While the number of earmarks has grown dramatically in recent years, the practice itself is not new. According to The Heritage Foundation, lawmakers used to "fund government grant programs and then let federal and state agencies select individual grant recipients through a competitive application process. Now, Congress actually determines within legislation, who will receive government grants by "earmarking" grant money to specific recipients. Earmarks are also known as ‘pork projects.' " "The public is concerned about earmarks and this is an excellent bipartisan opportunity (to address the problem)," Cooper said in the Budget Committee hearing. "This is an effort to have transparency, disclosure, sunshine. Everybody should be for this. This is an opportunity for this committee to lay down their mark and say we just want honest budgeting. "It does not end earmarks," Cooper said. "It just puts them in the sunshine." The amendment failed to win passage but Cooper said he will continue to fight for earmark reform in Congress.
03.31.2006	- wins unanimous approval in Budget Committee mark-up WASHINGTON, D.C.- An amendment introduced by U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN) in the House Budget Committee mark-up earlier this week will mean American voters may get at last a clear and fair picture of the fiscal liabilities facing our nation. "Americans deserve to know the true and full story of our fiscal crisis," Cooper said. "If you use the same accounting methods to look at the budget that most American companies are required to use by law, you get a very different picture than what the budget shows. And it's a truly shocking picture. The deficit for last year was actually over twice what the budget reports." Cooper's amendment passed the committee unanimously. Cooper's amendment states that the determination of the Congressional budget and the President's budget request "should include consideration of the Financial Report of the United States Government, especially its information regarding the Government's net operating costs, financial position, and long-term liabilities." The recently released 2005 Financial Report of the U.S. Government indicates that the budget deficit was $760 billion, over twice as large as the $319 billion stated in the President's budget. The President's budget uses cash-basis accounting, a method used only by the smallest American companies. David Walker, the Comptroller General of the Government Accountability Office (GAO), has said a cash-basis method paints a "potentially unrealistic and misleading picture of the federal government's overall performance." The Financial Report, issued by the Treasury Department and audited by GAO, uses accrual accounting, or GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Practices). Accrual accounting is the method required by law to be used by any publicly traded company in America. "The Department of Treasury literally issued the report on Christmas Eve, without a press release," Cooper said in the hearing. "It's available on a website, but the sense of Congress resolution is that we should use this accrual accounting, GAAP accounting like every business in America has to use, not to replace our budget process but so that we give it consideration in our budget process. "It's clearly intended by the document itself because there is a quote from (Treasury) Secretary Snow on page 4 that says, ‘As such, it (the report document) can be used with the budget as a planning and control tool not only for the current fiscal year but with a longer term focus as well.'" In addition to Congressman Cooper, the amendment received the strong support of Budget Committee Chairman Jim Nussle (R-IA), as well as two other key Republican members of the committee. Congressman Mike Conaway, Republican of Texas, said the amendment "makes good sense in full and fair disclosure and what we are doing to ourselves collectively in this process we call government. The total liabilities that are unfunded will scare the pants off you." According to U.S. Rep. Chris Chocola (R-IN), "I think the Financial Report is a very valuable tool because it does present a fuller and fairer picture of the growing fiscal burdens that every American faces, especially future generations of Americans. "We talked about the problems we face as a country fiscally but, in order to solve these problems, we have to define these problems," Rep. Chocola added, "and I think looking at our fiscal challenges on an accrual basis helps us define those in a much clearer and more transparent fashion."
03.28.2006	-Wilson Central's Lady Wildcats Recognized by U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper WASHINGTON-Wilson Central High School's Lady Wildcats were recognized today in Congress for their hard work and dedication toward becoming Tennessee's 2005-2006 Class AAA Girls Basketball State Champions. U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper honored the team and their coaches in special remarks in the Congressional Record. "In their five years as a team, the Wilson Central Lady Wildcats have been to the state championship tournament for the past three consecutive years," Cooper said. "This was the year, on March 11, 2006, that they brought home the state title after defeating Shelbyville 44-38. I am extremely proud of these outstanding young athletes for this great accomplishment." The win also represents Wilson Central High School's first state title in any sport. Cooper also commended the team members for their hard work off the basketball court. Throughout one of the most demanding seasons of their high school careers, the Lady Wildcats applied themselves in the classroom and maintained a team grade point average of 3.61. "This is certainly no easy task," Cooper said, "and I am proud of the way they have represented their school and their hometown both on and off the basketball court." The Lady Wildcats' coaches were saluted for their expertise and role in leading the team to the state championship. Cooper commented on Head Coach Bud Brandon and Assistant Coach Campbell Brandon, the only father and son to coach their own teams to Tennessee high school basketball titles. "Campbell Brandon coached the Lebanon High School Blue Devilettes to their state championship victory 35 years ago, in 1971," Cooper said. "Today, he shares his son's pride for another team of amazing young women - the 2006 Wilson Central Lady Wildcats." "I applaud the tremendous achievements of these exceptional young players and wish them well in their endeavors on the basketball court and beyond," Cooper said to his colleagues in Congress. Cooper will be presenting Wilson Central High School Principal Larry Kernagis, Coach Bud Brandon and the team members with a framed copy of the Congressional Record during the upcoming celebration in their honor.
03.27.2006	COOPER JOINS STUDENTS AND AREA MUSICIANS TO RECOGNIZE IMPORTANCE OF MUSIC IN OUR SCHOOLS NASHVILLE-U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper joined with music students at Hillsboro High School as well as award-winning Nashville musicians and songwriters today to recognize the important role music education plays in a student's overall learning experience. "In Music City we all know music is good for the soul and for the heart but now we also know that students who participate in school music programs are less likely to be involved in drugs, gangs or alcohol and they have better attendance records," Cooper said. "The focus and discipline that are part of music education benefit all areas of study." Cooper recently introduced a Congressional Resolution that points out that skills gained through sequential music instruction, including discipline, the ability to analyze, communicate and work cooperatively, are vital for success in the 21 st century. He said his goal is to encourage more schools to develop music programs similar to that currently offered at Hillsboro. Shannon Sanders, a 1989 Hillsboro High School graduate who is a Grammy-winning record producer, joined Congressman Cooper for the music event. He told music students that the foundation in music he gained while at Hillsboro is responsible for his music achievements today. "I am so thankful for the education I got here at Hillsboro," Sanders said. "I was in the band and studied creative writing and singing. At that time I didn't know exactly what I wanted to do but I was able to study a lot of subjects that I now use in my career. This is a great place to learn because there is an emphasis on diversity here - a diverse group of students and areas of study that are unique." Sanders said that he started out thinking he would pursue a career as a performer but now spends most of his time working as a music producer. He won a Grammy in 2002 for producing India Arie's R&B Album of the Year, ‘Voyage to India.' He also won a 2005 Dove Award for work with Nicole C. Mullen. He produced and engineered Heather Headley's current hit, ‘In My Mind,' which has been the #2 R&B song for the past two months. He has also worked with The Temptations, Marc Broussard, Jonny Lang and CeCe Winans, as well as produced the soundtrack for "Shark Tale." Sanders also told the students that they don't have to move to Los Angeles or New York in order to build a successful music career. "It's all here in Nashville," Sanders said. "You can travel to New York and Los Angeles when you need to but there are great professionals and great opportunities right here in Nashville. Just remember to be realistic about your expectations. I think it is important to do what you want to do with your life but always remember to be realistic and open to opportunities around you. You may discover that what you thought you wanted to do is really not what you're best suited for but that another area of the music field is what you enjoy most." In addition to Sanders, the students heard from Bob Regan, noted songwriter and President of the Nashville Songwriters Association, International (NSAI) and Debi Cochran, Emmy Award-winning songwriter. Regan invited the students to get involved in the Nashville music community and attend some of the programs throughout the city in the coming days at Tin Pan South events kick off. Congressman Cooper, Sanders, Regan and Cochran enjoyed an outstanding performance by the Hillsboro Chamber Choir during the visit, as well as a tour of the school's professional recording studio facilities. Hillsboro is one of a small number of schools in the state to offer students the opportunity to work on their music and recording skills with access to a state-of-the-art recording studio.
03.21.2006	- May 20 art show to celebrate area talent before winner is revealed NASHVILLE - The deadline for submissions to the 26 th Annual Congressional Art Competition will be Friday, May 12, 2006, U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper announced today. High school students from the 5th Congressional district will have the change to have their artwork seen by millions in a special exhibit at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. Since it was founded by the House of Representatives' Congressional Art Caucus in 1982, the Congressional Art Competition entitled, "An Artistic Discovery," has given over 650,000 student artists nationwide the opportunity to have their work displayed in the Capitol exhibit. "I encourage 5th District high school artists to get involved in this year's Congressional Art Competition," Cooper said of the event. "This is a unique opportunity to get national exposure and show the rest of the country the outstanding artistic talent we have here in Middle Tennessee." In addition to having his or her artwork shown in the national exhibit in Washington, D.C., the 5th District winner will also receive an invitation to attend the exhibit's ribbon-cutting ceremony at the Capitol on Wednesday, June 28, 2006. Additionally, the winner will be awarded two round-trip tickets to the event from Southwest Airlines, a private tour of the Capitol and an Artistic Honors Scholarship in the amount of $3,000 to Savannah College of Art and Design. Congressman Cooper will announce the winner of the Congressional Art Competition at a special reception and art show displaying all entries from across the 5th Congressional District. The art show will take place on Saturday, May 20 at 11:00 am at Cooper's District office. The competition is open to all 5th District high school students. Entries must be two-dimensional, but may be any of the following categories: paintings, drawings, collages, prints, computer-generated art, photography, or mixed media. The winning piece is selected by a panel of local artists. The submission deadline for artwork is Friday, May 12, 2006 at 5:00 pm. Interested students should contact their high school art instructor or Kathy Floyd-Buggs in Cooper's office at (615) 736-5295. Competition details and guidelines are also available on Cooper's website at www.cooper.house.gov.
03.08.2006	-says devastation is "beyond imagining" NASHVILLE-U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper recently returned from a three-day trip to the Gulf Coast region with a bipartisan group from Congress and said that, six months after Katrina, the damage is still incomprehensible. "The devastation is beyond imagining," Cooper said after visiting New Orleans and the Mississippi coastal area. "You have to see it to believe it. FEMA and the government need to do a much better job of helping people rebuild safely. So far we have spent more money rebuilding wetlands in Iraq than we have in our own states of Louisiana and Mississippi. "These are our folks," Cooper added. "These are American citizens and our neighbors. We need to help them put their lives back together." It was not Congressman Cooper's first visit to the region. He had traveled to coastal Mississippi immediately after Katrina hit to assist his mother-in-law who lives there. Her home in Pass Christian was completely destroyed by Katrina. Cooper said he was shocked by the slow progress he saw on the trip. "It's devastating," he said. "You see mile after mile of obliterated homes in Mississippi. And then in New Orleans you see something even spookier. The homes are still there but the water damage is so awful it's unbelievable. They are still finding dead bodies; they found one the day before we arrived." In addition to getting more help from FEMA, Cooper said insurance companies should be doing more to speed up their response. "Insurance companies need to do more to help their policyholders recover. It is almost hurricane season again and families are still waiting for help to clean up from Katrina."
03.02.2006	-Treasury Secretary Snow confirms numbers in 2005 Financial Report of the U.S. Government has 2005 deficit at $760 billion, not $319 WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper today said a little-known Administration report, the 2005 Financial Report of the U.S. Government, indicates that the 2005 budget deficit was actually more than twice the figure reported in the President's budget. Cooper made the statement today in Washington at a press conference called by the Blue Dog Coalition. Cooper is the policy co-chair of the group of moderate to conservative Democrats which also includes Tennessee Representatives John Tanner, Lincoln Davis and Harold Ford. "Every year the President issues two vital budgeting documents: the Budget and the Financial Report," Cooper said. "You've heard of the first, but not of the second. Why is it completely ignored?" Cooper said the answer is clear. "The Budget says the deficit was $319 billion in 2005," Cooper stated. "The Financial Report says it was $760 billion, or over twice as large." Both documents are prepared by the Administration. The Financial Report is prepared by the Department of the Treasury. According to a letter from Secretary Snow printed in the report, "In comparison with the October budget report, the Financial Report presents the government's accrual-based net operating cost, which was $760 billion in 2005." Unlike the Budget, the Financial Report uses accrual-based accounting. Accrual-based accounting is the method required by law to be used by every business in America with revenues over $5 million. The Budget uses cash-basis accounting, which only the tiniest businesses in America use because it hides future obligations. According to David Walker, the Comptroller General of the Government Accountability Office, cash-basis accounting paints a "potentially unrealistic and misleading picture of the federal government's overall performance." With Congress now in the middle of its annual budget process, Cooper called on members from both parties to work together to bring more honesty and accountability to this year's debate. "The Blue Dog's call for honest budgeting simply builds on the "12-Point Plan" we unveiled last year to promote more responsible budgeting and fiscal discipline," Cooper said. "Caps on discretionary spending, ‘paygo' rules that any spending increase or revenue cut be paid for, and a balanced-budget amendment are common-sense solutions to the problem we should all support."
02.22.2006	"I'm opposed to this transaction and I'm not convinced that it is in our national security interests to move forward," U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper said. A United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.)-owned security firm, Dubai Ports World, recently acquired the British-based Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co. which currently oversees the security of 6 strategic U.S. seaports. The $6.8 billion dollar deal is set to go into effect March 2, transferring day-to-day security operations at ports in New York, Newark-Port Elizabeth, Baltimore, Philadelphia, New Orleans and Miami to the U.A.E. company. The Bush administration signed off on the transaction after the deal received unanimous approval from the Committee on Foreign Investments.
02.10.2006	NASHVILLE-U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, said today that he will oppose cuts to veterans' health benefits proposed by President Bush in his budget for fiscal year 2007. "Our veterans served their country with the expectation that our country would in turn be there to support them and their health care needs," Cooper said. "These men and women fought to preserve American freedom and democracy. I will do everything in my power to fight for them now and to make sure they continue to receive the benefits they earned and deserve." "I am totally against what they are trying to do with these changes," said Ralph Land, President, Vietnam Veterans of America - Chapter 953. "These men and women put their lives on the line for our country and now they are trying to go back on their promises to them. They tried to do something like this after Vietnam and now they are trying again. It wasn't right then and it isn't right now." President Bush proposed changes in veterans' health benefits in his just-released budget. The proposed changes would require some veterans to pay a $250 annual enrollment fee for medical care and raise co-pays for drug purchases to $15 from the current $8.
