02.01.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – February marks Black History Month, a time to honor the contributions of African Americans to American culture and society. First conceived in 1926 by Dr. Carter G. Woodson as “Negro History Week,” February was formally recognized as Black History Month by President Gerald Ford in 1976. “Each February, we as a nation come together to recognize and celebrate the many achievements of African Americans and their contributions to our great nation,” said Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01). “In the spirit of Black History Month, we remember key accomplishments in Black history. Black Wall Street in Durham was known as the mecca for African American business activity during its time. The Oliver Nestus Freeman Round House in Wilson was originally built by an African American stonemason to help alleviate the housing shortage for GIs returning from war in the 1940s. “Black History Month also provides an opportunity for reflection. As African Americans still face one of the highest unemployment rates in the country, we recognize that much work remains to invest in shared prosperity. I will continue in the fight for reducing the cost of education, improving access to quality health care, diversifying the job market, and working on behalf of all of my constituents to ensure their voices are heard. “This month, we celebrate the achievements of African Americans who have led the fight toward equity in our communities, and stand together in paving the way for continued progress for all.” Throughout the month of February, Congressman Butterfield will join his constituents at the following Black History Month events: Saturday, February 16 Black History Month Program Sycamore Hill Missionary Baptist Church 9:00 am 1001 Hooker Road Greenville, NC 27834 Sunday, February 17 Black History Month Program Black Swamp Church of Christ, Disciples of Christ 10:45am 1414 Bear Grass Road Williamston, NC 27892 Wednesday, February 20 Black History Month Program Keynote Speaker Halifax Community College 10:00 am 100 College Drive Weldon, NC 27890 Thursday, February 21 Black History Month “Hearts of our Heritage” Celebration Bertie County High School 10:30 am 716 US HWY 13 North Windsor, NC 27983 Black History Month Program Keynote Speaker Washington County Early College High School 1:30 pm 102 NC HWY 32 North Roper, NC 27970 Friday, February 22 Black History Month Keynote Speaker Hertford County Early College 10:45 am 109 Community College Road Ahoskie, NC 27910 Saturday, February 23 Princeville Founders Day and Prayer for Black History Month Program Princeville 5:00 pm Location TBD ###
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, January 25, 2019, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will visit Pitt-Greenville Airport to meet with Transportation Security Administration (TSA) employees who have been affected by the partial federal government shutdown. The agents, who work at the Pitt-Greenville Airport located in Butterfield’s Congressional district in Greenville, North Carolina, are among the 51,000 TSA employees across the country currently working without pay or are placed on furlough, and today have been denied a paycheck for the second consecutive pay period because of the government shutdown. “Every day, I am hearing from individuals across North Carolina who are feeling the impacts of this irresponsible government shutdown,” said Butterfield. “During today’s meeting with employees at the Pitt-Greenville Airport, I intend to listen to the employees’ concerns and provide an update on what I am hearing in Washington, DC. I have voted for several bills that would re-open our government, and I voted in favor of legislation ensuring that North Carolina’s federal employees receive every dime that they are owed. But I know this is not enough. Our state’s hardworking federal employees shouldn’t have to worry whether they will be able to pay their rent, keep their children in childcare, or put food on the table.” January 25 marks Day 35 of the partial government shutdown, the longest in U.S. history. More than 7,000 North Carolinians who serve as federal employees are currently furloughed or are working without pay. Since the 116th Congress began on January 3, 2019, Congressman Butterfield has voted nearly every day to open the government and end the shutdown. Friday, January 25 - Greenville 11:30 AM Visit to Pitt-Greenville Airport 400 Airport Road Greenville, NC 27834 Closed press. ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), David E. Price (NC-04), and Alma Adams (NC-12), the Democratic members of North Carolina’s congressional delegation, today issued the following statement calling on Senate Republicans and President Trump to immediately act to end the government shutdown: “More than 7,000 North Carolinians who serve as federal employees are currently furloughed or working without pay because of President Trump’s petulant demands to build a border wall and Senate Republicans’ kowtowing to the President’s wishes over the needs of their constituents. These workers, many of them veterans, include essential national security and law-enforcement personnel, critical air traffic controllers and TSA agents, and hard-working employees responsible for ensuring tax returns are processed in an accurate and timely fashion, among other key services. “As the shutdown drags on into its third week, critical Hurricane Florence disaster relief funds cannot be disbursed to the state, federally-supported research at our local universities is now stalled, lines at major airports across the country are increasing every day, and housing for seniors, veterans, and the disabled is at risk. “The Democratic House has done its part – we have supported and passed numerous bipartisan funding bills to reopen government, a number of which earlier passed the Senate overwhelmingly, before President Trump reversed course. It is time for our colleagues in the Senate to act. We call on Senate Majority Leader McConnell and Senate Republicans to stand up to President Trump and immediately hold a vote on the House-passed legislation to re-open government, which is virtually identical to legislation that was supported by 92 Senators just a few months ago. It is time our government gets back to work for the American people.” ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) has been appointed to serve on the powerful House Committee on Energy and Commerce, where he will serve as the third most senior Democrat on the important Health Subcommittee. In the 116th Congress, Butterfield will focus on protecting and expanding the Affordable Care Act, improving access to affordable health care treatments and medications, reducing health disparities, and advocating for subpopulations in need of better health care options including rare disease and pediatric patients. “As I enter my eighth term in Congress, I am honored to continue to represent North Carolina’s First Congressional District on the House Energy and Commerce Committee,” said Butterfield. “The 2018 midterm elections showed how important access to affordable health care is to my constituents and voters across the country. Millions of Americans and North Carolinians sent Democrats to assume control of the 116th Congress with a resounding message: protect the Affordable Care Act from President Trump and Republican efforts to undermine it, strengthen and expand Medicaid and Medicare, and search for opportunities to reduce health care costs for American families. The American people expect us to deliver.” “I’m pleased Rep. Butterfield will continue to serve on the Energy and Commerce Committee where he will play a crucial role in the fight to ensure all Americans have access to affordable and quality health care, safe drinking water, high-speed internet and a cleaner environment,” said Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ). “As a longtime health care champion, Rep. Butterfield will continue to be a powerful advocate for improving our nation’s health care system and lowering costs for consumers. I look forward to working with him in the new House Democratic Majority.” Butterfield was also appointed to serve on the Communications and Technology and Energy Subcommittees. Background of the House Energy and Commerce Committee: The Committee on Energy and Commerce, the oldest standing legislative committee in the U.S. House of Representatives, is vested with the broadest jurisdiction of any congressional authorizing committee. Today it has responsibility for the nation's telecommunications, consumer protection, food and drug safety, public health research, environmental quality, energy policy, and interstate and foreign commerce. It oversees multiple cabinet-level Departments and independent agencies, including the Departments of Energy, Health and Human Services, Commerce, and Transportation, as well as the Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Trade Commission, the Food and Drug Administration, and the Federal Communications Commission. As one of three exclusive committees in the U.S. House of Representatives, the Committee on Energy and Commerce has jurisdiction on a variety of key legislative issues, including: Health care, including mental health and substance abuse Health insurance, including Medicare and Medicaid Biomedical research and development Food, drug, device and cosmetic safety Environmental protection Clean air and climate change Safe drinking water Toxic chemicals and hazardous waste National energy policy Renewable energy and conservation Nuclear facilities Electronic communications and the internet Broadcast and cable television Privacy, cybersecurity and data security Consumer protection and product safety Motor vehicle safety Travel, tourism and sports Interstate and foreign commerce ###
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) spoke on the House Floor today calling on Senate Republicans to hold a vote to end the partial government shutdown, which has now lasted for 20 days. Click here or on the image above for video. “Madam Speaker, today we enter Day 20 of the Trump Shutdown. President Trump has spent years as a reality television host, but unfortunately, reality is still not his strong suit. This week, President Trump abused the backdrop of the Oval Office to feed the American people divisive and distorted rhetoric, while still ignoring the reality that a wall is wasteful, impractical, and inconsistent with our values. President Trump has tried to convince the American people that there is a crisis at our border. The crisis, Madam Speaker, is one of Donald Trump’s own making: a government shutdown that has gone on too long. This is affecting real lives. This is a humanitarian crisis. Federal workers and their families – 80 percent of which live outside of the metropolitan area of DC – will go without a paycheck this Friday because of this shutdown. 7,000 workers in North Carolina are directly affected by the shutdown. Hundreds of thousands of public servants across the country are worried to death. Senate Republicans have a choice. Do your constitutional duty, Senators. Do your job as a Senate. Pass the House bills that we have sent over to you.” Background: On the first day of the 116th Congress, the House Democratic Majority passed a complete funding package with Senate Republicans’ language to re-open government. Senate Republicans refused to bring that bill up for a vote. This week, House Democrats are taking action to re-open all government agencies by passing individual, bipartisan appropriations bills to meet the needs of American families, protect our borders, and respect American workers. ###
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) presided over the U.S. House of Representatives today, January 8, the third day of the 116th Congress. As Speaker pro tempore, Butterfield managed debate on the third day of the new Democratic majority. Click here or on the image above to watch video. ###
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will preside over the U.S. House of Representatives today, January 8, the third day of the 116th Congress. As Speaker pro tempore, Butterfield will manage debate on the third day of the new Democratic majority. On January 3, 2018, Congressman Butterfield was sworn in to his eighth term as U.S. Representative for North Carolina’s First Congressional District. In December, he announced his appointment as Chief Deputy Whip. “Presiding over the House of Representatives is a great honor and privilege, and I thank Speaker Nancy Pelosi for the opportunity to take the gavel in the third day of the 116th Congress,” said Butterfield. “The American people voted for a Democratic Majority in the U.S. House that will fight to make health care accessible, build an economy that works for everyone, and be a positive source for change in our country. As I take the gavel as Speaker pro tempore today, I reaffirm my commitment to a government that works for North Carolinians and the nation. Tuesday, January 8, 2019 WHAT: Butterfield will preside over the U.S. House of Representatives WHEN: Approximately 2:00 p.m. WATCH: Live on C-Span’s television and radio networks and streaming live at www.c-span.org ###
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), and Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), today applauded the U.S. Senate for confirming Geoffrey Starks as a Commissioner to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). “We congratulate Geoffrey Starks on his confirmation to assume the office of Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission. Commissioner Starks is well known for his expertise, professionalism, and dedication. As members of the Congressional Black Caucus and the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, we are confident that Commissioner Starks will be a strong voice in ensuring that our communications networks and technologies serve the needs of communities of color and improve the lives of all Americans. We thank Senator Schumer for favorably considering our recommendation of this distinguished American.” Background: The Federal Communications Commission is comprised of five commissioners, each of whom serve five-year terms, and are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. U.S. law requires a 3-2 split in which there are three commissioners from the majority party and two commissioners from the minority party. Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel currently fills the other Democratic seat on the Commission. With his confirmation to the FCC, Commissioner Starks is the only Black member of the five-seat commission, after the retirement of former Commissioner Mignon Clyburn in 2018. On March 7, 2018, the members sent a letter to Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer urging him to recommend the nomination of Geoffrey Starks. The letter can be viewed here. Following the nomination of Starks, Rush, Butterfield and Clarke called on the U.S. Senate to confirm Starks without delay. ###
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced that his legislation, H.R. 3460, to rename the United States Courthouse located at 323 East Chapel Hill Street in Durham, North Carolina as the “John Hervey Wheeler United States Courthouse” has been signed into law. “John Hervey Wheeler was a living legend throughout the South,” said Butterfield. “He was not just a banker and lawyer, he was a visionary African American leader. Over his long and remarkable career, John Hervey Wheeler played a key role in transforming the City of Durham and helped lead the fight for racial equality in Durham and throughout North Carolina. In 1964, he became the first African American president of the Southern Regional Council which promoted racial equality in the southern states during the despicable period of segregation by race. John Hervey Wheeler belongs to the ages. “I am happy the Durham courthouse will now be named in John Hervey Wheeler’s honor and his contribution to Durham will long be remembered. This dedication will serve as a symbol of triumph over racial and economic injustice.” On July 27, 2017, Butterfield introduced H.R. 3460, a bill to rename the U.S. Courthouse in Durham after John Hervey Wheeler. H.R. 3460 was passed in the House of Representatives on July 16, 2018 and was passed in the Senate on December 21, 2018. Click here to watch Congressman Butterfield’s Floor speech in support of H.R. 3460. Background on John Hervey Wheeler: John Hervey Wheeler was born in 1908 in the town of Kittrell in Vance County to Mr. John Leonidas Wheeler and the former Margaret Hervey. The family moved to Durham when his father took a job as an insurance agent with the North Carolina Mutual Life Insurance Company (NC Mutual). His father’s job at NC Mutual eventually took the family to Atlanta, Georgia when John Leonidas was promoted to supervisor for the company’s Georgia operations. John Hervey Wheeler was educated in Atlanta and attended high school at Morehouse Academy, followed by Morehouse College where he graduated summa cum laude with an A.B degree in June 1929. After graduating from Morehouse College, John Hervey Wheeler returned to Durham and began a decades-long career at Mechanics & Farmers (M&F) Bank, starting first as a bank teller and eventually rising to serve as bank president in 1952. Mr. Wheeler was forty-four years old, making him the youngest Black bank president in the country at that time. After returning to Durham, he enrolled in law school at the North Carolina College for Negroes – now North Carolina Central University – where, in 1947, he was among the institution’s first law school graduates. In 1935, John Hervey Wheeler became a founding member of the Durham Committee on Negro Affairs (DCNA), a local civil rights organization that established a means for African Americans to become involved in large-scale community activism in the fight for civil rights and economic justice. Mr. Wheeler began serving as the organization’s chairman in 1957, and held the position until 1978. The organization continues today as the Durham Committee on the Affairs of Black People. It was from DCNA that John Hervey Wheeler rose as a political leader. As president of M&F Bank, John Hervey Wheeler was instrumental in creating affordable lending options for African Americans that were previously unavailable to them. He is credited with breaking down barriers in lending so enterprising African Americans could realize their entrepreneurial goals. As an attorney, John Hervey Wheeler was a stalwart advocate for equality and fairness. He helped to lead several successful lawsuits that challenged educational segregation including the U.S. Supreme Court case Frasier v. Board of Trustees of the University of North Carolina. Due to his long and established work in support of civil rights, then-President John F. Kennedy appointed John Hervey Wheeler to the President’s Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity- now the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission- in 1961. In 1963, John Hervey Wheeler became an incorporator of the North Carolina Fund, an ambitious antipoverty agency established by then-Governor Terry Sanford to help eradicate issues of poverty. The Fund became a model for Lyndon B. Johnson's national War on Poverty initiative. On December 25, 1935, John Hervey Wheeler married the former Selena Lucille Warren. They had two children: Julia and Warren Hervey Wheeler. John Hervey Wheeler passed away on July 6, 1978 at the age of 70. John Hervey Wheeler was the recipient of many awards and commendations over his long and important career, including the Frank Porter Graham Civil Liberties Award for his defense of freedom for all North Carolinians. In 1967, John Hervey Wheeler received an honorary degree from Morehouse College for his leadership as a member of the school’s board of trustees. He has also received an honorary doctorate from his alma mater North Carolina Central University, as well as from Duke University, Shaw University, Johnson C. Smith University, and Tuskegee University. ###
12.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement on the partial federal government shutdown: “It is devastating for 800,000 federal workers, including many North Carolinians, that President Trump and the lame duck Republican Congress chose to shut the government down for a third time this year. Instead of receiving pay and being able to spend time with their families, many federal employees will be furloughed or forced to work without pay because President Trump demands $5.7 billion in wasteful spending for a senseless border wall. It is hypocritical that President Trump and Republicans say they stand for border security, then opt to shutdown agencies important to our national security including the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of State.” “A partial government shutdown is harmful to North Carolinians and the American people who depend on services provided by the federal government from agricultural assistance to Homeland security. I remain hopeful that Congress can work together to quickly bring forward a responsible clean spending bill to fund the government. When Democrats take control of the House in January, we will work to ensure the Trump Administration and Republicans do not hold the budget process hostage and will block efforts to fund a wasteful border wall.” ###
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, the U.S. Senate passed legislation introduced by Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) to designate the United States Courthouse located at 323 East Chapel Hill Street in Durham, North Carolina, as the “John Hervey Wheeler United States Courthouse,” in honor of prominent lawyer, civil rights leader, and bank president, John Hervey Wheeler. “John Hervey Wheeler was a statesman who led with conviction,” said Butterfield. “There is no more fitting way to honor the legacy and contributions of John Hervey Wheeler than to name the United States Courthouse in Durham, North Carolina in his honor. It is my hope that the president will sign this bill into law expeditiously so that John Hervey Wheeler’s contributions to the community he loved so much will live on for generations to come.” On July 27, 2017, Butterfield introduced H.R. 3460, a bill to rename the U.S. Courthouse in Durham after John Hervey Wheeler. H.R. 3460 was passed by voice vote in the House of Representatives on July 16, 2018. H.R. 3460 now heads to the president’s desk to be signed into law. Click here to watch Congressman Butterfield’s Floor speech in support of H.R. 3460. Background on John Hervey Wheeler: John Hervey Wheeler was born in 1908 in the town of Kittrell in Vance County to Mr. John Leonidas Wheeler and the former Margaret Hervey. The family moved to Durham when his father took a job as an insurance agent with the North Carolina Mutual Life Insurance Company (NC Mutual). His father’s job at NC Mutual eventually took the family to Atlanta, Georgia when John Leonidas was promoted to supervisor for the company’s Georgia operations. John Hervey Wheeler was educated in Atlanta and attended high school at Morehouse Academy, followed by Morehouse College where he graduated summa cum laude. After graduating from Morehouse College, John Hervey Wheeler returned to Durham and began a decades-long career at Mechanics & Farmers (M&F) Bank, starting first as a bank teller and eventually rising to serve as bank president. After returning to Durham, he enrolled in law school at the North Carolina College for Negroes – now North Carolina Central University – where, in 1947, he was among the institution’s first law school graduates. In 1935, John Hervey Wheeler became a founding member of the Durham Committee on Negro Affairs (DCNA), a local civil rights organization that established a means for African Americans to become involved in large-scale community activism in the fight for civil rights and economic justice. The organization continues today as the Durham Committee on the Affairs of Black People. It was from DCNA that John Hervey Wheeler rose as a political leader. As president of M&F Bank, John Hervey Wheeler was instrumental in creating affordable lending options for African Americans that were previously unavailable to them. He is credited with breaking down barriers in lending so enterprising African Americans could realize their entrepreneurial goals. As an attorney, John Hervey Wheeler was a stalwart advocate for equality and fairness. He helped to lead several successful lawsuits that challenged educational segregation including the U.S. Supreme Court case Frasier v. Board of Trustees of the University of North Carolina. Due to his long and established work in support of civil rights, then-President John F. Kennedy appointed John Hervey Wheeler to the President’s Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity- now the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission- in 1961. In 1963, John Hervey Wheeler became an incorporator of the North Carolina Fund, an ambitious antipoverty agency established by then-Governor Terry Sanford to help eradicate issues of poverty. The Fund became a model for Lyndon B. Johnson's national War on Poverty initiative. John Hervey Wheeler passed away on July 6, 1978 at the age of 70. John Hervey Wheeler was the recipient of many awards and commendations over his long and important career, including the Frank Porter Graham Civil Liberties Award for his defense of freedom for all North Carolinians. ###
12.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) – led by Chairman L. Cedric Richmond (D-LA-02), and Congressional Black Caucus Diversity Task Force Co-Chairs, Representatives Barbara Lee (D-CA-13) and G. K. Butterfield (D-NC-01) – issued the following joint statement in response to a new report prepared for the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, which reveals Russia targeted African American voters in attempts to suppress the vote in the 2016 election: “During the 2016 presidential election cycle, hundreds of thousands of minority voters were disenfranchised before they even had a chance to walk into the voting booth. As today’s report produced for the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence makes clear – this was a carefully orchestrated effort by Russian actors to exploit social media platforms in order to suppress turnout among black voters. “This campaign of disinformation is extremely disconcerting because black voter turnout declined in 2016 – for the first time in 20 years. “While this next Congress gives both Democrats and Republicans an opportunity to address election security, we call upon the President to take the security of our elections seriously and work with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the FBI to stop foreign election meddling efforts. The CBC would also like to hear directly from Mark Zuckerberg at Facebook, and CEOs of other companies whose platforms were weaponized, about what they knew, and concrete steps they will implement to address future attempts at disinformation campaigns. “We cannot allow the deceit and misinformation that characterized the 2016 elections to be repeated in the future.” ###
12.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement regarding his appointment by House Majority Whip-Elect James E. Clyburn to serve as Chief Deputy Whip for the 116th Congress when it convenes in January: “I am honored that my friend, Congressman Jim Clyburn, has given me the opportunity to serve in a senior position in the House Democratic Caucus as Democrats become the majority party in the House of Representatives. “This is a critical moment in our Nation’s history. The Democratic Party has been entrusted with the opportunity to serve the American people by legislating in a responsible manner. We will pass important legislation to protect and empower families throughout our great country. We will promote an agenda to improve our economy, create jobs, and help low- and middle-income families. Undoubtedly, there will be new challenges, responsibilities, and opportunities ahead, and I am excited to help lead the Democratic Caucus in this role.” Clyburn also named Representatives John Lewis (GA-05), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Peter Welch (VT-AL), Terri Sewell (AL-07), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Pete Aguilar (CA-31), and Henry Cuellar (TX-28) to his Whip team for the 116th Congress. As a Chief Deputy Whip, Butterfield will work with the Democratic leadership to help formulate policy and rally support for the Caucus’ legislative priorities on the House Floor. Congressman Butterfield is the first Democrat from North Carolina to serve in this role. ###
12.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), David E. Price (NC-04), and Alma Adams (NC-12), the Democratic members of North Carolina’s congressional delegation, today issued the following statement regarding the North Carolina General Assembly’s passage of a bill Wednesday that would require a new primary election as well, if a new general election is called in response to allegations of election fraud in North Carolina’s Ninth Congressional District which have called the results of that race into question: “It is clear that North Carolina Republicans realize the evidence is mounting that the General Election in the Ninth Congressional District was tainted with absentee ballot fraud favoring Republican candidate Rev. Mark Harris. Investigators are seeking to determine whether Rev. Harris knew of any absentee ballot harvesting in the election. Any election fraud involving the candidate or his operatives should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. “The Republican super majority in the General Assembly is bracing for a finding of substantial absentee ballot fraud in the General Election. So much so that they are attempting to change the current law after the election has already been held, opening the door for the Board of Elections to order a new primary in addition to a new general election. “The Republican Party was informed of possible election fraud after the 2018 primary election, but chose to do nothing. Now that this failure to act has been exposed, the General Assembly is attempting to protect this congressional seat by any means necessary, including a new primary election. “The Republican super majority in the General Assembly must understand that changing the law after the election, to require a new primary, is likely unconstitutional. This newly enacted legislation discredits North Carolina once again in the eyes of the Nation. It will further delay representation for the citizens of the Ninth Congressional District. “We call on the State Board of Elections to conclude its investigation expeditiously and pursue all available remedies to this substantial election fraud, including the conduct of a new general election.” ###
12.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) issued the following statement regarding the allegations of election fraud in North Carolina’s Ninth Congressional District which have called the results of that race into question. On November 29, Rep. Butterfield was joined by Reps. David Price (NC-04) and Alma Adams (NC-12) in calling for allegations of election fraud to be thoroughly investigated and for all remedies to be considered, up to and including a special election “Our democracy relies on fair elections. The evidence of election fraud in North Carolina’s Ninth Congressional District is mounting by the day. “As the investigation by the Board of Elections is ongoing, I have been in continued communication with House leadership to ensure the House of Representatives is prepared for every outcome including holding an emergency congressional hearing to determine whether there is substantial evidence of election fraud on the part of Mark Harris or his surrogates. It is imperative that we have fair elections free from fraudulent electioneering that favor a particular candidate or political party. “The Board of Elections and Department of Justice should expedite consideration of this matter. An evidentiary hearing will disclose the obvious misconduct of Republican operatives in Bladen County and determine whether the Republican Party or its nominee knew or should have known of this absentee ballot election scheme. “It is interesting that this alleged absentee ballot scheme was reported to the United States Attorney’s office after the 2016 elections and no official actions were taken to protect the integrity of the 2018 elections.” ###
12.04.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced Kendra F. Brown as Chief of Staff. “I am pleased to announce the appointment of Kendra Brown to serve as my Chief of Staff for the Office of North Carolina’s First Congressional District, said Butterfield. “I am honored to have been recently elected to serve in the 116th Congress. It is imperative that I have a trusted leader who can guide our staff to meet the challenges we face in the Congress and the Nation. Kendra’s institutional knowledge, policy expertise, and leadership experience will be most valuable in assisting me in my work as the people’s representative.” Kendra Brown currently serves as Senior Director for Diversity, Inclusion and Affinity for the Washington College of Law at American University. She previously served as Deputy Chief of Staff and Legislative Director in the U.S. House of Representatives. From 2015 to 2017, Kendra served as Policy Director of the Congressional Black Caucus, under the chairmanship of Congressman Butterfield. She also served as Legislative Counsel for Earthjustice. Kendra graduated from Hampton University with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science with a minor in Business Management. She completed her Master of Divinity at Howard University Divinity School, and received her law degree from Vermont Law School. Additionally, Kendra attended the George Washington University School of Law for her Master of Laws. “I am delighted to join such a phenomenal team,” said Brown. “We have a great work to continue and I look forward to furthering Congressman Butterfield’s agenda, leadership and priorities for those he represents.” Kendra Brown succeeds Troy Clair, who served as Congressman Butterfield’s Chief of Staff since 2012. Kendra will begin as Chief of Staff on December 17, 2018 and will be based in Congressman Butterfield’s Washington, D.C. office. ###
12.01.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the passing of former President George H.W. Bush “I join the country in mourning the passing of President George H.W. Bush. President Bush was an experienced and principled leader, who lived a life of service that included serving our nation as vice president, a member of Congress, and a decorated Navy pilot during World War II. His life serves as a model of leadership, dignity, and respect “My prayers are with the Bush family. May our 41st President rest in peace." ###
11.30.2018	DURHAM, N.C. - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) and Congressman David Price (D-N.C.) today issued the following statement in response to the deportation of Samuel Oliver-Bruno. On November 1, 2018, Reps. Butterfield and Price sent a letter to USCIS requesting deferred action from deportation for Mr. Oliver-Bruno and asking officials to use prosecutorial discretion in his case based on humanitarian considerations. After Mr. Oliver-Bruno’s petition for deferred deportation was denied, Reps. Butterfield and Price called on the Department of Homeland Security to reverse his order of removal. “It is a sad day for Samuel Oliver-Bruno’s family and our community. So many, including local advocates, neighbors, friends, and people of faith all worked tirelessly on Samuel’s behalf to seek his release. As Durham’s representatives in Congress, we personally and persistently advocated for Samuel’s release at the highest levels of government. In particular, we insisted that top officials in the Trump Administration personally address statements from Mrs. Oliver-Bruno’s medical providers regarding her health condition. Those requests were ignored. All of us are extremely disappointed in the Department of Homeland Security’s refusal to use its discretionary authority to do what was right, just, and moral. “We believe the actions taken by ICE and USCIS in Mr. Oliver-Bruno’s apprehension are extremely concerning and deserving of scrutiny. We will continue to seek a full investigation into the actions of both agencies leading up to Mr. Oliver-Bruno’s arrest on November 23, 2018. These actions will undoubtedly have a chilling effect, further driving people into the shadows of our society. “We will continue to speak out and fight against the unjust and cruel immigration policies of the Trump administration that are unnecessarily tearing families apart.” ###
11.29.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.), Congressman David Price (D-N.C.), and Congresswoman Alma Adams (D-N.C.), the Democratic members of North Carolina’s congressional delegation, today issued the following statement on the North Carolina Board of Elections delaying certification of the election results for North Carolina’s 9th Congressional District: “As members of the North Carolina Congressional delegation, we appreciate the unanimous and bipartisan decision of the State Board of Elections to delay certification of the election results for the 9th Congressional District because of credible and concerning allegations of irregularities in at least one county. These allegations must be thoroughly investigated to guarantee that the outcome of this election reflects the will of the voters and to ensure accountability for any misconduct. “We call upon the State Board to conduct a public evidentiary hearing prior to certifying the election results. Should this hearing and related investigations produce clear evidence of voter fraud, the Board should consider all available remedies, up to and including the conduct of a new election, to guarantee a lawful election outcome.” ###
11.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement in response to the news that Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) will not support President Donald Trump’s nomination of Thomas Farr to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina, effectively ending the potential for the controversial nominee to be confirmed by the Senate during the 115th Congress: “I commend Senator Scott and other Senators who took a firm stand to protect the integrity of the federal judiciary by refusing to confirm Thomas Farr. “Thomas Farr has continuously embraced and defended discriminatory efforts to dilute the African American vote through extreme partisan gerrymandering and the packing of Black voters into minority districts. Farr began his career by advising and representing Senator Jesse Helms during his 1990 Senate campaign when 125,000 postcards were mailed to Black households suggesting that voters could be arrested at the polling place if there was misconduct. Simply put, Thomas Farr was unfit to be nominated and unfit to serve as a federal judge. “I urge President Trump to consult with the North Carolina Congressional delegation in deciding a nominee for this very important judgeship. I will advocate for the selection of an African American judge to serve the Eastern District that will bring much needed diversity to the federal bench. The Eastern District of North Carolina has never had an African American federal judge.” ###
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina’s Congressional delegation received Governor Cooper’s disaster funding request as it continues its work to secure additional Hurricane Florence recovery funding from congressional appropriators to assist in rebuilding efforts in areas affected by the storm. The North Carolina Congressional delegation previously secured more than a billion dollars for the state’s long-term recovery in legislation passed in October. Click HERE to read the letter. “I thank Governor Cooper for his steadfast leadership as our state works to rebuild from Hurricane Florence,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Today, Governor Cooper provided Congress with a thoughtful and comprehensive request for federal assistance in North Carolina’s Hurricane Florence recovery efforts. In the waning days of the 115th Congress, I will continue to work with my colleagues in the North Carolina Congressional Delegation to secure vital federal funding needed to help North Carolina recover even stronger than before.” “North Carolina suffered wide-spread devastation from Hurricane Florence, causing billions of dollars in damages to communities across our state,” said Senator Tillis. “The effort by Governor Cooper and the North Carolina state government to assess the damages caused by Hurricane Florence and submit a timely disaster funding request compliments the months-long work by the North Carolina Congressional delegation to ensure we receive additional federal relief to recover from this devastating storm.” “I stand with North Carolina’s Congressional delegation in supporting Governor Cooper’s request for additional disaster relief funding to help our fellow North Carolinians still hurting from Hurricane Florence,” said Senator Burr. “This additional funding is critical for helping our state get back on its feet soon and rebuilding after historic destruction. I look forward to continuing to work with Senator Tillis, Governor Cooper, and our colleagues in the House to ensure North Carolina gets the Federal support it needs.” “Hurricane Florence was one of the most devastating storms in our state’s history. The disaster funding request letter, submitted by Governor Roy Cooper today, builds upon our delegation’s bipartisan work to deliver critical resources to help communities still struggling in the aftermath of the storm,” said Congressman Rouzer. “I applaud the state’s efforts and look forward to continuing our work, at all levels of the government, to help our state rebuild stronger than ever.” “As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, I greatly appreciate Governor Cooper’s leadership in developing a disaster funding request based on sound data and analysis that will help guide our efforts in Washington,” said Congressman Price. “I look forward to continuing to work with the Governor and my House and Senate delegation colleagues to secure necessary funding for North Carolina’s full recovery.” “I’ve made it a priority to secure critical funds to help our neighbors impacted by Hurricane Florence and will continue to work in a bipartisan manner with our Governor, our two Senators and our House delegation,” said Congressman Hudson. “Hurricane Florence inflicted billions of dollars in damage, caused catastrophic flooding and upended the lives of families across North Carolina,” said Congressman Holding. “Individuals and businesses hurt by the storm are in need of relief. In October, Congress initially authorized a down payment for disaster relief while we awaited a full assessment of the damage. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure the Carolinas have the resources needed to rebuild and recover from Hurricane Florence.” “Hurricane Florence was truly devastating to many families throughout North Carolina, ultimately causing billions of dollars in damage,” said Congresswoman Adams. “I thank Governor Cooper for his leadership during the ongoing recovery efforts and I proudly stand by his funding request, which will ensure that our state has the resources needed to make a full recovery.” ###
11.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), David E. Price (NC-04), and Alma Adams (NC-12), the Democratic members of North Carolina’s congressional delegation, today sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell urging the cancellation of all votes on the nomination of Thomas A. Farr for a lifetime seat on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina. President Trump nominated attorney Thomas Farr on July 13, 2017 to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina. Farr has a decades-long record of defending voter suppression tactics in North Carolina, including voter intimidation, discriminatory election changes, and racial gerrymandering. In 1992, as the lawyer for former Senator Jesse Helms’ re-election campaign, he defended the campaign against U.S. Department of Justice complaints of voter intimidation after the campaign sent post cards to 100,000 black voters saying they were ineligible to vote and may be arrested for voting. The Members have requested the Senate cancel all votes this week on Thomas Farr’s nomination and allow his nomination to expire in the 115th Congress. The full text of the letter to Senate Majority Leader McConnell can be viewed here and below. November 26, 2018 The Honorable Mitch McConnell Majority Leader United States Senate 317 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Dear Majority Leader McConnell We write to respectfully request that you cancel all votes this week on the nomination of Thomas Farr as a District Judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina and allow his nomination to expire in the 115th Congress. Mr. Farr’s concerning record of justifying and enhancing voter-suppression tactics, including discriminatory campaign schemes, gerrymandering efforts, and election law changes in North Carolina that have gained national notoriety, signal that Mr. Farr will not be an impartial jurist. Mr. Farr’s confirmation will threaten the participation of African-Americans and other vulnerable populations in our political process. Mr. Farr’s nomination has been opposed by numerous civil rights organizations including the NAACP’s Legal Defense and Educational Fund (LDF), the Human Rights Campaign (HRC), and the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights (Leadership Conference). These groups cite Mr. Farr’s troubling history as a consistent opponent to African-American participation in the political process, as well as basic civil rights protections for Americans, as the primary reason for opposing his nomination. In a letter to the U.S. Senate dated October 16, 2017, the Leadership Conference stated that, “Mr. Farr has devoted much of his 38-year legal career to restricting voting rights and defending employment discrimination.[1]” This sentiment is shared by the Congressional Black Caucus, who believe that Mr. Farr’s history as an attorney leaves him unfit to make judgments on the scope of critical legal rights and protections. Mr. Farr’s career has seen numerous attempts to restrict voting rights for African-Americans. As a campaign aide for Senator Jesse Helms’s 1990 Senatorial race, Mr. Farr was instrumental in the campaign’s effort to send over 100,000 postcards to African-American voters in North Carolina, suggesting they could face criminal penalties if they attempted to vote. While Mr. Farr claimed in his September 2017 Senate Judiciary Committee confirmation hearing that he had no recollection of this event, statements from a former Department of Justice prosecutor, numerous news reports, and even Mr. Farr himself indicate that this is not accurate.[2] In any case, Mr. Farr defended this practice in federal court before signing a consent decree prohibiting the campaign from participating in such tactics. This event was so troubling that when President George W. Bush nominated Mr. Farr to the Eastern District Court in 2006 and again in 2007, the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee did not even consider his nomination. Mr. Farr’s hostility to African-American political participation does not end with his time with Senator Helms. Mr. Farr was also responsible for advising the North Carolina General Assembly while it drew federal congressional districts that packed African-American voters into Districts 1 and 12, a move the U.S. Supreme Court affirmed was unconstitutional.[3] Additionally, in 2013, Mr. Farr defended North Carolina’s discriminatory voter ID law, which targeted African-American voters “with almost surgical precision”, according to the U.S. Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals.[4] Mr. Farr’s nomination has been opposed by many of our nation’s leading editorial boards, for many of the same aforementioned reasons stated in this letter. In an editorial expressing disapproval with other Trump Administration judicial nominees, the Washington Post stated that Mr. Farr’s nomination should be “call[ed] back… to explain discrepancies regarding his knowledge of a voter-suppression effort by then-Sen. Jesse Helms’s 1990 campaign.”[5] WRAL-TV in Raleigh, North Carolina stated that Mr. Farr’s nomination represented “a plain, in your face, put down of African-Americans.”[6] These assessments, as well as those by hundreds of civil rights organizations, illustrate widespread agreement that, at best, Mr. Farr did not oppose attempts to attack voting rights; at worst, he may have fully supported and abetted these attacks. Mr. Farr’s record and his lack of candor while testifying to the U.S. Senate should cause every U.S. Senator to question his fitness to serve as a federal judge. As such, we ask that you cancel all votes on Mr. Farr’s nomination this week and allow his nomination to expire in the 115th Congress. We appreciate your consideration of this request. Sincerely, _____________________ _____________________ _____________________ ALMA S. ADAMS, Ph.D. G. K. BUTTERFIELD DAVID PRICE Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Charles E. Schumer, The Honorable Richard Burr, The Honorable Thom Tillis [1]Gupta, V. (2017, October 16). Oppose the Confirmation of Thomas Farr to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina [Letter written October 16, 2017 to U.S. Senate]. Retrieved July 30, 2018, from https://civilrights.org/oppose-confirmation-thomas-farr-u-s-district-court-eastern-district-north-carolina/. [2]Republicans advance Farr for judge as Democrats say pick shows Trump’s ‘racial animus’, Charlotte Observer (Jan. 18, 2018) (online at https://www.charlotteobserver.com/news/politics-government/article195344959.html). [3] The Supreme Court Finds North Carolina's Racial Gerrymandering Unconstitutional, The Atlantic (May, 22, 2017) (online at https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2017/05/north-carolina-gerrymandering/527592/). [4] Southern Poverty Law Center, From eugenics to voter ID laws: Thomas Farr's connections to the Pioneer Fund (Dec. 2017) (online at https://www.splcenter.org/hatewatch/2017/12/04/eugenics-voter-id-laws-thomas-farrs-connections-pioneer-fund). [5] The Senate is rushing through Trump’s judicial nominees. These embarrassments prove it., The Washington Post (Dec. 17, 2017) (online at https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/the-senate-is-rushing-through-trumps-judicial-nominees-these-embarrassments-prove-it/2017/12/17/9123f6a4-e1da-11e7-8679-a9728984779c_story.html?utm_term=.fdd2a6be4ee1). [6] Editorial: Farr's nomination makes the wrong statement, WRAL-TV (Mar. 16, 2018) (online at https://www.wral.com/editorial-on-the-merits-farr-s-nomination-falls-short/17420667/).
11.26.2018	DURHAM, N.C. - On Monday, November 26, 2018, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC-01) and Congressman David Price (D-NC-04) released the following statement after receiving notice from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) that Samuel Oliver-Bruno’s petition for deferred deportation has been denied by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) and that ICE intends to immediately move forward with Mr. Oliver-Bruno’s deportation to Mexico. Samuel Oliver-Bruno was abruptly arrested by ICE agents on Friday, November 23, after being asked by USCIS to appear in their offices to further his legal petition for deferred deportation. On November 1, 2018, Reps. Butterfield and Price sent a letter to USCIS requesting deferred action from deportation for Mr. Oliver-Bruno and asked officials to use prosecutorial discretion in his case based on humanitarian conditions. “Mr. Oliver-Bruno’s case exemplifies the anti-immigrant agenda of the Trump administration. Mr. Oliver-Bruno—a decades-long resident of North Carolina with no significant criminal history and a loving family that includes his U.S. citizen son—was forced into hiding, taking sanctuary in a church to avoid being deported and leaving his sick wife without medical care. He was given strict instructions to appear at a USCIS office to provide fingerprints for his application to defer his deportation, and when he did so, he was abruptly apprehended by ICE and shipped off to a detention facility to await a sham appeal. For one immigration agency under DHS to advise he follow a legal recourse, while another DHS agency plots to apprehend him in the process, is a miscarriage of justice. "Since his arrest, we have continually reached out to the Department of Homeland Security to ascertain the circumstances of his arrest and advocate for his release while his case is adjudicated. We have been largely ignored or delegated to junior staff in this pursuit, all while USCIS was working behind the scenes to deny his appeal, which we received notice of late this evening. "We are calling on Secretary Nielsen tonight to reverse Mr. Oliver-Bruno’s order of removal and will call for a full and thorough investigation into the Department’s improper efforts to apprehend Mr. Oliver-Bruno.” ###
11.23.2018	DURHAM, N.C. - On Friday, November 23, 2018, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC-01) and Congressman David Price (D-NC-04) released the following statement regarding the sudden arrest of Samuel Oliver-Bruno by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials while he was following instructions to visit the local U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) offices to take necessary steps to further his legal petition for deferred deportation. On November 1, 2018, Reps. Butterfield and Price sent a letter to USCIS requesting deferred action from deportation for Mr. Oliver-Bruno and asked officials to use prosecutorial discretion in his case based on humanitarian conditions. “We are extremely alarmed by Samuel Oliver-Bruno’s abrupt arrest this morning by ICE agents at the USCIS office in Morrisville, N.C. Mr. Oliver-Bruno has lived in the United States for more than two decades and has spent the last year living in sanctuary in Durham. “It appears ICE has acted in concert with officials at USCIS, who instructed Mr. Oliver-Bruno to appear at local USCIS offices to discuss his deferred deportation. He was then apprehended by plainclothes ICE agents upon entering the building. At best, Mr. Oliver-Bruno was presented with a catch-22 dilemma; at worst, he was entrapped. It’s clear that while Mr. Oliver-Bruno was attempting to follow the law in pursuit of his legal petition, ICE coordinated with USCIS to target him upon his leaving the City Well United Methodist Church. “Samuel, his wife Julia, and his 19-year-old son Daniel have been productive and upstanding members of the community for many years, with no serious criminal records and deep ties in the faith community. Julia Perez Pacheco has been diagnosed with Lupus and depends on Samuel, the sole provider for their family, to pay for her medical treatment. Additionally, Daniel Perez depends on his father’s financial and emotional support as he pursues a college degree. As we highlighted for USCIS officials earlier this month, Mr. Oliver-Bruno’s removal from the U.S. would result in severe hardship for his family, with his wife not being able to receive the medical treatment she needs. “Samuel’s sudden and inappropriate arrest in the middle of the Thanksgiving season reflects the callous and cruel approach we’ve come to expect from the Trump administration. As Members of Congress representing the Durham community, we will continue to do everything in our power to keep the Oliver-Bruno family together. In a call with us this afternoon, ICE has committed to allow Mr. Oliver-Bruno to remain in the U.S. in detention while his case is adjudicated. While this means he will not be immediately deported, we remain committed to fighting for his release.” ###
11.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the passing on Monday of William A. “Billy” Marsh, Jr., a renowned civil rights attorney in Durham, North Carolina: “I am greatly saddened to learn of the passing of my dear friend and role model, Billy Marsh. Billy Marsh was a pioneering leader in our community, using his legal training to champion civil rights here and across the state. He was a key figure in school desegregation cases in Durham County and surrounding areas. “Billy was a man of high distinction who dedicated his career to fighting for civil rights. He is an inspiration to today’s leaders, and I was, and will remain, honored to have shared in friendship with him. I wish to express my deepest condolences to his wife, Bernice, his children, his extended family, and his friends.” William A. Marsh, Jr. was born and raised in Durham and graduated from North Carolina Central University and North Carolina Central University School of Law. He was the first Black chairman of the Durham County Board of Elections, as well as the first Black chairman of the North Carolina Board of Elections. In 1957, he served as legal counsel to the “Royal Ice Cream Seven,” Durham civil rights activists who defied a city ordinance denying them service on the “white” side of a popular local shop. The case took place three years before the more famous Greensboro sit-ins. He was also central to the school desegregation proceedings for Durham’s school system. He served as general counsel to the Mechanics and Farmers Bank, Mutual Community Savings Bank, and UDI Community Development Corporation. Marsh was also a pioneer in establishing the North Carolina Association of Black Lawyers, where he served as president in 1975. His civil rights work has been recognized by the North Carolina Bar Association Hall of Fame, and in 2012, he was inducted into the General Practice Hall of Fame, which honors lawyers “who have made significant contributions to the cause of justice.” ###
10.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the passing of prominent news anchor and Durham native, Ervin Lee Hester, Sr.: “My heart is heavy upon learning of the passing of renowned news anchor and my dear friend, Ervin Hester. Regarded as one of the most prominent and pioneering African American journalists in the southeast, Ervin began his career in the 1960’s as an announcer for WSRC-AM in Durham. I have fond memories of tuning in to his broadcasts as a young student at North Carolina Central University. He was a trailblazer in media, and in 1996, he became the first African American inducted into the North Carolina Association of Broadcasters Hall of Fame. “Ervin Hester’s voice will be missed, but his legacy will continue to have a lasting impact on how we view news and journalism today. I send my condolences to Ervin’s family, friends, colleagues, and all who followed his work. Rest easy, my friend.” ###
10.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the passing of world renowned physician and Duke University School of Medicine professor, Dr. Brenda Estelle Armstrong: “America has lost a giant. Dr. Brenda Armstrong was my lifelong family friend who lived her younger life in segregated Rocky Mount, North Carolina, attending Booker T. Washington High School. Her service to the medical profession continued a tradition started by her father, Dr. W. T. Armstrong, who was a nationally renowned physician. Her mother, Mrs. Marguerite Armstrong, was a distinguished educator who touched the lives of so many young people. Dr. Brenda Estelle Armstrong will long be loved and remembered by her family, friends, patients, and students. Rest in peace, my dear friend.” ###
10.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after the Senate voted to confirm Judge Brett Kavanaugh to serve as Associate Justice on the U.S. Supreme Court: “The confirmation of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court is the disturbing culmination of a long-time conservative legal movement and a Republican majority so hell-bent on advancing their agenda that they rammed through a Supreme Court nominee amid disturbing allegations that have yet to be fully addressed or investigated and serious questions about his judicial temperament. “In moving forward with a confirmation to a lifetime seat on our nation’s highest court, there should not be unresolved questions surrounding a nominee’s past conduct or his judicial temperament. The sexual assault allegations brought forward by Dr. Blasey Ford and others against Judge Kavanaugh and the partisan fury he displayed at last Thursday’s hearing raise very serious questions about Judge Kavanaugh’s honesty, temperament, and ability to be an impartial justice. “I am extremely disappointed in the Senate’s decision to confirm Judge Kavanaugh’s appointment to the Supreme Court. Now more than ever, our country needs a Supreme Court justice who will rise above ideology, protect the rights of all Americans, and preserve our system of checks and balances by stopping presidential abuse of executive power. Unfortunately, nothing in Judge Kavanaugh’s record or past have shown he will be such a justice.” ###
09.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the passing of Sallie Baldwin Howard, a longtime educator and community leader and the namesake of the Sallie B. Howard School for the Arts & Education: “It is with great sadness that I mark the passing of a luminary. Mrs. Howard lived an extraordinary life of service to her community and contributed greatly to the lives of youth in Wilson and across the country. She was a leader in our community because of her strength and generous spirit. Today, I celebrate her life, not just because of her academic gifts but because of the blessings she bestowed on our community. “May God bless the life and memory of an incredibly wonderful human being. Sallie Baldwin Howard now belongs to the ages.” Rep. G. K. Butterfield pictured with Mrs. Sallie B. Howard at her 100th birthday celebration in March 2016. Photo by Carl Copeland for The Wilson Times, 2016. ###
09.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement ahead of Hurricane Florence’s landfall: “We face an imminent threat from Hurricane Florence. North Carolinians need to get ready for this storm now and take steps to protect their families and property. State and federal resources are being positioned to properly prepare for the effects of the storm. I am suspending my work in Washington, D.C. to be in my Congressional district and assist my constituents.” Yesterday, Congressman Butterfield was joined by North Carolina’s entire Congressional delegation in sending a letter to President Trump requesting the approval of Governor Roy Cooper’s Emergency Declaration in advance of Hurricane Florence’s landfall. This will help speed federal aid for North Carolina. Our office has compiled hurricane preparedness information for constituents of the First District of North Carolina which can be found online here. ###
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – In a letter today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) is joined by top Democrats in voicing strong concerns about the scope of recent Trump Administration subpoenas demanding millions of North Carolina voter records and called for an investigation into the legality and political motivation behind this unprecedented request for private voter information. The letter, from North Carolina Representatives G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), David E. Price (D-NC), and Alma S. Adams, Ph.D. (D-NC), Committee on House Administration Ranking Member Robert A. Brady (D-PA), Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Homeland Security Committee Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), and Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), asks the Inspectors General of the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to promptly undertake an investigation to determine the legal implications of and rationale for these subpoenas. “These subpoenas are overly broad, request private voter information, and appear to target voters of color,” the members write. “Accordingly, we respectfully request that you undertake an investigation to examine the circumstances by which these subpoenas were issued, the scope of the subpoenas, and the seemingly political motivations behind them.” The members note that President Trump “has continually repeated false claims regarding widespread voter fraud in the 2016 election,” leading to the creation of his Advisory Commission on Election Integrity that “was disbanded in January after being the subject of endless controversy and litigation.” Despite this, President Trump subsequently charged the Department of Homeland Security to “continue investigating the myth of widespread voter fraud. This document request by ICE appears to pick up where the Commission left off and seeks to use allegations of widespread voter fraud to justify voter suppression and intimation practices.” The letter concludes: “Given what we know about the scope of the subpoenas, and the counties that were targeted, we strongly suspect that this is part of the Trump administration’s dangerous and anti-democratic strategy of voter suppression and intimidation to limit equal access to the ballot box.” Specifically, the members request the Inspectors General begin an investigation that considers the following questions: What motivated the request for these documents? How was this particular set of records chosen for the subpoena? Was there any consideration of whether the request was overly broad? Do the subpoenas violate constitutional guarantees of equal protection and due process or any other constitutional provision? Do the subpoenas violate the National Voter Registration Act of 1993? Do the subpoenas violate North Carolina law? Why was the deadline initially set for September 25, 2018, less than two months before an election? Why was the deadline moved to after the November election? Does this action have any precedent? Is DHS planning to make similar requests in other states? Is DHS following President Trump’s directive to investigate widespread voter fraud? Are these subpoenas related to the DHS’ work following the President’s directive to investigate widespread voter fraud? Is ICE planning to use voter data to initiate deportation proceedings? Did DOJ and DHS follow all relevant laws and guidance, including the U.S. Attorneys’ Manual, in issuing the subpoenas, and was there a less intrusive method that the agencies rejected? Was there a reasonable evidential basis for the scope of the subpoenas? If the agencies obtain the requested records, do they have appropriate plans to limit the use of these records to the state purpose of the grand jury subpoenas and ensure their secure storage? The full text of the letter can be found online here. ###
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G.K. Butterfield (D-NC-01) and Congressman David Price (D-NC-04) today issued the following joint statement in response to news that the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of North Carolina issued subpoenas to the North Carolina State Board of Elections and the 44 counties of the Eastern District to obtain voting records from January 1, 2010 to August 30, 2018 and August 30, 2013 to August 30, 2018, respectively: “This alarming and unprecedented request from President Trump’s Department of Justice (DOJ) and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) 60 days prior to an election is appalling. In these subpoenas, ICE has failed to demonstrate its legal authority to request voting records and to reveal the rationale for the production of this information. This massive request of voter data seems clearly designed to disenfranchise and intimidate voters and to disrupt the administration of an impending election with major state and national implications. At a time when the integrity and security of our elections is at risk of attacks from hostile foreign actors, our local election administrators should not be wasting their scarce resources compiling over 20 million voter records in search of fraud that does not exist. We demand ICE and the Department of Justice rescind their subpoena request immediately. We will request the Inspectors General of the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security to investigate the legality and motivations for this action. In addition, we will also request the appropriate committees of the House of Representatives to investigate the legality and motivations for this action.” ###
07.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and co-chair of the Congressional Childhood Cancer Caucus, along with Representatives Jackie Speier (D-CA), Michael McCaul (R-TX), Diana DeGette (D-CO), and Mike Kelly (R-PA), introduced the Children’s Program of All-Inclusive Coordinated Care (ChiPACC) Act. The ChiPACC Act, H.R. 6560, is a bipartisan bill giving a full range of medical services to families with children who have life-limiting illnesses and who qualify for Medicaid, which currently has gaps in such coverage. The bill would let states create comprehensive care programs for these children. “Families with children facing life-limiting illnesses need all the support they can get, and they should be empowered to seek out that support,” the bill’s sponsors said in a joint statement. “We owe it to these kids and their loved ones to help ensure more compassionate care in their most trying times.” Gaps in Medicaid coverage of hospice and palliative services have deprived many beneficiaries of the care they need because the program does not cover some of children’s unique medical needs. Under this bill, the family of every child who qualifies for Medicaid will receive a specialized care plan covering a range of services – palliative, counseling, respite, expressive therapy, and bereavement – providing them and their families greater comfort and peace of mind. ###
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement on the passing of former vice president of Duke University, Phail Wynn: “I was shocked and saddened to learn of the passing of Phail Wynn. Leader, mentor, advocate, and friend are a few words that come to mind to describe what Phail meant to me. Durham, and the entire state of North Carolina, have lost a giant. My sincere condolences go to his beloved wife Peggy and the entire Wynn family.” ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the passage of his bill, H.R. 3460, to designate the United States courthouse located at 323 East Chapel Hill Street in Durham, North Carolina, as the “John Hervey Wheeler United States Courthouse.” H.R. 3460 was passed by voice vote in the House of Representatives today, July 16, 2018. “John Hervey Wheeler left a legacy across North Carolina as one of our most prominent Black leaders and community advocates who had a hand in transforming Durham into the city we know and love today,” said Butterfield. “I cannot think of a better way to pay tribute to John Hervey Wheeler’s remarkable life and career, than naming this courthouse in his honor. I am proud that my bill to name the federal courthouse in Durham after John Hervey Wheeler passed the House of Representatives, and I urge the Senate to expeditiously take up this bill.” Butterfield spoke on the House Floor on Monday in support of H.R. 3460: Click here or on the image above to watch Rep. Butterfield’s Floor remarks. Background on John Hervey Wheeler: John Hervey Wheeler was born in 1908 in the town of Kittrell in Vance County to Mr. John Leonidas Wheeler and the former Margaret Hervey. The family moved to Durham when his father took a job as an insurance agent with the North Carolina Mutual Life Insurance Company (NC Mutual). His father’s job at NC Mutual eventually took the family to Atlanta, Georgia when John Leonidas was promoted to supervisor for the company’s Georgia operations. John Hervey Wheeler was educated in Atlanta and attended high school at Morehouse Academy, followed by Morehouse College where he graduated summa cum laude. After graduating from Morehouse College, John Hervey Wheeler returned to Durham and began a decades-long career at Mechanics & Farmers (M&F) Bank, starting first as a bank teller and eventually rising to serve as bank president. After returning to Durham, he enrolled in law school at the North Carolina College for Negroes – now North Carolina Central University – where, in 1947, he was among the institution’s first law school graduates. In 1935, John Hervey Wheeler became a founding member of the Durham Committee on Negro Affairs (DCNA), a local civil rights organization that established a means for African Americans to become involved in large-scale community activism in the fight for civil rights and economic justice. The organization continues today as the Durham Committee on the Affairs of Black People. It was from DCNA that John Hervey Wheeler rose as a political leader. As president of M&F Bank, John Hervey Wheeler was instrumental in creating affordable lending options for African Americans that were previously unavailable to them. He is credited with breaking down barriers in lending so enterprising African Americans could realize their entrepreneurial goals. As an attorney, John Hervey Wheeler was a stalwart advocate for equality and fairness. He helped to lead several successful lawsuits that challenged educational segregation including the U.S. Supreme Court case Frasier v. Board of Trustees of the University of North Carolina. Due to his long and established work in support of civil rights, then-President John F. Kennedy appointed John Hervey Wheeler to the President’s Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity- now the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission- in 1961. In 1963, John Hervey Wheeler became an incorporator of the North Carolina Fund, an ambitious antipoverty agency established by then-Governor Terry Sanford to help eradicate issues of poverty. The Fund became a model for Lyndon B. Johnson's national War on Poverty initiative. John Hervey Wheeler passed away on July 6, 1978 at the age of 70. John Hervey Wheeler was the recipient of many awards and commendations over his long and important career, including the Frank Porter Graham Civil Liberties Award for his defense of freedom for all North Carolinians. ###
07.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding President Trump’s nominee to the United States Supreme Court: “The nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh is a complete non-starter. In nominating Brett Kavanaugh, President Trump has selected someone with views well outside the mainstream. Given the cases the Court will weigh in on in coming years, the integrity of the Supreme Court and the lives of millions of Americans will be directly impacted by this pick. I have deep concerns about Brett Kavanaugh's nomination, and I will remain actively engaged in the Senate’s confirmation process.” ###
06.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) was joined by more than 190 House Democrats today in introducing the Keep Families Together Act, H.R. 6135, to end family separation at the U.S. border. This legislation is the House companion to the legislation introduced by Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Diane Feinstein (D-CA) earlier this month. The Keep Families Together Act would: Keep Families Together: The bill promotes family unity by prohibiting Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials from separating children from their parents, except in extraordinary circumstances. In these limited circumstances, separation could not occur unless parental rights have been terminated, a child welfare agency has issued a best interest determination, or the Port Director or the Chief Border Patrol agent of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) have approved separation due to trafficking indicators or other concerns of risk to the child. It requires an independent child welfare official to review any such separation and return the child if no harm to the child is present. It imposes financial penalties on officials who violate the prohibition on family separation. Limit Criminal Prosecutions for Asylum Seekers: The majority of the parents separated at the border are being criminally prosecuted for illegal entry or re-entry. This bill restricts the prosecution of parents who are asylum seekers by adopting the recommendation of the DHS Office of Inspector General. The bill delays prosecutions for illegal entry or re-entry for asylum seekers and creates an affirmative defense for asylum seekers. It also codifies our commitment to the Refugee protocol prohibiting the criminal punishment of those seeking protection from persecution. Increase Child Welfare Training: The bill requires all CBP officers and agents to complete child welfare training on an annual basis. Port Directors and Chief Border Agents, those who are authorized to make decisions on family separations, must complete an additional 90 minutes of annual child-welfare trainin Establish Public Policy Preference for Family Reunification: The bill establishes a preference for family unity, discourages the separation of siblings, and creates a presumption that detention is not in the best interests of families and children. Add Procedures for Separated Families: The bill requires DHS to develop policies and procedures allowing parents and children to locate each other and reunite if they have been separated. Such procedures must be public and made available in a language that parents can understand. In cases of separation, it requires DHS to provide parents with a weekly report containing information about a child, and weekly phone communication. Establish Other Required Measures: In order to inform Congressional oversight and promote public understanding of the use family separation, the bill requires a report on the separation of families every six months. Background: Trump Administration Continues to Lie about Family Separation President Donald Trump is lying when he says family separation is required by the laws on the books. As fact-checkers at the Washington Post and elsewhere have concluded, there is simplyNO law that requires family separation. What is causing children to be taken from their parents is the deliberate choice—the Trump Administration’s “zero tolerance” policy—to prosecute asylum seeking families at the border for illegal entry. Speaker Ryan’s Immigration Bill Does Not End Family Separation House Speaker Paul Ryan’s so-called compromise bill would not end family separation or limit the Trump Administration’s “zero tolerance” prosecution policy. Instead, the bill authorizes prolonged family detention for the subset of families who are not prosecuted and separated. The bill specifically overrides the Flores settlement agreement, and various Federal court orders, that limit how long children can be held in immigration-related custody. By overriding the Flores agreement, the bill also eliminates decades of court-ordered protections on how children may be housed and treated by the Federal government. Organizations Support Keep Families Together Act The House version of the Keep Families Together Act is endorsed by the ACLU, Kids in Need of Defense, Human Rights First, Washington Office on Latin America, Women's Refugee Commission, Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, Latin American Working Group, NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Justice, New York Immigration Coalition, Third Way, Young Center for Immigrant Children’s Rights, Indivisible, Public Counsel’s Immigrants’ Rights Project, MomsRising, America’s Voice, Legal Aid Justice Center, Al Otro Lado, Amnesty International USA, Anti-Defamation League, Center for Gender & Refugee Studies, UnidosUS, Hispanic Federation, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, Church World Service, Main Street Alliance, Asylum Seeker Advocacy Project, Kino Border Initiative, National Immigrant Justice Center, The Children’s Partnership, SchoolHouse Connection, Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, National Hispanic Leadership Agenda and more. ###
06.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement on the United States Supreme Court’s decisions in Gill v. Whitford and Benisek v. Lamone, which address political gerrymandering in Wisconsin and Maryland, respectively: “I am disappointed that the Supreme Court today decided to put off a decision on the question of political gerrymandering. The Court had an opportunity to issue a landmark decision that would make it clear what constitutes unconstitutional partisan gerrymandering and how to place limits on the practice. Instead, the Court decided to side-step the issue by sending the cases back to the lower courts, citing procedural grounds. “The issue of the constitutionality of extreme partisan gerrymandering is still very much alive, and I remain hopeful the Justices will resolve the issue once and for all in North Carolina’s pending case before the Court, Rucho v. Common Cause, which is now ripe for consideration by the Court. Rucho v. Common Cause does not have an issue involving standing and is ready for a decision by the Court. “Voters in North Carolina and across the country deserve to have a voice in the political process, and, as we have seen, extreme partisan gerrymandering puts that in danger.” ###
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement in response to an announcement by Republican leaders in the North Carolina General Assembly that they intend to introduce a constitutional amendment requiring photo identification to cast a ballot in North Carolina: “This latest proposal by Republicans in the North Carolina General Assembly isn’t about protecting our elections. It is about suppressing the vote. Their continued and thinly-veiled efforts to make it harder and less likely that some North Carolinians will vote are shameful. North Carolinians are tired of the political games and we will continue to aggressively protect the right to vote wherever it is challenged.” ###
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced that the Childhood Cancer STAR (Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and Research) Act, his bipartisan bill to elevate and prioritize the fight against childhood cancer, was signed into law by President Trump last night. Introduced by Congressman Butterfield, along with Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA), Congressman Mike Kelly (R-PA), Senator Jack Reed (D-RI), Senator Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA), the STAR Act aims to advance childhood cancer research and child-focused cancer treatments for the nearly 16,000 children diagnosed with cancer in the United States every year, while also improving the quality of life for childhood cancer survivors. “No parent should have to lose a child to cancer,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Sadly, childhood cancer remains a leading cause of death in American children. With this legislation, we are taking concrete steps to battle this disease. I am proud we were able to work across the aisle to see this important legislation to the finish line. This bill will ultimately save the lives of young patients in North Carolina and across the country.” "Yesterday is a historic day – the most comprehensive childhood cancer bill is now law,” said Congressman McCaul. “By elevating the fight against childhood cancer at the National Institute of Health, and giving them more tools to be more effective in this fight, we will find the best solutions and care for our children. None of this would have been possible without all of the advocates and survivors who continue to share their stories and motivate Members to act.” "Yesterday, Congress and the President joined forces to say ‘Enough is Enough’ when it comes to the devastating impacts of childhood cancer,” said Congresswoman Speier. “I’m grateful for the hard work and dedication of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and in the Childhood Cancer Caucus. However, the credit really belongs with the childhood cancer community who never faltered in the fight to pass the most comprehensive childhood cancer bill in the history of Congress. On behalf of every child, parent, and family affected by this deadly scourge, thank you.” “The enactment of the most comprehensive anti-cancer bill ever passed is a triumph for all Americans, said Congressman Kelly. “It was a true honor to be in the Oval Office yesterday evening as President Trump signed this historic bill into law. I firmly believe that the day is drawing nearer when no child ever has to hear the words ‘You have cancer’ again. With tools like the STAR Act, the fight to end pediatric cancer forever can and will be won!” See more information below on the bipartisan Childhood Cancer STAR Act: The Childhood Cancer Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and Research (STAR) Act would expand opportunities for childhood cancer research, improve efforts to identify and track childhood cancer incidences, and enhance the quality of life for childhood cancer survivors. Expanding Opportunities for Childhood Cancer Research: Due to the relatively small population of children with cancer and the geographic distance between these children, researching childhood cancer can be challenging. As such, the Childhood Cancer STAR Act would authorize the National Cancer Institute (NCI) to expand existing efforts to collect biospecimens for childhood cancer patients enrolled in NCI-sponsored clinical trials to collect and maintain relevant clinical, biological, and demographic information on all children, adolescents, and young adults with cancer. Improving Childhood Cancer Surveillance: Building upon previous efforts, this bill would authorize grants to state cancer registries to identify and track incidences of child, adolescent, and young adult cancer. This funding would be used to identify and train reporters of childhood cancer cases, secure infrastructure to ensure early reporting and capture of child cancer incidences, and support the collection of cases into a national childhood cancer registry. Improving Quality of Life for Childhood Cancer Survivors: Unfortunately, even after beating cancer, as many as two-thirds of survivors suffer from late effects of their disease or treatment, including secondary cancers and organ damage. This legislation would enhance research on the late effects of childhood cancers and improve the quality of life for survivors by funding models of long-term care to promote collaboration among providers and to help monitor the progress of survivors as they age. Ensuring Pediatric Expertise at the National Institutes of Health (NIH): The Childhood Cancer STAR Act would require the inclusion of at least one pediatric oncologist on the National Cancer Advisory Board and would improve childhood health reporting requirements to include pediatric cancer. Background: The Childhood Cancer STAR Act was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives by Reps. Butterfield, McCaul, Speier, and Kelly in February 2017. The legislation earned 371 co-sponsors in the House and 55 in the U.S. Senate. As Co-Chair of the Childhood Cancer Caucus, advancing this policy has been a priority for Butterfield. Watch Butterfield speak on the U.S. House Floor in support of this legislation. ###
06.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.), Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), and Yvette D. Clarke (D-N.Y.), released the following joint statement on President Trump’s nomination of Geoffrey Starks to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to replace outgoing FCC Commissioner Mignon Clyburn: “We congratulate Geoffrey Starks on his nomination to the Federal Communications Commission. He is an eminently qualified and highly accomplished public servant who, once confirmed, will continue Commissioner Clyburn’s legacy of protecting consumers, giving a voice to the most vulnerable, and holding wrongdoers accountable. We are pleased that Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer considered and valued our recommendation of Mr. Starks. As members of the Congressional Black Caucus and the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, we are confident that Mr. Starks will be a strong voice on critical issues before the Commission, particularly those impacting our most vulnerable communities and communities of color. We call on the Senate to confirm Mr. Starks without delay.” On March 7, 2018, the members sent a letter to Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer urging him to recommend the nomination of Geoffrey Starks. The letter can be viewed here. Background: The Federal Communications Commission is comprised of five commissioners, each of whom serve five-year terms, and are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. US law requires a 3-2 split in which there are three commissioners from the majority party and two commissioners from the minority party. Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel currently fills the other Democratic seat on the Commission. ###
05.31.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced the names of eight students from North Carolina’s First Congressional District, all of whom he nominated, who have received appointments to the U.S. military academies. This year, Congressman Butterfield recommended eight men and women to the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO, and the U.S. Naval Academy Prep School at Newport, RI. Students seeking a service academy nomination through Butterfield’s congressional office completed an extensive application process that examined their academic, civil, and physical abilities, as well as their commitment to military service. “I am proud to have nominated these young adults for appointment to our nation’s most prestigious service academies,” said Butterfield. “These leaders have demonstrated a commitment to personal excellence and public service and I am confident they possess the necessary qualities to successfully graduate from their respective service academies.” The service academies offer students dedicated to public service an undergraduate education that integrates academic studies with athletic competition and preparation for military leadership. To be admitted to a military academy, students must be nominated by their U.S. Representative, U.S. Senator, or the Vice President of the United States. Upon receiving a nomination, applicants must pass the admissions processes of the respective academies. Once admitted, these students will receive a top-tier education at no cost with the commitment that they will serve in the armed forces for five years after graduation. Below is the list of students from the First Congressional District who have been appointed to a military academy for the 2018-2019 academic year after receiving a nomination from Congressman Butterfield: Students pictured from upper left to bottom right: August Peters, Lauren Janok, Megan Reisch, Shaquita Lee, Mirage Sachin-Yash Vyas, Victoria Sanchez, Tucker Brown (not pictured: Lyse-Loren Rochleder) U.S. Air Force Academy: Megan Reisch – Junius H. Rose High School, Greenville, NC August Peters – Riverside High School, Durham, NC Shaquita Lee – Gaston College Preparatory, Gaston, NC and U.S. Air Force Academy Prep School U.S. Naval Academy: Tucker Brown – South Granville High School, Wilton, NC U.S. Naval Academy Prep School: Victoria Sanchez – South Creek High School, Robersonville, NC U.S. Military Academy at West Point: Lauren Janok – North Raleigh Christian Academy, Rougemont, NC Mirage Sachin-Yash Vyas – Durham School of the Arts, Durham, NC Lyse-Loren Rochleder – Jordan High School, Durham, NC and U.S. Military Academy Prep School ###
05.31.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced the winners of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition, a district-wide showcase for young artists. Leon Bradford, II, a Durham resident and senior at C.E. Jordan High School, took the top prize with his piece, “Shining Stars of the Universe.” Leon’s piece will be displayed in the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. for the next year and featured on the Congressional Art Competition website. Leon will also have the opportunity to fly to Washington, D.C. in June for the national unveiling ceremony honoring winners from participating congressional districts across the country. “I would like to extend my warmest congratulations to Leon,” Butterfield said. “His piece is a testament to his creativity and commitment to refining his craft. Each year, I am impressed by the exceptional talent displayed by the students who submit their artwork to this competition. It’s clear that North Carolina’s students have a great amount of creativity and skill.” Over 40 pieces of artwork were submitted this year with student-submissions coming from across the First District. Winners were chosen by an independent panel of local artists and art instructors. Since its inception in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students nationwide have participated in the annual Congressional Art Competition. “Shining Stars of the Universe” by Leon Bradford, II The full list of winners include: First Place – Leon Bradford, II, “Shining Stars of the Universe,” C. E. Jordan High School in Durham. Second Place – Marc St. Fort, “My Open Minded Life,” Southern High School in Durham. Third Place- Alejandro Castorela, “The Creation of Art,” Southern Vance High School in Henderson. View all of this year’s art competition submissions here. ###
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Co-Chairs of the Childhood Cancer Caucus, Reps. G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Michael McCaul (R-TX), Jackie Speier (D-CA), and Mike Kelly (R-PA), applaud the passage of the Senate companion to their bill – S. 292, the Childhood Cancer STAR Act. The STAR Act passed the House on Tuesday by a unanimous vote. It addresses the four major concerns facing the pediatric cancer community: Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and Research, and will elevate and prioritize the fight against childhood cancer at the National Institute of Health (NIH). The members released the following joint statement: “Today was a long anticipated day for the pediatric cancer community, and one to be celebrated. This bill is the most comprehensive childhood cancer bill to ever pass Congress and will finally head to the president’s desk to be signed into law. Childhood cancer remains one of the deadliest killers of our kids and we as a Congress, and a nation, must say, ‘Enough is enough.’ As co-chairs of the Childhood Cancer Caucus, we would like to thank all those who made this possible, including the Alliance for Childhood Cancer and the entire childhood cancer advocacy community.” Click here or on the image below to watch Butterfield’s floor remarks ahead of the House passage of the STAR Act: ###
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today spoke on the House Floor in opposition to the Republican Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 (H.R. 2), also known as the Farm Bill. While historically a bipartisan endeavor, the Republican Farm Bill cuts the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (“SNAP,” formerly food stamps) by more than $23 billion. These dramatic cuts could kick more than 133,000 North Carolinians off SNAP and cause nearly 51,000 children to lose free and reduced school meals. In his Floor speech, Congressman Butterfield highlighted that this Republican Farm Bill is bad for North Carolina and our country. Watch the full speech by clicking here or on the image below: ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement after President Donald Trump announced his decision to terminate the United States’ participation in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Acton (JCPOA), also known as the Iran Deal: “President Trump’s decision today to unilaterally withdraw the United States from the JCPOA is reckless and shortsighted. Walking away from the JCPOA without a clear strategy will have destabilizing consequences for the Middle East and the rest of the world. Today’s decision leaves the United States isolated from some of our closest allies, further abdicates our role as a global leader, and empowers countries like Russia and China to fill the void left behind by our exit from the agreement. “This dangerous decision by President Trump has damaged America’s credibility and calls into question the ability of the United States to follow through on commitments made with nations around the world.” ###
04.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the appointment of Judge Carolyn J. Thompson to serve as Resident Superior Court Judge in District 9, serving Vance, Granville, Franklin, and Warren Counties: “Judge Thompson is an excellent jurist with outstanding credentials. Her years of experience as a District Court Judge have demonstrated her scholarship and judicial temperament. I am confident that she will be a fair and thoughtful member of the North Carolina Superior Court and administer justice fairly in the various counties of her district. Congratulations to Judge Thompson.” ###
04.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after sending a letter to U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin in support of Governor Roy Cooper’s nominations of qualified census tracts in North Carolina, especially those in the First Congressional District, for designation as Opportunity Zones: “Over 30 of Governor Cooper’s nominations are located in the First Congressional District and these nominations, along with others, build on the Governor’s demonstrated commitment to strengthening rural communities around the state,” said Butterfield. “Governor Cooper understands some of the challenges we see in eastern North Carolina including poverty, unemployment, and underemployment, but it’s clear he also recognizes the vast opportunities rural communities present.” The Opportunity Zones Program was signed into law on December 22, 2017 as part of H.R. 1, The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The program offers qualified investors tax incentives when they invest unrealized capital gains into designated Opportunity Zones. Butterfield’s letter requests Secretary Mnuchin promptly approve Governor Cooper’s nominations for designated Opportunity Zones in North Carolina. The letter also points out that ten of the fourteen counties that form the First Congressional District are Tier One Counties, meaning the North Carolina Department of Commerce has identified these counties as some of the most economically distressed in the state. Butterfield believes new investment capital and economic development generated as a result of an Opportunity Zone could greatly benefit these counties. Today’s letter to Secretary Mnuchin follows a letter Congressman Butterfield sent to Governor Cooper expressing his strong support of the Governor including qualified census tracts located in the First Congressional District in the state’s submission to the Department of the Treasury. ### Congressman G. K. Butterfield is a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which is the oldest and one of the most influential legislative committees in the U.S. House of Representatives. He serves on the Subcommittees on Communications and Technology; Energy; and Health.
03.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the appointment of Attorney Lamont Wiggins as Resident Superior Court Judge. Wiggins was today appointed to the court by Governor Roy Cooper to replace Judge Milton F. “Toby” Fitch, Jr., who retired from the bench after sixteen years of service: “Attorney Wiggins has demonstrated scholarship and integrity throughout his legal career. He will bring valuable experience to the Superior Court bench. Lamont is a community based leader who understands the public expectation of a fair and impartial Court. The people of Wilson, Nash and Edgecombe Counties will greatly benefit from Judge Wiggins’ service as their Resident Superior Court Judge. Congratulations to Judge Lamont Wiggins.” ###
03.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement upon learning of Wilson County Commissioner Board Chair Bobbie Jones’ passing: “I am saddened to learn of the passing of my dear friend, Bobbie Daggs Jones. Bobbie served as Chair of the Wilson County Board of Commissioners and was a devoted champion for the people of Wilson County and eastern North Carolina. Through her work as County Commissioner, she made Wilson County a better place to call home. “Her passion for public service will not be forgotten. My thoughts and prayers go out to Bobbie’s family and loved ones during this time of loss.” ###
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today spoke on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to congratulate the North Carolina Central University Men’s Basketball Team on their second consecutive MEAC Basketball Tournament Championship. Click here or on the image above to watch Rep. Butterfield’s remarks. ###
03.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today cosponsored the Undo Sabotage and Expand Affordability of Health Insurance Act of 2018 (H.R. 5155) to improve the health insurance marketplace, lower health care premiums, and reverse the Trump Administration’s attempts to sabotage the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The legislation would lower health care premiums for consumers by eliminating the cap on eligibility for premium tax credits, and would increase the size of the tax credit for all income brackets. The bill would also provide additional support for out-of-pocket costs, and would make cost-sharing subsidies more generous for those below 250 percent of the Federal Poverty Line. In October, President Trump decided to default on cost-sharing subsidies that help more than seven million hardworking Americans afford their out-of-pocket health care costs. “President Trump and Republicans in Congress have spent the last year undermining the Affordable Care Act,” said Congressman G. K. Butterfield. “This new legislation would strengthen our nation’s health care system by reducing costs, improving access to care, and undoing some of the most harmful Trump Administration policies that sabotage the ACA.” Specifically, the bill would: Prevent the expansion of Association Health Plans from going into effect. These bare-bones plans are not required to include protections for people with pre-existing conditions or the Essential Health Benefits (EHBs) package. Prevent the Trump Administration from moving forward on a proposed rule that would allow insurance companies to discriminate against people with pre-existing conditions by offering junk plans that provide limited benefits and little financial protection from health care costs. The legislation would require these short-term limited duration health plans to play by the same rules as ACA-compliant plans. Prevent the Trump Administration from weakening protections for EHBs, which would leave consumers with weaker health plans that may not cover critical services, such as prescription drugs, maternity care and substance use disorder treatment. Restore marketing and outreach funds that were cut by 90 percent during the 2018 ACA open enrollment period and create a state innovation fund to empower states to implement new approaches to increasing enrollment. Create a national reinsurance program to help stabilize the market and alleviate potential premium increases resulting from ACA sabotage. ###
03.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for the First Congressional District. Since 1982, over 650,000 high school students across the country have participated in this nationwide event showcasing the artistic talent of our nation’s young adults. “The First District is home to so many talented young people,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Each spring, I look forward to seeing the creativity displayed by the students across the First District. This is a unique opportunity for students to showcase their talent and an exciting chance for them to have their artwork displayed in the United States Capitol for all to see.” The “Grand Prize” winner of the First District’s Congressional Art Competition will have their artwork prominently displayed in the United States Capitol beside the winning pieces from Congressional districts across the country. The winner will also receive two round-trip tickets to Washington, DC to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony. This year’s winner will also be eligible for a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design or Tennessee Wesleyan College. Click here to learn about last year’s winner, Jiana Brown of Durham. All entries will be judged by a panel of local artists and art instructors. The deadline to submit artwork is Friday, April 27, 2018. For contest rules and information, please visit Congressman Butterfield’s website. ###
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – On International Women’s Day, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), is recognizing the contributions women have made in North Carolina and across the nation. In honor of International Women’s Day and Women’s History Month, Congressman Butterfield issued a video release, stating in part: “Whether marching for the right to vote, raising their voices in support of equal pay, preserving access to health care, or fighting to end gun violence, courageous women have always led the fight to create a more just and equal society.” “If not for trailblazers, such as America’s first Congresswoman Jeannette Rankin or North Carolina’s own Eva Clayton who, as the first African American woman to represent our state in Congress, fought for equality and educational opportunities for all, so many of the doors for today’s leaders would not be open.” “Today, the progress forged by these women and so many others stands as a testament to their spirit, affirming this truth: That when women succeed, America succeeds.” Click here or on the image above to watch the full video. ###
03.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), joined by his Democratic colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, sent a letter to Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) urging him to hold hearings as soon as possible to address gun violence in America. The letter requests the Committee hold hearings on the gun violence epidemic in America, including explorations of: who gun violence hurts; whether mass shootings are becoming increasingly deadly; the distribution of guns, ammunition, and accessories through e-commerce, and whether federal agencies have the resources necessary to exercise effective oversight of such activity; and the extent to which social media may be increasing the hostility surrounding the gun debate. “In eastern North Carolina and across the country, we’ve seen too many lives lost due to gun violence,” said Congressman Butterfield. “We can no longer ignore the problem and go about our lives after another one of these tragedies as if it’s business as usual. Congress must finally act.” “The American people rightfully have questions about the ever-increasing capacity of guns to kill or seriously harm in large numbers and why these weapons are so easy to obtain in the marketplace,” the Members wrote in their letter to Chairman Walden. “There are also legitimate questions this Committee must take up, including the ease of purchasing ammunition and gun accessories online and whether social media is contributing to the societal divisions on the topic of gun violence.” Today’s letter follows a February 16th letter from Congressman Butterfield and Democratic Committee members to Chairman Walden and Subcommittee Chairman Michael Burgess (R-TX) calling on them to hold a hearing on gun violence prevention research. The Republican leaders have neither responded to that request nor scheduled a hearing on the subject. Congressman Butterfield is also a co-sponsor of the bipartisan H.R. 4240, the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act, to help states strengthen and expand the background checks system and close a number of gun sale loopholes. Another bipartisan bill he supports is H.R. 1478, the Gun Violence Research Act, which would repeal a provision in federal appropriations law that would allow the CDC and other agencies to perform gun violence research. He also supports H.R. 3464, the Background Checks Completion Act, to prohibit licensed gun dealers from selling guns to buyers without completing a background check. This would close the “Charleston Loophole” that allowed the sale of a gun that was used in the racially motivated attack at Emanuel A.M.E. Church in Charleston, South Carolina that took nine lives two years ago. Congressman G. K. Butterfield is a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which is the oldest and one of the most influential legislative committees in the U.S. House of Representatives. He serves on the Subcommittees on Communications and Technology; Energy; and Health. ###
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the school shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida: “The shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School is the latest tragedy in a long line of senseless shootings, including 18 school shootings this year alone. Congress has watched the body count rise while doing nothing to address the scourge of gun violence in this country, other than by offering its thoughts and prayers to the suffering families and friends. Congress must finally act. “Congress has the power to help prevent these tragedies. There are common-sense bills that exist, including bipartisan approaches to reduce gun violence in America. I call on the Republican majority to immediately bring gun violence prevention legislation to the House floor for a vote. The refusal of the Republican majority to act on gun violence prevention legislation is disturbing.” ###
02.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – During Black History Month, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) is recognizing the contributions African Americans have made to American culture and society. First conceived in 1926 by Dr. Carter G. Woodson as “Negro History Week,” February was formally recognized as Black History Month by President Gerald Ford in 1976. In a new Medium post, Congressman Butterfield reflected on the struggles and perseverance of the past and the work that lies ahead to deliver on the promise of our great nation for all Americans, stating in part: “The African American story is and has always been at the heart of the American story. Our country has long been shaped by the inhumanity of slavery, sharecropping, segregation, Jim Crow, and mass incarceration. Despite a history of oppression, African Americans have prospered and have contributed greatly to our nation.” Butterfield also released a new report on the economic state of the Black community. Read the full report here. Throughout the month of February, Congressman Butterfield will join his constituents at the following Black History Month events: Friday, February 16 – Wilson “Silence is Not an Option” Black History Month Celebration Jackson Chapel First Missionary Baptist Church 6:00 PM Jackson Chapel First Missionary Baptist Church, Wilson, NC Saturday, February 17 – Greenville “Turning Stumbling Blocks into Stepping Stones” Black History Month Program Sycamore Hill Missionary Baptist Church 9:00 AM Sycamore Hill Missionary Baptist Church, Greenville, NC Sunday, February 18 – Gates “The Past, Present, and Future” 2018 Heritage Black History Month Program New Hope Missionary Baptist Church 3:00 PM New Hope Missionary Baptist Church, Gates, NC Tuesday, February 20 – Durham Black History Month Remarks & Flag Presentation Pearsontown Elementary School 9:30 AM Pearsontown Elementary School, Durham, NC Wednesday, February 21 – Ahoskie Black History Month Program Roanoke-Chowan Community College 6:00 PM Jernigan Building Auditorium, Roanoke-Chowan Community College, Ahoskie, NC Thursday, February 23 – Wilson Black History Month Program Rountree Missionary Baptist Church 6:00 PM Rountree Missionary Baptist Church, Wilson, NC Sunday, February 25 – Williamston Black History Month Program Cedar Hill Missionary Baptist Church 11:00 AM Cedar Hill Missionary Baptist Church, Williamston, NC ###
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after the release of the “Nunes memo,” drafted exclusively by Republican members and staff of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence in an attempt to discredit the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and undermine Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation: “With the release of the Nunes memo, today is an extremely disappointing day for our government. In an act of political expedience, Congressional Republicans chose to put politics and the protection of President Trump above the American people and our system of government. This partisan document mischaracterizes and omits relevant information in the FISA process and is a blatant attempt to cast doubts on the Mueller investigation. “Today’s release of the memo now places Congressional Republicans dangerously close to being part of an effort to obstruct justice. This is beyond politics; this is beyond our duties as members of Congress. “The intelligence community unanimously concluded that the 2016 election was compromised. They warned that Russia will undoubtedly attempt to interfere in future elections. Instead of taking action to secure our republic against sabotage from adversaries, Congressional Republicans have taken part in a reckless, partisan attempt to discredit the ongoing investigations. “The American people deserve to know all the facts surrounding Russia’s efforts to undermine our electoral process. They deserve to know to what extent Trump campaign officials were involved. Any attempts to further undermine the investigations is a monumental mistake. It will certainly have ramifications that will extend beyond this presidency.” ###
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following video response tonight on President Trump’s first State of the Union address: The full video can be viewed here. Excerpts from the video are below. “Very little time was taken to talk in detail about how we can grow the middle class, how we can support those who cannot help themselves, and how we can create better jobs in this country that pay better wages and better benefits.” “Donald Trump did not even come close to my expectation in providing details on how we are going to make America strong, keep America strong, and help those who cannot help themselves.” Click here or on the image above to watch Rep. Butterfield’s full response. ###
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the United States District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina ruling on North Carolina’s Congressional district map: “I applaud the decision of the federal judges. The decision reaffirms my long held belief that Republicans in the North Carolina General Assembly drew the congressional map with the express purpose of maximizing the number of Republican congressional districts. Republicans comprise 30 percent of registered voters in North Carolina, yet they crafted a congressional map that would ensure Republican success in ten of thirteen districts, or 76 percent. The Republicans made this case relatively simple when they admitted in court that the congressional map was drawn for partisan political advantage. “As the Court stated, North Carolina voters have been deprived of a constitutional districting plan for the past decade. So I urge the Republican dominated General Assembly to promptly comply with the Court’s order by developing a fair congressional map that doesn’t disadvantage Democratic voters.” ###
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) issued the following statement after the House today was forced to vote for a second time on the conference report to H.R. 1, the Republican tax bill. The version voted on yesterday violated Senate rules. “Republicans in Congress have turned this season of giving into a season of taking. The GOP tax bill that passed the House today means millions of North Carolinians will lose out to corporate interests and the richest Americans. House Republicans today voted to raise taxes on 86 million families in order to hand 83 percent of the tax benefits to the wealthiest one percent of Americans. “The Republican tax scam carries out yet another attack on health care, taking health insurance coverage from over 408,000 North Carolinians while adding another $1.5 trillion to our nation’s deficit. “At a time when the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Community Health Centers are running out of funding, and the lives of hundreds of thousands of Dreamers remain in peril, Republicans have prioritized tax breaks for corporations and the wealthy and will pay for it by slashing funding from important safety net programs like Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. This is wrong and does not reflect the best of who we are as a country. “Apparently, voting once on this tax scam wasn’t enough. In their haste for a quick political win, yesterday Republicans pushed through a flawed bill that violated Senate rules, forcing the House to yet again vote to give huge handouts to the wealthiest Americans and to add more than a trillion dollars to the deficit. It is shameful.” ###
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to formally recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and to move the American Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem: “President Donald Trump’s decision is reckless. It runs counter to nearly seven decades of U.S. policy and puts the stability of the entire region in serious jeopardy. It also creates greater security concerns for American travelers and diplomats in the region and increases the possibility of violence against our ally, Israel. “This move by the president is purposefully provocative. It will severely harm future U.S. efforts to bring about a negotiated settlement for a peaceful and lasting two state solution. It does nothing to further U.S. foreign policy in the region or improve U.S. national security or the security of our ally, Israel. In fact, I believe his decision could incite violence and endanger lives.”
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today delivered remarks on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to pay tribute to longtime Durham Mayor Bill Bell. Bill Bell retired as mayor of Durham after serving in public office for 45 years, 16 of them as mayor. In his remarks, Butterfield welcomed Durham’s new mayor, Steve Schewel, who was sworn into office on Monday, December 4. Click here or on the image above for video of Rep. Butterfield’s remarks. ###
11.28.2017	Photo c/o Wilson OIC WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the death of Mr. Howard C. Jones: “As founder and president of Wilson OIC, Howard Jones made contributions to Wilson and eastern North Carolina that cannot be measured. For more than forty years, he immersed himself in his work to help all citizens who could not help themselves. Through his leadership, thousands of citizens were motivated and trained to obtain gainful employment. The OIC team supported him in every respect and carried out his mission of training and finding suitable employment for the unemployed and underemployed. Each holiday, all of Wilson looked forward to the community food delivery at OIC. Through Howard’s relationship with the corporate community, he was able to provide food to families in need. “Wilson, North Carolina has lost a giant. And, I have personally lost a great friend. He now belongs to the ages. The citizens of Wilson and adjoining counties have benefited from the life and work of Howard C. Jones, citizen extraordinaire. I extend my deepest condolences to the entire Jones family.” ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after the Republican tax bill, H.R. 1, passed the House of Representatives: “Today, House Republicans voted in favor of a tax hike for 36 million middle class households, adding $1.5 trillion to the deficit, and robbing $1.5 trillion from Medicare and Medicaid. “The Republican tax plan that passed the House today eliminates personal deductions for medical expenses creating further hardship for people facing chronic illness; eliminates deductions for state and local income taxes resulting in higher taxes for people who cannot afford it; and eliminates deductions for interest paid on student loans making a quality education less accessible. “Tax reform should be bipartisan and provide protections for critical programs that working families and small businesses rely on, while ensuring that our country’s top earners and corporations pay their fair share of taxes. That’s what the American people deserve. I remain ready and willing to work across party lines to achieve responsible tax reform. I urge the United States Senate to reject the House bill and work to achieve real results for the American people.” ###
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today spoke on the House Floor in opposition to Republican efforts to jam their tax bill through Congress in order to hand deficit-exploding giveaways to the wealthy, at the expense of low- and middle-income Americans. Click here or on the image above to watch the full speech. While the GOP gives multi-trillion dollar tax giveaways to the wealthiest and corporate America, Republicans are destroying key tax benefits for middle class families, including: Dismantling the State and Local Tax Deduction – imposing an unfair double tax on middle class families, driving down home values, and endangering local governments’ ability to fund law enforcement, schools and health services. Eliminates Student Loan Interest Deduction & Lifetime Learning Credits – destroying a key deduction for young graduates and workers getting the job training they need to succeed in the 21st century economy, while preserving special giveaways for the wealthiest. Eliminates Medical Expense Deduction – destroying a key deduction claimed by nearly 9 million American households, which helps families with children with disabilities, long-term care needs, a need for expensive fertility treatments, and many others. Imposes New Limit on Mortgage Interest Deduction – assaulting the dream of middle class homeownership in communities across America. ###
11.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (D- NC-01) and Richard Hudson (R-NC-08) today applauded the passage of their bipartisan bill, the Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act, H.R. 304. In January, Reps. Butterfield and Hudson re-introduced the Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act to amend the Controlled Substances Act to enable paramedics and other emergency medical services (EMS) professionals to continue to administer controlled substances, such as anti-seizure medications, to patients pursuant to standing orders issued by their EMS agency’s medical director. Without this solution, quality emergency care may decrease and patients could suffer simply because law and regulation have not kept up with the evolution of modern medicine. The bill passed Congress with overwhelming bipartisan support on Friday, November 3. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. “Passage of this legislation is a breakthrough for the delivery of medication in emergency situations,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Through this bill, we hope to ensure patients receive treatment when they need it most, particularly in rural communities like those in eastern North Carolina where the patient may be far removed from an emergency room. I commend my colleagues for coming together to pass this potentially life-saving measure so that patients can receive treatment as quickly as possible.” “After more than a year of hard work, I’m pleased to see this important bill finally head to President Trump’s desk,” said Congressman Hudson. “This is an example of how to get things done — finding common ground and advancing bipartisan solutions to get results people deserve.” This critical legislation is supported by several emergency medicine advocacy groups and professional organizations, including: "NAEMSP applauds legislation led by Reps. Richard Hudson, G.K. Butterfield and Senators Bill Cassidy, M.D. and Michael Bennett that Congress passed ensuring that life-saving EMS professionals are able to deliver emergency medication to the patients that so desperately need them," said Brent Myers, MD, MPH, FACP, FAEMS, President, National Association of EMS Physicians (NAEMSP). "Without this solution, quality emergency care and patients would have been endangered simply because law and regulation have not kept up with the evolution of modern medicine. This is an important clarification of law that allows our first responders to continue administering life-saving medications to patients when they need them most." “The ability to use controlled substances in the prehospital setting as appropriate is essential to saving lives, managing pain and improving health outcomes,” said Paul D. Kivela, MD, MBA, FACEP, President, American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP). “This legislation will help protect the role of EMS medical directors and ability of first responders to treat patients with appropriate and necessary medication.” “Utilizing standing orders to deliver life-saving EMS medications rapidly remains an important cornerstone of effective pre-hospital emergency medical care,” said Harold A. Schaitberger, General President, International Association of Fire Fighters (IAFF). “We applaud Representatives Hudson and Butterfield for their laser-focused attention on correcting a bureaucratic hindrance that had the potential to delay the safe administration of life-saving medicines to Americans suffering from serious medical conditions.” ###
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) issued the following statement in response to reports that CSX may halt plans to build the Carolina Connector facility in Rocky Mount, NC: “I am disappointed to have read reports that suggest CSX may cancel its plan for the Carolina Connector hub. CSX promised the hub would bring an estimated 1,500 jobs throughout the state and connect eastern North Carolina to the ports. This project would have wide-ranging benefits, not only in Rocky Mount but throughout the state and region. I truly hope the reports are not true and that CSX sees the value this investment would bring to the company, our community, and state. I am committed to working with CSX to bring vital economic development to Rocky Mount.” ###
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s executive order allowing health plans that do not comply with coverage regulations outlined by the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and his announcement on Friday that he will no longer fund cost sharing reduction subsidies that help low-income individuals afford health insurance under the ACA: “For the last ten months, the American people have rejected attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act by President Trump and Congressional Republicans. Instead of working to lower health care costs for all Americans, President Trump is committed to dismantling our health care system simply to make a political point. President Trump’s actions this week will make health care too expensive for millions of people and drive away insurers, making it more difficult for those with pre-existing conditions to access care. “Plain and simple: President Trump’s actions are sabotage, and he will be solely responsible for breaking America’s health care system.” ###
10.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today delivered remarks on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to honor the life of influential jazz musician Thelonious Monk on his 100th birthday. Monk was born in Rocky Mount, North Carolina on October 10, 1917. Click here or on the image above for video of Rep. Butterfield’s remarks. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize one of the most innovative jazz musicians of all time, the legendary Thelonious Monk. Monk was born in my Congressional District in the State of North Carolina and would have turned 100 years old today. Thelonious Sphere Monk was the second of three children born to Thelonious, Sr. and Barbara Monk on October 10, 1917, in Rocky Mount, North Carolina. Though Monk and his family left Rocky Mount for New York City when Thelonious was a child, scholars and fellow musicians say Monk’s North Carolina roots had an important influence on the man and his music. Writer Sam Stephenson credited Thelonious Monk’s Carolina roots in the Oxford American, writing that Rocky Mount’s flourishing tobacco culture and rail yard was one of the largest in all of the South the year Monk was born. Stephenson speculated those railways may have inspired Monk’s composition “Little Rootie Tootie,” which features train whistle sounds. Mr. Speaker, incidentally, the City of Rocky Mount, North Carolina is divided between two counties- Nash County and Edgecombe County- and the railroad is the dividing line. Every day, the CSX train and the Amtrak train come through this community as they have done for a very long time. Those train tracks were first established in 1855- before the Civil War- and it was established as the Wilmington to Weldon railroad. This was the longest railroad in the world, consisting of more than 160 miles of track. This railroad came through Mr. Monk’s hometown. Thelonious Monk began studying classical piano at age eleven, and showed an early aptitude for the instrument. By the time Monk was thirteen years old, he had won the weekly amateur competition at the Apollo Theater so many times that management banned him from re-entering the contest. In 1941, Monk began working at Minton’s Playhouse in Harlem, where he joined the house band and helped develop the school of jazz known as “bebop.” Alongside fellow jazz greats, Charlie Parker, Dizzy Gillespie, and Eubie Blake, Monk honed his fast and often improvised style that would later become synonymous with modern jazz. Thelonious Monk’s first known recording was made in 1944, when he worked as a member of the Coleman Hawkins Quartet. Monk did not record under his own name, however, until 1947, when he played as the leader of a sextet session for Blue Note. In 1947, Monk married Nellie Smith, his longtime sweetheart. Two children were born to the marriage, whom they named after Monk’s parents, Thelonious and Barbara. In 1952, Monk signed a contract with Prestige Records, which produced pieces like Smoke Gets in Your Eyes and Bags’ Groove, which he recorded with Miles Davis in 1954. In 1956, Monk released his third album, Brilliant Corners, which is considered by many to be his first true masterpiece. In 1957, the Thelonious Monk Quartet, which included John Coltrane, began performing regularly, with tours across the United States and Europe. Mr. Speaker, by 1964, Monk was popular with the mainstream audience and became one of four jazz musicians ever to grace the cover of Time Magazine. The years that followed included several overseas tours, but by the early 1970s, Monk was ready to retire from the limelight. After battling illness for several years, Monk passed away from a stroke in 1982. Thelonious Monk has since been inducted into the North Carolina Music Hall of Fame and the Grammy Hall of Fame, added to the Library of Congress’ National Recording Registry, awarded a Pulitzer Prize, and featured on a United States postage stamp. Thelonious Monk left a legacy as one of the originators of modern jazz music. And that’s why the City of Rocky Mount is so proud of their native son. They celebrated this past weekend, honoring the life of this great musician. Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me today in paying tribute to an outstanding artist, Thelonious Monk, as his family, the residents of Rocky Mount, and the country prepare to celebrate his 100th birthday. I yield back. ###
10.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after a mass shooting in Las Vegas, Nevada on Sunday, October 1, 2017 claimed the lives of over 50 individuals and injured more than 500: “The news from Las Vegas is devastating. I am horrified that another mass shooting has claimed the lives of dozens of innocent individuals and wounded hundreds more. We should not become desensitized to gun violence. We should not accept this as the norm. “I am grateful to the emergency personnel who responded quickly to the incident to prevent further loss of life. “My prayers are with the families of the victims whose lives are impacted by this tragedy.” ###
09.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Congressman Chris Stewart (R-UT), and Congressman Ben Ray Luján (D-NM) introduced H.R. 3862, the National Health Service Corps Strengthening Act of 2017. The bipartisan legislation seeks to reauthorize the National Health Service Corps (NHSC) for five years and increase funding levels for this critical program. Unless reauthorized, the program is set to expire on September 30, 2017. “With seventy-five percent of the fourteen counties I represent in rural eastern North Carolina designated as Health Professional Shortage Areas, a strengthened National Health Service Corps is critical for the residents in my district,” said Congressman Butterfield. “One of the counties I represent has the highest infant mortality rate in the nation and its community health center will only be able to hire a new OB/GYN if the NHSC is reauthorized. There are countless stories like that across the country in areas of underserved medical need. We must do all we can to eliminate those health disparities and to reauthorize this important program.” The NHSC is a national program that provides loan repayment and scholarship awards to primary care, mental health, and dental health professionals in exchange for practicing in federally designated Health Professional Shortage Areas (HPSA). Additionally, the NHSC matches funding for state-based loan repayment programs that assist health professionals in underserved areas. The NHSC has helped more than 50,000 health professionals meet the medical needs of underserved and vulnerable populations for over 40 years. “The NHSC program brings access to many Utahns who are living in rural communities and have limited access to care,” said Congressman Stewart. “Communities in my district rely on this vital health care program, and I am dedicated to making sure this access continues.” The National Health Service Corps Strengthening Act of 2017 will reauthorize the National Health Services Corps program for an additional five years and increase its funding by $10 million each year. The bill will extend health care services to five million more Americans and enable 5,000 more health professionals to participate in the program. “The young doctors and healthcare professionals that make up National Health Service Corps play a key role in providing health care services in many rural and underserved communities in New Mexico,” said Congressman Luján. “It is critical that rural residents have access to this care, and our bill takes an important step forward by continuing the NHSC program for five more years and providing appropriate levels of funding.” The NHSC is widely recognized- both in North Carolina and across the country- as a successful and crucial program. According to the National Health Service Corps Stakeholders and the Association of American Medical Colleges, the program: Improves access to health care for the growing numbers of rural and urban underserved Americans; Increases state investments in recruiting and retaining health professionals; Provides incentives for practitioners to enter primary care; Reduces the financial burden that the cost of health professions education places on new practitioners; and Helps ensure access to health professions education for students from all backgrounds. Read the text of the legislation here. ###
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement on the Republican tax principles announced today: “I have always been ready to work with my colleagues on bipartisan tax reform. However, the tax proposal announced today by the Trump Administration and Republican leadership is wholly unacceptable and harmful to working families. “Instead of working toward comprehensive improvements to the tax code that would benefit the majority of Americans, this plan would hand trillions of dollars in tax cuts to the wealthy and large corporations. “We should be doing everything we can to support working families through tax reform and job creation. Sadly, the Republican tax plan looks to be the cousin of the Republican healthcare plan- both deeply partisan and unpopular with everyday Americans.” ###
09.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), along with Congressman Cedric L. Richmond (D-LA), Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, Congressman John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member, and Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Chairwoman of the CBC Judicial Nominations Working Group, sent a letter urging the chairman and top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee to reject the nomination of Thomas A. Farr for a lifetime seat on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina because of his dismal record in opposition to voting rights and workers’ rights. Farr has a decades-long record of defending voter suppression tactics such as voter intimidation, voter ID laws, and racial gerrymandering. In 1992, as the lawyer for former Senator Jesse Helms’ reelection campaign, he defended the campaign against U.S. Department of Justice complaints of voter intimidation after the campaign sent post cards to 100,000 black voters saying they were ineligible to vote and may be arrested for voting. He has also supported laws that weaken protections against employment discrimination. “It is no exaggeration to say that had the White House deliberately sought to identify an attorney in North Carolina with a more hostile record on African-American voting rights and workers’ rights than Thomas Farr, it could hardly have done so,” the CBC Members wrote. “We believe that Mr. Farr’s record raises serious questions regarding his commitment to equal justice under the law that disqualifies him from service on the federal bench. Accordingly, we urge the Judiciary Committee to reject his nomination.” Full text of the letter is attached and online. Additional excerpts from the letter are below. Voting Rights “Mr. Farr…defended the State of North Carolina when it tried to enact one of the most discriminatory election laws in the country: one that the Fourth Circuit ruled had targeted African-American voters “with almost surgical precision.” Not only did the law implement a strict voter photo ID requirement, it selectively and deliberately struck down several voting practices used mainly by voters of color. Mr. Farr has also fought for racially gerrymandered voting districts in North Carolina that would dilute the voting power of African Americans, at both the state and federal level. For example, he opposed redistricting plans designed to afford more equitable representation to African-American voters, and advocated for schemes that would concentrate African-American votes in a smaller number of districts.” Workers’ Rights “Moreover, Mr. Farr, who would have to rule on cases brought under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, has championed eliminating legal protections for employment discrimination. He said, in his private capacity, that it was “better policy for the state” when the North Carolina Legislature eliminated the right of workers discriminated on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, age, sex, or disability to bring any employment discrimination lawsuit in state court. He also successfully fought to invalidate a county ordinance that protected employees from discrimination. It is no surprise, therefore, that he has also spent years defending businesses that have sought to discriminate against workers and consumers. For example, Mr. Farr defended the car rental agency Avis when it was sued for denying African Americans the right to rent cars on the same terms as white customers.” History of This Judicial Vacancy “In our view, it is also not inconsequential that the seat for which Farr has been nominated was twice denied in recent years to nominees who are women of color. This seat currently represents the longest judicial vacancy in the country, in no small measure because Republicans refused to confirm two Obama judicial nominees, Jennifer May-Parker and Patricia Timmons-Goodson. Both were blocked by the withholding of a blue slip by Senator Richard Burr. If either May-Parker or Timmons-Goodson had been confirmed, it would have been the first time that an African-American judge sat on the Eastern District in the court’s 143-year history.” ###
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressmen G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) and Chris Stewart (R-UT) led a bipartisan group of Members of Congress in sending a letter to the House Energy and Commerce Committee, urging the Committee to support funding for the National Health Service Corps (NHSC) program. The NHSC program provides loan repayment and scholarship opportunities for primary care, mental health, and dental health professionals in exchange for service in federally-designated Health Professional Shortage Areas. The current funding for this program is set to expire September 30, 2017 “Seventy-five percent of the fourteen counties I represent in rural eastern North Carolina are in Health Professional Shortage Areas,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Despite the already limited access to local primary care physicians, funding for our best solution- the NHSC program- could end on September 30. The NHSC program is essential to ensuring better access to primary care, regardless of zip code, and I strongly urge my colleagues to support continued funding for this vital program.” “Many communities throughout Utah have limited access to care,” said Congressman Stewart. “The NHSC program brings more access to Utahns by drawing medical students and clinicians to these rural areas. Our communities rely on this vital health care program, and I am dedicated to making sure they continue to have access.” The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
09.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement in response to the House of Representatives’ vote on the Senate-passed package to help those affected by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, and other natural disasters that occurred in Fiscal Year 2017: “Today, I voted to send $15.25 billion in critical aid to those impacted by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma and disasters that occurred in fiscal year 2017 like Hurricane Matthew that devastated many areas of my district. The bill passed the House and will now be forwarded to President Trump for his signature, but the legislation passed without the support of several Republican members of Congress from North Carolina. “I continue to work hard to address the ongoing needs in the aftermath of Hurricane Matthew, and I am deeply disappointed in my colleagues in the North Carolina delegation; George Holding (NC-02), Virginia Foxx (NC-05), Mark Walker (NC-06), David Rouzer (NC-07), Richard Hudson (NC-08), Mark Meadows (NC-11), and Ted Budd (NC-13); who were among the 90 Republican representatives who voted against today’s legislation. Their actions potentially imperil my efforts to secure recovery money for eastern North Carolina in the 2018 budget. “The devastation caused by these storms is a tragedy, and Congress must act to protect these communities. North Carolinians, especially, know the road to recovery after a storm can be long and painful. Our state is still struggling to recover from devastation caused by Hurricane Matthew, and my North Carolina colleagues who opposed today’s legislation have a responsibility to not jeopardize future funding for our state when natural disasters occur.” ###
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ remarks confirming President Donald Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA: “DACA offered protection for young people who were brought to the United States as young children, the vast majority of whom know no other home than the United States. Today, President Trump has failed to “show great heart” to the hundreds of thousands of young people whose lives are now in peril with the announcement that his Administration will end the DACA program. All DACA recipients grew up in America, are registered with our government, and have passed extensive background checks. More than 95 percent of DACA recipients are in school or in the workforce. “I am saddened by President Trump’s decision to end the DACA program because it will devastate lives, tear apart families, and disrupt our local communities. I am an original sponsor of bipartisan immigration reform legislation that would create a path to permanent legal status for Dreamers, and I call on Speaker Ryan to do the right thing and immediately bring it to the floor for a vote.” ###
08.18.2017	DURHAM, NC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the demonstration in Durham: “There is no place for hate, bigotry, and racism in our society. The demonstrators today are making it known loudly and clearly that the KKK, Neo-Nazis, and other extremist groups are not welcome in our communities. “The actions in Durham do not take place in a vacuum. People of good will no longer tolerate anyone who desires to honor and celebrate a dark period of American history. 240 years of slavery in America is considered an original sin and we have long been moving toward a color blind and inclusive society. “Through his words and actions, it is clear that President Trump either condones or is indifferent to racist behavior and policies that will turn back the clock on the progress we have made toward equality. President Trump must forcefully and unequivocally condemn the actions of the KKK, Neo-Nazis, and other extremist groups and reject their political support. “Like Governor Cooper, I call for the immediate removal of all confederate statues and monuments that are displayed on government property, including the US Capitol. These monuments depict a period of history that must be taught to future generations but not celebrated.”
08.15.2017	Durham, NC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the domestic terror attack in Charlottesville, Virginia and the toppling of the Confederate statue in Durham: “I was disappointed that President Trump waited two days before specifically condemning the Charlottesville terror attack and the violence perpetrated by white supremacist groups. His failure to not immediately and powerfully condemn these terror groups by name was a clear message that he is supportive of or indifferent to their cause based on ideology or politics, either of which is unacceptable for an American president. “The events in Durham are an example of the pain that people of good will are experiencing when terror is heaped upon them or their fellow citizens. The Durham protestors were expressing their outrage at the Charlottesville terror attacks, continued racial disparities in our communities, and the president’s reluctance to take a firm stand against these pervasive, hateful, and divisive ideologies. “I don’t condone the destruction of government property, but I understand the hurt and pain the continued existence of confederate monuments cause to many in our communities, whether it is on the grounds of the US Capitol, state capitals, or any other locations. “The American people must understand and confront the scourge of racism in our country. America cannot tolerate white supremacy in any form. Silence will no doubt embolden these deranged groups. “The Congress of the United States must not neglect its duty to condemn the KKK, Neo-Nazis, and other extremist groups who terrorize our communities. President Trump must stop pandering to these groups and instead use the full power of the Department of Justice to prosecute those who inflict violence upon communities because of their race or beliefs. And the president must continue to condemn all acts of racism, bigotry, and domestic terror.”
08.15.2017	Durham, NC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) on Saturday administered the oath of office to Durham County Commissioner Brenda Howerton who will serve as president of the North Carolina Association of County Commissioners. Howerton was elected by county commissioners from all 100 counties statewide to serve as the Association’s president. She most recently served as the Association’s president elect. “I congratulate Durham County Commissioner Brenda Howerton on being sworn in as president of the NC Association of County Commissioners,” said Butterfield. “Commissioner Howerton is a hardworking and passionate public servant who has always represented the interests of her Durham constituents. As the new president of the statewide association, I am confident that President Howerton will serve her fellow commissioners from across the state and represent their interests well. The new political environment in Raleigh and Washington demand visionary bipartisan leadership. President Howerton has those qualities.” As president of the NC Association of County Commissioners, Howerton is responsible for leading the 109-year-old organization who advocates for county government before the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of government with the goal of preserving and protecting the authority and ability of county governments to deliver the services for which they are responsible. Howerton will lead the Association’s executive committee which consists of Larry Phillips – President Elect; Kevin Austin – First Vice President; Ronnie Smith – Second Vice President; and Fred McClure, Immediate Past President. Howerton has served as Durham County Commissioner since 2008 and was reelected in 2016. She is now serving her third term. She is the first county commissioner from Durham to serve as president of the North Carolina Association of County Commissioners.
08.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the passage in the U.S. Senate of the RACE for Children Act as part of the FDA User Fees reauthorization bill. In February, Congressman Butterfield joined Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with Representatives Michael T. McCaul (R-TX), Sean Duffy (R-WI), and Yvette Clarke (D-NY), to introduce the Research to Accelerate Cures and Equity (RACE) for Children Act to support the development of innovative and promising cancer drugs for children. The RACE for Children Act passed in the House of Representatives in July. The bill is now on the way to the President’s desk to be signed into law. “Pediatric cancer impacts too many families in North Carolina and across the nation,” Butterfield said. “I applaud both my Democratic and Republican colleagues for coming together to pass this important measure, which will update the current law to encourage advancements in life-saving treatments for childhood cancers. I look forward to seeing the RACE for Children Act signed into law. Together, we can fight this deadly disease.” “Today’s passage of the RACE for Children Act is a breakthrough for kids in Colorado and around the country fighting cancer,” Bennet said. “This legislation will open the door for cutting-edge treatments and precision medicines that could make all the difference for kids battling this devastating disease. We are thankful to every family that engaged in this process. Because of them, kids will have a better chance to beat cancer and reclaim their lives.” “The RACE for Children Act is an important measure that will provide children battling cancer with more, promising treatment options,” Rubio said. “Pediatric cancer is a leading cause of death by disease among children and yet children do not have the same number of treatment options as adults. This bill will help fix that, and I commend my colleagues for sending this potentially life-saving legislation to the president’s desk so that children with cancer have hope for a better future.” “Passage of the RACE for Children Act is a win for kids and families coping with cancer,” Van Hollen said. “No childhood should be interrupted by a struggle for survival, but cancer tragically puts far too many kids in Maryland and across the country in a battle for their lives. The legislation will modernize drug development regulations to help build on the progress being made at institutions like the National Institutes of Health. We won’t stop fighting to save children and their families from the misery of this horrific disease.” “The FDA user fee legislation approved by the Senate today included a bipartisan provision to increase access of life-saving cancer treatment and treatment for other serious illnesses for children,” Gardner said. “We have to do all we can to help treat children from life-threatening illnesses. Senator Bennet has been a leader on this issue and I was proud to work alongside him. I look forward the president signing this legislation into law.” The bipartisan RACE for Children Act, first introduced in the 114th Congress, would update the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) to reflect the latest advances in cancer drugs. Congress enacted PREA in 2003 to address the scarcity of information about how to treat children with drugs developed and approved for adults. Although PREA has resulted in new information on how to treat children for a multitude of drugs over the years, there are still limited pediatric studies for cancer drugs. This bill would update PREA by ensuring that the most innovative molecular-targeted drugs for cancer are also studied for children. The bill also directs the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to work with manufacturers to speed up studies for drugs that treat serious or life-threatening diseases in children. Numerous pediatric oncology groups support the RACE for Children Act, including Duke University Medical Center, St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, St. Baldrick’s Foundation, Kids v. Cancer, Moffitt Cancer Center, Nemours Children’s Health System, Arnold Palmer Hospital, the Children’s Hospital Colorado, Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, Children's Medical Center of Dallas, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, NYU Langone Medical Center, Texas Children’s Hospital, the Alliance for Childhood Cancer, the American Society of Clinical Oncology, and the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network. ###
08.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will host “Jobs First: Building for Our Future” in Rocky Mount on Friday, August 4, 2017 at 10:00 a.m. North Carolina Secretary of Transportation James Trogdon and local and state elected officials will join Rep. Butterfield to talk about the current state of jobs and transportation infrastructure in eastern North Carolina. In addition to exploring the future of transportation in Rocky Mount and the eastern region over the next decade, speakers will highlight the new Carolina Connector hub being built along CSX rail lines and the significant role it will play in growing the regional economy. “At a time when the current Administration and Congress are focused on cutting funding for critical programs that eastern North Carolina depends on, our strong rail transportation system and the businesses that support it are more critical than ever,” said Rep. Butterfield. “The new CSX terminal in Edgecombe County will connect eastern North Carolina to state ports and will serve as a keystone for jobs throughout the state. This is great news for the Rocky Mount area.” “CSX’s Carolina Connector terminal will stimulate jobs and economic development not just in Rocky Mount, but throughout eastern North Carolina, and will position our state to be a leader in intermodal freight movement,” Secretary Trogdon said. “This region is strategically located along I-95, the Future I-87 corridor and CSX’s main line, and we will continue to leverage these strong transportation connections to support eastern North Carolina’s growth and success.” WHAT: “Jobs First: Building for Our Future" WHO: Congressman G. K. Butterfield, U.S. Representative (NC-01) Secretary James H. Trogdon, Secretary of the N.C. Department of Transportation Senator Erica Smith-Ingram, N.C. State Senate (District 3) Mayor David Combs, Mayor of Rocky Mount City Manager Rochelle D. Small-Toney, Rocky Mount City Manager WHEN: Friday, August 4, 2017 at 10:00 A.M. WHERE: Rocky Mount Train Station (lobby) 101 Coastline Street Rocky Mount, NC 27804 RSVP: This event is free and open to the public. The public should RSVP to https://jobsfirstrockymount.eventbrite.com. ###
08.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) introduced legislation to name the federal courthouse in downtown Durham to honor prominent lawyer, civil rights leader, and bank president, John Hervey Wheeler. John Wheeler (1908-1978) was a well-respected community leader in Durham for decades. He successfully litigated several school integration cases in the late 1940s and was a friend and confidant of President John F. Kennedy. Butterfield introduced H.R. 3460 last week. The bill would designate the United States courthouse located at 323 East Chapel Hill Street in Durham, North Carolina as the “John Hervey Wheeler United States Courthouse.” “As many North Carolinians know, John Hervey Wheeler was one of our state’s most prominent Black leaders and one of the most influential civil rights figures in the South,” said Butterfield. “I want to acknowledge John Hervey Wheeler for his work in shepherding one most effective movements in the fight for civil rights and economic justice, and for playing a key role in transforming the City of Durham over his long and remarkable career. Naming the Durham federal courthouse in John Hervey Wheeler’s honor will serve as a symbol of triumph over racial and economic injustice.” The bill was cosponsored by ten members of the North Carolina congressional delegation: Walter Jones (NC-02), David Price (NC-04), Virginia Foxx (NC-05), Mark Walker (NC-06), David Rouzer (NC-07), Richard Hudson (NC-08), Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Mark Meadows (NC-11), Alma Adams (NC-12), and Ted Budd (NC-13). Congressman Butterfield regrets that Congressman George Holding (NC-02) and Congressman Robert Pittenger (NC-09) refused to cosponsor the legislation. About John Hervey Wheeler John Hervey Wheeler. Photo c/o Durham County Library​ John Hervey Wheeler was born in 1908 in the town of Kittrell in Vance County to Mr. John Leonidas Wheeler and the former Margaret Hervey. The family moved to Durham when his father took a job as an insurance agent with the North Carolina Mutual Life Insurance Company (NC Mutual). His father’s job at NC Mutual eventually took the family to Atlanta, Georgia when John Leonidas was promoted to supervisor for the company’s Georgia operations. John Hervey Wheeler was educated in Atlanta and attended high school at Morehouse Academy, followed by Morehouse College where he graduated summa cum laude. After graduating from Morehouse College, John Hervey Wheeler returned to Durham and began a decades-long career at Mechanics & Farmers (M&F) Bank, starting first as a bank teller and eventually rising to serve as bank president. After returning to Durham, he enrolled in law school at the North Carolina College for Negroes – now North Carolina Central University – where he was among the institution’s first law school graduates. In 1935, John Hervey Wheeler became a founding member of the Durham Committee on Negro Affairs (DCNA), a local civil rights organization that established a means for African Americans to become involved in large-scale community activism in the fight for civil rights and economic justice. It was from DCNA that John Hervey Wheeler rose as a political leader. As president of M&F Bank, John Hervey Wheeler was instrumental in creating affordable lending options for African Americans that were previously unavailable to them. He is credited with breaking down barriers in lending so enterprising African Americans could realize their entrepreneurial goals. As an attorney, John Hervey Wheeler was a stalwart advocate for equality and fairness. He helped to lead several successful lawsuits that challenged educational segregation including the U.S. Supreme Court case Frasier v. Board of Trustees of the University of North Carolina. Due to his long and established work in support of civil rights, then-President John F. Kennedy appointed John Hervey Wheeler to the President’s Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity, now the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. In 1963, John Hervey Wheeler became an incorporator of the North Carolina Fund, an ambitious antipoverty agency established by then-Governor Terry Sanford to help eradicate issues of poverty. The Fund became a model for Lyndon B. Johnson's national War on Poverty initiative. John Hervey Wheeler was the recipient of many awards and commendations over his long and important career, including the Frank Porter Graham Civil Liberties Award for his defense of freedom for all North Carolinians. ###
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) issued the following statement regarding Senate Republicans’ actions today on healthcare: “Today’s vote was not about America’s health care, but about scoring a political win for the Trump Administration. “It is a total disappointment that, rather than put politics aside and work in a bipartisan fashion to bring down costs and ensure more Americans have access to care, Republicans eagerly continue to push a plan that will weaken our economy, leave working Americans with higher medical costs, and jeopardize care for up to half a million North Carolinians who gained coverage since the Affordable Care Act was implemented. “Each vote cast today to put Trumpcare on the Floor is a vote to jeopardize the health care of millions of families.” ###
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s nomination of Thomas Farr to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina: “I’m disappointed that President Trump nominated a lawyer who has been at the forefront of defending the North Carolina Republican legislature as it has repeatedly engaged in political gerrymandering of state legislative and congressional district boundaries and has passed regressive voting laws that had the intended effect of diluting the voting rights of minority groups. “The counties in the Eastern District have a substantial African American population, but the Court does not reflect that diversity. The Court should include African American judges and this appointment simply maintains the status quo in a district with a large population of African American citizens. “President Obama attempted to integrate this Court by nominating two African American females for this position, but their nominations were blocked by a Republican Senator. “I urge the United States Senate to carefully scrutinize the record of Thomas Farr and determine if he can impartially serve as a judge in cases involving voting and civil rights.” ###
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (D-NC-01) and Michael T. McCaul (R-TX-10) released the following statements after their bipartisan bill, H.R. 1231, the RACE for Children Act (Research to Accelerate Cures and Equity for Children Act), passed the House as part of H.R. 2430 - the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017: “As co-chair of the Childhood Cancer Caucus, I am proud that the House approved this important bill,” said Butterfield. “This legislation is necessary to update the law and save thousands of children’s lives. I thank Congressman McCaul for being a reliable partner in this effort. This is an example of Congress working together to get things done. I urge the U.S. Senate to swiftly pass this legislation so the medical community can continue making strides in the fight against childhood cancer.” “I founded the Childhood Cancer Caucus when I first entered Congress to give a voice to the over 15,000 children diagnosed with cancer each year and the hundreds of thousands of survivors who face a lifetime of medical challenges, said McCaul. “Today’s passage of RACE is a great first step in providing these children access to the treatments they deserve. I believe it is incumbent upon each of us – especially those elected to serve – to do our part to rid this world of cancer, for the sake of my children and yours. As my good friend Sadie Keller - who is battling leukemia - says, ‘together we can make a difference.’” Reps. Butterfield and McCaul re-introduced the RACE for Children Act in March. The RACE for Children Act, which was first introduced in the 114th Congress, would update the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) to reflect the latest advances in cancer drug development using molecular targets. Unlike the current structure of PREA, which applies to specific indications or specific types of cancer, this legislation would allow PREA to focus on a molecular target in a specific adult cancer when the same target presents in another childhood cancer. Currently, a PREA exemption may also be applied if the company studies the drug in an adult cancer that occurs in less than 200,000 patients. This bill would allow pediatric studies with a particular molecular target to still be considered for these cancers. The bill is supported by the Duke University Medical Center, Children's Medical Center of Dallas, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Texas Children’s Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Children’s Hospital Colorado, Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Nemours Children’s Health System, NYU Langone Medical Center, St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, and more than 100 pediatric cancer advocacy organizations. ###
07.11.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement after reports that Donald Trump, Jr. agreed to meet with a Russian lawyer during the 2016 presidential campaign after learning that the individual had potentially compromising information designed by the Russian government to bolster Donald Trump’s presidential campaign and damage then-opponent Hillary Clinton: “The reports that Donald Trump, Jr. met with a Kremlin-connected lawyer regarding potentially damaging information should set off an alarm for all Americans. Today’s revelations from Donald Trump, Jr. himself show that his father’s campaign was willing to work with an adversarial foreign power in order to influence the presidential election. “I am alarmed by the continued slow drip of revelations regarding the Trump Administration’s ties to the Russian government. The evidence of unlawful collusion appears to be increasing by the day. The American people deserve honest answers and accountability from President Trump and his associates. It is critical that Special Counsel Mueller continues his work and that Congress establish an independent, bipartisan commission to investigate the full extent of Russia’s interference in our election and its involvement with Mr. Trump and his associates. Americans expect and deserve swift action on this matter.” ###
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Representative G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), along with the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) – led by Chairman Cedric Richmond (D-LA), and Representatives Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO) – sent a letter to Uber, calling on the ride-share service company and other technology companies to prioritize diversity when filling senior leadership positions. “When the Congressional Black Caucus Diversity Task Force launched CBC TECH 2020 in May 2015, we cautioned leaders in the tech community that its lack of African American inclusion was bad for business and for the country,” the Members wrote. “We encouraged the tech community to make diversity and inclusion a priority in order to take advantage of America’s best talent and strengthen our global competitiveness. It seems that Uber, and many of its peers in the industry, have not prioritized the urgent need for a diverse and inclusive workforce. The Members continued, “The lack of diverse hiring and failure to create an inclusive and supportive corporate culture in tech companies has had dire consequences. While the African American inclusion numbers at most tech companies continue to be unacceptably low, the retention of African Americans at these companies, and the climate for the employees who remain, is much worse.” Reps. Butterfield, Lee, and Cleaver are members of the CBC Diversity Task Force, which previously sent a letter to the CEOs of Uber and Lyft, outlining concerns following a report from the National Bureau of Economic Research that documented evidence of discrimination against African American customers attempting to use ride-share services as a means of transportation. Full text of the letter sent today can be found here. ###
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after Senate Republicans released their draft health care bill that will harm North Carolinians and millions across the country: “The bill revealed today by Senate Republicans is every bit as cruel, ineffective, and “mean” as its House counterpart. In search of a political victory and a tax giveaway to the wealthy at all costs, Republicans continue to push a health care bill that will rip coverage from millions of Americans, force families to pay more for less coverage, and severely cut Medicaid which will harm our most vulnerable citizens. “On top of the harmful impact this bill would have on working Americans, the secret process in which the bill was drafted – that included no Democrats – is a shameful and gross abuse of power. During debate for the Affordable Care Act, more than 25 public hearings were held and it was debated for over 100 hours on the Senate Floor. Sadly, today, Republicans in the Senate continue to ram through major legislation without holding any committee hearings or public debate. For a bill that will impact every American and one sixth of our nation’s economy, Republicans plan to spend less than a week debating their proposal before holding a vote. This is unprecedented and disgraceful. “I will continue to strongly oppose this heartless Republican effort that strips health care from millions of Americans.” ###
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) and David B. McKinley, P.E. (R-WV) introduced the Patients’ Access to Treatments Act (H.R. 2999), which will help improve access to specialty drugs for millions. The Patients’ Access to Treatments Act (PATA) will give patients with chronic, disabling, and life-threatening conditions, such as multiple sclerosis, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, and cancer, access to innovative drug therapies. By requiring insurance to cover these critical drugs, millions of patients will be able to afford vital life-saving medicine. “Researchers in North Carolina and throughout the country have made great strides to provide promising and innovative medical treatments,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Unfortunately, working families struggle to afford the rising out-of-pocket costs of treatment, even with insurance. This bill will make patient access to lifesaving medications more affordable. I am proud to join Congressman McKinley in the introduction of our bill, and I thank him for his continued leadership on this measure.” “Millions of Americans suffer unnecessarily from chronic and disabling diseases because they are unable to afford critical treatments,” said Congressman McKinley. “The cost of these life-saving and life-changing treatments can be astronomical and out of reach even for families with good health insurance. We’ve met with hundreds of patients over the years and listened to their stories. I know this legislation would improve the life for many families, for whom the price of these drugs is out of reach. We can give people a new lease on life by passing this bill.” “As a rheumatologist, I see first-hand the importance of access to effective therapies, such as biologics or specialty drugs, on the lives of patients with chronic diseases like rheumatoid arthritis and lupus,” said Dr. Angus Worthing, Chair of the Government Affairs Committee for the American College of Rheumatology. “These therapies provide relief for millions of Americans and can enable them to function and pursue their livelihoods.” “Every day, high out-of-pocket costs stand between patients and the medications they need to win their battle against cancer,” said Lou DeGenarro, CEO of the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society (LLS). “The bipartisan Patients’ Access to Treatments Act would limit cost-sharing requirements for lifesaving medications and begin to break down the barriers to access for patients for the therapies they need. On behalf of the more than 1.2 million patients in the U.S. living with a blood cancer, LLS thanks Representatives McKinley and Butterfield for their leadership on this critical issue for patients, and we urge the House to stand with patients and quickly pass this bill.” The Coalition for Accessible Treatments, which represents over 30 patient and provider advocacy groups, supports the legislation. ###
06.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement on the United States Supreme Court’s decision regarding North Carolina’s legislative districts: “The Supreme Court’s ruling today completes the judicial appellate process for legislative redistricting. The Court has once again told North Carolina what I have long known to be true- that its history in making voting decisions is discriminatory. The General Assembly must fairly redraw legislative boundaries to protect the interests of minority voters. The Court again made clear that the state cannot use race as the predominant factor in drawing boundaries. “The General Assembly is required by law to expedite the redrawing of legislative boundaries. The remaining question is whether the new legislative elections will take place this year. The people of North Carolina should not be required to wait until 2018 to live in a constitutionally drawn district and be represented by a legislator who is lawfully elected. “The legislative elections should take place in the fall of 2017.” ###
05.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after receiving confirmation that Durham resident and Riverside High School graduate, Wendy Miranda-Fernandez was removed from the United States and returned to her home country of El Salvador: “I’m deeply saddened by the news of Wendy Miranda-Fernandez’s removal from the country this morning. Ms. Miranda-Fernandez did not have a criminal record and did not pose a threat to national security or the Durham community that she called home. She was not one of the gang members or violent criminals that President Trump promised to target and deport once in office. At the age of 14, Ms. Miranda-Fernandez was an eye witness to a murder by one of the world’s deadliest gangs. After witnessing the murder, she and her family received repeated death threats, forcing her to flee to the United States in search of sanctuary. Her removal today sends her back into the same violence that she fled. Ms. Miranda-Fernandez’s case is a truly unfortunate example of what is now possible under the Trump Administration's immigration enforcement policies. “For weeks, my staff and I worked with ICE officials on Ms. Miranda-Fernandez's behalf. Through that work, my staff and I were able to delay Ms. Miranda-Fernandez's removal for several weeks in the hope that her motion before the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) could be fully considered. That motion remains pending before the BIA. Her removal, despite Ms. Miranda-Fernandez not having the opportunity to exhaust all her legal options, is extremely disheartening. “My thoughts and prayers are with Ms. Miranda-Fernandez and her family.” ###
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released an updated report on the impacts of the amended Republican health care bill that passed the House of Representatives earlier this month: “Republicans voted for Trumpcare earlier this month without knowing how many people it would impact or how much it would raise Americans’ healthcare premiums. Today’s CBO score confirmed what I knew all along- that Trumpcare is nothing more than a cruel and dangerous plan that would rip healthcare from millions of Americans. Trumpcare will result in some 23 million Americans losing their health insurance, force consumers to pay more for less with an expected 20 percent rise in premiums, and render those living with a pre-existing condition uninsurable. “Let’s call Trumpcare what it is- a $1 trillion tax giveaway to the ultra-rich masquerading as a healthcare bill. House Republicans should be ashamed for voting to pass this bill that will harm millions of Americans. I have and will continue to fight to protect access to quality, affordable healthcare. Just like Donald Trump’s budget, Trumpcare belongs in the trash can.” ###
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today delivered remarks honoring the life and contributions of the late North Carolina State Senator Ralph A. Hunt, Sr. on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. The Honorable Ralph A. Hunt, Sr. passed away on Tuesday, May 16, 2017. Below is a video and transcript of Congressman Butterfield’s remarks: Click here to watch a video of his remarks. “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and work of a dear friend, a North Carolina giant: The Honorable Ralph A. Hunt, Sr. “Community leader, businessman, educator, former North Carolina State Senator, and a devoted husband, father, grandfather, and friend. “Ralph Hunt was a resident of Durham County, North Carolina, a county that Congressman David Price and I proudly represent. He was my constituent. “Mr. Speaker, Ralph Hunt was also a native of my Congressional District, having grown up in an adjoining county called Granville County, North Carolina. He was the seventh of eight children, born in 1932 to Johnnie and Amanda Harris Hunt. “As a young student at Mary Potter High School in Oxford, North Carolina, which was the only high school for African Americans during those days, Ralph grew up during the period of legal and forced segregation in the South, which helped lay the foundation for Ralph and others like him to get an education. Mary Potter High School was a nationally renowned high school for African Americans. “Ralph Hunt, Sr. went on to further his education at Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte, North Carolina, which is a Presbyterian school. He was drafted into the United States Army during his junior year in school, but he was honorably discharged two years later from the United States Army. He then returned to North Carolina to complete his college education, earning a degree in mathematics in 1956. “After spending many years as an educator at Mary Potter High School and Hillside High School, Ralph was elected to the Durham City Council. He was one of only two African Americans serving on the City Council at that time. His fellow Councilmembers selected him to serve as Mayor Pro Tem. “Ralph was then elected to the North Carolina State Senate in 1985 and served many years. During his tenure, Senator Hunt was a true statesman, who led with conviction. He served as Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Majority Whip, and a member of the Joint Legislative Commission on Government Operations. He introduced the legislation that changed the election law in North Carolina to allow a 40 percent threshold to avoid a runoff in a primary. “In 1993, Senator Hunt was appointed by then-Governor Jim Hunt to the prestigious North Carolina Utilities Commission, where he would serve as its Chair. Ralph Hunt, Sr. retired from the Commission in 2001, returning to the State Senate very briefly from 2004 to 2005. “Ralph’s career in public service should serve as a marker we can all strive to meet. He was a visionary who helped bring the Durham community to be the economic leader that it is today. “Ralph Hunt, Sr. achieved many great things in his life, but his greatest achievement, was his loving family: his dear wife of more than 50 years, Rebecca, and his three children, Ralph, Jr., Reginald, and Regina. “Mr. Speaker, the City of Durham, the County of Durham, and the State of North Carolina all shine brighter because of the life and work of Senator Ralph Hunt, Sr. “We will miss him dearly, but his legacy lives on. “Everything God gave to Ralph, he gave it back to his family and to his community. “I said those words at his memorial service the other day and I say it now from the Well of the United States House of Representatives: Everything God gave to Ralph Hunt, Sr., he gave it back to his family and to his community. “Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I yield back.” ###
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s budget for FY2018: “If actually enacted into law, President Trump’s budget would have disastrous implications for many in North Carolina whose health and financial security are already stretched thin. President Trump’s proposal would radically restructure the Medicaid program, cutting $600 billion over the next ten years. This cut is in addition to the $800 billion cut to Medicaid that was included in the House-passed Trumpcare bill. These deep cuts would pass the buck to the state, forcing it to assume the costs of caring for our most vulnerable families. “This budget proposal is particularly devastating for families in the Triangle and eastern North Carolina. President Trump’s proposal slashes funding for disaster relief that our region would depend on as we prepare for future natural disasters in the wake of Hurricane Matthew. Elimination of federal funding for local programs and non-profits, such as Meals on Wheels, will leave these organizations on their own to meet a growing demand of services. “The bottom line is that, absent Congress’ rejection of this proposal, President Trump’s budget will leave thousands of people in need- especially poor people with incomes barely above the poverty line- with little hope when it comes to things like health care, legal services, home heating assistance, or even a hot meal. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to stand against these proposed cuts and put this budget proposal where it belongs- in the garbage.” ###
05.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced the winner of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition, a district-wide high school art competition highlighting young artists in the First District. The first place winner of the annual competition is Ms. Jiana Brown, a Senior at Hillside High School in Durham, North Carolina. Jiana said of her winning piece, titled Hope, “when I looked up the ladder… [it made] me remember to never give up and to keep climbing until I reach the top!” “Each year, I am impressed by the extraordinary talent displayed by student artists living in the First Congressional District,” said Congressman Butterfield. “This year’s submissions were particularly creative and skillful. I congratulate Jiana on her inspirational piece, which will be on display in the United States Capitol for the next year.” As this year’s winner, Jiana’s piece will be displayed in the United States Capitol along with the winning entries from congressional districts around the country. Jiana will also receive: Two roundtrip airline tickets to Washington, DC to attend the ribbon cutting ceremony on June 29, 2017, A scholarship to attend the summer academy at the Art Institute of Raleigh-Durham, and A $3,000 scholarship from Savannah College of Art & Design. A panel of three independent judges from across the district selected the first, second, and third place winners. “Hope” by Jiana Brown, Senior at Hillside High School (Durham, NC) Click here to view the first, second, and third place pieces. ###
05.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after the United States Supreme Court’s decision regarding North Carolina’s Congressional district maps: “The U.S. Supreme Court’s decision clearly reaffirms my position that the Republican-controlled state legislature unlawfully used race as the predominant factor in the 2011 redistricting. The law has been quite clear that the legislature cannot use race as the predominant factor in drawing boundaries. However, race can be one of many factors in making redistricting decisions. The 2011 redistricting was an extreme case of racial gerrymandering and I applaud the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in affirming the District Court’s decision.” ###
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement in response to Republicans in the North Carolina Senate inserting a provision in their budget to permanently cut federally funded SNAP food assistance: “I am disappointed but not at all surprised by the gall demonstrated by Republicans in the North Carolina State Senate who tucked in a provision to strip funding from several federally funded programs that support students and low-income families. In addition to cutting funding for early college programs and a STEM program for disadvantaged high school students, North Carolina Senate Republicans also stripped funding that literally helps put food on the tables of more than 133,000 North Carolinians, 51,345 of which are children. Their careless actions are shameful beyond words. “Not only were these proposed cuts not properly put up for debate, but there is absolutely no financial gain from cutting SNAP since it is completely federally funded. “Sadly, Republicans in the North Carolina General Assembly continue to insist on pursuing their hapless crusade to undermine our Governor and their Democratic colleagues. With these latest moves, NC Senate Republicans will cause disadvantaged children and their families across our state to suffer the long-term consequences of their harmful and regressive policies.” ###
05.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement in response to reports that President Donald Trump shared highly classified intelligence with Russian officials: “The reports that President Trump may have shared classified intelligence with the Russian foreign minister and ambassador is alarming and deeply disturbing. This sharing of highly classified intelligence with Russian representatives is the latest in a pattern of reckless ineptitude from the White House that puts our national security and our ability to work with our allies at risk. “Enough is enough. This is just another incident in a long line of troubling revelations that call into question the President’s relationship with Russia. Congressional Republicans must put country over party and join the American people in demanding answers and accountability from President Trump and his administration. Anything less is a grave mistake that could have ramifications far beyond Mr. Trump’s presidency.” ###
05.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after the United States Supreme Court refused to hear an appeal of the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals’ unanimous finding that the North Carolina General Assembly acted with discriminatory purpose in enactment of a 2013 Voter ID law: “Today’s announcement is a victory against those who try to implement discriminatory voter ID laws written to suppress the vote of certain North Carolinians. “The Supreme Court’s decision to not hear the case left in place the Fourth Circuit’s well-reasoned finding that the Republican-led North Carolina General Assembly acted with a discriminatory purpose in enacting its 2013 voter ID law that also included other discriminatory voting changes like limitations on early voting predominately used by African Americans. “Today, the Supreme Court rightly refused to hear the appeal of a law that I have long said discriminates against African American voters. I hope this is finally the end to one of the most undemocratic and disgraceful voter ID laws in the country.” ###
05.11.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement in response to the news of President Donald Trump's firing of FBI Director James Comey: “The timing of President Donald Trump’s firing of FBI Director James Comey is both suspicious and disturbing. This firing is the latest, and perhaps most obvious, example of the Trump Administration attempting to cover up the investigations into Trump and his associates’ ties to and collusion with Russia. Not since Watergate have we seen a president dismiss the official leading the investigation against him or his associates. An independent special prosecutor must be immediately appointed so Congress and the American people can learn the full extent of Russia’s interference and involvement with Mr. Trump and those associated with him.” ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement after the passage of the American Health Care Act by the House: “I am deeply disappointed that Republicans have once again decided to abandon the interests of the American people. Today’s vote in favor of the latest version of Trumpcare, which repeals the Affordable Care Act (ACA), is shameful. “No matter how Republicans try to spin it, this updated bill still rips health care away from 24 million people. It still cuts Medicaid by more than $800 billion over the next decade. It still hands a $1 trillion tax giveaway to corporations. It still jeopardizes coverage for nearly 300,000 residents of the First Congressional District who have pre-existing conditions. And it is still the same bill that is supported by just 17 percent of the American people. “Instead of working together to make coverage more affordable, provide greater choice, and increase the number of those insured, Republicans have refused at every turn to even consider reasonable changes to current law. Today’s vote confirmed that my Republican colleagues do not understand what is really in this bill and the negative impact it would have on hundreds of thousands of people in the Triangle and eastern North Carolina. “The American people will surely hold Republicans accountable for their vote today.” ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) spoke on the House Floor in opposition to the American Health Care Act, the Republican plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act, that will result in 24 million Americans losing health insurance, increased deductibles and premiums, and reduced access and quality of care.
04.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – This Saturday, April 29 marks the first 100 days of Donald Trump’s presidency. Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement on the status of the promises made to the American people at the 100-day mark of President Trump’s administration: “Despite Donald Trump’s talk of making North Carolina’s working families a priority, sadly, he has not. Trump’s first 100 days make clear the people he’s looking out for- himself and other rich people like him: 1.His tax “plan” cuts taxes for the wealthy and adds tax breaks that will benefit him and his companies. Taxes on the wealthiest people in the highest tax bracket would come down, while taxes on working people in the lowest tax bracket would stay the same. 2.His healthcare plan also cuts taxes for the wealthy while kicking more than 24 million Americans off of their insurance and removing protections for those with pre-existing conditions. By 2026, his plan would jeopardize coverage for over 80,000 individuals in the First Congressional District alone. 3.His drastic budget cuts would eliminate programs that help low- and moderate-income and rural North Carolinians, such as Community Development Block Grants that help spur economic development and provide disaster assistance; and Meals on Wheels, which feeds low income seniors, who may not eat otherwise. “If you want to know what Donald Trump really believes, don’t listen to what he says, watch what he does. His actions taken in the first 100 days of his presidency make clear- Donald Trump wins, you lose.” ###
04.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement on President Donald Trump’s tax proposal: “President Trump and Congressional Republicans are pushing the same tired scheme that seeks to line the pockets of the wealthy and fill the coffers of large corporations at the expense of the American people. “What the White House put out today was not a tax reform plan at all, but a one-page set of guidelines. I have long supported bipartisan efforts for real tax reform that would support working families and small businesses, but Trump’s announcement today misses the mark entirely and does not do nearly enough for America’s hardworking families.” ###
04.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) is spending the district work period focusing on his “Jobs and Justice” agenda in the First Congressional District. Butterfield’s agenda aims to promote job growth, economic development, access to healthcare, and education for residents in the First District. During his stops, Butterfield will highlight President Donald Trump’s proposed budget cuts and the negative impact they could have on eastern North Carolina. Butterfield kicked off his work period last Tuesday with his “Forward Together” community discussion in Greenville. Over 200 residents gathered at East Carolina Heart Institute to hear an update on a variety of issues from healthcare, to President Trump’s airstrike on Syria, to the importance of adequate federal funding for development in rural communities. Attendees also shared concerns and asked questions directly to Butterfield. Photos from the Greenville community discussion can be viewed here. On Wednesday, Butterfield continued the dialogue on the importance of ensuring federal funding remain in place for services provided to North Carolinians during visits with the Choanoke Area Development Association (CADA) and Halifax Community College. During his visit with CADA in Northampton County, Butterfield discussed the wide array of local programs and non-profits that stand to lose federal funding under the President’s budget cuts such as the Community Services Block Grant and the HUD Housing Choice Voucher Program. On Thursday, Butterfield addressed over 200 students at Halifax Community College about the future of federal funding for Pell grants and other financial aid programs available to college students. On Monday, during stops in Vance County, Butterfield expanded on the need for adequate investments in education and community-based services. Butterfield met with staff at the Kittrell Job Corps, which provides young people with the education and technical training needed to be placed in meaningful jobs at no cost to the individual. Butterfield also visited Vance-Granville Community College, where he met with President Stelfanie Williams, members of the Board of Trustees, and students. This week, Congressman Butterfield will continue highlighting the state of jobs and justice and the stark effect Trump’s proposed budget would have on the First District with the following stops: Tuesday, April 18: 11:00 AM - Martin Community College 1161 Kehukee Park Rd, Williamston, NC Student convening. Open to the public. 2:00 PM - CHE Community Food Hub Bethel, NC Closed meeting with leadership. 3:30 PM - Princeville Listening Session Princeville Town Hall, Princeville, NC Resident convening with Rep. Butterfield and local leadership. Open to the public. Wednesday, April 19: 11:00 AM - Meals on Wheels of Durham Durham, NC Closed meeting with leadership. 2:00 PM - Durham Housing Authority Raleigh, NC Closed meeting with leadership. Thursday, April 20: 10:00 AM - Washington County Senior Center 191 NC-45, Plymouth, NC Seniors to voice concerns about President Trump’s proposed budget cuts. 6:30 PM - Barton College Hardy Alumni Hall Multipurpose Room, 800 Vance St, NE, Wilson, NC Student convening. Open to the public. ###
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, introduced the Expanding Broadcast Ownership Opportunities Act to help increase diversity of ownership in the broadcasting industry by strengthening data and reporting requirements at the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), re-establishing the tax certificate program, and creating a pilot incubator program at the FCC to assist new minority- or women-owned broadcast stations. “In today’s omnipresent media environment, the need to increase diverse voices that can contribute to the dialogue has never been more important,” said Butterfield. “My bill that bolsters the FCC’s reporting requirements, revives a tax certificate program, and empowers the FCC to assist historically disadvantaged groups is an important step forward in encouraging new entrants into the broadcast industry. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee who share my goal of creating ways to increase diversity of ownership in broadcast.” The bill has received support from FCC Commissioner Mignon Clyburn who has long supported restoring the tax certificate program that helps historically disadvantaged groups gain entry into the broadcast industry. The National Association of Broadcasters have also expressed support for the legislation. ###
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Congressman David B. McKinley, P.E. (WV-01) led 162 of their colleagues in a bipartisan letter to the Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies, urging Congress to provide $8 billion in funding to the National Science Foundation (NSF) in the Fiscal Year 2018. The NSF is an independent federal agency created by Congress in 1950 to promote the progress of science, secure the national defense, and advance the nation’s health and welfare. “From curing diseases and addressing threats to national security, to supporting the development of new businesses and creating jobs, the National Science Foundation enables our workforce to compete globally and helps our nation find solutions for its biggest challenges,” said Rep. Butterfield. “The NSF contributes approximately $200 million to North Carolina institutions of higher learning annually, including Duke University, North Carolina Central University, and East Carolina in the First Congressional District. The funding helps our state address local issues like hurricane resiliency and coal ash management while enabling it to be a leader in health care and defense. The NSF has generated private sector jobs in North Carolina through companies like Cree LED Lighting in Durham, and has helped our nation develop a globally competitive workforce for the future. “However, the United States currently lags behind many other advanced industrial nations in STEM education with almost one-third of American adults lacking basic math skills. NSF funding must be a priority in fiscal year 2018 to help us face today’s challenges and prepare our workforce for the future. For over 60 years, NSF has supported research and training to address the shortage of STEM professionals and to facilitate breakthroughs in science and technology.” “The National Science Foundation (NSF) is one of our most important tools for advancing medical cures, keeping our country safe, and fostering economic prosperity,” said Rep. McKinley. “The United States faces many challenges at home and abroad. Our request will provide the NSF with the resources it needs to meet those challenges and keep America competitive in the global economy and as the world’s leader in cutting edge technology.” The letter is supported by the Coalition for National Science Foundation: “The Coalition for National Science Funding (CNSF) appreciates Representatives G.K. Butterfield and David McKinley for their longstanding and consistent support for the National Science Foundation (NSF). As the pillar of America’s research enterprise, NSF-funded research has proven to be vital to our economy, national security, and global competitiveness. For the last 60 years, NSF has supported research across a broad spectrum of scientific disciplines and has served a vital role in preparing the next generation STEM workforce. For these reasons, we support the recommendation of Representatives Butterfield, McKinley, and the other 162 Members of Congress who signed on to the Dear Colleague Letter that NSF receive an appropriation of $8 billion in fiscal year 2018,” said Amy Scott and Erin Heath, co-chairs for CNSF. More than fifty professional science organizations, many of which are members of the CNSF, independently supported the letter: Association of American Universities, Association of Public and Land-grant Universities, IEEE-USA, Research America, American Political Science Association, Museum of Science, Boston, National Center for Technological Literacy, American Educational Research Association, American Anthropological Association, Human Factors and Ergonomics Society, American Statistical Association, American Institute of Biological Sciences, Natural Science Collections Alliance, American Society of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Federation of Associations in Behavioral and Brain Sciences, American Psychological Association, Biophysical Society, Mathematical Association of America, Consortium of Social Science Associations, National Postdoctoral Association, Council on Undergraduate Research, American Mathematical Society, Botanical Society of America, Society for the Preservation of Natural History Collections, American Society of Naturalists, Linguistic Society of America, American Physiological Society, American Geophysical Union, Archaeological Institute of America, The Herpetologists’ League, The American Phytopathological Society, Ecological Society of America, Society for American Archaeology, Coalition for American Heritage, American Association of Geographers, Society for Integrative and Comparative Biology, Organization of Biological Field Stations, American Cultural Resources Association, Society for Historical Archaeology, Society of Systematic Biologists, Society for the Study of Evolution, The Society for the Study of Amphibians and Reptiles, American Sociological Association, Entomological Society of America, Association for Psychological Science, American Chemical Society, Psychology of Science in Policy, Association of Ecosystem Research Centers, Population Association of America, Association of Population Centers The full text of the letter can be viewed here. ###
03.31.2017	Contest Open to All High School Students Residing in the First District WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) is hosting his annual First Congressional District High School Art Competition. High school students who reside in the First District are eligible to compete for the grand prize which includes a trip to Washington, DC, a scholarship offer, and the honor of having their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. The contest is free and open to all high school students in grades 9 through 12 who live in the First District. Students can submit one piece of original art, which can be any of the following: paintings, drawings, collages, prints, mixed media, computer-generated art, and photography. Complete submission guidelines can be found at https://butterfield.house.gov/services/congressional-art-competition. “Each year, I am amazed by the talent and creativity of our young North Carolinians,” said Butterfield, who has hosted the art competition annually since he took office. “This year’s art competition will showcase the impressive work of creative student artists from across the First Congressional District.” Participating students must submit entries no later than Friday, April 21, 2017 at 5 p.m. Artwork will be accepted online or by mail to Congressman Butterfield’s Durham office at 411 W. Chapel Hill Street, Suite 905, Durham, NC 27701. Students and teachers can direct questions to Congressman Butterfield’s Durham office at (919) 908-0164. Read about the 2016 Congressional Art Competition winner, Rene’ Chavez Lopez of Hillside High School, here. ###
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after Republicans pulled their healthcare bill from the House Floor: “From the very beginning, the American people said ‘NO’ to Trumpcare. They said NO to paying more for less care, NO to kicking 24 million people off of their coverage, NO to stripping funding from Medicaid. The people rejected Republican attempts to take away access to preventive, mental health, and maternity care. The people of the First District fought Republican attempts to take healthcare from over 80,000 of our friends and neighbors. In rallies, town hall meetings, letters, and phone calls, voters reminded Republicans that they did not want to turn back the clock on healthcare. “The lesson from today is that when people unite for the common good, they will never be defeated. I hope President Trump and Speaker Ryan take note.” ###
03.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after Republicans delayed a House vote on their healthcare bill: “Donald Trump boasts about his ability to close a deal, but today he failed because Americans know they deserve better. House Republicans spent the last seven years criticizing the Affordable Care Act rather than working to make it better. This hastily constructed proposal would hurt millions of American families. It’s time to listen to the outcry from the American people and build on what’s working. “The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has already told us what nearly two-thirds of Americans believe, that fewer people will have health insurance under the Republican repeal bill. Following Republicans’ failure to put their bill on the House Floor today, Republicans should heed the calls of the majority of Americans and abandon this bill that will dismantle the ACA, cripple Medicaid, and put the future of Medicare in peril.” ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s budget blueprint for FY2018: “Budgets demonstrate priorities. And once again, President Trump- though, light on details- clearly demonstrates regressive priorities that will have an extreme impact on working families. “If Congress adopts President Trump’s proposed budget, agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Institutes of Health, and the State Department face large cuts. Smaller agencies such as the National Endowment for the Arts and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting stand to be eliminated under President Trump’s plan. The President’s proposal also calls for the elimination of key economic development agencies including the Minority Business Development Agency and the Economic Development Administration. “This budget fails to address our economic problems by slashing funding that supports our long-standing commitment to increase economic opportunities through investments in education, infrastructure, affordable housing, and job training. Many of these programs sustain older Americans and so many in eastern North Carolina. “I am outraged by the President’s call to drastically cut funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). This will be devastating to programs that support public housing in low-income communities and, quite frankly, keep a roof over people’s heads. Under the President’s proposal, the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) and the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) will be cut entirely, significantly impacting small, rural communities like the ones in my congressional district. More than 88,000 households in North Carolina benefit from LIHEAP, and the very threat of this program’s elimination could push these families beyond the tipping point. The CDBG program has been a successful means of helping communities secure federal funding for local neighborhood revitalization, housing rehabilitation, and economic development activities. “I cannot and will not support measures that take a wrecking ball to programs that have long supported low and moderate-income Americans. “President Trump calls his proposal the ‘America First’ budget, but this plan puts many Americans last.” ###
03.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – March marks Women’s History Month, a time to recognize the role women have played in American history. This week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) commemorated Women’s History Month with a discussion with Dr. Carla Hayden, the 14th Librarian of Congress. Even though more than eighty percent of American librarians are women, the position of Librarian of Congress has been held exclusively by white men for over 200 years. Dr. Hayden is the first woman and the first African American to hold the position. In 2016, Dr. Hayden was ranked among the World’s 50 Greatest Leaders by Fortune Magazine. During their discussion, Butterfield and Hayden discussed her role as Librarian of Congress, women who inspire them, and Dr. Hayden’s recommendations for North Carolinians visiting the Library of Congress for the first time. Click here to watch the video. ###
03.09.2017	Washington, DC – Yesterday evening, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) delivered the following remarks at the House Committee on Energy and Commerce’s full committee markup of House Republican’s bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act. The Republican bill changes Medicaid into a per capita cap funding structure that will inevitably result in the rationing of care; eliminates Medicaid expansion that has helped millions of Americans to gain affordable healthcare coverage; removes the mandate that Medicaid cover all Essential Health Benefits; and imposes a 30 percent reinsurance penalty that goes straight into the pockets of the insurers for individuals who for any reason are unable to maintain consistent coverage. A link to the video and transcript of his remarks as prepared can be found below. Click here for a video of his remarks. Chairman Walden, I would like to draw your attention to the incredible impact the Affordable Care Act has had on individuals and the lifesaving benefits it has created for people in my district in eastern North Carolina. Since the ACA was signed into law, millions of Americans have gained access to quality healthcare services and hundreds of thousands more have seen their health insurance improved. The ACA has played a significant role in reducing worry among Americans who previously struggled to pay unaffordable medical bills when they got sick. We cannot afford to go back to the days when Americans were forced to pay more money for less coverage, and when insurance companies rationed the care people received. My constituents do not want to go back to the days where health care emergencies could bankrupt families. This harmful bill rolls back the clock and will rip health care away from my constituents. Chairman Walden, my constituents have made it clear that the ACA saves lives. Today, I want to share the story of Julie Chamberlain, who lives and works in my Congressional District in Greenville, North Carolina. Julie is 55 and for the first time in her adult life, she is able to afford health insurance because of the ACA even though she has a pre-existing condition. Before the ACA’s enactment, Julie tried to get coverage but could not afford the expensive policies she was being offered due to her pre-existing condition. Chairman Walden, repealing the ACA will endanger health care for millions of Americans. ​Julie is one of them.​ Because she is over 50 years of age, Julie is at risk of no longer being able to afford health insurance under the replacement plan because this bill will allow insurance companies to charge much higher premiums for older Americans than they were allowed to under the ACA. In fact, the bill is estimated to raise premiums for older Americans by ($3,200) thirty two hundred dollars. That is a lot of money for people trying to put food on the table, pay for their children’s education, and keep up with their bills. Many people simply can’t afford that and would lose coverage altogether. ​ At the thought of losing her coverage, Julie said- and I quote – “I know if the ACA is repealed, I will not have health insurance any longer and I worry tremendously about losing my coverage.” Mr. Chairman, please listen to Julie and the millions of Americans like her who are living in a state of worry that this bill will make health care unaffordable. Julie’s story is just one of more than 35,000 people in my Congressional District alone, who now have insurance as a result of the Affordable Care Act. I heard from many of them on Saturday, February 25th in Durham North Carolina. I held a town hall, like many of my Democratic colleagues, and heard from more than 600 of my constituents who support the ACA. Even though my Republican colleagues fear public interaction and are missing in action, the voices of my constituents and theirs deserve to be heard. Like Julie, many of these individuals would no longer be able to afford healthcare insurance if the ACA is repealed. This bill is also alarming because it would prevent states- like North Carolina- that did not yet expand Medicaid from choosing to expand in the future. This bill stands to block more than 650,000 North Carolinians from gaining coverage under Medicaid if the State expands the program in the future. The fact that my colleagues across the aisle continuously propose ways to reduce health coverage for Americans, many of whom reside in their Congressional Districts, is disgusting. ​ I will do everything in my power to protect the many North Carolinians who rely on the coverage and protections provided under the ACA and I urge my colleagues to oppose this harmful bill. I yield back. ###
03.03.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement congratulating Robert Evans, District Attorney for the Seventh Judicial District, on his appointment to serve as chairman of Governor Roy Cooper’s newly formed Crime Commission: “Governor Cooper’s new Crime Commission will play a critical role in advising the Governor on crime and justice issues in our state. District Attorney Evans understands the justice and law enforcement system well, especially as it relates to meeting the needs of our state. His extensive experience as district attorney for Nash, Edgecombe, and Wilson Counties, as a prior District Court Judge, and as a general practice attorney makes him a great choice to advocate for our state. I look forward to working with Robert in his new role.” Robert Evans will lead 44 members of the Crime Commission as the chief advisory body to the Governor and the Secretary of the Department of Public Safety on crime and justice issues. The Commission will also set program priorities and review and make recommendations to the Governor for grant awards. ###
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released a new district report highlighting the risks to North Carolina’s First Congressional District if President Trump and congressional Republicans move forward with plans to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Since the ACA was implemented in 2012, the uninsured rate in our district has dropped from 19.2 percent to 15.2 percent. Nationally, more than 20 million previously uninsured Americans have gained access to affordable and high quality health insurance. Thanks to this expanded access, the uninsured rate has reached an historic low. The ACA’s significant gains were achieved by creating online Marketplaces for consumers to purchase insurance with financial assistance, and by expanding Medicaid. The district report finds that 35,800 people in the district selected high-quality coverage through the ACA Marketplaces in 2016, including 32,600 people who received financial assistance to purchase their coverage. This coverage could be lost if Republicans dismantle the Marketplaces. The report also finds that 24,100 people who have employer sponsored health insurance could lose important consumer protections – like the prohibition on annual and lifetime limits and the prohibition on coverage exclusions for preexisting health conditions – if the ACA is repealed. Republican proposals to tax employer-based health coverage could destabilize employer-based coverage and impose the largest middle class tax increase in history on individuals who have health insurance through their employers. “This report shows the devastating impacts that Republican efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act would have on the First District,” said Butterfield. “More than half a million North Carolinians have gained coverage since the ACA was implemented and another half a million stand to gain coverage under Governor Cooper’s proposal to expand Medicaid in the state. North Carolinians have better health coverage and care thanks to the Affordable Care Act. I remain steadfastly committed to protecting access to affordable health care and Medicaid from Republicans who are working to take it away.” A copy of the district report is available here. Congressman G. K. Butterfield is a senior member of the influential House Committee on Energy and Commerce where he serves as the fourth most senior Democrat on the Health Subcommittee. ###
02.28.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) issued the following statement following President Trump’s address this evening to a Joint Session of Congress: “During tonight’s address to the nation, President Trump promised to move us forward as a nation and bring jobs back to our country. If the President is serious about supporting America’s working families, that is a positive step. But action on jobs and infrastructure and a proposal to pay for this agenda remain unseen. “By this time into President Obama’s Administration, Democrats had already enacted the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act- saving nearly 4 million jobs and laying a new foundation for growth in America. President Trump said he was going to be a jobs President, but we are five weeks into his presidency and he is still without a single jobs bill or accomplishment to his name. “However, in the first month of the Trump Administration, we have seen actions that would have a negative impact on the people of North Carolina. We have seen the President’s travel ban that undermined our nation’s values and violates our Constitution. We have seen a blueprint for immigration laws that target vulnerable populations and instill fear in our community. We have seen a tax reform plan that gives the wealthiest Americans a tax break on the backs of middle class families. And we have seen an attack on affordable health care, from the Affordable Care Act to Medicare and Medicaid.” “Donald Trump says he wants to make America great again, but based on his actions he does not appear to want to make it great for everyone, everywhere.” ###
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC-01) joined U.S. Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with U.S. Representatives Michael T. McCaul (R-TX-10), Sean Duffy (R-WI-07), and Yvette Clarke (D-NY-09) to reintroduce the RACE for Children Act (Research to Accelerate Cures and Equity for Children Act) to support the development of innovative and promising cancer drugs for children. The bipartisan bill, first introduced in the 114th Congress, would update the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) to reflect the latest advances in cancer drugs. PREA was enacted by Congress in 2003 to address the scarcity of information about how to treat children with drugs developed for adults, and therefore develop pediatric data during drug development. Although PREA has resulted in new information on how to treat children for a multitude of drugs over the years, there are still limited pediatric studies for cancer drugs. “As co-chair of the Childhood Cancer Caucus, I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing the RACE for Children Act,” Butterfield said. “Researchers in North Carolina and across the country are taking promising steps in diagnosing and treating children with cancer. Still, the law lags behind the current advances in treatment of childhood cancer. This bill will update the law to provide researchers with the tools they need to accelerate the search for innovative, life-saving treatments for childhood cancers." “In Colorado and around the country, researchers are making dramatic advances to treat and cure cancer, but there is even more we can do for our kids,” Bennet said. “This legislation is a necessary update to our laws and has the potential to save thousands of children’s lives. I look forward to continue working with parents, researchers, and other advocates to advance this bill to expand treatment options for children.” "Pediatric cancer impacts too many families in Florida and across the nation, including my own,” Rubio said. “I am proud to reintroduce the RACE for Children Act, which would encourage more treatment options for children battling against cancer. This bill ‎takes a further step in extending medical advances in adult cancer treatment to children fighting this horrific disease. I am especially honored to reintroduce this bill on behalf ‎of the many advocates who have relentlessly fought to get more attention, funding and resources for childhood cancer. I look forward to continuing my work with them to make this crucial legislation a law." ‎ “No childhood should be interrupted by a struggle for survival, but cancer tragically puts far too many kids in Maryland and across the country in a battle for their lives,” Van Hollen said. “Researchers at institutions like the National Institutes of Health have made important progress on cancer research, and our laws need to reflect this. Our bill would update statutes around drug development to reflect recent advancements to research, which will help save children and their families from the misery of this horrific disease.” “The RACE for Children Act has the potential to increase access of life-saving cancer treatment and treatment for other serious illnesses for children by expanding pediatric studies,” Gardner said. “This bipartisan, commonsense legislation paves the way for scientific breakthroughs and has the potential to not only mitigate suffering for pediatric cancer patients, but also save lives.” “Researchers have made tremendous strides in fighting cancer in adults, using ‘molecular targeting’ to precisely attack cancer cells,” McCaul said. “However, current law does not reflect such advances in cancer drug development because these therapies have been under-studied in pediatric cancer. As the founder of the Childhood Cancer Caucus, I am pleased to re-introduce the RACE for Children Act because it will modernize current law to require pediatric studies for the most promising and innovative cancer treatments. I look forward to continuing the good fight with my colleagues and the advocacy community to give hope to the approximately 15,000 children and adolescents diagnosed with cancer each year.” "We’ve come a long way in the battle against childhood cancer, but we need the RACE for Children Act to beat this disease,” Duffy said. “Our laws must be brought into the twenty-first century so that our nation’s children can benefit from cutting-edge research and development." “More children are lost to cancer in the U.S. than any other disease. In fact, before they turn 20, about 1 in 285 children in the U.S. will have cancer—a tragedy that touches too many American families,” Clarke said. “I'm proud to join with my colleagues in introducing The RACE for Children Act, which will help advance research into lifesaving cures. Together, we can promote the development of new treatments and combat this deadly disease.” PREA does not apply to cancer because children's cancers arise in different organs than adult cancers, and as a result, most pharmaceutical companies receive waivers from PREA obligations. However, scientific advances have shown that some childhood and adult cancers may share the same molecular targets, and cancer drug development is now focused on advancements in molecular targets. The RACE for Children Act would update PREA by reflecting this new and promising approach to cancer drug development using molecular targets. Unlike the current structure of PREA, which applies to specific indications or specific types of cancer, this legislation would allow PREA to focus on a molecular target in a specific adult cancer when the same target presents in another childhood cancer. Currently, a PREA exemption may also be applied if the company studies the drug in an adult cancer that occurs in less than 200,000 patients. The bill would allow pediatric studies with a particular molecular target to still be considered for these cancers. The bill is supported by the Duke University Medical Center, Children’s Hospital Colorado, Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, Children's Medical Center of Dallas, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Nemours Children’s Health System, NYU Langone Medical Center, St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, Texas Children’s Hospital, and more than 100 pediatric cancer advocacy organizations. ###
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement congratulating MaryAnn Black on her selection by the Durham County Democratic Party to fill the unexpired term for North Carolina House District 29. The seat was previously held by Secretary Larry D. Hall who now heads the North Carolina Department of Military and Veterans Affairs: “Congratulations to Ms. Black on her selection to serve the people of Durham County in the North Carolina General Assembly. Representative Black is the first African American woman to represent Durham in the North Carolina House of Representatives and I know the people of Durham County will be well served by her leadership. “As the associate vice president of community relations for Duke Health, former Chair of the Durham County Commissioners, and a former social worker, I am confident Representative Black will be a strong leader who can speak directly to the issues impacting Durham County residents. “I look forward to welcoming my friend, Representative MaryAnn Black to the state legislature and to working with her to address the needs and challenges facing Durham residents and all North Carolinians.” ###
02.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – February marks Black History Month, a time to reflect on the struggles of the past, the progress made in recent decades, and the work that remains as we work to fulfill the goal of full participation in American democracy. Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) honored the contributions and progress made by African Americans in a video message released today. Click here to watch the video. Congressman G. K. Butterfield currently serves as Vice Chair of the Congressional Voting Rights Caucus and is the immediate past Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus. ###
02.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after the Senate voted 51-50, to confirm Betsy DeVos of Michigan as the United States Secretary of Education: “Among a historically unqualified cabinet, Betsy DeVos was the least qualified nominee. Not only does DeVos have no experience working in the public school system, neither she nor her children had ever even attended a public school. Yet, today, Senate Republicans confirmed Ms. DeVos to head the U.S. Department of Education where she will be tasked with overseeing the country’s public education system. “Now that she has been confirmed, Betsy DeVos has a duty to the 90 percent of children who attend our nation’s traditional public schools to support our public school system and focus on the needs of all students.” ###
02.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), along with Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Senator Jack Reed (D-RI), Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA), Senator Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Congressman Mike Kelly (R-PA), and Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA), re-introduced the Childhood Cancer STAR (Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and Research) Act, HR 820, in the 115th Congress. The STAR Act would improve efforts to identify and track childhood cancer incidences, improve the quality of life for childhood cancer survivors, and identify opportunities to expand the research of therapeutics necessary to treat the approx. 15,700 children diagnosed with cancer in the U.S. every year. Congressman Butterfield: “Childhood cancer remains the leading cause of death in American children and we need to take action. The Childhood Cancer STAR Act aims to give young cancer patients and their families better access to life-saving treatments and the support they need even after beating cancer. I thank my colleagues for their continued partnership on this measure. No parent should have to lose a child to cancer. This Act moves us one step closer to seeing that it does not happen.” Congressman McCaul: “I co-founded the Childhood Cancer Caucus because we need to do more in the fight against the number one killer of our children. When I was in elementary school, my friend lost his battle to this illness, and this tragedy continues to be a far too frequent occurrence for children across the nation. That is why we need to move legislation like the STAR Act through Congress this year, and prevent the worst outcomes from becoming a reality.” Senator Reed: “With far too many children’s lives tragically cut short by cancer, it’s critical that we do all we can to help the brave young people who are fighting these battles. The Childhood Cancer STAR Act will bring needed assistance to children with cancer and their families by expanding opportunities for research on childhood cancer and providing new strategies to help survivors overcome late health effects, such as secondary cancers. It is my hope that these efforts will lead to life-saving treatments for children and bring us closer to our ultimate goal of ending pediatric cancer once and for all.” Congresswoman Speier: “Childhood cancer is a nightmare for children and their families. And for many of these children, the fight does not end with remission,” Rep. Speier said. “That is why I’m proud to reintroduce the STAR Act and fight for its immediate passage in order to address the care and quality of life of the population of childhood cancer survivors, which is expected to reach 500,000 by the year 2020. The joyful news of remission should never be ruined by the serious threat of financial and emotional turmoil due to the on-going medical needs of these incredibly brave survivors.” Senator Capito: “We must continue making advancements that can help save the lives of those battling childhood cancers. The Childhood Cancer STAR Act will contribute to new developments in research and treatment, and has the potential to positively impact tens of thousands of lives. I’m proud to reintroduce this very important legislation for patients and families in West Virginia and across the country.” Senator Van Hollen: “There are unique barriers to studying childhood cancer that are slowing and preventing the next big breakthrough in treatment. We need a strategy to give every child with cancer the hope of a long and healthy life, and the STAR Act is a bipartisan approach to delivering that hope. By taking action to better study this disease and improve the quality of life for survivors, this bill will ultimately save lives and get us closer to the day that no child has to face the diagnosis of cancer.” Congressman Kelly: “No parent should ever have to hear the words, ‘Your child has cancer.’ I am so grateful to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for coming together to introduce this crucial legislation to help make that dream a reality. The STAR Act will be a powerful tool in the fight to eradicate childhood cancer forever, and an ally to the survivors who have bravely fought and beat this disease.” Senator Isakson: "It is extremely important that we increase research and treatment of the devastating effects of childhood cancer. This critical legislation is a positive step forward to help find the right cures for our youngest patients.” Background: The STAR Act passed the U.S. House in the 114th Congress. ###
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) issued the following statement on President Donald Trump's nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court: “Donald Trump’s announcement tonight comes as a surprise to no one and is yet another blow to civil rights and justice for all. I cannot stress enough that our fundamental liberties are at stake with there being crucial cases sitting before of the Supreme Court. With the addition of conservative Judge Neil Gorsuch to our highest court, I have serious questions on the future protections to women’s rights, environmental protections, voting rights, and workers’ rights. “This pick is controversial and will have a lasting impact on generations to come. Given Senate Republicans’ stonewalling of President Obama’s nomination of Judge Merrick Garland, a highly qualified jurist who drew universal praise, I urge my colleagues in the Senate to apply close scrutiny during the confirmation process.” ###
01.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s executive order halting all refugees from entering the United States and immigrants from seven majority-Muslim countries that resulted in the detainment of travelers with valid U.S. visas and travel documents at airports across the country over the weekend: “I condemn in the strongest possible terms President Donald Trump’s executive order. This order flies in the face of American values and raises serious legal and constitutional implications. “This executive order was written and signed to incite fear and division among the American people. It does nothing to improve our national security. In fact, I believe it endangers American lives by feeding ISIS propaganda that the United States is at war with Islam. “This order was ill conceived and implemented in a way that has caused chaos and confusion across the nation. It is clear from the confusion in airports across the country that this executive order was not properly vetted prior to its signing. I am particularly concerned that this order went into effect without any guidance from the Departments of Homeland Security, State, and Defense. “Today, I will stand with my colleagues on the steps of the United States Supreme Court to protest this executive order and call for it to be immediately rescinded. I have also cosponsored legislation that, if enacted, would void the President’s executive order and block funding for its implementation, administration, and enforcement. My office continues to closely monitor this developing situation and stands ready to assist individuals who may be wrongly detained by this questionable executive order. “Our nation is better than this and we will not stand for these types of hateful and discriminatory actions from the White House. ###
01.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding President Donald Trump’s actions to weaken the U.S. Department of Justice: “President Trump’s nomination of Senator Jeff Sessions as Attorney General was the first indication of the lack of respect this Administration will have for the protection of civil and constitutional rights. John Gore’s appointment to run the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division adds insult to injury. These picks are shameful and further indicate the attack on civil rights and voting rights that are to come from this Administration. “The Attorney General is the chief lawyer for the United States government, responsible for the fair enforcement of the law on behalf of all Americans. However, during his time in the Senate, Jeff Sessions has demonstrated ambivalence toward preserving and expanding the law to protect minority communities. “The Attorney General is responsible for enforcing the provisions implemented under the Violence Against Women Act. In 2013, Senator Jeff Sessions voted against the reauthorization of this landmark Act. The Department of Justice Civil Rights division is tasked with enforcing the Voting Rights Act. Senator Sessions has opposed the full enforcement of the Act, calling it ‘intrusive,’ and has blocked legislative efforts to ensure racial equality for minority communities under the law. As Attorney General, Sessions will be expected to aggressively investigate and prosecute hate crimes pursuant to federal hate crime laws. In 2000 and 2002, Senator Sessions voted against expanding the list of federally recognized hate crimes to include groups such as the LGBT community. “The Civil Rights Division of the Justice Department oversees the civil rights and inclusion of all Americans, particularly groups most vulnerable to discrimination. It has the key duties of fighting voting restrictions, prosecuting hate crimes, and investigating police misconduct. John Gore will now be in charge of the division within the Department of Justice that previously came to the aid of North Carolina and other states with a history of discriminatory practices. “Mr. Gore most recently worked as a partner at a law firm where he consistently worked to defend states accused of violating civil rights protections, including defending redistricting plans in Florida, New York, South Carolina, and Virginia against claims of civil rights violations and racial gerrymandering. He worked to defend the expansion of voter ID laws in several states and also defended Florida Governor Rick Scott in a case where the Florida Secretary of State undertook an effort to incorrectly purge voter rolls of people who were later found to be eligible to vote by a federal court. “Gore also served as a lead attorney defending North Carolina’s discriminatory HB 2 law in court until his recent appointment to the Justice Department. This bill was designed to attack the transgender community and has proven to be an economic disaster for the state, costing North Carolinians billions of dollars. “With these picks, it is apparent what voting rights and equal protection means to Donald Trump. The picture is clear that President Trump is weakening the Justice Department by selecting individuals whose primary relevant experience is in direct conflict with the American people’s best interests.” Congressman G. K. Butterfield is a former attorney in eastern North Carolina, where he practiced for 14 years protecting civil rights and voting rights. Butterfield served as Resident Superior Court Judge for the First Judicial Division for 13 years before being appointed by then-Governor Mike Easley to the North Carolina Supreme Court in 2001. Butterfield took congressional office in 2004, and currently serves as Vice Chair of the Congressional Voting Rights Caucus and is the immediate past Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus. ###
01.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today sent letters to North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper, Durham County Commission Chairwoman Wendy Jacobs, and Durham Mayor William V. Bell in strong support of the proclamation to name a portion of Interstate 85 in honor of scholar Dr. John Hope Franklin. The request was made by outgoing U.S. Secretary of Transportation Anthony R. Foxx, who signed the proclamation last week that seeks to name a portion of I-85 in Durham County the “John Hope Franklin Memorial Highway.” “John Hope Franklin was a pillar in the Durham community and he remains a national treasure,” said Butterfield. “As a celebrated scholar, Franklin touched the minds of many through his documentation of the African American experience in our country. Renaming part of I-85 in his honor will ensure future generations have the opportunity to learn his legacy. It is my hope that the NC Department of Transportation acts on this Proclamation without hesitation.” The full text of the letter to Governor Cooper, Chairwoman Jacobs, and Mayor Bell can be viewed here. ###
01.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding President Donald Trump’s claim that up to 5 million votes were cast illegally in the 2016 presidential election: “Donald Trump’s claim that millions of ‘illegal’ votes are what cost him the popular vote in the presidential election is completely unsubstantiated. “If there really were millions of votes cast illegally like President Trump is suggesting, then it is hard to believe that every one of those votes were cast in support of Secretary Clinton. “By calling into question the administration of this election, Donald Trump is also calling into question the legitimacy of his presidency. “It’s time for President Trump to either show us his proof of this purported voter fraud or concede that most Americans who voted cast their ballot against his divisive rhetoric and regressive policy agenda.” ###
01.25.2017	Bill would direct Medicare to once again cover recreational therapy for patients WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Tuesday, U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) and Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA) reintroduced legislation that would direct the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to cover physician-prescribed recreational therapy services. H.R. 626, the Access to Inpatient Rehabilitation Therapy Act of 2017, would amend the Social Security Act to include recreational therapy among the therapy methods that can be considered part of an intensive rehabilitation therapy program in an inpatient rehabilitation hospital or unit. This legislation would provide flexibility to CMS’ definition of “intensity of therapy” requirement. Essentially, the requirement helps CMS determine which beneficiaries are appropriate for treatment in an inpatient rehabilitation hospital or unit. Until 2010, physicians could prescribe, and CMS would cover, recreational therapy for patients who have brain injuries, those who have sustained strokes and amputations, individuals living with neurological disorders and a range of other conditions. “When overcoming an injury or disability it is important to be able to access appropriate rehabilitation services,” Butterfield said. “I am proud to join Representative Thompson in supporting this bipartisan legislation to expand the rehabilitation services seniors on Medicare are eligible for. This important legislation will benefit North Carolinians and people across the country who suffer from health challenges like brain injuries, spinal cord injuries, amputations, or cardiovascular complications.” “A patient’s health plan should be left to their physician and health professionals to determine what is medically necessary,” Thompson said. “Before coming to Congress, I worked as a certified therapeutic recreation specialist. There is no greater joy than to see your patient make progress after a debilitating event such as a stroke, spinal cord, or brain injury. I am pleased to reintroduce this common sense, bipartisan bill with Representative Butterfield, to ensure Medicare empowers physicians to prescribe the best care possible.” “Inpatient hospital rehabilitation is so effective because of the intensive and diverse therapy programs offered in this setting. Passage of this important Medicare bill will ensure that patients are prescribed the right mix of therapies, including recreational therapy, that meet their individual needs,” said Dawn De Vries, the Past-President (2016-2017) of the American Therapeutic Recreation Association (ATRA). “This is a very patient-centric Medicare bill.” “We applaud Congressmen Thompson and Butterfield for reintroducing this important legislation to reinstate the discretion of physicians practicing in rehabilitation hospitals to choose the mix of therapies that are clinically appropriate for Medicare patients,” said Dr. Steve R. Geiringer, President of the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (AAPM&R). “This bill will free the hands of doctors to treat patients with injuries and disabilities according to their individual rehabilitation therapy needs, rather than following unnecessarily restrictive regulations. We urge Congress to pass this bipartisan bill at its earliest opportunity.”THE ‘THREE HOUR RULE’ CMS has interpreted the intensity of therapy requirement through the metric it calls the “three hour rule.” This rule requires the patient to be able to participate in three hours of rehabilitation therapy per day, five days per week, or 15 hours of rehabilitation therapy over a one-week period. Prior to 2010, CMS regulations explicitly stated that physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, and/or orthotics and prosthetics were counted toward the “three hour rule” on an as-needed basis. In addition, CMS regulations stated that other therapeutic modalities that were determined by the physician and the rehabilitation team to be needed by the patient on a priority basis would satisfy the rule. But on January 1, 2010, Medicare revised its “three hour rule” to include only the following therapies: physical, occupational, and speech therapy as well as orthotics and prosthetics. It removed the discretion of the physician and the rehabilitation team to count other therapeutic services needed by the patient toward satisfaction of the “three hour rule.” As a result, recreational therapy services are often not available to patients who require medically necessary recreational therapy as part of their plan of care. H.R. 626 would restore all physician-prescribed therapies as part of a patient’s coverage.SUPPORT FOR H.R. 626 National organizations that support this bill include: American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation American Medical Rehabilitation Providers Association American Academy of Orthotists and Prosthetists American Therapeutic Recreation Association Association of Rehabilitation Nurses Brain Injury Association of America CARF, International (Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities) Christopher & Dana Reeve Foundation Council on Brain Injury United Spinal Association ###
01.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Friday, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), along with Congressman Brett Guthrie (KY-02), Congressman Ron Kind (WI-03), and Congressman Tom Reed (NY-23), introduced the Pharmacy and Medically Underserved Areas Enhancement Act (H.R.592), which will make it easier for Medicare patients in underserved communities to receive care. The Pharmacy and Medically Underserved Areas Enhancement Act would allow Medicare beneficiaries to receive basic care such as immunizations, diabetes management, blood pressure screenings and routine checks from pharmacists. There is currently no avenue for Medicare to directly reimburse pharmacists for providing this care. As a result, Medicare patients in underserved areas, often rural communities, are forced to travel to the doctor for these basic services, creating a substantial burden in many cases. The Pharmacy and Medically Underserved Areas Enhancement Act would allow Medicare to reimburse pharmacists who provide care in these underserved communities. “In rural areas like many I represent, access to a primary care doctor can be challenging,” said Butterfield. “In these cases, individuals often turn to pharmacists to provide wellness testing, help to manage chronic disease, administer immunizations, and help to reduce hospital admissions. Pharmacists in eastern North Carolina are helping people to live longer, healthier, and more fulfilling lives and saving taxpayer money. But providing those services doesn’t come without a cost to the pharmacist. I am proud to join my colleagues on this bipartisan measure that will ensure our pharmacists can continue to provide care to those in need.” “For many Kentuckians, the nearest pharmacy is much closer to them than the nearest doctor,” said Guthrie. “Our senior citizens should not have to travel for basic services when their neighborhood pharmacist is already licensed to help them. By allowing Medicare to reimburse pharmacists, seniors will have more immediate access to health care. I was proud to introduce this bipartisan bill to help our Medicare patients.” “We need to make it easier for people in Wisconsin’s rural areas to access health care services at a lower cost,” said Kind. “Almost every Wisconsin community has a pharmacist and allowing pharmacists to provide patient care services as consistent with their education, training and license will increase access while lowering costs.” “We care about ensuring access to quality, affordable health care close to home,” said Reed. “That goal is often a challenge in rural communities across our country, including parts of Western New York. We support this bill because it is a common sense method to help ensure access to care for many that would otherwise have difficulties finding treatment options. It’s only right that we use the tools that are available to us to expand access and get people the services they need to be well. We appreciate the efforts by Congressmen Guthrie, Kind, Butterfield and others to bring this issue to the forefront.” ###
01.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement on Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, which is observed annually on the third Monday of January, in honor of Dr. King’s birthday on January 15, 1929: “Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. moved generations of Americans to challenge inequality, while carrying the message of hope and optimism. As we honor the life of Dr. King, let us reflect on his vision of human rights, economic justice, and equality. “In 1966, Dr. King memorably described inequality in health care as the ‘most shocking and inhumane’ form of injustice. Dr. King’s words are especially meaningful this year, as we face attacks to health care. “Since its passage in 2010, the Affordable Care Act has moved us closer to fulfilling Dr. King’s dream of a more equal health care system. More than 30 million Americans have gained access to quality, affordable health insurance through the Marketplace. No one can be denied care due to a pre-existing condition. Women are no longer charged more for the same health care as men. Our hospitals, especially those in rural areas, receive the funds they need to offer quality care to patients and keep their doors open. And families that struggle to cover the cost of care now have better assistance. “Until every American has access to affordable, quality care, there is work to be done to honor Dr. King’s vision of equality for all." ###
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), a senior member of the influential House Energy and Commerce Committee, was appointed to the Subcommittees on Communications and Technology; Energy; and Health. “I am excited to continue to serve as a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee,” said Butterfield. “The Committee is one of the oldest standing committees in the U.S. House of Representatives and maintains broad jurisdiction that has enabled me to work effectively on behalf of my constituents in the First Congressional District of North Carolina.” The Energy and Commerce Committee will play a pivotal role in many of the policy debates expected with the incoming Administration. Butterfield and his Democratic committee colleagues will work to build a stronger economy, create more good-paying jobs, and protect consumers. As a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Butterfield will be a vocal advocate for ensuring access to affordable health care, safe drinking water, lower energy costs, and a cleaner environment for all Americans. Background of the House Energy and Commerce Committee The Committee on Energy and Commerce, the oldest standing legislative committee in the U.S. House of Representatives, is vested with the broadest jurisdiction of any congressional authorizing committee. Today it has responsibility for the nation's telecommunications, consumer protection, food and drug safety, public health research, environmental quality, energy policy, and interstate and foreign commerce. It oversees multiple cabinet-level Departments and independent agencies, including the Departments of Energy, Health and Human Services, Commerce, and Transportation, as well as the Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Trade Commission, the Food and Drug Administration, and the Federal Communications Commission. The Committee first convened on December 14, 1795, as the Committee on Commerce and Manufactures when the growing demands of the young nation required that Congress establish a permanent panel to exercise its constitutional authority to "regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States." ###
01.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), David E. Price (NC-04), and Alma Adams (NC-12), the Democratic members of North Carolina’s congressional delegation, sent the attached letter to the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) in strong support of a State Plan Amendment to expand Medicaid in the State of North Carolina. Medicaid expansion is a core provision of the Affordable Care Act. Under North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper’s proposal, North Carolina will receive $4 billion in federal funding while saving over $330 million in uncompensated care. Studies have shown that expanding Medicaid in North Carolina will provide access to care for over half a million state residents, streamline care delivery, and create tens of thousands of new jobs. “Since the passage of the Affordable Care Act in 2010, I have urged our governor to expand Medicaid and provide more quality health coverage for North Carolinians,” said Congressman Butterfield. “More than half a million North Carolinians stand to gain coverage under Governor Cooper’s plan. Access to basic health coverage is a right that all North Carolinians and Americans deserve and I stand ready to protect the Affordable Care Act and Medicaid from Republican efforts to derail the healthcare progress we have made.” “I strongly support Governor Cooper in his planned expansion of Medicaid in North Carolina,” said Congressman Price. “The McCrory administration and Republicans in the General Assembly stood in the way of this expansion for political reasons, despite the very real benefits it will provide for lower-income North Carolinians and our state’s economy.” “Expanding Medicaid in North Carolina would broaden coverage to an additional 650,000 beneficiaries, create jobs, and save our state millions,” said Congresswoman Adams. “I’m proud to support Governor Cooper in this common sense measure that could save hundreds of lives every year, many of whom are minorities. We can’t let politics get in the way of doing what’s right for North Carolina families.” The full text of the letter to CMS can be viewed here. ###
01.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Richard Hudson (NC-08) released the following statements after their bipartisan bill, the Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act (H.R. 304), passed the House with overwhelming support, 404-0: “After passing the House unanimously last year, I am proud that the House once again unanimously approved this important bill,” Rep. Butterfield said. “This legislation ensures that first responders in North Carolina and throughout the country are able to continue to provide life-saving medications to people experiencing health emergencies. I urge the U.S. Senate to swiftly pass and President Obama to sign this important legislation so that more lives can be saved. I thank Congressman Hudson for his leadership on this important and bipartisan issue.” “The health of our community isn’t a partisan issue, and today’s bipartisan support of this essential bill is a testament to that,” said Rep. Hudson. “Congressman Butterfield has been a reliable partner in this effort, and I appreciate his hard work. This bill may not be flashy, but it solves a problem and saves lives. It’s an example of how to get things done — finding common ground and advancing bipartisan solutions to get results the American people deserve.” Reps. Butterfield and Hudson re-introduced the Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act last week. Last Congress, the Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act was approved by the House Energy and Commerce Committee unanimously by voice vote in September 2016. In November 2016, it passed the House with unanimous support. ###
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Richard Hudson (NC-08) released the following statements after re-introducing their bipartisan bill, the Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act (H.R. 304): “Every second matters during a medical emergency and it is important that we ensure first responders have the tools they need to save lives,” said Rep. Butterfield. “This important legislation ensures that first responders can continue to administer lifesaving medications and codifies existing practices for first responders for individuals experiencing a medical emergency. It passed the House unanimously in the 114th Congress, and I am proud to join Congressman Hudson in the re-introduction of our bill that will help to save lives and supports our brave first responders. I thank Richard for his continued leadership on this measure.” “I’m disappointed the Senate didn’t move this important legislation last year after it passed the House with such strong bipartisan support. I look forward to getting this bill to the House floor quickly to ensure patients can get the care they need,” said Rep. Hudson. “From the beginning, Congressman Butterfield has been a reliable partner in this effort, and I appreciate his hard work. This bill may not be flashy, but it solves a problem and saves lives. It’s an example of how to get things done — finding common ground and advancing bipartisan solutions to get results the American people deserve.” Last Congress, the Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act was approved by the House Energy and Commerce Committee unanimously by voice vote in September. In November 2016, it passed the House with unanimous support. ###
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement after he was sworn in as a member of the 115th Congress, marking the official beginning of his seventh term representing the First Congressional District of North Carolina: “I am honored by the trust the citizens of the First District have placed in me to represent them in Congress for a seventh term. “As the 115th Congress begins, I am eager to get back to work as a strong advocate for North Carolinians. As Republican leadership begin talks of dismantling strides made to strengthen the health care and economic security of every American, I stand ready to protect the outgoing Administration’s legacy that put more Americans on a path forward. Today, I renew my commitment to working with my colleagues in Congress to create jobs, help more hard-working Americans put food on the table and have access to affordable health care, and protect the rights of all citizens. Constituents who need help with a federal agency or assistance receiving their benefits are urged to contact my office. “I look forward to being a voice on pressing issues in North Carolina and I remain enthusiastic about working with North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper to advance responsible, progressive solutions to the challenges our state faces right now. “I will continue to advocate for an America that works for us all and I plan to do everything I can to hold Republican leadership in Washington accountable every step of the way.” Congressman G. K. Butterfield was first elected to Congress in a special election in 2004. He represents North Carolina’s First Congressional District which includes 14 counties in the Triangle and eastern North Carolina. Butterfield will maintain his existing office locations in Wilson and Durham which are dedicated to constituent services. He is the immediate past Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus. He currently holds leadership positions as Chief Deputy Whip of the House Democratic Caucus, Co-Chair of the Out-Of-Poverty Caucus, Co-Chair of the Pediatric Trauma Caucus, and Co-Chair of the State Medicaid Expansion Caucus. He serves as a senior member of the influential House Committee on Energy and Commerce, including the Subcommittees on Health; Communications and Technology; and Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade. ###
12.29.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement in response to the White House’s new sanctions against Russian officials for its interference in the 2016 presidential election: “I applaud President Obama’s actions to address Russia’s interference in this year’s election. It is imperative that we protect our democracy and stop any and all attempts to obstruct the democratic process. “It is my hope that these sanctions on the Russian government will serve as a deterrent to foreign powers’ attempts to meddle in our elections. There is a clear need for an independent, bipartisan commission to provide a full and transparent investigation into the depth of Russia’s involvement. I look forward to the Administration’s forthcoming report to Congress on Russia’s interference in our election process. Americans expect swift action on this matter.” ###
12.16.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement in response to North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory signing Senate Bill 4 into law: “By signing S.B. 4, Governor McCrory has again demonstrated the extent to which Republicans will stoop to abuse their power by passing laws that will give them an extreme partisan advantage. It is troubling that this enactment and H.B. 17 will strip Governor-Elect Roy Cooper of the traditional authority of the Governor. “These measures will require legislative approval for cabinet appointments. They restructure the Board of Elections. They remove gubernatorial appointments to UNC Boards of Trustees. They unnecessarily change the jurisdiction of the appellate courts by eliminating the right of direct appeal to the Supreme Court in cases of significant constitutional importance. The legislation would re-institute partisan election for appellate judges. “It is suspect that the General Assembly would pass these changes without significant debate and public input. “The people of our great state clearly see the political motivation of Governor McCrory and the Republican General Assembly. It is intended to undermine Governor-Elect Roy Cooper simply because he is a Democrat. North Carolina has been further tarnished in its stellar reputation as a progressive state.” ###
12.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement in recognition of the 2016 holiday season: Dear Friends, As 2016 draws to a close, let us use this time to reflect on our accomplishments and set new goals for the year ahead. This has been a particularly challenging year for many of our friends and neighbors. The historic flooding and devastation that resulted from Hurricane Matthew means we must all stay the course toward recovery and recommit to helping one another. This year has seen much change in our state and nation. I want you to know that I remain committed to working with all my colleagues to pursue commonsense solutions to our the most pressing issues impacting our communities; from fighting for a living wage to protecting access to affordable healthcare for those who need it the most. There is much work to be done to make sure every person has a fair shot at achieving the American dream and I hope you will continue to join me in the fight. I am particularly grateful for our brave men and women in uniform who serve both here and around the world protecting our freedom and our American values we hold dear. So, as you celebrate this holiday season with family and friends, may your days be filled with love and happiness. Be safe, stay warm, and have a blessed New Year! Please read my report for the 114th Congress (2015-2016) below: Click here to sign up for my e-newsletters.
12.15.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement in response to the North Carolina General Assembly's special session on Wednesday, December 14: “I am outraged by the Republican-led General Assembly's latest attempt to abuse their legislative authority. Using the legislature’s special session to appropriate funds for victims of Hurricane Matthew, Republican leaders immediately convened another special session to allow members to introduce any legislation. The additional special session was clearly a hyper-partisan maneuver to enable defeated Governor Pat McCrory to sign legislation that will continue to tarnish his reputation and the credibility of the North Carolina legislature. “I call upon Republican legislative leaders to cease their political maneuvers and allow Governor-Elect Roy Cooper to assemble his administration as he deems necessary and allow him to possess the authority of prior Governors. To strip the incoming Governor of the traditional roles and responsibilities of the state’s chief executive is an insult to the voters and citizens of our great state. “Restructuring of county Boards of Elections is evidence that there are political motivations for these actions. The transfer of authority over public education and higher education to the Superintendent of Public Instruction and the General Assembly will politicize education that the public will not tolerate.” ###
12.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today hosted his first digital town hall to discuss the work ahead in the new year. During the town hall, Butterfield answered constituent submissions about what lies ahead under the new president, North Carolina’s new governor, and in the new Congress. To watch the video, click here or on the image below. ###
12.05.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement congratulating Governor-elect Roy Cooper: "I congratulate Roy Cooper on his election as governor of the great state of North Carolina. This was a hard-fought and well-deserved win. I am confident that Roy will serve the people of North Carolina honorably, as he has for many years as attorney general. “The real work starts now and I am confident that Roy’s leadership and vision will help the state thrive in the years to come. I look forward to working with the newly elected governor and his administration to grow the economy, make education a priority, provide affordable health care to our hard working families, and protect the rights of all North Carolinians.” ###
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement applauding Vincent Price, provost of the University of Pennsylvania, on his election as the tenth president of Duke University: "I congratulate Vincent Price on his election as the 10th president of Duke University. This news brings an exciting new chapter for Duke and the Durham community. Vincent brings a wealth of leadership experience in higher education, having served in senior positions at the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Michigan, among others. I have full confidence in his ability to provide the vision and leadership Duke needs to continue to serve its students now and into the future. I look forward to welcoming Vincent and his wife, Annette, to Durham and I am excited to witness all the growth he will bring to this great institution. “I also thank outgoing President Richard H. Brodhead for his 13 years of dedicated service to Duke. His leadership has left a lasting mark on the University and he has my deepest appreciation.” ###
11.26.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the passing of North Carolina Central University Chancellor Debra Saunders-White: "I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Chancellor Debra Saunders-White. She was a personal friend and a great inspiration to all who knew her. Since coming to NCCU in 2013, Chancellor Saunders-White was an effective leader, steering the University toward innovative teaching with a renewed focus on STEM programs. She always encouraged her students to strive for 'Eagle Excellence.' Her vision for NCCU and passion for uplifting all HBCUs left a lasting mark on the future of our students. Chancellor Saunders-White will be sorely missed, but her legacy will not be forgotten." Congressman Butterfield represents North Carolina's First Congressional District, which is comprised of 24 counties including Durham County. He graduated from college and law school at North Carolina Central University. ###
11.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) announced its final approval of the state’s application to designate U.S. Highway 264 between Zebulon and Greenville, North Carolina as Future Interstate 587. Congressmen G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Walter B. Jones (NC-03) applauded the approval of North Carolina Department of Transportation’s (NCDOT) application to transform the highway into an interstate. “I am thrilled that the transformation of Highway 264 into a Future Interstate will officially become a reality,” said Rep. Butterfield. “This approval will make the Future Interstate Greenville’s first connection to a major interstate highway. I thank Congressman Jones for his strong support in this effort to better connect eastern North Carolina with neighboring regions along Interstate 95 and the Eastern Seaboard.” “I introduced The Eastern North Carolina Gateway Act to underline the need for high-quality infrastructure in our region,” said Congressman Jones. “I am pleased that the NC Department of Transportation and Federal Highway Administration agree that Future Interstate 587 is a crucial investment in the future of the Eastern North Carolina regional economy. This milestone would not have been possible without the support of transportation advocates throughout our state, including my colleagues Congressman G.K. Butterfield and Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis.” This announcement follows Butterfield and Jones’ letter to U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Anthony Foxx calling for the FHWA to approve NCDOT’s request to designate portions of U.S. Highway 264 as a Future Interstate. The request made by the state closely follows the Eastern North Carolina Gateway Act of 2016, which was introduced in the House of Representatives by Butterfield and Jones as H.R. 6105 and in the Senate by Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis as S. 3378. The bill would help better connect Eastern North Carolina with Interstate 95 and the entire Eastern Seaboard. Greenville is the 10th largest city in North Carolina, and the largest city in North Carolina without an interstate highway. The approval of NCDOT’s application would designate the U.S. Highway 264/64 split from Zebulon to Greenville as a High Priority Corridor and Future Interstate. Many portions of U.S. Highway 264 are already built to interstate standards. NCDOT has committed to completing the Future Interstate within 25 years. The full text of DOT’s letter of approval can be viewed here. ###
11.17.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressmen G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Walter B. Jones (NC-03), along with Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis, recently celebrated the signing in to law of H.R. 3937, a bill to designate the United States courthouse located at 150 Reade Circle in Greenville, North Carolina, as the "Randy D. Doub United States Courthouse.” Judge Doub was a judge for the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina and practiced law in private practice for over 25 years in Greenville, North Carolina. He was a devout family man, friend to many, and a great man of faith. “Throughout his life, Judge Randy Doub made an incredible mark on eastern North Carolina,” said Congressman Butterfield. “I am pleased that the passage of this bill will rightfully add to his legacy. There is no more fitting way to honor the contributions of Judge Doub than to name the U.S. Courthouse in Greenville, where he served with such distinction, in his honor. I thank my colleague Congressman Walter Jones for joining me in this effort to honor an outstanding North Carolinian and a great American.” “Randy Doub was a good man,” Congressman Jones said. “He lived his faith by serving others, loving his family, and giving back to his community and country. One way he gave back was his work designing, creating, and overseeing the Greenville courthouse. There is no better way to celebrate his life than renaming the building he cared so much about after him. Thank you to my colleagues and President Obama for expeditiously passing this bill so we could properly honor Randy’s life.” “Judge Randy Doub’s legacy will live on through the naming of this courthouse and the memories of those who knew and loved him,” said Senator Burr. “Judge Doub was a man of faith and a friend to many in the Greenville community.” “Judge Randy Doub was a dedicated civil servant who was committed to serving the people of North Carolina,” Senator Tillis said. “I am happy the Greenville courthouse that he helped make a reality will now be named in his honor and his contribution to Eastern North Carolina will be long remembered.” To watch Rep. Butterfield’s remarks on the House Floor in support of the bill, click here. ###
11.15.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) applauded the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials’ (AASHTO) approval of Future Interstate 587 between Zebulon and Greenville, North Carolina along U.S. Highway 264. The approval is an important step in Butterfield’s vision to better connect Eastern North Carolina with Interstate 95 and the entire Eastern Seaboard. The U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) must also approve the Future Interstate for it to become a reality and is currently reviewing the North Carolina Department of Transportation’s (NCDOT) application to transform the highway into an interstate. “Designation of U.S. 264 as a Future Interstate is critical to addressing the infrastructure needs of the growing region,” said Butterfield. “By approving the state’s request, the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials is supporting efforts to better connect Eastern North Carolina with the rest of North Carolina, as well as neighboring states. It is now my hope that the Federal Highway Administration will approve the state’s application without delay to help modernize infrastructure in Eastern North Carolina and spur economic growth in the region.” Last week, Congressman Butterfield and Congressman Walter Jones (NC-03) sent a letter to U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Anthony Foxx calling for the FHWA to approve NCDOT’s request to designate portions of U.S. Highway 264 as a Future Interstate. In September, the Eastern North Carolina Gateway Act of 2016 was introduced in the House of Representatives by Butterfield and Jones as H.R. 6105 and in the Senate by Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis as S. 3378. The bill would help better connect eastern North Carolina with Interstate 95 and the entire Eastern Seaboard and is an important component of Butterfield’s vision for transportation in the region. Greenville is the 10th largest city in North Carolina, and the largest city in North Carolina without an interstate highway. The approval of NCDOT’s application would designate the U.S. Highway 264/64 split from Zebulon to Greenville as a High Priority Corridor and Future Interstate. Many portions of U.S. Highway 264 are already built to interstate standards. NCDOT has committed to completing the Future Interstate within 25 years. ###
11.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Richard Hudson (NC-08) released the following statements after their bipartisan bill, the Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act, passed the House with unanimous support: “When health emergencies occur, there is no time to waste,” said Rep. Butterfield. “This bill passed the House today unanimously and will help protect the ability of our first responders to continue to provide appropriate treatment to patients in times of need and will help save lives and prevent disabilities. I am pleased to have led this effort with Congressman Hudson and I thank him for his leadership on this issue.” “I’m pleased to see this common sense bill pass the House with such strong bipartisan support today, and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to get it to the president’s desk,” said Rep. Hudson. “I’d like to thank G.K. Butterfield for his help on this issue, and I look forward to continuing working with him to ensure patients can get the care they need. While today’s bill may not be flashy, it solves a problem and saves lives. It’s an example of how to get things done — finding common ground and advancing bipartisan solutions to the problems facing our country.” The Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act (H.R. 4365) was approved by the House Energy and Commerce Committee unanimously by voice vote in September. The bill would amend the Controlled Substances Act to enable paramedics and other emergency medical services (EMS) professionals to continue to administer controlled substances, such as pain narcotics and anti-seizure medications, to patients pursuant to standing orders issued by their EMS agency’s medical director. Without this solution, quality emergency care may decrease and patients could suffer simply because law and regulation have not kept up with the evolution of modern medicine. This legislation is supported by: Air Medical Physician Association American Academy of Emergency Medicine American Academy of Pediatrics The American Ambulance Association American Association of Orthopedic Surgeons American College of Emergency Physicians American Hospital Association Association of Air Medical Services Association of Critical Care Transport Congressional Fire Services Institute Emergency Nurses Association Epilepsy Foundation International Association of Fire Chiefs International Association of Fire Fighters National Association of EMS Physicians National Association of Emergency Medical Technicians National Association of Police Organizations National Association of State EMS Officials Orthopaedic Trauma Association Paramedic Foundation ###
11.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Last week, Congressmen G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Walter Jones (NC-03) sent a letter to U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Anthony Foxx calling for the agency to approve North Carolina Department of Transportation’s (NCDOT) request to designate portions of U.S. Highway 264 as a Future Interstate Highway. The request made by NCDOT on September 7, 2016 closely follows the Eastern North Carolina Gateway Act of 2016, which was introduced in the House of Representatives by Butterfield and Jones as H.R. 6105 and in the Senate by Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis as S. 3378. “Approving portions of U.S. Highway 264 as a Future Interstate would be an important step in my long-term vision for better connecting Eastern North Carolina with the entire Eastern Seaboard,” said Butterfield. “Eastern North Carolinians deserve modern transportation infrastructure that meet their needs and the potential benefits of this Future Interstate, if approved, are enormous. With recent and projected growth in the region, it is my hope that NCDOT’s request is approved quickly so that residents and businesses can become better connected to other key areas throughout North Carolina and neighboring states.” “Connecting Eastern North Carolina to neighboring states and regions will play a crucial role in the sustainable long-term growth of the area,” said Jones. “As a booming center of innovation across a wide range of industries, it is vital that the greater Greenville area has access to high-quality infrastructure and transportation. Approval of this request will benefit Eastern North Carolinians for decades to come.” Butterfield and Jones request that Secretary Foxx approves NCDOT’s application and signs a Memorandum of Understanding with the State to ensure Eastern North Carolina’s highway infrastructure remains a priority in the state. The full text of the letter to Secretary Foxx can be viewed here. Background: Greenville is the 10th largest city in North Carolina, and the largest city in North Carolina without an interstate highway. The approval of NCDOT’s application would designate the U.S. Highway 264/64 split from Zebulon to Greenville as a High Priority Corridor and Future Interstate. Many portions of U.S. Highway 264 are already built to interstate standards. NCDOT has committed to completing the Future Interstate within 25 years. ###
10.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after learning of the death of State Representative Paul Luebke: “I am saddened to learn of the passing of Representative Paul Luebke, who has represented Durham in the General Assembly for the last 25 years. Paul was a powerful advocate and leader for the people of Durham and will be deeply missed. I extend my thoughts and prayers to Representative Luebke's family and all that were impacted by his work during this difficult time.” ###
10.17.2016	Disaster Assistance President Obama has designated the following counties eligible for individual assistance: Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Dare, Duplin, Edgecombe, Gates, Greene, Harnett, Hoke, Hyde, Johnston, Jones, Lenoir, Martin, Nash, Pender, Pitt, and Robeson, Sampson, Tyrrell, Washington, Wayne, and Wilson Counties. Individuals residing in these counties can register with FEMA to access federal assistance the following ways: Apply online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov, Download the FEMA mobile app, Call the FEMA Helpline at 800-621-3362 (FEMA). Applicants who use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS) may also call 800-621-3362 to register. Persons who are deaf, hard of hearing or have a speech disability and use a TTY may call 800-462-7585. Low-interest disaster loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) also may be available to cover losses sustained by homeowners, renters, and businesses not fully compensated by insurance or other recoveries and do not duplicate benefits of other agencies or organizations. Contact the U.S. Small Business Administration’s Disaster Assistance Customer Service Center the following ways: Register online at www.sba.gov/disaster Call 1-800-659-2955 Email disastercustomerservice@sba.gov FEMA/State Disaster Recovery Centers Open in Wilson and Nash Counties North Carolina residents who suffered losses and damage as a result of Hurricane Matthew can get information about federal assistance at a disaster recovery center in Wilson County and Nash County. Wilson County Locations: DaVita Dialysis Center (Old Location) 2693 Forest Hills Road Wilson, N.C. 27893 Hours: Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. (until further notice) Monday – Saturday, 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Nash County Location: The Imperial Centre 270 Gay Street Rocky Mount, N.C. 27804 Hours: Monday – Saturday, 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sunday, noon to 5 p.m. Visiting with a recovery specialist is not a requirement for individuals seeking disaster assistance, but the centers are an excellent way for people to get answers to questions about disaster aid and registration assistance. Those impacted by the storm may go to the most convenient center, not necessarily one in their county. Assistance for eligible individuals can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, and for other serious disaster-related needs such as medical and dental expenses or funeral and burial costs. For additional updates on hurricane recovery, call 2-1-1. Transportation For the latest updates on road closures, call 5-1-1 or visit www.ncdot.gov North Carolina Assistance Programs United Way North Carolina 2-1-1: www.nc211.org/ Salvation Army: (800) 725-2769 Catholic Charities of Raleigh: (919) 790-8533 Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) disaster resources: (202) 708-1112, TTY: (202) 708-1455 or https://portal.hud.gov Employment Help Career One Stop: (877) 872-5627 or TTY (877) 889-5627, www.careeronestop.org Food Needs North Carolina Food Services: (919) 855-4800 or www.ncdhhs.gov Feeding America: www.feedingamerica.org Food Bank of Central & Eastern North Carolina: www.foodbankenc.org Albemarle Food Bank: www.afoodbank.org USDA Meat and Poultry Hotline for food safety: (888) 674-6854 Health and Human Services for Those in Need North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services: (919) 855-4800 or www.ncdhhs.gov Help for Low-Income Families Help paying bills for low-income families: www.needhelppayingbills.com Housing Needs Housing Assistance: www.nchousing.org Rural Development Multi-Family Housing Programs: (919) 873-2050 Single Family Housing Programs: (919) 873-2051 Transportation Call 5-1-1 or use the ReadyNC mobile app for the latest updates on road closures North Carolina Department of Transportation: www.ncdot.gov Department of Motor Vehicles: (919) 715-7000 Unemployment Assistance Department of Labor: (866) 487 2365, TTY (877) 889-5627 North Carolina Division of Employment Security: (866) 487 2365, TTY (877) 889-5627, www.ncesc.com Tear Out, Cleanout, Debris Removal, Mold Remediation Baptist Men of North Carolina: (800) 395-5102 ext. 5605 www.baptistsonmission.org North Carolina Conference United Methodist Church www.nccumc.org, (888) 440-9167 Volunteer Opportunities www.ncvoad.org Farmers and Livestock Producers FSA offers disaster assistance and low-interest loan programs to assist agricultural producers in their recovery efforts following qualifying natural disasters. Available programs and loans include: Non-Insured Crop Disaster Assistance Program (NAP) - provides financial assistance to producers of non-insurable crops when low yields, loss of inventory, or prevented planting occur due to natural disasters (includes native grass for grazing). Eligible producers must have purchased NAP coverage for 2016 crops. Livestock Indemnity Program (LIP) - offers payments to eligible producers for livestock death losses in excess of normal mortality due to adverse weather. Eligible losses may include those determined by FSA to have been caused by hurricanes, floods, blizzards, wildfires, tropical storms, tornados lightening, extreme heat, and extreme cold. Producers will be required to provide verifiable documentation of death losses resulting from an eligible adverse weather event and must submit a notice of loss to their local FSA office within 30 calendar days of when the loss of livestock is apparent. Tree Assistance Program (TAP) – provides assistance to eligible orchardists and nursery tree growers for qualifying tree, shrub and vine losses due to natural disaster. Emergency Forest Restoration Program (EFRP) - The objective of EFRP is to restore non-industrial private forest land (NIPF) damaged by natural disasters. Cost-share assistance is provided to owners of NIPF that has been damaged by a natural disaster such as Hurricane Matthew. Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees, and Farm-Raised Fish Program (ELAP) - provides emergency relief for losses due to feed or water shortages, disease, adverse weather, or other conditions, which are not adequately addressed by other disaster programs. ELAP covers physically damaged or destroyed livestock feed that was purchased or mechanically harvested forage or feedstuffs intended for use as feed for the producer's eligible livestock. In order to be considered eligible, harvested forage must be baled; forage that is only cut, raked or windrowed is not eligible. Producers must submit a notice of loss to their local FSA office within 30 calendar days of when the loss is apparent. ELAP also covers up to 150 lost grazing days in instances when a producer has been forced to remove livestock from a grazing pasture due to floodwaters. For beekeepers, ELAP covers beehive losses (the physical structure) in instances where the hive has been destroyed by a natural disaster including flooding, high winds and tornadoes. Emergency Loan Program – Available to producers with agriculture operations located in a county under a primary or contiguous Secretarial Disaster designation. These low interest loans help producers recover from production and physical losses due to drought, flooding. Emergency Conservation Program (ECP) - provides emergency funding for farmers and livestock producers to rehabilitate land severely damaged by natural disasters; includes fence loss. HayNet -is an Internet-based Hay and Grazing Net Ad Service allowing farmers and livestock producers to share 'Need Hay' ads and 'Have Hay' ads online. Farmers also can use another feature to post advertisements for grazing land, specifically ads announcing the availability of grazing land or ads requesting a need for land to graze. www.fsa.usda.gov/haynet. To establish or retain FSA program eligibility, farmers and livestock producers must report prevented planting and failed acres (crops and grasses). Prevented planting acreage must be reported on form FSA-576, Notice of Loss, no later than 15 calendar days after the final planting date as established by FSA and Risk Management Agency (RMA). For more information on disaster assistance programs and loans visit www.fsa.usda.gov/or contact your local FSA Office. To find your local FSA county office, visit https://offices.usda.gov.
10.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) applauded the announcement of $5 million in quick release emergency relief funds immediately available to the State of North Carolina from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT)’s Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). The funding will be used to help begin emergency repair and reconstruction of highways, roads, and bridges that have suffered damage as a result of Hurricane Matthew. North Carolina experienced heavy rainfall and strong winds as a result of Hurricane Matthew beginning on October 8, 2016. Multiple roads and highways remain closed due to heavy debris and flooding. Locations near rivers in eastern North Carolina will continue to see rising water and additional flooding in coming days, potentially causing further roadway damage. “As the effects of Hurricane Matthew continue to linger in North Carolina, recovery efforts across the state are in full swing,” said Butterfield. “This funding is a critical first step in the rebuilding and recovery process. I am thankful the FHWA stands ready to assist our state in making the repairs needed so that residents can soon resume their daily lives.” This announcement follows President Obama’s major disaster declaration approved for North Carolina on Monday, which made federal assistance and emergency relief funds available to supplement state and local recovery efforts. FHWA’s emergency relief program provides funds for the repair or reconstruction of federal-aid highways and roads seriously damaged by natural disasters or catastrophic events. Repair work will consist of repairing impacted roadway embankments, rebuilding damaged roadways, and the repair or replacement of damaged structures. Residents can receive the latest update on road closures at ReadyNC.org or by calling 5-1-1. For information regarding storm-related details, call 2-1-1. ###
10.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) sent a letter to North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory urging prompt support for the citizens residing in eleven counties impacted by Tropical Storm Julia last month and who now face Hurricane Matthew as it makes its way up the Eastern seaboard. “I thank Governor McCrory for declaring a state of emergency following Tropical Storm Julia and for requesting a federal emergency declaration in advance of Hurricane Matthew potentially making landfall,” said Butterfield. “It is critical that all resources, including those from the federal government, be made available in response to these storms.” In September, torrential rain and strong winds from Tropical Storm Julia caused flash flooding, widespread power outages, downed trees, and damage to homes, businesses, and roads in the northeastern region of North Carolina. In advance of Hurricane Matthew’s potential arrival on North Carolina’s coast this week, the threat of added flooding and property damage will require additional disaster preparation and funding for the hardest hit communities still recovering from Tropical Storm Julia. “I have urged the Governor to request additional federal assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Region IV and the Army Corps of Engineers for damage caused by Tropical Storm Julia and to provide additional state grants to impacted citizens to help them recover,” said Butterfield. “I appreciate the efforts the state has made so far in response to flooding in eastern North Carolina and preparing for the impending arrival of Hurricane Matthew, but there is undoubtedly more that can be done to help assist North Carolinians who were harmed by Tropical Storm Julia.” Rep. Butterfield will continue to work with local, state, and federal officials to make sure the areas affected by the immense flooding receive resources needed to get back on track. To view the full letter, click here. ###
10.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today congratulated the Durham and Greenville Police Departments who will receive federal funds as part of the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program. The Durham Police Department will receive $1,850,801 to hire 15 officers and the Greenville Police Department will receive $500,000 to hire 4 officers. Funds will also be used for law enforcement training, resources, and technical assistance. The COPS Hiring Program provides funding directly to state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies for the hiring and rehiring of entry-level law enforcement officers with the mission to create and preserve jobs and increase community policing and crime prevention efforts. “These grants are critical to support partnerships between law enforcement and the communities they serve,” said Butterfield. “I am pleased the Department of Justice is awarding the Greenville and Durham Police Departments with funds that will assist with everything from hiring law enforcement officers to giving our neighborhoods the resources they need to meet their needs.” The COPS Office is a federal agency responsible for advancing community policing nationwide. Since 1995, COPS has invested over $14 billion to advance community policing, including grants to more than 13,000 state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies to fund the hiring and redeployment of approximately 129,000 officers and provide a variety of knowledge resource products including publications, training, and technical assistance. The complete list of award recipients can be found here. ###
09.29.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama signed a government funding bill into law that contains provisions authored by Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) that expand the list of documents accepted by the U.S. Department of Defense to prove service and grant veterans status to a forgotten segment of the World War II Merchant Marine, Coastwise Merchant Seamen. After President Obama signed the bill into law, Butterfield said, “After many years of fighting for these mariners in Congress, we have finally done the right thing by making it possible for these great Americans to receive their due recognition as veterans. I am overjoyed that some of these mariners who are still with us will now have the chance to know their sacrifices were not made in vain and that their nation and government are appreciative of their service.” Over the past four Congresses, Butterfield has championed the effort to gain veteran recognition for these forgotten mariners who nobly served their country during World War II. He was successful in passing his bill out of the House of Representatives several times over that period, but until this year, was unable to secure a vote on the legislation in the Senate in order to deliver it to the President’s desk. This Congress, Congressman Butterfield found a partner in the Senate and worked with Senator Chris Murphy to introduce a Senate companion bill and to have Butterfield’s bill offered as an amendment to the appropriation bill President Obama signed today. “For too many years, Congress failed to act and many of these mariners went to their graves having never been recognized by their country for their sacrifices," said Butterfield. "Now that my bill has become law, I am elated to know that surviving mariners and the family members of mariners who have passed will finally have the means to obtain the recognition they rightly earned so many years ago.” ###
09.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Representatives G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) and Ben Ray Luján (D-NM) applauded today the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) decision requiring that participating carriers transmit wireless emergency alerts in Spanish as well as English. “With extreme weather events due to climate change on the rise, it is paramount that all people in the United States have equal access to lifesaving emergency alerts,” said Butterfield. “I commend the FCC for making these lifesaving notifications more accessible to more people.” “This is an important step, and critical not only for states like New Mexico with a large population of Spanish speakers, but for the whole country.” Luján said. “I am pleased by the FCC’s actions today, and look forward to continuing to work with them to ensure that Emergency Alerts can reach Americans in dire situations, wherever they live, in whatever language they speak, and whatever the emergency.” Last fall, Representatives Butterfield and Luján led a letter signed by all 13 Democrats on the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, calling for the FCC “to make sure that emergency alerts are available to all Americans—regardless of what language they speak.” For the first time, the FCC will now require the transmission of these lifesaving alerts in a language other than English. This change marks a huge victory both for public safety and for the 37 million Spanish speakers living in the United States, according to 2011 Census Bureau data. Nevertheless, more work remains to be done. The Commission in this order now asks important questions about expanding these emergency alerts to even more languages, something originally called for by the members in their November 2015 letter to the FCC. ###
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON — Last night, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC), and Representatives G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) and Walter Jones (R-NC), introduced the Eastern North Carolina Gateway Act of 2016 – legislation to improve Eastern North Carolina’s highway system by designating portions of US Highway 264 as an interstate highway and by creating north-south interstate access for a new Eastern North Carolina Gateway Corridor generally along US Highway 13 and NC Highway 11. “The strength of North Carolina’s highway infrastructure is critical to moving our economy forward. Interstate highway connectivity is essential for connecting citizens and communities, moving goods to market, and supporting and creating jobs,” said Senator Burr. “Greenville is such an important part of Eastern North Carolina, and I’m hopeful that this legislation will help this area expand on its reputation as one of Eastern North Carolina’s major economic centers.” “This legislation is a direct result of bipartisan coordination among members of the North Carolina delegation to modernize and improve North Carolina’s infrastructure,” said Senator Tillis. “Designating US Highway 264 as an interstate and creating interstate access along US Highway 13 and NC Highway 11 would be bring a much needed improvement to the transportation corridor serving Greenville and the surrounding area, and would support Eastern North Carolina’s efforts to increase economic development and accessibility.” “The Eastern North Carolina Gateway Act will enable the Greenville metropolitan area- which is home to more than 170,000 people- to continue its emergence as a leading economic, educational, and cultural hub,” said Congressman Butterfield. “It will help spur long-term economic development, trade, and tourism in Greenville and surrounding areas, including the future Woodard Parkway Industrial Park in Wilson. This legislation is a complement to my previously enacted ROAD Act and Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act and builds on my vision to better connect eastern North Carolina with Raleigh, the Port at Morehead City, and the Hampton Roads region of Virginia.” “The Eastern North Carolina Gateway Act will support the long-term growth of our area by connecting Eastern North Carolina’s businesses to other key centers of commerce throughout our state and region,” said Congressman Jones. “The third district has long been known for innovation across a wide range of industries. It’s crucial that we continue to support this growth by ensuring Eastern North Carolinians have access to high-quality infrastructure.” Background: Greenville is the 10th largest city in North Carolina, and the largest city in North Carolina without an interstate highway. The Eastern North Carolina Gateway Act of 2016 will obtain an interstate designation from the U.S. 264/64 split in Zebulon to Greenville, and create north-south interstate access with a new Eastern North Carolina Gateway Corridor generally along US Highway 13 and NC Highway 11. This designation will improve transportation connectivity and economic development in Eastern North Carolina. The legislation is H.R. 6105 in the House and S. 3378 in the Senate; the text can be viewed online here. ###
09.21.2016	Washington, DC – Late yesterday evening, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation introduced by Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) to designate the United States Courthouse located at 150 Reade Circle in Greenville, North Carolina as the “Judge Randy D. Doub United States Courthouse,” in honor of late U.S. Federal Judge Randy D. Doub. “There is no more fitting way to honor the judicial legacy and contributions of Judge Randy D. Doub than to name the United States Courthouse in Greenville, North Carolina where he served with such distinction, in his honor,” said Butterfield. “It is my hope that the U.S. Senate will work expeditiously to pass this bill so that Judge Randy D. Doub’s contributions to the community he loved so much will live on for generations to come.” On November 5, 2015, Butterfield introduced H.R. 3937, a bill to rename the U.S. Courthouse in Greenville after Judge Doub. Judge Doub was appointed by the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals as a United States Bankruptcy Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina in 2006 and served as the chief bankruptcy judge from 2007 until his death. Prior to taking the Bench, Doub was in the private practice of law for 26 years in Greenville. He was appointed to the North Carolina Board of Transportation in 1985, where he served until 1990. “I am so pleased that the House has acted to rename the Greenville Courthouse in memory of Judge Randy Davis Doub,” said Congressman Walter B. Jones (NC-03). "This is the right thing to do for a man who fervently believed in God and justice.” H.R. 3937 now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Click here to read Congressman Butterfield’s statement as prepared for delivery in support of H.R. 3937 on the House Floor. ###
09.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) applauds the recent announcement of a $2.5 million grant to Pitt-Greenville Airport from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT)’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The funding will be used to make infrastructure improvements to the airport’s runway and are part of a continuing partnership with the FAA. “The continued funding that Pitt-Greenville Airport has received is a key step in ensuring that the Airport provides efficient and safe transportation options to its customers,” said Butterfield. “These funds will continue to spur job creation in Greenville, Pitt County, and eastern North Carolina through construction contracts and long-term business activity. It is my hope that continued improvements to the Pitt-Greenville Airport will result in additional air service at the growing airport. I applaud the Pitt-Greenville community for making the needed improvements to its airport and I am pleased that DOT remains committed to improving air travel in the region.” Pitt-Greenville Airport was originally constructed in the 1940s and underwent renovations in 2011 to provide commercial air service. Butterfield and Greenville-area officials have long advocated for the expansion of the Pitt-Greenville Airport to better connect eastern North Carolina with other airports throughout the country. Butterfield has also supported the Pitt County-City of Greenville Airport Authority of North Carolina’s application for additional funding under DOT’s Small Community Air Service Development Program in an effort to attract other airlines to the airport. Earlier this year, Butterfield and Representative Walter B. Jones, Jr. (NC-03) invited DOT Secretary Anthony Foxx to visit the airport and see firsthand the economic development opportunities it presents. ###
09.06.2016	Washington, DC – September is National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month. In recognition, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement: “Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer deaths in men in the United States. Although mortality rates associated with prostate cancer have declined in recent years, more than 180,000 men are expected to be diagnosed with the disease this year. During National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month, let us remember those who have lost their battle with prostate cancer and encourage men to talk with their health care providers and take advantage of screenings for early detection. If diagnosed early and with appropriate treatment, the five-year and ten year survival rates are nearly 100 percent. “I continue to urge awareness of this disease and call for critical investments in funding to fight prostate cancer. Last year, I was proud to introduce the National Prostate Cancer Plan Act (H.R. 2730), which would establish a council of federal agencies, patients, and medical experts to draft and implement a national strategy to combat prostate cancer. “Even as we take steps to fight back against prostate cancer, too many families have been affected by this disease. Approximately 14% of men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer during their lifetimes. For this reason, let us raise awareness of this disease during the month of September and extend support to those currently battling prostate cancer and the families who are fighting with them. Together, we can raise awareness of prostate cancer and help men live healthier lives.” During September, Congressman Butterfield will be sharing prostate cancer information and resources on his Facebook and Twitter. Be sure to join the conversation on social media using the hashtags #ProstateCancer and #PCAM16. ###
08.13.2016	DURHAM, NC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after receiving news that after more than six months in detention, Wildin Acosta was released from Stewart Detention Center in Lumpkin, Georgia: “Today I join with the Durham Community, including Riverside High School teachers and students, elected officials, community organizers, and Wildin’s family and friends in celebrating Wildin’s release from detention. “Upon learning of Wildin’s apprehension in late January, my staff and I have worked tirelessly for his release and for his fair treatment within the Immigration Court system and asylum process. Wildin’s release means a lot to me and my office, but we were joined in this fight by so many others. “Now that Wildin is out of detention he will finally have the opportunity to present his case for asylum. Having his asylum request heard and properly considered is what I, along with the Durham community have been fighting to achieve over the past six months. I am confident that he will ultimately prevail in being granted asylum, and I am hopeful about Wildin’s future. I am happy that he will now be able to complete his high school education, earn the diploma that he was working so hard to obtain, and finally resume his journey to becoming an engineer. “From the hundreds of people in the community who donated money for Wildin’s bond, to the resolutions passed by Durham’s Board of Education, Human Relations Commission, and City Council, the support for Wildin has been unwavering. I am honored to represent Durham in Congress and vow to keep fighting every day for the well-being of each of my constituents.” ###
08.08.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today presented a $480,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to North Carolina Central University in Durham. The funds will be used to purchase video conferencing equipment for 11 end-user sites, including libraries and community centers, to connect residents with services commonly unavailable in rural areas. “Expanding educational resources to all North Carolina residents will require a digital pipeline that connects individuals virtually,” said Butterfield. “USDA’s investment will expand access to the latest information and services to households throughout North Carolina. I applaud USDA for selecting North Carolina Central University as a recipient for this critical investment.” USDA’s Distance Learning and Telemedicine Program announced investments in 81 distance learning and telemedicine projects in over 32 states. The projects will help connect rural communities with medical and educational experts in other parts of the country to offer increased access to health care, substance misuse treatment, and advanced educational opportunities.
08.05.2016	Washington, DC – Saturday, August 6, 2016 marks the 51st anniversary of the Voting Rights Act (VRA). Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement recognizing the anniversary of the VRA and renewing the call for Republicans in Congress to allow a vote on bipartisan legislation to restore the VRA: “This week marks a time to reflect on the wide impact the Voting Rights Act of 1965 had on civil rights across the country. The VRA is one of the most important pieces of legislation in the country’s history, empowering millions of African Americans to register to vote. Three years ago, in Shelby County v. Holder, the Supreme Court invalidated a key component of the VRA that prevented discrimination before it occurred. Since then, the right to vote has been under coordinated attack in North Carolina and around the country. New restrictions have been put in place in 22 states – 18 of them Republican led –since 2010, making it harder for millions of Americans to exercise their right to vote. “On July 29, 2016, in a unanimous decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, a three-judge panel found that North Carolina’s Republican-led General Assembly enacted voting restrictions to intentionally discriminate against African American voters based on their race under the guise of voter fraud prevention. It is my hope that the State of North Carolina will accept the Court’s decision rather than pursue costly appeals. “In the greatest democracy on earth, the path to the ballot box should be clear and unfettered. However, Republican leadership has done little more than pay lip service to voting rights for over three years. Congress has an obligation and the responsibility to address the threat to voting rights through federal legislation to restore and strengthen the Voting Rights Act. I continue to call on House Republican leadership to allow an immediate vote on the bipartisan Voting Rights Advancement Act.” Congressman G. K. Butterfield is a former civil rights attorney and judge in the state of North Carolina and serves as co-chair of the Voting Rights Caucus. ###
08.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) applauded the recent announcement of a $791,700 grant for Pitt-Greenville Airport from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT)’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The funding will be used to make several critical terminal and infrastructure improvements that will increase access and efficiency. The airport improvements build on additional FAA investments in the airport, including $7.9 million from President Obama’s American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). “This FAA grant is an important step toward fulfilling my longstanding goal of making Greenville a multimodal regional hub,” said Butterfield. “The funds will help position Pitt-Greenville Airport to attract new direct service to Greenville and spur job creation through construction work and long-term business activity. I commend the Pitt-Greenville community for its vision to expand the airport and I am pleased that DOT remains committed to improving air travel in our community.” Pitt-Greenville Airport has existed since the 1940s, but was renovated in 2011 to provide commercial air service. Butterfield and Greenville area officials have long advocated for the expansion of the Pitt-Greenville Airport to better connect eastern North Carolina with other airports throughout the country. Butterfield has also supported the Pitt County - City of Greenville Airport Authority of North Carolina’s application for additional funding under the DOT’s Small Community Air Service Development Program to attract other airlines to the airport. To read the full notice of the grant, click here. ###
07.29.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals unanimously determined the NC General Assembly acted with a discriminatory purpose in enactment of Voter ID law: “I applaud the UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT on its unanimous and well-reasoned opinion that determined the North Carolina General Assembly acted with a discriminatory purpose in enacting a voter ID law and other discriminatory voting procedures including a limitation on early voting. “The law addressed by the Court today was passed by the General Assembly one month following the suspension of a portion of the Voting Rights Act that required federal preclearance of voting changes. The legislature’s intent in enacting this law has now been found unconstitutional and unenforceable. The appellate court found that the trial court “ignored the inextricable link between race and politics in North Carolina.” The court went on to say that the election law changes have had a disproportionate impact on African American voters and no basis ever existed to support the law’s passage and enactment. The appellate court is requiring the state to completely cure this unconstitutional voting law. “Today, the federal court has validated my long held view that this law discriminates against African American voters because of their race. It is my hope that the State of North Carolina will embrace this decision instead of pursuing costly appeals. North Carolina's image has been tarnished by this and other discriminatory legislative enactments. By embracing this decision, the State of North Carolina will begin the process of restoring the state’s reputation for protecting the right to vote.” ###
07.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the announcement from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to provide $5 million in TIGER VIII grant funds to Goldsboro, North Carolina. The funding will be used to complete Goldsboro’s ongoing Main Street Revitalization Project and the Goldsboro Gateway Transit Center. “I congratulate the City of Goldsboro on its vision for the future of transportation in eastern North Carolina and for attaining this much-needed grant,” said Butterfield. “I thank the DOT for its continued investment in a deserving project. This grant will help better connect the region and complete the infrastructure improvements that have led to 32 new businesses in the downtown area since the project began in 2013. The partnership between Goldsboro and DOT will help position the region to continue to thrive economically and improve the quality of life for residents.” The City of Goldsboro will use this funding to complete six blocks of South Center Street in Goldsboro, improve the pedestrian plaza, implement a Wayfinding Signage System Plan, and construct a concourse for the Goldsboro Gateway Transit Center. This award builds on a $10 million DOT grant from 2013 which was used to complete portions of the Center Street Streetscape Project and the Goldsboro Gateway Transit Center that have led to an 88 percent increase in new jobs and a 28 percent increase in new businesses. ###
07.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the NBA’s decision to move the 2017 All-Star Game from Charlotte, NC: “I understand the NBA’s decision to relocate the 2017 All-Star Game in light of the passage of H.B. 2. For months, North Carolinians, corporate leaders, and communities across America have expressed in the strongest possible terms their dissatisfaction with H.B. 2. The NBA’s decision demonstrates the serious price our great state has paid over this discriminatory law. I call on Governor Pat McCrory and the North Carolina General Assembly to immediately repeal H.B. 2 before more economic damage and embarrassment occurs.” ###
07.19.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement after receiving news that the U.S. Department of Justice’s Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) ruled in favor of Wildin Guillen Acosta, a Durham, North Carolina high school senior from Honduras: “I am overjoyed that the BIA decided to reopen Wildin’s case, giving him an opportunity to finally be heard and have his application for asylum adjudicated. After nearly six months in detention, it’s time for Wildin to come home to Durham. To that end, I have sent a written request to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director Sarah Saldaña urging that she immediately exercise her existing statutory authority to release Wildin on his own recognizance. “Although the BIA’s decision is a victory for Wildin and his family, Riverside High School, the City of Durham, and the many advocates who have been fighting on behalf of Wildin since his detainment by ICE officials in late-January, our work is not done until he returns home. “Today, I celebrate the BIA’s decision with Wildin’s friends and family in Durham and around the country, but I will keep fighting for him until he is home where he belongs.” ###
07.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement on the passing of Stanley Green, Jr.: “I was saddened to learn about the passing of my friend Stanley Green, Jr., longtime banking executive in Rocky Mount and Raleigh, North Carolina. “Stan loved his community and was a pioneer of community banking in North Carolina during a time when large bank mergers and acquisitions were becoming the norm. As a prominent banker at Peoples Bank & Trust in Rocky Mount, Stan was credited with helping many African Americans secure home and business loans when other banks wouldn’t qualify them. In his later years, Stan served as Senior Vice President for the Mechanics and Farmers Bank in Raleigh. He is remembered for his strong advocacy in the revitalization of downtown Raleigh. “Stan was a founding member of the Bankers Educational Society, Inc., North Carolina’s only minority banking association, established in 1976. He was also an avid tennis player and was critical in organizing the Rocky Mount Opportunities Industrialization Center’s annual tennis tournament and was Chairman of its Board of Directors. Through Stan’s various volunteer roles, he engaged and inspired countless professionals in our community. “I am proud to have called Stanley Green, Jr. a friend. He will be greatly missed. My thoughts and prayers are with his family, friends, and the countless people he touched through his tireless work.” ###
07.14.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC-01) joined U.S. Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Marco Rubio (R-FL), along with Representatives Michael T. McCaul (R-TX-10), Sean Duffy (R-WI-07), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD-08), to introduce the RACE for Children Act (the Research to Accelerate Cures and Equity for Children Act) to support the development of novel and promising cancer drugs for children. The bipartisan bill would update the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) to reflect the latest advances in cancer drugs. PREA was enacted by Congress in 2003 to address the challenge of the scarcity of information about how to treat children with drugs developed for adults and in turn, develop pediatric data during drug development. Although PREA has resulted in new information on how to treat children for a multitude of drugs over the years, there are still limited pediatric studies in cancer drugs. “Pediatric cancer remains the number one cause of disease-related death for children in the United States, surpassing deaths from asthma, diabetes, congenital anomalies, cystic fibrosis, and pediatric AIDS combined. While the cause of childhood cancer remains unknown, advancement in modern technology has allowed us to increase survival rates.” said Butterfield. “I am proud to join my colleagues in the introduction of the RACE for Children Act, which invests in advanced pediatric cancer treatment that will make a tremendous difference in the lives of families in North Carolina and across the country.” “Researchers in Colorado and throughout the country are making dramatic advances in the fight to treat and cure cancer. But there has been a lag in the amount of research devoted to pediatric cancers,” Bennet said. “This bill will help use what has been learned from adult cancer research to help treat kids with cancer. It’s a simple update to our laws that has the potential to help save thousands of kids.” “Childhood cancer touches too many families in Florida, including my own, but modern technology and medical advancements have me more optimistic than ever that cancer as we know it can be defeated in our lifetime. It is important to focus on helping more children overcome cancer in the 21st century, and this legislation I am sponsoring will help,” said Rubio. “I’m proud to introduce the RACE for Children Act to encourage more research into more treatment options so children fighting cancer across our nation will have better chance to beat this disease. I’m especially proud to introduce this bill on behalf of the many advocates, moms, dads and children who have tirelessly fought to get more attention, funding and resources for the fight against pediatric cancer. I look forward to continuing my work with them and other stakeholders to make this important legislation the law of the land.” “We’ve made great strides in combating childhood cancer, but unfortunately the laws governing childhood cancer research are misaligned with the current science of cancer drug development,” said McCaul. “The RACE for Children Act will modernize the law to provide for pediatric studies on the most promising and innovative treatments. I will continue to work with my colleagues and the advocacy community to find ways to give hope to the nearly 15,000 children and adolescents diagnosed with cancer each year.” “We can defeat childhood cancer, and the RACE for Children Act will help us get there,” said Duffy. “Our children deserve twenty-first century laws that reflect the latest research and development in our ongoing battle against cancer.” “Childhood cancer remains the leading cause of death in American children, and the lack of available treatments is a tragedy,” said Chris Van Hollen, Co-Chair of the Childhood Cancer Caucus. “I’m proud to join with my colleagues in introducing The RACE for Children Act, which will help advance research into lifesaving cures. We must continue to work together to combat this deadly disease and to promote the development of new treatments for the nearly 16,000 children who are diagnosed with cancer every year in America.” PREA does not apply to cancer because children’s cancers arise in different organs than adult cancers, and as a result, most pharmaceutical companies receive waivers from their PREA obligations. However, scientific advances have shown that some childhood and adult cancers may share the same molecular targets, and cancer drug development is now almost uniformly focused on advancements in molecular targets. The RACE for Children Act would update PREA by reflecting the new and promising approach to cancer drug development using molecular targets. There are two main challenges that prevent the current structure of PREA from working to advance pediatric cancer drug development. PREA applies to specific indications, or specific types of cancers. The legislation would allow PREA to focus on a molecular target in a specific adult cancer when the same target presents in another childhood cancer. A PREA exemption may also be applied if the company studies the drug in adult cancer that occurs in less than 200,000 patients. The bill would allow pediatric studies with a particular molecular target to still be considered for these cancers. The bill is supported by the Coalition for Pediatric Medical Research, Children’s Hospital Colorado, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Duke University Medical Center, Georgia Regents Health System, Massachusetts General Hospital for Children, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Nemours Children’s Health System, NYU Langone Medical Center, Rady Children’s Hospital – San Diego, St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, Texas Children’s Hospital, the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, and more than 100 pediatric cancer advocacy organizations. ###
07.14.2016	Washington, DC – On Thursday evening, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and fellow Democratic Members of Congress held a “National Speak Out” on the West Lawn of the Capitol to call for gun control legislation. The event followed House Democrats’ 26-hour sit-in on the House Floor on June 22, 2016. The purpose was to continue the call to Republican leadership to take action on gun violence prevention measures: Ensuring comprehensive background checks - H.R. 1217, Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act Enacting ‘No Fly, No Buy’ - H.R. 1076, Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act Closing the Charleston loophole – H.R. 3051, Background Check Completion Act Barring firearm sales to hate crime offenders – H.R. 4603, Hate Crimes Prevention Act Democratic Members of Congress took part in the event, where victims of gun violence shared moving testimonials in front of a crowd made up of a coalition of gun violence prevention organizations and supporters from across the country. Congressman Butterfield introduced Rev. Dr. William J. Barber, II, President of the North Carolina NAACP, who gave a powerful speech before the crowd. “It is easier to get a gun in America than it is to get a voting card,” said Barber during the event. “Too many of our men and women in North Carolina and across the country are being killed due to senseless gun violence,” said Butterfield. “It is long past time leaders in Congress listened to the American people’s demands for gun reform. Action can’t come soon enough.” Congressman G. K. Butterfield introduces Rev. Dr. William J. Barber, II at the “National Speak Out” at the Capitol, July 14, 2016 (Photo credit: Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04)). ### View photos from this event here.
07.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On July 11, 2016, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Julián Castro, inviting him to visit Wilson, North Carolina in the First Congressional District, to witness firsthand the community’s recent growth and the challenges faced by the community as a result of blighted properties. There are more than 300 blighted properties in Wilson. As efforts to remove blight in the City and surrounding areas continue, Butterfield applauded HUD’s recent funding award to the City of Wilson and encouraged Secretary Castro to continue conversations on housing affordability and accessibility through a continued partnership between HUD and the City of Wilson. A PDF copy of the letter can be viewed here. ###
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Following a historic sit-in on the House Floor on June 22, 2016, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and House Democrats today engaged in an orderly protest on the House Floor, respecting House rules. For an hour and a half, over 70 Democratic Members made a continuous series of unanimous consent requests, asking Republican leaders to bring H.R. 1217, a bipartisan bill to expand background checks, to the Floor for a vote. “There is no excuse for Republican leadership’s continued inaction,” said Butterfield. “Congress must allow a vote on this bipartisan legislation so that we can keep firearms out of the hands of those who intend to cause harm. The overwhelming majority of Americans want Congress to act now. We cannot sit by and wait for the next tragedy to take place. Enough is enough.” H.R. 1217, the bipartisan “Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act,” expands the federal background check system (the “National Instant Criminal Background Check System ,” or “NICS”) to cover all commercial firearm sales, including those at gun shows, over the internet, or in classified ads, while providing some exceptions for family and friend transfers. The bill is not considered an impediment to Second Amendment rights and is embraced by both Republicans and Democrats who are interested in reducing deaths by gun violence without restricting the lawful ownership and use of firearms. ###
06.24.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Reps. G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), John Lewis (GA-05), Hank Johnson (GA-04), and Alma Adams (NC-12) today released a letter to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), expressing concerns over recent mass raids and deportations by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) conducted under the name Operation Border Guardian. The states of North Carolina, Georgia, and South Carolina – all covered by the ICE Field Office in Atlanta – accounted for more than one-third of all persons apprehended in this operation nationwide, far outnumbering those detained by any other field offices in the country. “I am deeply concerned with ICE’s enforcement actions while conducting Operation Border Guardian, particularly those that have occurred in North Carolina under the jurisdiction of the ICE Atlanta Field Office,” said Butterfield. “These raids have not only had a negative impact on the individuals who have been detained, but they have also created a deep sense of fear within the community and our schools. I continue to believe that ICE should be focusing its limited resources on identifying dangerous individuals who pose a threat to our communities, rather than young people, mothers, and children who fled extreme violence in Central America in search of refuge in the United States. It is my hope that Secretary Jeh Johnson will take a hard look at these operations and the negative impact they are having in communities across the Southeast.” “No human being can be illegal, and no innocent child should live in fear of deportation,” said Lewis. “I have fought my whole life to ensure that every human being is treated with fairness and justice. In 2013, I was arrested while protesting in support of comprehensive immigration reform. The raids conducted as part of Operation Border Guardian have deeply troubled me. They are not right, not fair, not just. They are an inappropriate response to those fleeing violence and disorder. It is my hope that DHS ends this Operation and finds the most humane way to address these refugees.” "ICE raids should be stopped immediately,” said Johnson. “Targeting mothers and children who come to our shores fleeing human rights abuses and war in their home countries is against everything we stand for as a nation. We should be doing more to live up to our creed as a safe haven for the downtrodden, not subjecting the most vulnerable among us to more trauma and terror. We have to decide what kind of nation we want to be. I, for one, don't think rounding up innocent women and children in the dead of night and shipping them back to their countries where they face death, violence and persecution is who we are or what we want to be." “While I respect the discretion granted to ICE and Immigration Judges to uphold our immigration laws, I believe we must have greater empathy for immigrants, who are the heart of our nation,” said Adams. “In the State of North Carolina and the greater Southeast region, I am deeply concerned that this discretion is being used to deport individuals whom would have their asylum requests granted by an immigration court if they resided in other parts of the country.” The letter to Secretary Johnson follows the members’ recent meetings with advocates and families who shared their accounts of young students who were apprehended in their homes or on their way to school. Advocates stated that many of those detained have been denied legal representation to adequately defend themselves in legal proceedings. The members are advocating for policies that reflect compassion for individuals and families fleeing violence and disorder in Central America and that those who are detained should be treated with respect and dignity. This letter is in addition to one sent to the President in January and signed by most House Democrats encouraging the Administration to find a comprehensive, regional solution to the refugee crisis. ###
06.24.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Saturday, June 25, 2016, marks the third anniversary of the U. S. Supreme Court’s Shelby County v. Holder case, which struck down key provisions from the 1965 Voting Rights Act (VRA). Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement: “Three years ago, the Supreme Court gutted a major enforcement provision of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, leaving millions of Americans without one of the strongest protections preventing discrimination at the polls. “The Shelby County v. Holder decision was a major blow to voting rights and equality in America. After the Court’s ruling, states across the country began enacting harsh voter suppression laws, including North Carolina’s passage of a voter suppression law less than two months after the Shelby County decision. It is a sad fact that too many Americans continue to face discrimination and unnecessary barriers to the ballot box, ranging from strict photo ID requirements to early voting cutbacks to registration restrictions. “Voting is the foundation of our democracy and now is the time for Congress to act. I continue to call on my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to update the original VRA. We must protect the right to vote for every eligible American.” Congressman G. K. Butterfield is a former civil rights attorney and judge in the state of North Carolina and serves as co-chair of the Voting Rights Caucus. ###
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a historic move to demand life-saving action from Congress, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) joined House Democrats’ 26-hour sit-in on the House Floor to protest Speaker Paul Ryan and House Republicans’ refusal to allow a vote on bipartisan legislation to address gun violence. During the sit-in, House Republicans recessed the House of Representatives without bringing gun violence prevention legislation up for a vote. “Standing up for a 30-second moment of silence on the House Floor when a mass shooting takes place in our country is not enough. The gun violence issue has become a crisis, and the solution is simple- Congress must act now to address gun violence with a vote on commonsense, bipartisan legislation,” said Butterfield. “Yesterday was a great day for democracy. Republican leadership may have tried to shut down the Floor and turn off the cameras in the chamber, but our historic sit-in delivered a strong message from the American people: No Bill, No Break.” House Democrats sat-in for 26 hours on the House Floor to demand that Speaker Ryan and House Republicans allow an immediate vote on bipartisan, commonsense gun violence prevention legislation to help keep guns out of dangerous hands, with two bills: The bipartisan King-Thompson legislation to expand and strengthen our background check system; The bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ bill to keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists. House Republicans have voted 14 times to block consideration of the bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ legislation. But in the dead of the night – and in the middle of House Democrats’ ‘No Bill, No Break’ sit-in – Republican Leaders adjourned the House for the Fourth of July congressional recess, leaving Washington D.C. without bringing these bipartisan gun violence prevention bills to the floor for an up or down vote. “With this sit-in, our message was heard. We will not tolerate more moments of silence for the victims of gun violence without action to prevent the next tragedy,” concluded Butterfield. “Sit or stand, House Democrats will not rest, and we will not be silent, until Congress acts.” ###
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after the Supreme Court deadlocked 4-4 on President Barack Obama’s 2014 Immigration Executive Actions to create the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents program (DAPA) and expand the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (DACA): “The Supreme Court’s deadlock on the President’s Executive Actions is a deeply disappointing setback and directly reflects Congressional Republicans’ refusal to do their jobs. Today’s split decision by the Supreme Court further confirms the urgent need for a ninth Justice on the Court, but Senate Republicans still refuse to carry out their Constitutional duties and consider President Obama’s Supreme Court nominee, Judge Merrick Garland. The American people need decisive answers from our nation’s highest court, not deadlock. “While this decision sets no precedent, the commonsense guidance provided by DAPA and expanded DACA will remain blocked until further legal action is taken. I am saddened for the families who are caught within our country’s broken immigration system and would have received relief from the President’s actions. Unfortunately, today’s decision and Congressional Republicans’ refusal to take up bipartisan legislation on comprehensive immigration reform will mean that many of our neighbors all across the country will continue to live in fear of having their families torn apart. “Congressional Republicans must end their obstructionism that has prevented Congress from addressing the most pressing issues of our day and allow our country to move forward. I simply ask that they do their jobs.” ###
06.22.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement in support of today’s sit-in staged by House Democrats to demand Republican leadership to hold a vote on legislation to address gun violence: “Today, history was made. Dozens of House Democrats staged a sit-in on the House Floor to demand a vote on legislation to address gun violence. In the wake of the recent shooting in Orlando that claimed 49 innocent lives, Republican leadership has failed to vote even on commonsense legislation that would expand background checks and prevent dangerous firearms from being sold to suspected terrorists. Enough is enough. “Now more than ever, the issue of gun violence should transcend party lines. It’s time for the American people to demand new gun laws to make our country a safer place for all. We must take action.” Rep. Butterfield is pictured with House Democrats on the House Floor during the June 22 sit-in. ###
06.20.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after learning of the death of civil rights advocate Ms. Ann Atwater: “I was saddened to learn of the passing of Ann Atwater. While attending college at North Carolina Central University, I remember her as a powerful grassroots advocate who was a leader in the fight to end poverty in Durham. Her bold leadership forced many changes that continue today. Durham is better because of the tremendous contributions of Ann Atwater. I extend my thoughts and prayers to Ann’s family and all that were impacted by her work during this difficult time.” ###
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement following confirmation from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) that Wildin Acosta was released from restricted housing at Stewart Detention Center: “After nine days in restricted housing, Wildin Acosta has been returned to the general population at Stewart Detention Center in Lumpkin, Georgia. While I am relieved that he has been released from restricted housing, I remain deeply concerned over his continued detention. He has now been in detention for nearly five months with nine of those days being in restricted housing. I worry about the lasting psychological effects this experience could have on a 19 year-old young man who has already experienced significant hardship. “Wildin was placed in restricted housing shortly after I traveled to Stewart Detention Center to meet with him in person on May 27, 2016. The timing of Wildin being placed in restricted housing is highly suspect and raises many questions. I will continue to be vigilant in ensuring Wildin is treated fairly while at the facility. “These recent actions taken against Wildin only further my resolve to fight for his release and I, once again, call on ICE Director Saldaña and Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson to use their executive authority to release Wildin from detention.” ###
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) sent a letter to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) Director Sarah Saldaña calling for the immediate review of disciplinary actions administered to Mr. Wildin Acosta while detained at Stewart Detention Center in Lumpkin, Georgia. Acosta, who has been detained at the facility since late-January, is awaiting a decision on his pending appeal currently before the U. S. Department of Justice’s Board of Immigration Appeals. ICE officials recently confirmed that Wildin Acosta was placed in restricted housing for committing three “low-moderate” offenses within a 90-day period, two of which took place shortly after Reps. Butterfield and Sanford D. Bishop, Jr (GA-02) visited Acosta at the facility. In his letter, Butterfield respectfully urged ICE Director Saldaña to review the disciplinary actions placed on Wildin Acosta immediately to ensure his fair and proper treatment. The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
06.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement following the mass shooting in Orlando, Florida on June 12, 2016, that claimed the lives of 49 individuals and injured more than 50: “I am devastated by the horrific and senseless violence and loss of life that took place early Sunday morning in Orlando, Florida. As we learn more about this brutal shooting, it appears that this attack was driven by hate. This kind of violence and hatred has no place in our society and cannot be tolerated. I join North Carolinians in mourning the loss of so many innocent lives including Mr. Shane Evan Tomlinson, a 2003 graduate of East Carolina University, whose life was taken in the tragic shooting. “We live in an imperfect world and policymakers must act to prevent these acts from becoming the norm in our country. In this terrible and sad time, I am keeping the families and loved ones of those impacted by the tragedy in Orlando in my thoughts and prayers.” ###
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement urging District Attorney Kimberly Robb to release surveillance video footage showing the on-campus assault of 26-year old Patrick Myrick on March 17, 2016: “Over the past several weeks, I have received numerous communications from constituents residing in Pitt County who have an interest in the ongoing cases involving the brutal beating of Mr. Patrick Myrick. It is my understanding that the brutal beating of Mr. Myrick at the hands of several men was captured by a state-of-the-art video system on the campus of East Carolina University (ECU). I was also informed that ECU authorities released the video to the Pitt County District Attorney, but she refuses to allow the video to be seen by the media and the general public. “There is considerable disapproval in the Pitt County community regarding the DA’s refusal to release the video for public viewing. The community deserves the right to view the video which will be the best evidence of the severity of these assaults. By withholding the video, there is weakening public confidence in the assurance that the cases will be fairly and vigorously prosecuted. “While I recognize that the video is evidence in these cases, and, when released, will engender discussion among citizens regarding their individual opinions, release of the video is necessary to give the public access to preliminary facts while a full and fair investigation into this matter takes place. The public has an immediate right to know whether possible hate crimes are being perpetuated in their community. When other jurisdictions across the county have experienced hate-related crimes, videos are immediately made available to the general public as a moral imperative. “I urge the immediate release of the video for citizens to view, allowing them to reach their own individual conclusions about whether these cases are racially motivated and deserving of additional scrutiny. I am today forwarding a letter to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch requesting a determination of whether the assaults were racially motivated thereby granting possible federal jurisdiction and prosecution pursuant to Federal Hate Crimes law (18 U.S. Code §249).” The full text of the letter is attached. ###
06.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – On June 7, 2016, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) introduced a resolution honoring the life, accomplishments, and countless contributions of Mr. Muhammad Ali. “There will never be another like Muhammad Ali. I am proud to introduce this resolution to honor Mr. Ali’s life and acknowledge his place in history,” said Butterfield. “Muhammad Ali would become the world heavyweight champion in 1964, 1974, and 1978, making him the first fighter to capture the heavyweight title three times. After retiring from professional boxing in 1981, he dedicated his life to promoting world peace, fighting civil rights, hunger relief, and basic human values. Throughout his life, Muhammad Ali made great contributions to society and was indeed The Greatest.” “With this resolution, Congress will officially recognize the extraordinary contributions of Mr. Muhammad Ali.” A PDF of the resolution can be found here. ###
05.27.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement following his visit to Stewart Detention Center in Lumpkin, Georgia, where Wildin Acosta, a Durham, North Carolina high school senior has been detained since late-January by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE): “Today, I visited with Wildin Acosta for 35 minutes and was accompanied by Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), whose district includes Lumpkin, Georgia. Wildin is in good health and is eager to return to Durham so that he can reunite with his family and classmates, complete his education at Riverside High School, and live a safe and normal life. “Wildin shared with me that he came to the United States at the age of 17 to flee serious violence in his native country of Honduras, where his life was in danger every day. Wildin said his parents left Honduras several years earlier and that he was in the care of his older brother. Following violence and repeated threats to his life, he left Honduras on a 17-day journey to the United States seeking asylum. Wildin enrolled in Riverside High School, where he quickly became part of the community. He was well respected by both his teachers and classmates. Upon the advice of his now former attorney, Wildin did not appear in court for his immigration hearing which led to his arrest and detention by ICE in late January. “Wildin is one of many young people caught in raids conducted by ICE in North Carolina and across the southeast. While the rate of asylum granted to individuals varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction with the national average being 48 percent, it is less than 10 percent in North Carolina. The disparity in these rates and the enforcement actions taken by ICE in North Carolina and the overall functioning of our nation’s immigration system causes me great concern. “Following my conversation with Wildin, I met with a group of advocates from Durham who are supporting and working to secure Wildin’s release. I spoke with families of other detainees, as well as individuals from both North Carolina and Georgia whose lives have been impacted by ICE’s raids. After speaking with Wildin and the advocates, I now have a deeper appreciation for how complex and emotional our immigration system can be for everyone involved. “The level of support Wildin has received is incredible and seeing Wildin today was emotional. He is a bright and impressive young man. As Wildin awaits a decision on his appeal pending before the U.S. Department of Justice’s Board of Immigration Appeals, I will continue to advocate on Wildin’s behalf and I encourage my colleagues in Congress to do the same. When I return to Washington, I will speak on the House Floor about Wildin’s case so that my colleagues and others know the human cost these ICE’s raids are having on communities like those I represent as well as the urgent need for comprehensive immigration reform.” ###
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement congratulating Phyliss Craig-Taylor, Dean of North Carolina Central School of Law, on her recent appointment to the President’s Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities: “I am pleased to congratulate Phyliss Craig-Taylor on her appointment to the Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities. Prior to her deanship at North Carolina Central School of Law, she served as the Law School’s assistant dean of academic affairs and a Professor of Law at the Charlotte School of Law. I am certain her experiences will bring a unique and valuable perspective to the Board. I applaud President Obama on his selection of a truly dedicated educator and community leader and I am honored to represent Phyliss Craig-Taylor in the United States Congress.” Phyliss Craig-Taylor is one of three new members appointed to the committee, which advises President Obama on how to increase the private sector role in strengthening HBCUs. ###
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – On Friday, May 27, 2016, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will travel to Stewart Detention Center in Lumpkin, Georgia, where Wildin Acosta, a Durham, North Carolina high school senior has been detained since late-January by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), whose congressional district includes Lumpkin, Georgia, will accompany Butterfield on his visit to Stewart Detention Center. While there, Butterfield and Bishop will speak directly with Wildin and update him on the actions taken to date as Butterfield continues to work to secure his release. Wildin and his attorney will talk with Butterfield and Bishop about the progress of his case and his pending appeal currently before the U.S. Department of Justice’s Board of Immigration Appeals. “It is important to me to ensure Wildin is being treated properly and cared for while he awaits a decision on his appeal,” said Butterfield. “At age 17, Wildin fled extreme violence in his native country of Honduras seeking refuge and a chance to rejoin his parents. The raids carried out by ICE have not only negatively impacted the individuals who have been detained and their families, but they have also created a deep fear and concern within our communities and schools.” Butterfield’s trip to Stewart Detention Center follows his visit to Riverside High School in April to talk with students advocating for Wildin’s release. This week, Butterfield welcomed Riverside students and members of the Durham community to Capitol Hill, where they raised awareness to members of Congress and congressional staff about Wildin’s case and the negative impact ICE raids are having on communities and schools in North Carolina. “I continue to believe strongly that ICE’s limited resources would be better utilized by focusing on dangerous criminals who pose a threat to our communities rather than mothers, children, high school students, and teenagers fleeing violence,” said Butterfield. ###
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the passing of Durham community leader and corporate executive, A.J. Howard Clement, III: “It is with great sadness that I mourn the passing of my dear friend for more than 40 years, A.J. Howard Clement, III. Throughout his 30 years in elected office, Howard was able to relate to all segments of the Durham community. “Before serving on the City Council, Howard Clement was a strong leader with Durham’s civil rights movement, often mentoring North Carolina Central University students who were participants. I was a beneficiary of his counsel. “I will always remember Howard Clement for the great conviction he showed in his work on behalf of the community. I extend my deepest sympathy to the Clement family during this difficult time. Durham is a better community because of the life and work of A.J. Howard Clement, III.” A.J. Howard Clement, III retired from public service in 2013 as the longest-serving member of the Durham City Council. ###
05.24.2016	Caucus to continue the fight to guarantee voting rights for all Americans Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) joined the first ever Congressional Voting Rights Caucus – a caucus dedicated to protecting our nation’s democracy by ensuring that the fundamental right to vote is safeguarded for all Americans. Following the Supreme Court’s 2013 Shelby v. Holder decision, which dismantled key provisions of the original Voting Rights Act of 1965, 33 states have implemented laws that again make it difficult for traditionally disenfranchised communities to exercise their right to vote. In the 114th Congress, House Democrats introduced H.R. 2867, the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015, and H.R. 885, the Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2015. These bills would update, fix, and strengthen the landmark civil rights legislation. “It is my hope that members on both sides of the aisle can work together to pass fair and common sense legislation that restores and protects the fundamental right of all Americans to have unfettered access to the voting booth,” said Butterfield. “One of our most sacred rights in this country is the right to vote,” said Butterfield. “As a member of Congress, I will do everything in my power to stop the aggressive efforts to disenfranchise voters that we have seen in North Carolina and in other states across the country. That is why I joined the Congressional Voting Rights Caucus…because as a nation we must not and we will not tolerate any voting discrimination in our democracy.” ### The goal of the Congressional Voting Rights Caucus is to educate the public on the current voter suppression tactics in place in their home states, districts, and counties, inform constituencies on their rights as voters, and to create and advance legislation that blocks current and future suppressive and discriminatory tactics that deny American citizens the sacred right to vote.
05.17.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement congratulating the city of Durham, North Carolina for being selected by Reinvestment Fund and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation to take part in the new Invest Health initiative, aimed at transforming how leaders from mid-size American cities work together to help low-income communities thrive. As part of the initiative, Durham will receive a $60,000 grant to help transform the way it improves opportunities for residents to live healthy lives. “The Invest Health initiative is an extraordinary opportunity to improve low-income communities’ access to resources that will help them thrive, such as safe and affordable housing, space to be active and exercise, and quality jobs,” said Butterfield “I am proud that Durham was chosen for this critical initiative and I am certain that it will greatly improve the lives of those in low-income, minority communities who need it the most.” Durham was selected from more than 180 teams from 170 communities that applied. The initiative focuses on cities with populations between 50,000 and 400,000. While mid-size American cities face some of the nation’s deepest challenges with poverty, poor health, and a lack of investment, they also offer fertile ground for strategies that improve health and have the potential to boost local economies. “The City of Durham is a leader in the field of medicine and medical research, yet its low-income communities face some serious challenges in accessing the resources needed to live healthier lives. I look forward to seeing these challenges eliminated and for this initiative to enable the citizens of Durham to live their best lives.” Over the next 18 months, Durham will join other Invest Health teams in being part of a learning community with access to expert advisors and coaches and engagement with other local stakeholders to encourage knowledge sharing. ###
05.17.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will hold a State of the District address in Greenville, NC on Thursday, June 2, 2016. The State of the District address serves as the culmination of the feedback received during Congressman Butterfield’s recent “Jobs and Justice Tour,” where he hosted a series of conversations throughout the First Congressional District to hear directly from constituents on the issues most pressing to them. “There is a lot at stake for North Carolinians right now,” said Congressman Butterfield. “This State of the District meeting is an opportunity for constituents to learn about what’s happening in Congress and in our district.” During the State of the District address, residents will have an opportunity to hear from Congressman Butterfield on issues impacting the district and the nation. The event will feature remarks from local and state elected officials, as well as musical entertainment from local performers. Light refreshments will be provided and the Congressman’s staff will be on site to speak directly with attendees after the program. WHAT: State of the District Address WHEN: Thursday, June 2, 2016, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm WHERE: East Carolina Heart Institute 115 Heart Drive Greenville, NC 27834 This event is free and open to the public. RSVP here. Press may RSVP to ButterfieldPress@mail.house.gov. ###
05.16.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) announced the winners of the 2016 Annual Congressional Art Competition during a special reception and presentation at the Art Institute of Raleigh-Durham on Saturday, May 14, 2016. Mr. Rene Chavez Lopez, a student at Hillside High School in Durham, NC, was awarded first place for his work “Graffart.” As the winner, Rene’s work will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year along with the artwork from other congressional districts across the country. He will receive round-trip airfare for two to attend the annual ribbon cutting ceremony in Washington, DC. Rene will also receive a $3,000 scholarship from Savannah College of Art and Design and a scholarship to attend a summer course at the Art Institute of Raleigh-Durham. Each spring, a nationwide high school arts competition is sponsored by the United States House of Representatives as an opportunity to recognize artistic talent across the nation. More than 650,000 students have participated in the nationwide competition since it began in 1982. “I am proud of the remarkable talent and imagination demonstrated by our students this year,” said Congressman Butterfield. “I was so impressed by the large number of talented participants who submitted their work for consideration. I thank each and every student who participated.” The 2016 winners include: First Place: Mr. Rene Chavez Lopez, Hillside High School (Durham, NC), “Graffart” Second Place: Ms. Jasmine Beddard, Washington High School (Washington, NC), “Zebra” Third Place: Mr. Alton "Christopher" Rawls, Washington High School (Washington, NC), “Stormy Weather” Click here to view a copy of the first place piece. ###
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) issued the following statement in response to a letter from the U. S. Department of Education instructing school districts to allow transgender students to use facilities such as the restrooms and locker rooms consistent with their gender identity: “I commend the Department of Education for putting the needs of students above playing politics. The Department’s guidance is a much needed step to ensuring the transgender community’s voices are heard. Our public schools must serve as safe havens where students can grow and learn without worrying which facilities to use. I join millions of Americans across the country who are standing in unity against the discriminatory bills targeting the LGBT community. “North Carolina’s H. B. 2 is about much more than bathrooms and it infringes on the rights of many more than just the LGBT community. This law is taking our state and country backward. I continue to demand that Governor McCrory and the North Carolina General Assembly reverse H. B. 2’s course. Discrimination has no place in our schools or society.” ###
05.06.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), Congressman David Price (NC-04), and Congresswoman Alma Adams (NC-12) sent a letter to Governor Pat McCrory and Republican leaders of the North Carolina General Assembly calling for the immediate repeal of H.B. 2, following the United States Department of Justice’s (DOJ) determination that the law violates federal civil rights law. This letter follows a previous letter sent on April 21, 2016 by Butterfield, Price, and Adams to Governor McCrory urging an immediate repeal of H.B. 2. On May 4, 2016, DOJ confirmed that H.B. 2 violates federal civil rights law, including Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972. The letter, which DOJ sent to Governor Pat McCrory and the University of North Carolina General Administration, indicated that DOJ is prepared to take enforcement action if North Carolina does not repeal H.B. 2 by May 9, 2016. North Carolina has faced significant economic harm since the legislation was signed into law by Governor Pat McCrory. If H.B. 2 is not repealed, North Carolina could lose millions of dollars in federal school funding. Butterfield, Price, Adams urge the North Carolina General Assembly to repeal H.B. 2 immediately. The full text of the letter is attached. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
04.29.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement calling on Senator Richard Burr (NC) to reconsider his obstruction of Justice Patricia Timmons-Goodson to serve as District Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina: “I was disappointed to learn that Senator Burr will oppose granting a hearing and vote on the nomination of Justice Patricia Timmons-Goodson to serve as District Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina. “This immediate reactionary statement from Senator Burr is reminiscent of the political decision of Senate Republicans to block consideration of Judge Merrick Garland, President Obama’s nominee to the United States Supreme Court. Senators should not politicize the Court. They have an obligation to seriously consider any judicial nominee offered by the President of the United States. “The Eastern District judicial vacancy is the longest vacant judgeship in the United States. It has remained unfilled since December 31, 2005; a total of 3772 days. Senator Burr apparently doesn’t understand that the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts has declared this vacant position as a judicial emergency. “President Obama previously nominated Jennifer May-Parker, an African-American federal prosecutor, to serve in this position in 2013. Senator Burr blocked consideration of this well-qualified nominee and has vowed to do the same in the nomination of Justice Timmons-Goodson. “It cannot be overlooked that no African-American has ever served on the bench in the Eastern District. I am confident that President Obama selected Justice Timmons-Goodson because of her intellect and experience and because she will bring much needed racial diversity to the Court. “I call on my friend and colleague, Senator Richard Burr, to reconsider his obstruction of Patricia Timmons-Goodson, a well-qualified African-American woman who is prepared to serve in the federal judiciary. Senator Burr should not obstruct her ability to have a fair hearing and a vote of the full Senate.” https://butterfield.house.gov ###
04.28.2016	WASHINGTON, DC –Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement in response to President Obama’s nomination of former North Carolina Supreme Court Justice Patricia Timmons-Goodson to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina: “This afternoon, President Barack Obama nominated former North Carolina Supreme Court Justice Patricia Timmons-Goodson to serve as District Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina. “Justice Patricia Timmons-Goodson is an excellent choice to serve as District Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina. She served as a North Carolina trial and appellate judge for more than twenty years. Justice Timmons-Goodson’s service on the North Carolina Supreme Court earned her the respect of judicial colleagues from across the state and country. Her character and reputation are beyond reproach. “I commend President Barack Obama for his confidence in Justice Timmons-Goodson and in recognizing her ability to serve with distinction in the federal judiciary. This vacancy has been deemed to be a judicial emergency by the Administrative Office of the United States Courts. The post has been vacant for more than 10 years; the longest vacancy in the country. It is the responsibility of the Republican leadership in the United States Senate to conduct a hearing and proceed to a vote on this nomination. It is my hope that Justice Timmons-Goodson will be confirmed without delay.” https://butterfield.house.gov ###
04.26.2016	WASHINGTON, DC –Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement on incoming Durham Police Chief Cerelyn J. Davis: “I join many in congratulating Cerelyn “CJ” Davis on her selection as the next Chief of Police for the Durham Police Department. I believe Deputy Chief Davis has the leadership and experience that is needed to lead the Durham Police Department in the years to come. “Deputy Chief Davis’ 28 years of experience working for the City of Atlanta Police Department speaks for itself. She is a leader with exceptional qualifications who rose through the ranks, including patrol officer, detective, and sergeant. As deputy chief, Davis is highly respected by her colleagues and I am confident that she will continue to serve with distinction in her new role leading the Durham Police Department. “I continue to be tremendously grateful for the service of the Durham Police Department who protect the community every day. I wish Deputy Chief Davis success in her new role, and I look forward to working with her and her team in the months to come.” https://butterfield.house.gov ###
04.25.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – On Tuesday, May 3, 2016, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will hold a State of the District address in Weldon, NC. In a continuing effort to keep residents well informed and involved in the region’s growth and development, Congressman Butterfield invites residents of the First Congressional District to his second of three State of the District addresses. The first State of the District Address took place in Durham on April 5. On May 3, 2016, Congressman Butterfield and elected officials from the First District will discuss critical updates on issues impacting the community and outline his vision for job creation, public safety, and housing that must be addressed in 2016. The event is free and open to the public. The address is the culmination of Butterfield’s “Jobs and Justice Tour,” where he traveled throughout the district to hear directly from constituents and gather recommendations for solutions to issues impacting their communities. The event will be moderated by Patricia Ferguson, host of “Talk Back Now” radio show and will include remarks from Vernon J. Bryant, Chair of Halifax County Board of Commissioners, Dr. Ervin V. Griffin, Sr., President of Halifax Community College, and more. Light refreshments will be provided. WHAT: State of the District Address WHEN: Tuesday, May 3, 2016, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm WHERE: Halifax Community College The Centre 100 College Drive Weldon, NC 27890 UPCOMING: June 2016 – State of the District Address in Pitt County. Date and location to be announced. This event is free and open to the public. RSVP here. Press may RSVP to ButterfieldPress@mail.house.gov. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
04.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), Congressman David Price (NC-04), and Congresswoman Alma Adams (NC-12) sent a letter to Governor Pat McCrory and Republican leaders of the North Carolina General Assembly calling for the immediate repeal of H.B. 2. This legislation, which Governor McCrory signed into law last month, strips LGBT individuals of nondiscrimination protections, bars North Carolinians from filing discrimination suits in state court, and prohibits municipal and county governments from passing local nondiscrimination and minimum wage ordinances. North Carolina has faced substantial backlash over the law, which threatens millions of dollars in travel revenue and major corporate investment in new jobs and facilities throughout the state. Butterfield, Price, and Adams, the Democratic Members of North Carolina's congressional delegation, expressed particular concern over potential federal funding implications. The Obama administration has indicated that it is reviewing whether H.B. 2 violates these federal nondiscrimination provisions, putting at risk billions of dollars in federal aid to North Carolina. The full text of the Butterfield-Price-Adams letter is attached. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—A bipartisan measure introduced by U.S. Rep. G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) and U.S. Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.) to speed up the development of vaccines and treatments against the Zika virus is set to become law after passing in the Senate last month and in the House of Representatives today. The legislation was passed at a critical moment, given that earlier this week, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention characterized Zika as “[s]carier than we initially thought.” The bill—introduced by Rep. Butterfield and Sen. Franken will encourage the development of vaccines and treatments against the Zika virus by adding it to the Food and Drug Administration’s Tropical Disease Priority Review Voucher Program. In the last several months, the mosquito-borne virus has spread rapidly throughout South and Central America and is now reported in Puerto Rico, the US Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and in at least 30 states. “The Zika virus is a global public health emergency. With no vaccines to prevent or medicines to treat the Zika virus, hundreds of millions of people across the world are susceptible to this dangerous virus,” said Rep. Butterfield. “This legislation is an important step in incentivizing the creation of treatments for Zika. The bill supports research and development at home and will help protect millions of people around the world.” Yesterday, the White House and Centers for Disease Control (CDC) acknowledged that the dangers posed by the Zika virus are greater than originally anticipated. The CDC estimates that there are already hundreds of thousands of cases in the United States and that number is expected to grow as we approach the summer. Women who are or may become pregnant are especially at risk because the Zika virus is linked to devastating birth defects in newborns. “The Zika virus is spreading rapidly, and to fight back, we need to make sure we have the necessary tools to prevent and treat the disease,” said Sen. Franken, a member of the Senate Health Committee. “Our bipartisan bill will encourage innovators to help stop the virus in its tracks, and I’m very pleased that we got the measure across the finish line. This is an important step to combat Zika, and I look forward to President Obama signing it into law.” “Every day we are learning more about the Zika virus and its impact on humans,” said Rep. Butterfield. “The link between Zika virus and other life-threatening complications is deeply troubling. By adding Zika virus to the FDA’s Tropical Disease Priority Review Voucher Program, we are one step closer to the development of much-needed vaccines and treatments.” The U.S. Senate passed the bill on March 17, 2016. The legislation will now be sent to the White House to be signed by President Barack Obama. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
04.05.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will hold a State of the District address in Durham, NC tonight, April 5, 2016 at 6:00 pm at Durham Technical Community College. The event will be moderated by veteran broadcast journalist Pam Saulsby, and will feature performances from Ms. Carolyn Thaxton-Kerr, North Carolina Central University’s Sound Machine Marching Band, and Hillside High School Color Guard. Light refreshments will be provided. Parking is available. Click here to view the map of Durham Technical Community College. WHAT: State of the District Address WHO: William V. Bell, Mayor, City of Durham Dr. William Ingram, President, Durham Technical Community College Rep. Larry D. Hall, North Carolina House of Representatives Senator Mike Woodard, North Carolina Senate Senator Floyd B. McKissick, Jr., North Carolina Senate Mr. Michael Page, Chair, Durham County Board of Commissioners Mrs. Heidi Carter, Chair, Durham County Public Schools Board of Education WHEN: Tuesday, April 5, 2016, 6:00pm – 8:00pm WHERE: Durham Technical Community College Phail Wynn Jr. Student Services Center 1625 Cooper Street Durham, NC 27703 UPCOMING: May 2016 – State of the District Addresses in both Halifax County and Pitt County. Dates and locations will be announced soon. This event is free and open to the public. RSVP here. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
04.01.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the passing of former Elizabeth City Mayor Roger McLean: “I am saddened by the loss of former Elizabeth City Mayor Roger McLean, whose work and dedication to helping others improved the lives of so many. Roger honorably served his community as Elizabeth City’s second African-American mayor and made it his life’s work to put others before himself. I salute my former North Carolina Central University classmate and thank him for his service. “My deepest condolences go to the McLean family and all those impacted by his work. Roger will be greatly missed.” Roger McLean served as mayor from 2009 to 2011. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
04.01.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today joined millions of Americans in marking the month-long recognition of National Minority Health Awareness Month by issuing the following statement: “During National Minority Health Month, we recognize the importance of advancing health equity and protecting critical health programs that are vital to minority and underserved communities. “Today, and every day, let us raise awareness about the health disparities that continue to affect minority populations across the nation and recommit ourselves to providing the best possible access to care for these communities. Cancer, heart disease, diabetes, and stroke are some of the most debilitating diseases to disproportionately impact minority communities. It is critical that we reduce the rates of these serious illnesses. “During National Minority Health Month, I will take to social media to raise awareness for the health issues that plague minority communities, share resources for preventative care and screenings for my constituents, and continue advocating for legislation that provides underserved communities with the health treatment they deserve.” https://butterfield.house.gov ###
03.30.2016	Durham’s State of the District will be followed in May with events in Halifax and Pitt Counties WASHINGTON, DC – On Tuesday, April 5, 2016, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will hold a State of the District address in Durham, NC. In a continuing effort to keep residents well informed and involved in their community’s growth and development, Congressman Butterfield invites residents of the First Congressional District to his first of three State of the District addresses which begin on April 5. Congressman Butterfield and elected officials from across the First District will share critical updates on issues impacting the community and outline the vision for job creation, public safety, and housing that must be addressed in 2016. The address is the culmination of Butterfield’s “Jobs and Justice Tour,” where he traveled throughout the district to listen to the concerns of constituents and gather recommendations for solutions to issues impacting their communities. The event will be moderated by veteran broadcast journalist, Pam Saulsby, and will feature remarks from local and state elected officials, as well as musical entertainment from local schools. Light refreshments will be provided. WHAT: State of the District Address WHEN: Tuesday, April 5, 2016, 6:00pm – 8:00pm WHERE: Durham Technical Community College Educational Resources Building 1637 East Lawson Street Durham, NC 27703 UPCOMING: May 2016 – State of the District Addresses in both Halifax County and Pitt Counties. Dates and locations will be announced soon. This event is free and open to the public. RSVP here. Press may RSVP to ButterfieldPress@mail.house.gov. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
03.28.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) is hosting listening sessions on March 29th and March 31st in Greenville and Halifax, NC, respectively. The listening sessions are part of Butterfield’s “Jobs and Justice Tour.” Tomorrow’s forum, entitled “Re-Entry: Ensuring a Successful Return to the Community,” will be held at STRIVE NC. During the panel discussion, formerly incarcerated community members will have an opportunity to connect with service providers to discuss re-entry and opportunities for successful community transitions. WHAT: “Re-Entry: Ensuring a Successful Return to the Community” WHEN: Tuesday, March 29, 2016, 10:00 am-11:30 am WHERE: STRIVE NC 600 West 3rd Street Greenville, NC 27834 “Jobs and Economic Security for Rural America” will be held at Halifax Community College on Thursday, March 31, 2016. Congressman Butterfield will gather feedback on what must be done to foster economic growth in North Carolina’s rural communities. WHAT: “Jobs and Economic Security for Rural America” WHO: Confirmed panelists include: Former Congresswoman Eva Clayton, U.S. House of Representatives (NC-01) Dr. Ervin V. Griffin, Sr., President, Halifax Community College Mr. Randy Gore, Director, USDA State Rural Development Mr. Phillip Farland, District Director, Farm Service Agency WHEN: Thursday, March 31, 2016, 11:00 am-12:30 pm WHERE: Halifax Community College 100 College Drive Weldon, NC 27890 These events are free and open to the public. RSVP here. Press may RSVP to ButterfieldPress@mail.house.gov. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
03.24.2016	Washington, DC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield today released the following statement in reflection of the Easter Holiday: “This weekend, many North Carolinians will join friends and family to celebrate Easter. “Easter is an opportunity for renewal and hope as we spend time in the fellowship of loved ones and celebrate all that is good and just in our world. No matter your faith, these are values that bind us all together as Americans. “To all those celebrating, I wish you a Happy Easter.” https://butterfield.house.gov ###
03.23.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) is hosting a women’s listening session, entitled “When Women Succeed, America Succeeds” on March 24th in Wilson, NC. This is the second stop on Butterfield’s “Jobs and Justice Tour.” The forum being held tomorrow at Wilson Community College will provide an opportunity for the public to hear from local and state experts about resources that can help advance their economic goals. Congressman Butterfield will also gather feedback on the support needed for women in the workforce and as entrepreneurs in North Carolina. The forum will be moderated by Ms. Marvette Coley, founder of Positive Women, Positive Results, Inc. Confirmed panelists include: Senator Erica Smith-Ingram, North Carolina State Senate (District 3) Ms. Melissa Evans, Director, Wilson Community College Small Business Center Ms. Kenneth Johnson, Manager, NC Department of Transportation Business Opportunity & Workforce Development WHAT: “When Women Succeed, America Succeeds” Women’s Listening Session WHEN: Thursday, March 24, 2016, 2:00pm-3:30pm WHERE: Frank L. Eagles Business Center, Wilson Community College 902 Herring Avenue East Wilson, NC 27893 This event is free and open to the public. For more information and to RSVP, click here.
03.20.2016	Washington, D.C. - Congressman G. K. Butterfield today released the following statement regarding Wildin Acosta’s detainment by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement: “Through the night, I continued my efforts to persuade ICE Director Sarah Saldaña to reconsider her decision to not intervene in the deportation of Wildin Acosta. I was joined in this effort during the night by Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-California) who is the Ranking Democrat on the Sub-Committee​on on Immigration and Border Security. "This morning, ICE Director Sarah Saldaña issued an order preventing the deportation of Wildin Acosta until the legal process can take place in an orderly manner. "On behalf of the Acosta family and their hundreds of friends in Durham, North Carolina and around the country, I extend my appreciation to the Obama Administration, Director Saldaña, and other senior officials responsible for border security for this most appropriate decision. It will unquestionably result in the protection of Wildin Acosta from further violence in his native country of Honduras. It is my hope that he will be eventually granted asylum in the United States.” https://butterfield.house.gov ###
03.19.2016	Washington, D.C. - Congressman G. K. Butterfield released the following statement regarding Wildin Acosta’s detainment by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement: “Late last night, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) Director Sarah Saldaña telephoned me to advise that she had personally reviewed the case of Wildin Acosta. Director Saldaña regretfully informed me that she will not use her executive authority to modify the administrative decision rendered on Mr. Acosta’s deportation proceedings late this afternoon. She informed me that this is a very complicated case and that she is not able to share all the details with me at this time. Director Saldaña further stated her level of review of the case is the fourth level authorized by law. I informed Director Saldaña that I am disappointed that the decision was released after 5:00 pm and that any appeal of the judge’s decision wouldn’t be able to take place until Monday morning, after Mr. Acosta’s scheduled deportation. Director Saldaña’s response was that the administrative decision was rendered by the Department of Justice and not the Department of Homeland Security. She expressed compassion for Wildin and his family, but her decision appears to be final. “I am very disappointed that the Director would not use her discretion in a decision that will have such a profound impact on Wildin, who fled violence in Honduras and sought refuge in the United States. I will continue to monitor Mr. Acosta’s case and I, once again, urged Director Sarah Saldaña to delay Wildin Acosta’s deportation in order to give him an opportunity to appeal this administrative decision.” https://butterfield.house.gov ###
03.18.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield today released the following statement regarding Wildin Acosta’s detainment by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement: “After learning of Mr. Acosta’s detainment in mid-February, my senior staff in Washington have been working to stop deportation proceedings until all his pending motions are heard and he has every opportunity to present his case. Wildin Acosta and other young people like him fled extreme violence and mayhem in Central America in search of refuge and a better life in the United States. I believe that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) limited resources would be better utilized focusing on dangerous criminals who pose a threat to our communities rather than high school students and teenagers trying to make better lives for themselves. “Over the past few days, I have spoken with Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson, ICE Director Sarah Saldaña, and officials at the highest levels of the White House to express my displeasure with the continued detention of Wildin Acosta and the other North Carolina teenagers currently in ICE detention. During my conversations, I insisted that Mr. Acosta not be deported this Sunday and requested his release so he can have a fair shot at presenting his case for asylum. I have been given assurances by ICE Director Sarah Saldaña that a decision will be made regarding Mr. Acosta’s case by the end of today.” https://butterfield.house.gov ###
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on President Obama’s nomination of federal appeals court judge Merrick Garland to the U.S. Supreme Court: “The President has done his job in nominating a highly qualified judge to the Supreme Court. Now, it is time for Senators Burr and Tillis to demand that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell gives a fair hearing and timely vote on the President’s nominee. Senator Tillis sits on the committee responsible for the hearings on Judge Garland’s nomination. I know Senator Tillis can convince Chairman Chuck Grassley to hold a confirmation hearing on Judge Garland’s nomination. “A fully functioning Supreme Court is too important for North Carolina’s senators to be a party to the Republican obstruction of Judge Garland’s nomination. Having a fully functioning Supreme Court is critical for North Carolina because the Court is considering some of the most controversial issues facing our state- from voting rights, to affirmative action, to the President’s immigration plan. “Senators Burr and Tillis should not take their oath to “faithfully discharge the duties of the office” of U.S. Senator lightly. Chief Justice Roberts has previously noted the “persistent problem of judicial vacancies” and the harm it does to a fully functioning judicial system. Therefore, this vacancy on the Supreme Court must be considered a judicial emergency. “There have been 17 justices confirmed to the Supreme Court during an election year. This year should be no different. Judge Garland should be considered based on his merits, not on Republicans’ political calculations or partisan grandstanding. This overt display of raw politics is dangerous for North Carolina, for our system of government, and for our country.” https://butterfield.house.gov ###
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the passing of former North Carolina State Senator, Earline Parmon: “North Carolina lost a legend today with the passing of Earline Parmon, Forsyth County’s first black state senator. Earline was elected to the North Carolina Senate in 2012 after serving as a representative in the North Carolina House of Representatives for ten years. She was well respected by her colleagues and was a charismatic leader who always put the needs of her community first. Prior to becoming the Outreach Director for U.S. Representative Alma Adams (NC-12), Earline was a fierce advocate for her constituents during her time in the state legislature. I join so many North Carolinians to salute a longtime friend and iconic public servant. “Earline’s life was very well lived and we pay tribute to her commitment to working tirelessly to make North Carolina better. My deepest condolences go out to her family and the many people impacted by Senator Parmon’s work.” https://butterfield.house.gov ###
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced four additional stops on his district-wide “Jobs and Justice” Tour. He will travel across the First Congressional District where he will host constituents for open dialogues about issues they face in the community. Butterfield is also conducting a survey on his website to capture the views of his constituents. “I will listen to the concerns of constituents and take their recommendations back to Washington, D.C. where I’ll work with my congressional colleagues and the Obama Administration to find commonsense solutions,” said Butterfield. “I look forward to continuing my strong partnership with residents of the First District to ensure they are equipped with the tools and have access to opportunities to achieve the American Dream.” At the conclusion of the tour, Congressman Butterfield will host a State of the District address on April 5, 2016 to discuss the district’s progress in recent years and outline his vision related to job creation and justice for all. Butterfield’s “Jobs and Justice” Tour began March 7, 2016 with a listening session in Durham where he heard from veterans, caregivers, and veterans service organizations about issues impacting North Carolina veterans including access to healthcare, help for returning service members, and veterans’ benefits. Butterfield will make the following stops on his “Jobs and Justice” Tour with more stops to be announced at a later date: Thursday, March 24 When Women Succeed, America Succeeds Wilson Community College Frank L. Eagles Community Business Center 902 Herring Avenue East Wilson, NC 27893 2:00 pm – 3:30 pm Tuesday, March 29 Re-Entry: Ensuring a Successful Return to the Community STRIVE NC 600 West Third Street Greenville, NC 27834 10:00 am – 11:30 am Thursday, March 31 Jobs and Economic Security for Rural America Halifax Community College 100 College Drive Weldon, NC 27890 11:00 am – 12:15 pm Tuesday, April 5 State of the District Address Location TBD Durham, NC 6:00 pm – 7:00 pm The events are free and open to the public. To RSVP, click here. Press should RSVP to ButterfieldPress@mail.house.gov. Join the conversation on Facebook and Twitter using the hashtag #JobsandJustice. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
03.11.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced that he has named Meaghan Lynch as his new press secretary and Jordun Lawrence as his press assistant. Both Lynch and Lawrence will be based in the Washington, DC office and will handle all communications and media relations for the Congressman. Lynch most recently worked as senior associate at a strategic communications firm in Washington, DC, where she focused primarily on military health issues. Originally from Rocky Mount, NC, Lynch previously interned in Congressman Butterfield’s Washington, D.C. office. Lynch holds a degree in Psychology and Communication from North Carolina State University in Raleigh, NC, as well as a law degree from Howard University School of Law. She is a member of the Maryland State Bar. “I am pleased to have Meaghan join my team,” said Butterfield. “Meaghan’s experience in both communications and policy will help serve the needs of North Carolina’s First Congressional District.” Lawrence, originally from Morganton, NC, most recently served as legislative correspondent for Congressman Butterfield, handling constituent outreach and correspondence in the Congressman’s Washington, D.C. office. She holds a bachelor’s degree in Political Science from the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. “Since joining the office, Jordun has proven herself to be a valuable member of my team,” said Butterfield. “I look forward to her continuing to serve North Carolinians in her new capacity as Press Assistant.“ The Press Team can be reached by phone at 202.225.3101 or via email at ButterfieldPress@mail.house.gov. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
03.04.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today sent a letter to North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (NCDEQ) Secretary Donald R. van der Vaart requesting he provide detailed information regarding the quality and safety of drinking water in the First Congressional District of North Carolina and across the state. In his letter, Butterfield noted the high number of water systems throughout the state with outdated sanitation surveys. Butterfield called on Secretary van der Vaart to complete sanitation surveys for all water systems serving the First Congressional District by year’s end. Today, Congressman Butterfield is meeting with federal officials and hearing from community residents regarding the harmful impacts of the water crisis in Flint. After seeing this devastation first hand, Butterfield said, “We must make sure that no North Carolina community faces the same devastating water pollution that occurred in Flint, Michigan. While this crisis was caused by decisions of the Michigan governor, other communities around the country are vulnerable because of outdated water infrastructure.” Butterfield’s request for information follows the 2014 Dan River coal ash spill in Rockingham County, North Carolina where 82,000 tons of toxic ash polluted state waterways and after learning that many public water systems in the First District last had sanitary surveys performed more than four years ago. The inquiry also follows recent revelations that the citizens of Flint, Michigan were exposed to high levels of lead in their drinking water for more than two years, which has caused irreparable harm to individuals’ health, the environment, and the local economy. “My constituents and citizens across North Carolina are rightfully concerned about the quality of public water flowing through their faucets,” said Butterfield. “It’s important that the public have certainty that the water they drink and use on a daily basis is safe.” Butterfield posed several specific questions in his letter to Secretary van der Vaart and requested NCDEQ provide a thorough response by April 1, 2016. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
02.17.2016	WILSON, NC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following letter he sent to North Carolina Senate President Pro Tempore Phil Berger and House Speaker Tim Moore of the North Carolina General Assembly regarding his objection to several criteria adopted for drawing North Carolina’s 2016 congressional district maps: In his letter, Butterfield wrote, “I take strong exception to several of the criteria adopted by the Joint Select Committee on Congressional Redistricting to be used in drawing a 2016 Congressional Plan in response to the February 5, 2016 decision in Harris v. McCrory. The enacted criteria do not comply with the U.S. Constitution, the Voting Rights Act of 1965, or basic fairness.” The full text of Butterfield’s letter follows: February 17, 2016 Senator Phil Berger President Pro Tempore, NC Senate 16 West Jones Street – Suite 2007 Raleigh, North Carolina 27601-2808 Representative Tim Moore Speaker, NC House of Representatives 16 West Jones Street – Suite 2304 Raleigh, North Carolina 27601-1096 Dear President Pro Tempore Berger and Speaker Moore: I take strong exception to several of the criteria adopted by the Joint Select Committee on Congressional Redistricting to be used in drawing a 2016 Congressional Plan in response to the February 5, 2016 decision in Harris v. McCrory. The enacted criteria do not comply with the U.S. Constitution, the Voting Rights Act of 1965, or basic fairness. My objections include, but are not limited to, the following criteria: “…data identifying the race of individuals or voters shall not be used in the construction or consideration of districts…” It is a clear violation of Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 to draw districts that do not protect the voting interest of African American communities. To concentrate black voters into districts that dilute their voting strength is a violation of the law. In Harris v. McCrory, the court stated that race should not be the predominant factor in drawing the districts. However, the court did not say that race should not be a factor at all. “… the Committee shall construct districts in the 2016 Contingent Congressional Plan that eliminate the current configuration of the Twelfth District.” It is inconsistent with the law for you to eliminate a voting rights district that the court has previously held to be constitutional prior to the 2011 congressional redistricting. Any new configuration of the 12th congressional district should not dilute African American voting strength. “The Committee shall make reasonable efforts to construct districts…to maintain the current partisan makeup of North Carolina’s congressional delegation.” The courts have held that there are limits to political gerrymandering and the current Republican gerrymandering of congressional districts does not account for the fact that there are more registered Democrats than Republicans in the state. Therefore, the current 10 Republican to 3 Democrat composition of the NC congressional delegation should not be maintained. The above criteria are inconsistent with the law and the committee should immediately adopt new standards for redrawing the maps. Very truly yours, G. K. Butterfield Member of Congress Download a copy of the original letter here. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – On Tuesday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Heroes COLA Act (H.R. 677), which contained key provisions authored by Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) that will simplify the process for Coastwise Merchant Seamen who served during World War II to be recognized for their service to the United States. “For decades, many of these mariners have never been recognized for their contributions to the war effort because the documents required to prove their service have either not survived over time or never existed at all,” said Butterfield. “The U.S. House of Representatives did the right thing and took the first step needed to honor these brave mariners while they are still with us by passing this important bill.” Last year, Butterfield introduced the World War II Merchant Mariner Service Act (H.R. 1288). The bill seeks to expand the types of documentation that can be used to prove service in the Merchant Marine during World War II. Butterfield has long been a champion in the effort to recognize these mariners for their service and tremendous sacrifices on behalf of the United States. H.R. 677, which included Butterfield’s provisions, now heads to the United States Senate where it will have to be passed and then signed by the President before it becomes law. “As each day passes, this issue grows more acute due to the advanced age of these mariners,” said Butterfield. “We must make it possible for these great Americans to receive their due recognition while we still have the chance.” https://butterfield.house.gov ###
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Susan Brooks (IN-05) have introduced H.R. 4400, a bipartisan bill that seeks to add Zika virus to the list of diseases included in the Tropical Disease Priority Review Voucher Program at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The Zika virus, which is transmitted to humans by mosquitoes, can infect pregnant women and result in birth defects, including microcephaly and neurological disorders in newborns. The virus also causes skin rashes, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, and headaches in adults. Yesterday, the World Health Organization called Zika a global public health emergency. “Zika virus is an emerging public health crisis that demands an immediate and urgent response,” said Butterfield. “Zika has spread from Asia and Africa to the Caribbean, South and Central America, and now has appeared in Mexico and Puerto Rico. There should be an intensive effort to develop and approve a treatment for Zika or prevent it entirely.” “Just yesterday, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared the Zika virus outbreak in the Americas a global health emergency, and we must act to ensure that the United States is protected from an outbreak,” Brooks said. “Work is already underway to create a vaccine, but without a Priority Review Voucher in place, a vaccine may not be available for years. We do not have the luxury of time, and I strongly urge my colleagues to join this effort and encourage the rapid development of a vaccine or treatment for this disease.” In May 2015, Brazil reported its first case of Zika virus. Since then, the disease has spread within Brazil and to 28 other countries and territories in the region. The spread of the Zika virus is widely thought to be linked to the steep increase of babies born with abnormally small heads and underdeveloped brains known as microcephaly. The pandemic is so concerning that some governments are urging women to delay pregnancy altogether until a treatment or vaccine is created. “Zika is impacting people across the world and must be eliminated using a comprehensive strategy that includes the development of a treatment options,” said Butterfield. “Researchers in my state of North Carolina and across the country have the talent, experience, and expertise to develop a treatment or cure. The right incentives made available through the Priority Review Voucher program encourage private sector development of innovative treatments and cures.” “As a country, we are unprepared to meet the challenges of an epidemic, and part of the solution is incentivizing researchers and manufacturers to develop and test vaccines and treatments before an epidemic or outbreak occurs,” Brooks continued. “In this case, we need to do everything we can to make sure that we eliminate any roadblocks to the development, testing and ultimate distribution of a vaccine or therapy for Zika virus.” The Priority Review Voucher Program was authorized by Congress in 2007 to incentivize the development of treatments, including vaccines and cures, for neglected tropical diseases. Under the program, a company that receives approval for a tropical disease treatment is eligible to receive a voucher that allows the bearer to receive priority review status for any future product. Products undergoing priority review are generally provided with an approval decision within six months. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
02.01.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement in recognition of Black History Month: “As we recognize Black History Month, we reflect on the many achievements of African Americans and their tremendous contributions to our great nation. But while we celebrate the many successes of the African American community, we also recognize the hurdles, both social and economic, that still lie ahead. “During the month of February, we should not only remember those who fought for our civil rights, but continue to fight for equal access to wealth and opportunity. True economic and social equality is only possible when we all have an equal opportunity to achieve the American Dream. “Last year, I spoke at the Center for Global Policy Solution’s Color of Wealth Summit on the persistent, chronic poverty that plagues America—particularly the black community. Many in our country who have historically suffered racial segregation and economic exclusion continue to be trapped in a cycle of poverty. I will continue to fight so that the vulnerable are not forgotten as we work to find new and innovative ways to grow our economy. Raising wages is not enough. We must help communities build wealth, retire with dignity, and be able to pass on a strong economic foundation to future generations. “Throughout Black History Month, I will be sharing resources on social media to help my constituents move toward financial empowerment. I will also continue to advocate for legislation that closes the Racial Wealth Gap and pulls impoverished communities out of this devastating cycle.” https://butterfield.house.gov ###
01.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With the 2015 NFC playoffs entering the divisional round this weekend, Reps. G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Suzan DelBene (WA-01) placed a wager on whose team would win in Sunday’s game between the Seattle Seahawks and Carolina Panthers. DelBene is wagering Woodinville’s Redhook beer, while Butterfield has offered Carolina barbeque and slaw. “Just like in last year’s divisional round, the Seahawks will show the Panthers the power the 12th Man has, especially when it comes to post-season play,” DelBene said. “Cam Newton is having a great season, but Sunday’s game will come down to who has the experience and the best defense. And we all know the Legion of Boom can stop anyone in their tracks.” “Let’s remember that the Panthers already beat the Seahawks once this season…in Seattle,” said Butterfield. “This time won’t be any different. The Panthers are undefeated at home and will stay that way this Sunday. Skittles and a missed field goal won’t save the Seahawks this time!” The Seattle Seahawks take on the Carolina Panthers on Sunday, Jan. 10, at Bank of America Stadium in Charlotte at 1:05 p.m. Eastern Time. butterfield.house.gov ###
01.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Richard Hudson (NC-08) announced the introduction of the Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act (H.R. 4365). The bipartisan bill codifies the practice of emergency medical responders administering medicines such as pain narcotics and life-saving anti-seizure medications to individuals who need them. The legislation ensures that these treatments are only administered with physician oversight. “EMS agencies across North Carolina respond to more than 1.6 million events every year,” said Rep. Butterfield. “This legislation is critical to ensuring North Carolinians who are victims of accidents and other traumatic events, particularly those in rural communities who may be far removed from emergency rooms, are able to receive medically-appropriate treatments that can save their lives.” The Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act specifically clarifies that the current practice of physician Medical Directors overseeing care provided by paramedics and other emergency medical service practitioners via “standing orders” is statutorily allowed and protected. "Without this solution, we risk sacrificing quality emergency care and endangering patients simply because law and regulation have not kept up with the evolution of modern medicine,” said Rep. Hudson. “This legislation is an important clarification of law that allows our first responders to continue administering life-saving medications to patients when they need them most." H.R. 4365 ensures patients will continue to receive these vital medications by: Codifying the practice of standing orders by a physician Medical Director for the administration and delivery of controlled substances, maintaining physician oversight of medical decisions, while, Making the EMS Agency liable for the receiving, storing, and tracking of controlled substances, similar to current procedure at hospitals. This legislation is supported by: The American Ambulance Association American College of Emergency Physicians Association of Air Medical Services Association of Critical Care Transport International Association of Fire Chiefs International Association of Fire Fighters National Association of EMS Physicians National Association of Emergency Medical Technicians National Association of State EMS Officials https://butterfield.house.gov ###
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “Tonight, President Obama delivered a message to America that makes us proud of what we’ve accomplished as a nation under his leadership and gives us hope about the future of our country. In his final State of the Union address, President Obama reminded Americans that there is far more that unites us than divides us. Congressional Democrats are eager to work with our Republican colleagues to further strengthen our economy to create jobs, ensure North Carolinians earn a living wage, and bring fairness to our justice system. These social justice issues are important to all of us, but the recalcitrant Republican majority continues to block consideration of reasonable policies that are supported by the majority of Americans. Our nation is better off because of President Obama’s work that has expanded opportunities for all of us to achieve the American Dream. Since being elected, the economy has added more than nine million jobs, and the African American unemployment rate has been cut in half. We’ve grown manufacturing here at home, given nearly 20 million individuals health insurance for the first time, and improved our education system so that truly no child is left behind. I applaud President Obama on delivering an optimistic message to the American people. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to advance policies that promote jobs and justice. It has been an honor and privilege to fight alongside President Obama to secure a brighter future for us all.” https://butterfield.house.gov ###
01.06.2016	WILSON, NC – The Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced Reginald Speight as its new District Director. He most recently served as Deputy District Director. Reginald succeeds A. Ray Rogers who retired after five years of service to the office. “Reginald has become an indispensable part of my team and I am excited for him to begin working in this new capacity,” said Butterfield. “Reginald brings a wealth of knowledge and experience that will translate into a higher level of constituent service and engagement for residents of the First District.” A native of eastern North Carolina, Reginald served for 15 years as Chief Executive Officer of Martin Community Action, Inc. before joining Congressman Butterfield’s office as Director of Economic Development. Reginald is a graduate of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – On Friday, President Barack Obama signed into law two bills authored by Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) that designate several highways in eastern North Carolina as “future interstates.” The Route to Opportunity and Development (ROAD) Act (H.R. 2211) and Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act (H.R. 1844) were passed by the House of Representatives as part of a five-year surface transportation bill earlier this month by a vote of 359 - 65. “Creating jobs and boosting the economy of eastern North Carolina has been one of my top priorities since coming to Congress,” said Butterfield. “The passage of the ROAD Act and the Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act marks the most significant step forward for transportation and infrastructure improvements in eastern North Carolina in a decade. These new laws are key elements of my vision to support the future of transportation in our region. The implementation of these laws will pave the way for job creation, further economic development, reduce traffic congestion, and improve access to eastern North Carolina and Virginia.” The ROAD Act designates portions of U.S. Highways 17 and 64 through Rocky Mount, Williamston, and Elizabeth City, North Carolina as a “future interstate.” Specifically, H.R. 2211 guarantees that the corridor connecting Raleigh and Norfolk is built to interstate standards, that the route travels through eastern North Carolina, and that U.S. Highways 17 and 64 are prioritized when allocating funding for federal highways. The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act designates portions of U.S. Highways 70 and 117 as high priority corridors and as “future interstates” to better connect Seymour Johnson Air Force Base, the North Carolina Global TransPark, Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, and the Port of Morehead City with the rest of North Carolina and the eastern seaboard. “The ROAD Act and the Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act are vital to eastern North Carolina’s long-term growth and will strengthen our region’s transportation infrastructure, spur economic development, and improve travel for eastern North Carolinians,” said Butterfield. “I thank President Obama and my colleagues for passing these important laws which will benefit my constituents and the millions of individuals who travel in our state each year.” The five-year surface transportation bill provides $305 billion in federal funding for transportation. The Federal Highway Administration estimates that an investment of just $1 billion in transportation funding could support 30,000 jobs. These important highway upgrades will increase transportation investment and stimulate job growth in eastern North Carolina. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – On Tuesday, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will host a telephone town hall for residents of the First Congressional District to discuss jobs, help for the unemployed and underemployed, and re-entry programs for ex-offenders. Butterfield will also answer questions posed directly by his constituents. “Many of my constituents have not yet felt the positive impacts of our improving national economy,” said Butterfield. “Elevated levels of unemployment and underemployment have made it difficult for individuals and families living in the First District to achieve the American Dream. This telephone town hall will provide a forum where constituents can ask questions and learn more about navigating federal and state resources for jobs including help for the unemployed and underemployed, as well as re-entry programs for ex-offenders.” Please see additional details below. WHO: - Congressman G. K. Butterfield - Mr. William Johnson, NCWorks - Ms. Joyce Jones, STRIVE, Inc. WHAT: Telephone Town Hall on Jobs, Resources for the Unemployed, Underemployed, and Re-entry Programs for Ex-offenders WHEN: Tuesday, December 8, 2015 at 6:30 pm HOW: To participate in the telephone town hall, residents of the First Congressional District should complete the form located here. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
11.12.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield today released the following statement on the passing of former North Carolina Congressman Itimous Thaddeus “Tim” Valentine, Jr.: “I was saddened to learn of the passing of my friend, former Congressman Tim Valentine, Jr. For four decades, Tim served the people of North Carolina – first as a member of the General Assembly and later in the United States Congress where he represented our state’s Second Congressional District. He was a strong and effective legislator for his constituents and was a champion for advancements in education and science. Tim was an intelligent and hardworking public servant who will be greatly missed. My thoughts and prayers are with the entire Valentine family at this very difficult time.” https://butterfield.house.gov ###
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) introduced H.R. 3937 to name the United States Courthouse located at 150 Reade Circle in Greenville, North Carolina as the “Judge Randy D. Doub United States Courthouse.” Randy Doub was an attorney in private practice before he was appointed as United States Bankruptcy Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina in 2006. He was known as a hardworking, fair, and compassionate jurist, becoming the Court’s Chief Justice in 2007. Sadly, Judge Doub passed away suddenly earlier this year at the age of 59. “Judge Doub was an outstanding public servant and leader who was always held in the highest regard by all who knew him,” said Butterfield. “Judge Doub’s family inspired and his faith guided everything he did. Naming the United States Courthouse in Greenville in his honor is a fitting way to commemorate a man who gave so much of himself to the Pitt County community he loved.” Butterfield introduced the bill with the support of the entire North Carolina Congressional Delegation. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed two bills authored by Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) to designate several highways in eastern North Carolina as “future interstates.” The Route to Opportunity and Development (ROAD) Act (H.R. 2211) and Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act (H.R. 1844) were passed as part of the six-year surface transportation bill by a vote of 363-64. The House-passed surface transportation bill will now go to conference with the Senate and, if approved, both of Butterfield’s transportation bills will be signed into law by President Obama. “These bills are key elements of my vision to support the future of transportation in our region, and will, among other things reduce traffic congestion, improve access, and pave the way for job creation and further economic development in eastern North Carolina and Virginia,” said Butterfield. The ROAD Act would designate portions of U.S. Highways 17 and 64 through Rocky Mount, Williamston, and Elizabeth City, North Carolina as a “future interstate.” Specifically, H.R. 2211 guarantees that the corridor connecting Raleigh and Norfolk is built to interstate standards, that the route travels through eastern North Carolina, and that U.S. Highways 17 and 64 are prioritized when allocating funding for federal highways. The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act would designate portions of U.S. Highways 70 and 117 as high priority corridors and as “future interstates” to better connect Seymour Johnson Air Force Base, the North Carolina Global TransPark, Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, and the Port of Morehead City with the rest of North Carolina and the eastern seaboard. “Improving our transportation infrastructure, spurring economic development, and improving travel for eastern North Carolinians is vital to the long-term growth of our region,” said Butterfield. “The passage of the ROAD Act and the Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act will help better connect many communities across eastern North Carolina with Raleigh, the Port of Virginia, and the Port of Morehead City.” The Federal Highway Administration estimates that $1 billion in transportation funding can support approximately 30,000 jobs which would be critical to economic development in eastern North Carolina. Passing legislation to designate the highways as a future interstate can lead to modernization and investment in the region’s highway infrastructure. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
11.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the passing of former North Carolina Congressman Howard Coble: “It is with a heavy heart that I express sadness over the passing of my friend and colleague, former Congressman Howard Coble. During his Congressional career that spanned three decades, Howard was a strong voice and advocate for his constituents. Before coming to Congress, Howard served in the United States Coast Guard, as assistant U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of North Carolina, as North Carolina Secretary of Revenue, and in the North Carolina House of Representatives. Howard was a hardworking and dedicated public servant and will be greatly missed. I extend my sympathies to the Coble family during this very difficult time.” https://butterfield.house.gov ###
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) applauded the Air Force’s announcement of Seymour Johnson Air Force Base (AFB) in Goldsboro as the preferred host base for a new KC-46A Pegasus tanker squadron. The new aircraft will replace the aging KC-135 tanker fleet which has been in use for more than 50 years. The decision brings Seymour Johnson AFB, which supports thousands of active duty, reserve, and private sector jobs, one step closer to hosting these new, state-of-the-art refueling tankers. “The KC-46A tanker will be a more reliable and effective aircraft that will increase the Air Force’s ability to support critical operations around the world,” said Butterfield. “The decision demonstrates Seymour Johnson’s strategic importance to the Air Force’s mission and will spur job creation and economic growth in the region. If these aircraft are ultimately based at Seymour Johnson, it will further ensure the Air Force’s long term commitment to Goldsboro, Wayne County, and the state of North Carolina.” Today’s decision follows an extensive analysis conducted by the Air Force where Seymour Johnson AFB and three other bases, Tinker AFB (Oklahoma), Westover Air Reserve Base (ARB) (Massachusetts), and Grissom ARB (Indiana), were considered as potential hosts for a new KC-46A squadron. The Air Force will now conduct environmental impact analyses at Seymour Johnson AFB and alternative bases before making the final basing decision next year. If selected, Seymour Johnson AFB is expected to receive the new aircraft beginning in 2019. “There’s no better base than Seymour Johnson and there’s no better refueling wing than the 916th,” said Butterfield. “The 916th ARW is a talented and experienced unit, and is the right choice to host these cutting edge aircraft.” On June 5th of this year, Congressman Butterfield spearheaded a letter to Secretary of the Air Force Deborah James urging the selection of Seymour Johnson AFB as a host base for the new KC-46A Pegasus tanker squadron. The letter was signed by the entire North Carolina congressional delegation. Text of the letter follows: June 5, 2015 The Honorable Deborah James Secretary of the Air Force Office of the Secretary of the Air Force 1670 Air Force Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20330-1670 Dear Secretary James: We applaud the Air Force’s recent announcement to include Seymour Johnson Air Force Base (SJAFB or Seymour Johnson) as a candidate to host the first Air Force Reserve-led KC-46A squadron. We welcome the opportunity to highlight SJAFB’s attributes and offer key factors that we believe strongly support SJAFB being selected as the preferred location for the KC-46A Main Operating Base (MOB) 3. The 916th Air Refueling Wing (ARW) is an award-winning Active Associate unit with a rich and proud history of global deployments in support of U.S. and NATO missions. The 916th off-loaded the most fuel of any Air Force unit during Operations Desert Storm and Desert Shield, and has also been a vital component in support of Operations Noble Eagle, Enduring Freedom, New Dawn, and Odyssey Dawn as well as air bridge operations to Europe, Africa, and Southwest Asia. The Unit’s air refueling time is unmatched and the experience gained through these deployments has created seasoned professionals that are well prepared to transition to the KC-46A. The 916th has the talent and experience needed to be the Air Force’s first Reserve-led KC-46A unit. Seymour Johnson’s strategic location on the east coast is an ideal location to host the KC-46A and will position the Air Force to take full advantage of unparalleled opportunities to support the Joint Chiefs of Staff priority missions, support global strike missions and participate in dynamic training. The Air Force has, and continues to, make critical investments in SJAFB’s infrastructure that will pay long-term dividends for a KC-46A squadron. These strategic modernizations include: expanded runway aprons that will provide peripheral taxi lanes that accommodate pull-through capability to better support the mission of the current 16 KC-135 unit. The expansion will ensure ample ramp space that will accommodate the needs of a 12-aircraft KC-46A unit. installation of a modern hydrant fuel system that is pressurized and will include loop piping, hydrant pits, underground storage tanks, and fill stands. This critical update will ensure a robust refueling system is available for decades to support the 4th Fighter Wing, 916th ARW, and a KC-46A squadron. construction of a new $53 million, 106,500 square foot medical facility that will provide unrivalled patient care for SJAFB’s Airmen and their families which will improve quality of life and combat readiness. Seymour Johnson also offers the Air Force an extremely competitive and low-cost option for KC-46A MOB 3 basing. Living expenses in the City of Goldsboro and Wayne County are low and construction costs for the Air Force are equally advantageous. We believe these factors should be strongly considered in the Air Force’s basing decision. Along with favorable economics, there have been exceptional efforts taken by SJAFB to maintain air quality standards and minimize negative environmental impacts. Further, stakeholders at the city, county, and state levels have aggressively pursued efforts to reduce encroachment around SJAFB, training routes, and other training locations used by assets at SJAFB. These efforts will ensure long-term viability for a KC-46A unit and long-term benefits for the Air Force. Seymour Johnson Air Force Base and the 916th ARW offer the Air Force strategic military value, a proven combat record, experienced personnel, newly modernized infrastructure and facilities, and strong support from the Goldsboro community and the state. We believe Seymour Johnson is the ideal choice for the first Air Force Reserve-led KC-46A unit, and strongly support its selection as the MOB 3 for the KC-46A Pegasus aerial tanker. Thank you very much. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
10.26.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced that the City of Wilson will receive a $10 million U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) award through the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) VII grant program. This grant is critical to the revitalization of and economic development in downtown Wilson, North Carolina. This is the first TIGER grant ever received by the City of Wilson. The grant will help fund upgrades to U.S. Highway 301 and connect education and training facilities with employment centers. Specifically, the project will improve intersections, medians, sidewalks, and walking paths to unite downtown businesses with Wilson Community College and the Eastern North Carolina School for the Deaf – all while improving pedestrian and traffic safety. “Creating jobs in the First District is my top priority. This $10 million investment is an important step toward that goal. The grant can transform Wilson’s downtown, boost the economy, and create jobs. This significant award will improve the quality of life for people in Wilson and the region,” said Butterfield. “This project builds on the proven model of encouraging job growth by connecting people with training and employment opportunities. I thank the City of Wilson for its work in securing this grant and Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx and the USDOT staff for recognizing the critical nature of this project.” Butterfield has been integral to the City's efforts to strengthen the economy and create jobs through the work supported by TIGER. Butterfield sent two letters to the USDOT in support of Wilson’s application for the grant. The Congressman also met with Secretary Foxx on several occasions to discuss the positive impacts the project would have on the local economy. Additionally, Butterfield and his staff participated in several meetings and conference calls with city officials and USDOT staff to champion the project. Butterfield has consistently advocated for infrastructure investment. He supported the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 which created the TIGER grant program. This program has been critical to creating jobs and improving the infrastructure in eastern North Carolina. In recent years, Congressman Butterfield fought to secure TIGER VI grant awards for the Duke Belt Line Trail in Durham, North Carolina, and for the Carolinian and Piedmont rail lines between Raleigh and Charlotte. Butterfield also helped secure $10 million in the previous round of TIGER grants for the City of Goldsboro to complete the city’s Center Streetscape and Union Station projects. “Investments in transportation and infrastructure are not only vital to our economic recovery today, but will provide the foundation for the economic growth of tomorrow,” Butterfield concluded. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Tomorrow, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will present the CBC Chair Award to Rev. Dr. William Barber, II during the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s 45th Annual Legislative Conference Phoenix Awards Dinner. Rev. Dr. Barber serves as president of the North Carolina State Conference of the NAACP. “I am proud to present the CBC Chair Award to my constituent and dear friend, Reverend Dr. William Barber, II,” said Butterfield. “Rev. Dr. Barber has dedicated his life to advocating for racial equality and social justice and is most deserving of being recognized for his tireless work.” Most recently, Rev. Dr. Barber spearheaded the impactful ‘Moral Monday’ demonstrations at the North Carolina state capitol following the Republican-led legislature’s passage of the discriminatory Voter ID legislation that turned back the clock on the advancements that many fought to obtain. His ‘Moral Monday’ demonstrations also highlighted the legislature’s refusal to expand the state’s Medicaid program, a decision that systematically disenfranchised over 500,000 low income North Carolinians from accessing the most basic forms of health care. “This year’s conference theme is “With Liberty and Justice for All,” said Butterfield. “I am confident that Rev. Dr. Barber’s decades-long advocacy on behalf of those who are often overlooked will not cease until there is truly ‘liberty and justice for all.’” -------- Rev. Dr. William Barber, II, is president of the North Carolina State Conference of the NAACP. He is pastor of Greenleaf Christian Church Disciples of Christ in Goldsboro, North Carolina and serves as chairperson of the Rebuilding Broken Places Community Development Corporation. He is the author of two books – Preaching Through Unexpected Pain and Forward Together: A Moral Message for the Nation. Rev. Dr. Barber graduated cum laude from North Carolina Central University with a degree in Public Administration, earned a Master of Divinity from the Duke Divinity School, and a doctoral degree from Drew University in New Jersey. https://butterfield.house.gov ###
09.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the passing of former director of Alumni Relations and active North Carolina Central University (NCCU) alumnus, Roger Roy Gregory: “It is with a heavy heart that I express sadness over the passing of my longtime friend and fellow NCCU alumnus, Mr. Roger Roy Gregory. Roger was well known by the Durham community for his philanthropic work and steadfast commitment to his beloved alma mater, NCCU. He was the founding chairman of the African American Leadership Initiative of Greater Durham and Wake County, a life member of the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc., and held seats on several boards in the Durham area. His presence will be sorely missed. I extend my sympathies to his family during this very difficult time.” https://butterfield.house.gov ###
08.28.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement in support of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), also known as the Iran Nuclear Agreement: “After carefully reviewing the JCPOA, I have concluded that it is in the best interest of the United States and our allies to support this historic agreement. I have read the agreement in its entirety and have personally met with many proponents and opponents of the agreement. In addition, I have personally discussed the agreement with President Obama and Ambassador Susan Rice who have both assured me that it will block all of Iran’s potential pathways to a nuclear weapon. I have full confidence in our President and believe that the JCPOA will be a win for the United States and our allies. When the House returns in September, I will vote in support of the JCPOA and, if necessary, I will vote to uphold President Obama’s veto of any legislation that strikes down this important deal. I believe this agreement is the only credible option on the table to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
07.31.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) introduced a bill to create a voluntary “Residence Star” program to encourage residential property owners to make energy-saving improvements to their residential housing units. Butterfield’s bill – H.R. 3322 –would direct the Department of Energy (DOE) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish a voluntary program where owners who make qualified energy efficiency improvements to their housing units would receive Residence Star certification. Property owners who receive the certification would be permitted to advertise approved housing units using the Residence Star brand. Consumers stand to benefit from the program through lower monthly utility bills in Residence Star approved properties, and by being able to access more information about energy savings and energy costs when applying to rent or purchase properties recognized by the program. “If enacted, the Residence Star program created through my legislation will help lower utility bills for North Carolinians and people across the country by encouraging energy efficiency improvements to housing units,” Butterfield said. “This bill will reward property owners who make energy improvements by allowing them to advertise using the Residence Star brand. It will also stimulate innovation and the economy by encouraging the development and adoption of new energy efficient technologies. Best of all, this program is completely voluntary and has no cost to taxpayers. I will work to get this important legislation included in the comprehensive energy bill that is currently moving through the House Committee on Energy and Commerce.” Butterfield’s bill is modeled after the Energy Efficiency and Improvement Act of 2015 which was signed into law in April 2015. That legislation instructed the DOE and the EPA to develop a program to encourage owners and tenants of commercial buildings to invest in strategies to improve energy efficiency. Butterfield’s bill instructs the Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the EPA to develop the Residence Star program within six months of the bill’s enactment and after a public comment period. The bill allows for both retrofitted housing units and new residential construction to be eligible for Residence Star designation. Property owners would voluntarily apply for the program and work with third party auditors to ensure the energy goals established by the program are met before receiving Residence Star approval. The bill allows owners or their designees to use information from the audits and branding from the Residence Star program to advertise to prospective tenants. The bill also requires a report to Congress on the program two years after the bill’s enactment. Congressman Butterfield looks forward to the House taking up his bill when Congress returns from August recess. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will join President Barack Obama aboard Air Force One on a historic six-day trip with other U.S. lawmakers to Nairobi, Kenya and Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. While there, the U.S. delegation will attend the 2015 Global Entrepreneurship Summit and seek to accelerate economic growth, strengthen democratic institutions, and improve security on the African continent. Butterfield said, “I’m honored to join President Obama on this historic trip and in representing the United States as we strengthen our partnerships with Kenya, Ethiopia, and other African allies. The African continent is strategically important to U.S. interests. It is the ancestral home of millions of African Americans who have great pride in their connection. All Americans want to see African citizens safe and secure in every respect. “The U.S. has a unique opportunity to partner with Kenya and Ethiopia to implement policies that will not only bolster economic growth and improve security, but will also increase agricultural production and advance healthcare to better the lives of their citizens. I look forward to assisting the President in these efforts.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) introduced H.R. 3034, a bill to direct the U.S. Postmaster General to issue a commemorative postage stamp in honor of George Henry White, the last African American to serve in Congress until 1929. “George Henry White was a persistent and thoughtful advocate for his constituents and all African Americans,” said Congressman Butterfield. “He relentlessly stirred the conscience of both his Congressional colleagues and all Americans to embrace racial justice and equality for all people. His historic public service at the state and federal levels has made him an indelible and unique part of our nation’s history, which is why he should be honored in this way.” A native of New Bern, North Carolina, George Henry White served in both the North Carolina House of Representatives and Senate. In 1896, the people of the Second Congressional District of North Carolina elected Mr. White to serve in the U.S. House of Representatives. While serving in the House, Congressman White was an outspoken advocate for civil rights and economic and social justice for African Americans. Notably, he was the first Member of Congress to introduce legislation making lynching a federal crime. He would only serve two terms in the House. His departure from Congress resulted from disenfranchisement laws passed in 1900. Addressing his colleagues on the Floor of the House on the eve of his departure from Congress, White said, “…this is perhaps the Negroes' temporary farewell to the American Congress, but let me say, Phoenix-like he will rise up some day and come again. These parting words are in behalf of an outraged, heart-broken, bruised and bleeding, but God-fearing people; faithful, industrious, loyal, rising people – full of potential force.” Congressman Butterfield represents the First Congressional District which is comprised of much of the same area Congressman White represented nearly 120 years ago. H.R. 3034 has 29 cosponsors. There is no cost associated with this bill. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Subcommittee on Health, applauded the passage of the 21st Century Cures Act, which included seven provisions co-authored by Butterfield. Among his several priorities included in the 21st Century Cures Act is the provision to reauthorize the Rare Disease Priority Review Voucher (PRV) Program run by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that incentivizes and fast-tracks much-needed pediatric drugs to market. The provision builds on the success of the Creating Hope Act of 2011, which was originally authored by Butterfield and Congressman Mike McCaul (R-TX) and passed into law in 2012 to create the PRV Program. In the past, high costs associated with developing pharmaceuticals for rare pediatric diseases have made pharmaceutical companies reluctant to develop treatments despite medical need. In addition, developing products for children was challenging because of the difficulties associated with conducting clinical trials on this patient population. Butterfield’s provision, included in the 21st Century Cures Act, expedites drug approval by the FDA so long as they are used to treat “rare pediatric diseases” which includes any form of sickle cell disease and any pediatric cancers. Butterfield said, “I applaud both my Democratic and Republicans colleagues for coming together to pass one of the largest and most comprehensive health research investment bills this Congress has ever seen. I have had the pleasure of working with my colleagues Representatives Renee Ellmers, Gus Bilirakis, and Mike McCaul on advocating for our shared interests, and I’m appreciative of the inclusion of all my priorities in the 21st Century Cures Act. Most importantly, this bill stands to benefit eastern North Carolinians and all Americans who face challenging medical conditions and need innovative treatments. I look forward to the Senate acting on this bipartisan legislation and seeing the Cures Act signed into law.” The full list of Butterfield’s priorities included in the 21st Century Cures Act are: The National Institutes of Health Innovation Fund (Section 1002): To support biomedical research through the funding of basic, translational, and clinical research for five years, FY2016 through FY2020. Expanded Access Policy (Sections 2082-2083): To place transparency requirements on certain drug companies regarding their expanded access programs (programs for patients to access drugs before they are approved) and require the Food and Drug Administration to finalize guidance regarding how it interprets and uses adverse drug event data resulting from drug use under such expanded access programs. Timely Review of Vaccines by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices; Review of Processes and Consistency of ACIP Recommendations; and Meetings between Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and Vaccine Developers (Sections 2141-2143): To create and formalize processes for the making of vaccination scheduling recommendations by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), for CDC review of the ACIP recommendations, and for meetings between CDC and vaccine developers. Extension of Exclusivity Periods for a Drug Approved for a New Indication for a Rare Disease or Condition (Section 2151): To provide incentives for drug companies to conduct research to repurpose approved drugs for rare diseases and seek approval from FDA for a rare disease indication on its label. Reauthorization of Rare Pediatric Disease Priority Review Voucher Incentive Program (Section 2152): To reauthorize the rare pediatric disease priority review voucher (PRV) program through December 31, 2018, and to require a Government Accountability Office report to evaluate the effectiveness of the program for incentivizing drug development for rare pediatric diseases. Health Software; Applicability and Inapplicability of Regulation; Exclusion from Definition of Device (Sections 2241-2243): To address concerns related to the current regulatory approach for health technologies through supporting further development in health information technology fields by updating the regulatory laws around software and creating clarity for developers and reviewers alike. Treatment of Certain Items and Devices (Section 3061): To authorize Medicare coverage of certain partially disposable and fully disposable products that may be accessed in the home setting. Currently, seniors who receive their care in a home setting are not able to access certain services afforded others because of the nature of the Durable Medical Equipment payment system. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Yesterday, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) and Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC-01) introduced H.R. 2949, the Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act. This legislation would block all payments received from a state eugenics compensation program from being considered as income when determining eligibility for federal benefits. During the early decades of the 20th century, over 30 states implemented eugenics or compulsory sterilization laws which led to the mandated sterilization of more than 60,000 citizens. Those sterilized were overwhelming poor and were often unaware they were being victimized. At the time, North Carolina was known to have one of the most aggressive sterilization programs, with only two states having been known to sterilize more of their citizens. In 2013, North Carolina passed legislation becoming the first state to compensate victims of forced sterilization. This legislation set aside $10 million in the state budget to compensate victims of the state's eugenics program. As of the beginning of 2015, more than 200 victims have been awarded approximately $20,000 each in compensation. H.R. 2949 was introduced to further assist victims of these programs by ensuring the payments victims receive do not count towards their eligibility for, or amount of, any benefits they receive from the Federal government. This includes Medicaid, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (food stamps), unemployment, Supplemental Security Income, and any other Federal benefits. “North Carolina's eugenics program is a vestige of a dark period in our state's history which unfortunately still impacts our citizens today,” said Congressman McHenry. “While we could never fully repay these victims for the trauma they suffered, this legislation ensures they are not further victimized for accepting the compensation they deserve. I would like to thank Congressman Butterfield and Senator Tillis for their efforts supporting this legislation and I look forward to seeing it pass the House in the near future." “Between 1929 and 1976 more than 7,000 people in North Carolina were sterilized in one of the nation’s most aggressive eugenic programs," said Congressman Butterfield. “By the 1960s, African Americans accounted for nearly two thirds of sterilizations in that state, though they only comprised one quarter of the population. Sadly we cannot undue the wrongs of our past. Through this bill we hope to prevent additional hardship to eugenics victims by ensuring their eligibility for other federal benefit programs.” On June 25th, Senator Thomas Tillis (R-NC) and Senator Tom Carper (D-DE) introduced S. 1698, the Senate companion to H.R. 2949. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Next week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will host a prayer vigil themed: Together in Prayer: One Community United in Faith, to unite people from across the First Congressional District around a common purpose of calm, healing and understanding. This comes in response to the tragic shooting at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina and the larger issue of race and racial justice in the United States. Butterfield said, “Our nation is suffering through a difficult time, and we can only begin to truly heal our communities by coming together to address the larger issues of bigotry and racial injustice that sadly continue in our country.” The vigil will be held from 6:00 PM – 7:30 PM on June 30th at the Church of God of Deliverance in Rocky Mount, N.C. Faith leaders, community leaders and elected officials will be among the list of speakers and attendees. This event is free and open to public. Press is also permitted. Full details follow. WHO: Congressman G. K. Butterfield and Reverend Larry T. Dickens WHAT: Together in Prayer: One Community United in Faith Vigil WHEN: 6:00 PM – 7:30 PM on Tuesday, June 30, 2015 WHERE: Church of God of Deliverance, 301 NE Main Street, Rocky Mount, N.C. 27801 Media Contact: kim.atterbury@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-3101 https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) issued the following statement in response to today’s Supreme Court decision in King v. Burwell: “Today’s Supreme Court decision upholding the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act is a tremendous victory for our nation. Every modern day U.S. President has acknowledged the urgency of healthcare reform, but President Obama and Congressional Democrats successfully answered the call with the passage of this law. “This ruling by the Supreme Court ensures that millions of Americans, particularly the underserved, poor and minority communities, can enjoy without uncertainty access to affordable healthcare. “Since the passage of ACA, more than 10 million African Americans, including 3.9 million adult African American women, no longer have lifetime or annual limits on their health insurance coverage. And nearly 8 million African Americans with private insurance now have access to expanded preventive services with no cost-sharing. “In June 2012, the Supreme Court ruled that the Affordable Care Act is constitutional, and with today’s decision, the Supreme Court has once again upheld the law, making clear that the ACA is working for America. It is time for Republicans to move on.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Energy and Commerce Committee Democrats sent a letter urging the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to update its designated entity rules to ensure that they benefit genuine small businesses. The letter was sent by full Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Rep. Bobby Rush (D-IL), Rep. Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), Rep. G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Rep. Doris Matsui (D-CA), and Rep. Ben Ray Luján (D-NM). Congress charges the FCC with developing designated entity rules for spectrum auctions that help small businesses and encourage competition. These competitive bidding rules were last comprehensively updated in 2006 and have not kept pace with the wireless marketplace. As such, the group of lawmakers called on the FCC to adopt final rules that encourage meaningful participation by actual small businesses. “Small businesses are the engines of our nation’s economy. Approximately half of all workers in the country are employed by small businesses. But in capital-intensive industries like telecommunications, these small businesses simply cannot compete without smart policies,” the lawmakers wrote in the letter sent to FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler. In order to ensure that the Commission’s policies benefit genuine small businesses, the lawmakers laid out a two-pronged approach. First, they highlighted the need to provide incentives significant enough to give real small businesses a fair shot at winning spectrum in any market, while also limiting the ability of large corporations to take advantage of the program. The lawmakers also urged the FCC to do away with outdated requirements that have not kept up with developments in the wireless marketplace. The lawmakers noted, “By adopting these policies that promote small businesses, the Commission will help boost the economy, foster diversity, and ultimately pay dividends for consumers. We urge you to act soon to bring the Designated Entity program into the modern wireless era.” The six Democratic lawmakers are also co-sponsors of the Small Business Access to Spectrum Act, which Pallone introduced earlier this year. The bill would ensure the FCC’s competitive bidding rules are updated in time for real small businesses to have a chance to participate in the incentive auction. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
06.20.2015	WASHINGTON, DC -- Tomorrow, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), will visit St. Joseph's African Methodist Episcopal Church and Emmanuel African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church, both in Durham, North Carolina, to express condolences to the "Charleston Nine" and the larger AME community. Congressman Butterfield will bring remarks to St. Joseph's AME Church at 8:00 AM and Emmanuel AME Church at 10:00 AM. Butterfield said, "It is difficult to comprehend that a house of worship, known for joy and tolerance, could become a scene of hate and tragedy. My deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences are with the families of the nine parishioners who lost their lives to cowardly and despicable violence." Full details follow. WHAT: CBC Chair Butterfield to Visit Two African Methodist Episcopal Churches Tomorrow to Express Condolences to "Charleston Nine" WHEN &WHERE: Sunday, June 21, 2015 8:00 AM - 8:30 AM St. Joseph's AME Church 2521 Fayetteville Road Durham, NC 27707 10:00 AM - 10:30 AM Emmanuel AME Church 2018 Riddle Road Durham, NC 27713 https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representative G. K. Butterfield, Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), issued the following statement in response to the shooting at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church in Charleston, South Carolina: “I’m deeply saddened to learn of the tragic shooting that took place at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina. Emanuel AME has long stood as a place of refuge in times of distress and comfort in times of sorrow. It is where congregants joined together to worship, celebrate and find peace. It is difficult to comprehend that a house of worship known for joy and tolerance could become a scene of hate and tragedy. “My deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences are with the families of the nine parishioners who lost their lives to cowardly and despicable violence. Last night’s shooting is inexcusable, senseless and will not be tolerated in our country. I ask that we come together in prayer for the victims’ families and the entire Charleston community, and hope that the swift pursuit of justice will provide some comfort in this time of unimaginable grief.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov # # #
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressmen G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Michael McCaul (R-TX), Elijah Cummings (D-MD) and Walter Jones (R-NC) today introduced the National Prostate Cancer Plan Act that would establish a council of federal agencies, patients, and medical experts charged with drafting and implementing a national strategy to combat prostate cancer. “Prostate cancer is an epidemic and has a disproportionate impact African Americans,” said Butterfield. “Black men have the highest prostate cancer rates of any racial or ethnic group and are more than twice as likely to die from the disease. The National Prostate Cancer Plan Act marks an important step forward in finding treatments and cures to a disease that kills nearly 30,000 Americans every year.” “I’m pleased to join Representatives Butterfield, Jones and Cummings in support of legislation to address a serious health risk that affects one in seven American men,” said McCaul. “Prostate cancer, sometimes called the ‘silent killer’, affects close to 18,000 men each year in Texas. In addition to supporting critical biomedical research at places like the National Cancer Institute, we must focus our efforts to develop a strategy to beat back this terrible disease which is exactly what the National Prostate Cancer Plan Act will do.” Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men and is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths in men. One in seven men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer during his lifetime with nearly 221,000 new cases diagnosed each year. But current screening techniques can be improved in order to avoid inaccurate results that either leave many men believing they are cancer-free or lead to painful, costly, and unnecessary procedures. “Men are more likely to be diagnosed with prostate cancer as they age, so the development of more accurate screening techniques and new treatment options is critical to increasing quality of life and survival rates, particularly among older men,” said Butterfield. “So many of us have either been personally affected by prostate cancer or have lost a loved one who suffered from the disease,” Cummings said. “One in seven men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer in their lifetimes. The National Prostate Cancer Plan Act will improve detection and diagnosis of this disease so that we can provide these men with the best chance for a long, healthy life. This bill represents a giant step forward in our battle to combat this curable disease and literally save lives.” The National Prostate Cancer Plan Act would direct the National Prostate Cancer Council to develop and implement a national strategic plan to accelerate the innovation of diagnostic tools to improve prostate cancer screening and early detection, while also helping to reduce unnecessary treatment. The Council would also be responsible for evaluating federal prostate cancer programs and coordinating prostate cancer research and services across all federal agencies. Jones said, “Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men, and the National Prostate Cancer Plan Act would establish a national plan to improve prostate cancer screening and early detection. It is my hope that a national prostate cancer plan will bring down the high rate of prostate cancer and allow men to live healthier lives.” The legislation has been endorsed by the Prostate Cancer Foundation, American Urological Association, Prostate Cancer Research Institute, and ZERO – The End of Prostate Cancer. The bill is modeled after the National Alzheimer’s Project Act which passed Congress with broad bipartisan support in 2010. Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Jeff Sessions (R-AL) have sponsored a companion bill in the U.S. Senate. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
06.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – On Friday, Congressmen G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and George Holding (NC-13), along with the entire North Carolina Congressional Delegation sent a letter to Secretary of the Air Force, Deborah James, urging the selection of Seymour Johnson Air Force Base (AFB) in Goldsboro as a host base for a new KC-46A Pegasus tanker unit. The KC-46A Pegasus tanker is the Air Force’s newest refueling tanker that will replace the Air Force’s aging fleet. On April 14, 2015, the Air Force announced that Seymour Johnson AFB, Tinker AFB, Westover Air Reserve Base (ARB), and Grissom ARB, are being considered to receive the first Air Force Reserve-led KC-46A tanker unit. “There is no better base than Seymour Johnson, no better Wing than the 916th, and no better community than Goldsboro to host the new KC-46A,” Butterfield said. “The 916th ARW is a talented and experienced unit, and is the right choice to be the first Air Force Reserve-led KC-46A unit. I strongly encourage the Air Force to select Seymour Johnson.” “Seymour Johnson Air Force Base would be an ideal home for an Air Force Reserve -- Pegasus Aerial Tanker Squadron (KC-46A). Seymour Johnson's central location on the east coast, dedicated personnel, and distinguished service history of flying refueling missions for our Armed Forces – both at home and overseas – make it the best candidate for our nation’s next generation tanker,” said Congressman Holding. “I urge the Air Force to select Seymour Johnson as the home of a new tanker squadron.” After announcing the four candidate bases in April, the Air Force has been conducting site surveys and will make a decision this summer on the preferred and alternate base that will receive the KC-46A unit. The twelve aircraft Reserve-led unit is scheduled to be delivered in fiscal year 2019. Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis, along with Representatives Renee Ellmers (NC-02), Walter Jones (NC-03), David Price (NC-04), Virginia Foxx (NC-05), Mark Walker (NC-06), David Rouzer (NC-07), Richard Hudson (NC-08), Robert Pittenger (NC-09), Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Mark Meadows (NC-11), and Dr. Alma S. Adams (NC-12) joined Congressmen Butterfield and Holding’s letter. Text of the letter follows: June 5, 2015 The Honorable Deborah James Secretary of the Air Force Office of the Secretary of the Air Force 1670 Air Force Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20330-1670 Dear Secretary James: We applaud the Air Force’s recent announcement to include Seymour Johnson Air Force Base (SJAFB or Seymour Johnson) as a candidate to host the first Air Force Reserve-led KC-46A squadron. We welcome the opportunity to highlight SJAFB’s attributes and offer key factors that we believe strongly support SJAFB being selected as the preferred location for the KC-46A Main Operating Base (MOB) 3. The 916th Air Refueling Wing (ARW) is an award-winning Active Associate unit with a rich and proud history of global deployments in support of U.S. and NATO missions. The 916th off-loaded the most fuel of any Air Force unit during Operations Desert Storm and Desert Shield, and has also been a vital component in support of Operations Noble Eagle, Enduring Freedom, New Dawn, and Odyssey Dawn as well as air bridge operations to Europe, Africa, and Southwest Asia. The Unit’s air refueling time is unmatched and the experience gained through these deployments has created seasoned professionals that are well prepared to transition to the KC-46A. The 916th has the talent and experience needed to be the Air Force’s first Reserve-led KC-46A unit. Seymour Johnson’s strategic location on the east coast is an ideal location to host the KC-46A and will position the Air Force to take full advantage of unparalleled opportunities to support the Joint Chiefs of Staff priority missions, support global strike missions and participate in dynamic training. The Air Force has, and continues to, make critical investments in SJAFB’s infrastructure that will pay long-term dividends for a KC-46A squadron. These strategic modernizations include: expanded runway aprons that will provide peripheral taxi lanes that accommodate pull-through capability to better support the mission of the current 16 KC-135 unit. The expansion will ensure ample ramp space that will accommodate the needs of a 12-aircraft KC-46A unit. installation of a modern hydrant fuel system that is pressurized and will include loop piping, hydrant pits, underground storage tanks, and fill stands. This critical update will ensure a robust refueling system is available for decades to support the 4th Fighter Wing, 916th ARW, and a KC-46A squadron. construction of a new $53 million, 106,500 square foot medical facility that will provide unrivalled patient care for SJAFB’s Airmen and their families which will improve quality of life and combat readiness. Seymour Johnson also offers the Air Force an extremely competitive and low-cost option for KC-46A MOB 3 basing. Living expenses in the City of Goldsboro and Wayne County are low and construction costs for the Air Force are equally advantageous. We believe these factors should be strongly considered in the Air Force’s basing decision. Along with favorable economics, there have been exceptional efforts taken by SJAFB to maintain air quality standards and minimize negative environmental impacts. Further, stakeholders at the city, county, and state levels have aggressively pursued efforts to reduce encroachment around SJAFB, training routes, and other training locations used by assets at SJAFB. These efforts will ensure long-term viability for a KC-46A unit and long-term benefits for the Air Force. Seymour Johnson Air Force Base and the 916th ARW offer the Air Force strategic military value, a proven combat record, experienced personnel, newly modernized infrastructure and facilities, and strong support from the Goldsboro community and the state. We believe Seymour Johnson is the ideal choice for the first Air Force Reserve-led KC-46A unit, and strongly support its selection as the MOB 3 for the KC-46A Pegasus aerial tanker. Thank you very much. Very truly yours, https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressmen G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Blake Farenthold (TX-27) reintroduced the bipartisan Tax Exemptions for American Medalists (TEAM) Act. The TEAM Act will exempt U.S. Olympic athletes from paying taxes as high as $9,000 on the medals and awards they win competing on behalf of the United States in the Olympics. Additionally, the TEAM Act will eliminate both the tax on the medal and the prizes that accompany each medal awarded by the Olympic Committee. “The current tax code is broken,” said Congressman Farenthold. “This needless tax illustrates how complicated and burdensome our tax code has become. Olympians competing on behalf of America should focus on training rather than trying to navigate our tax code. This is just one step in the long path to tax reform that America needs.” “It’s just wrong to tax Olympic athletes on their winnings,” said Congressman Butterfield. “These athletes sacrifice for years to proudly represent the United States of America in the Olympic Games. The best way to show our gratitude to our Olympic medalists is to eliminate this unsportsmanlike tax.” “We appreciate Congressmen Farenthold and Butterfield’s leadership on introducing the ‘Team Act,’ said the US Olympic Committee. “This bill could assist many athletes as they train to compete for the United States.” This legislation was previously introduced as HR. 3987 in the 113th Congress. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. House adopted by voice vote today an amendment to the FY16 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations bill that was introduced by Congressmen Jim Langevin (D-RI), G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) and Mike Quigley (D-IL). The amendment will increase funding for the Federal Transit Administration’s Technical Assistance and Training program by $2 million, restoring it back to its 2014 level. Technical Assistance and Training funds are used to improve transit accessibility for individuals with disabilities and older users. The $2 million increase included in this amendment will be offset with an equal reduction in funding for FTA administrative expenses. “Older adults and individuals with disabilities disproportionately rely on public transit to live, learn, get to work and access everything from recreation to health care,” said Langevin, a co-founder of the Bipartisan Disabilities Caucus. “These FTA funds are essential to making our communities accessible and empowering those who rely on public transit to live fulfilling, independent lives. An investment in the Technical Assistance and Training program is an investment in our communities that ensures equal opportunities for all Americans.” Butterfield said, “Increasing investment in FTA’s Technical Assistance and Training program is especially important to communities like Durham, North Carolina, which has applied to develop a 17-mile light rail public transit line that would connect Chapel Hill to East Durham through FTA’s New Starts program. Expansion of transit options in and around the Triangle will improve commerce, create jobs, and enable freedom and mobility to disabled, low-income and older Americans. Technical Assistance and Training programs are critical to communities searching for new transit opportunities. For that reason, I support this amendment.” “The Chicago Transit Authority operates the nation’s second largest public transportation system, with 1.7 million rides taken on an average weekday. It connects Chicagoans to their workplace, home, friends and surrounding communities. However, the benefits of public transit cannot be fully realized until everyone, including individuals with disabilities and seniors, have equal access,” said Quigley. “Investing in Technical Assistance and Training program is an investment in equal access. I’m glad my colleagues recognized the impact these FTA funds will have on the lives of so many members in our communities.” Strong advocates for accessibility issues, Langevin and Quigley also introduced legislation in March that would further improve public transportation for people with disabilities. The Transit Accessibility Innovation Act would create a competitive grant program under the FTA to encourage transit systems to make public transportation more accessible and user-friendly for individuals with disabilities. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
05.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield, Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, sent a letter to Baltimore City Fraternal Order of Police President Gene Ryan urging him to reconsider his comments regarding Baltimore City State’s Attorney Marilyn Mosby’s handling of the Freddie Gray case. Butterfield’s full letter to Ryan can be found here.
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) reintroduced a bipartisan bill to designate two highways as a “future interstate” that will originate in Raleigh, North Carolina, and travel through Rocky Mount, Williamston, and Elizabeth City, North Carolina to Norfolk, Virginia. H.R. 2211, or the ROAD Act, is the second of Butterfield’s transportation improvement bills and is cosponsored by Representatives Walter Jones (NC-03), Mark Meadows (NC-11), George Holding (NC-13), David Price (NC-04), Dr. Alma Adams (NC-12), Renee Ellmers (NC-02), David Rouzer (NC-07), Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Mark Walker (NC-06), Robert Pittenger (NC-09), Scott Rigell (VA-02), Randy Forbes (VA-04), Bobby Scott (VA-03), and Robert Wittman (VA-01). Specifically, H.R. 2211 guarantees that the corridor connecting Raleigh and Norfolk is built to interstate standards, that the route travels through eastern North Carolina, and that U.S. Highways 17 and 64 are prioritized when allocating funding for federal highways--saving taxpayers money by improving on existing infrastructure. The entire length of the U.S. highway 64 freeway between Raleigh and Interstate 95 was designated as a future interstate (I-495) in 2013 and, according to the Regional Transportation Alliance (RTA), half of the entire future I-44 corridor is already built to freeway standards. Butterfield said, “The ROAD Act will better connect eastern North Carolina to our state’s Capitol and to one of the country’s premier ports in Hampton Roads, Virginia. This bill is a key part of my vision to significantly advance transportation in the region and will, among other things, reduce traffic congestion, improve access, and pave the way for job creation and further economic development in North Carolina and Virginia. There is no question that this will boost the local and regional economies. I thank my colleagues for their support.” The Federal Highway Administration estimates that $1 billion in transportation funding can support approximately 30,000 jobs which would be critical to economic development in eastern North Carolina. Passing legislation to designate the highways as a future interstate can lead to modernization and investment in the region’s highway infrastructure. This important bill is a key step in Butterfield’s plan to build a strong transportation network, put North Carolinians to work, and accelerate the upgrade of U.S. highways 64 and 17. H.R. 2211 is supported by Senator Thom Tillis, Senator Richard Burr, North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory, North Carolina Secretary of Transportation Tony Tata, Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe, and Virginia Secretary of Transportation Aubrey Layne. Many local governmental entities, chambers of commerce, and regional transportation associations in North Carolina and Virginia are also supportive of this designation. “I look forward to introducing yet another bipartisan bill that focuses on improving our state’s infrastructure, reducing traffic congestion, and supporting the creation of good-paying North Carolina jobs,” said Senator Tillis. “The ROAD Act will prove essential in enhancing interstate commerce between North Carolina and Virginia, and promoting economic development for local communities along the Raleigh-Norfolk corridor.” "We appreciate the continued collaboration and support of Congressman Butterfield, Senator Tillis and the NC congressional delegation to strengthen vital transportation corridors in our state," said NCDOT Secretary Tony Tata. "This important designation will help better connect many areas of eastern North Carolina to jobs and other opportunities in the economic center of Hampton Roads and enhance freight movement as outlined in Governor McCrory's 25 Year Vision." Earlier this month, Butterfield introduced H.R. 1844, the Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act, which similarly seeks to designate U.S. Highways 70 and 117 as “high priority corridors” and “future interstates.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) introduced H.R. 2198, the Raechel and Jacqueline Houck Safe Rental Car Act of 2015 that would prohibit rental car companies from renting or selling vehicles subject to a recall. Butterfield joined Reps. Lois Capps (D-CA), Walter Jones (R-NC), and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) in introducing this bipartisan bill. Current law prohibits car dealerships from selling new vehicles under recall to consumers, but those regulations do not extend to rental car companies. The Raechel and Jacqueline Houck Safe Rental Car Act will keep unsafe rental cars off American roadways by prohibiting them from being rented until the problem that triggered the recall has been addressed. U.S. Senators Charles Schumer (D-NY), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), and Barbara Boxer (D-CA) introduced identical legislation in the Senate. S.1173. “I am pleased to be joined by my House and Senate colleagues in introduction of this important bill,” Butterfield said. “I believe a federal framework that provides clear rules of the road for the rental car industry will protect the millions of Americans that patron car rental companies annually. Individuals that rent vehicles deserve the certainty in knowing that the vehicle they are driving is safe and not subject to a recall. My bill will provide that certainty and better safeguard our nation’s roadways.” The legislation is backed by Consumers for Auto Reliability and Safety (CARS), the American Car Rental Association (ACRA), and AAA, as well as Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety; Center for Auto Safety; Consumers Union; Consumer Federation of America; Consumer Action; National Association of Consumer Advocates and Trauma Foundation; and, Truck Renting and Leasing Association. Specifically, the bill: Prohibits Rental or Sale of Vehicles Subject to a Safety Recall. Vehicles may not be rented or sold until the vehicles are fixed, consistent with existing law for new car dealers, who have been prohibited from selling or leasing recalled vehicles for decades. One exception is allowed for rental companies to sell a damaged vehicle subject to recall for parts or scrap with a junk title. Requires Rental Companies to Ground Vehicles under a Safety Recall. Vehicles under a safety recall will be grounded as soon as possible but no later than 24 hours after the rental company gets the safety recall notice. Rental companies will have up to 48 hours for recalls that include more than 5,000 vehicles in their fleet. Permits Rental Companies to Rely on Temporary Measures Identified by Manufacturers. If a manufacturer’s recall notice specifies steps that can be taken to eliminate the safety risk until parts are available, a rental company may continue to rent the vehicle if those measures are put in place but must ground and repair the vehicle once parts become available. Maintains Status Quo Between Rental Companies and Auto Manufacturers. The bill ensures that auto manufacturers are not subject to new or increased liability as a result of the new requirements the bill imposes on rental companies. And, ensures NHTSA Has Tools Necessary to Protect Consumers. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration will have authority to investigate and police rental companies' recall safety practices. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement on the Senate confirmation of Loretta Lynch: “Today is a historic day for our country as Loretta Lynch, a North Carolina native, becomes the first African American female to serve as our nation’s top law enforcement official. Her experience and qualifications will be of great value as she leads the Justice Department in defending the abiding principles of the U.S. Constitution. “Ms. Lynch is the choice of President Obama, she is the choice of the Congressional Black Caucus, and she is the best choice for all Americans. “I applaud today’s confirmation of Loretta Lynch as the next Attorney General of the United States of America.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) introduced a bipartisan bill to designate two highways as “high priority corridors” and “future interstates” that will better connect Seymour Johnson Air Force Base, the North Carolina Global TransPark, Cherry Point Marine Corps Air Station, and the Port of Morehead City with the rest of North Carolina and the eastern seaboard. Congressman Walter Jones (NC-03) is the lead cosponsor of H.R. 1844, or the Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act of 2015, which will guarantee the east-west U.S. Highway 70 corridor from Raleigh to the Port of Morehead City will be built to interstate standards and prioritized when allocating funding for federal highways. The legislation seeks to also connect the north-south Interstate 795 corridor from the City of Goldsboro to Interstate 40 by ensuring improvements to a section of U.S. Highway 117. The bill will improve transportation between area military installations, support the growth of the Port at Morehead City, alleviate traffic bottlenecks, and make Raleigh more accessible to eastern North Carolinians. “Improving transportation in eastern North Carolina is vital to strengthening our state’s economy, improving military readiness and commerce, and reducing traffic congestion,” Butterfield said. “The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act would connect cities and military bases throughout eastern North Carolina with a major port, the state capital, and the eastern seaboard. This vital legislation will benefit the entire region, and stimulate job growth throughout eastern North Carolina.” “It is necessary to improve transportation for the future economic prosperity and military readiness of eastern North Carolina, which is why I’m proud to be the lead cosponsor on The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act,” said Congressman Jones. “I look forward to working with the rest of the North Carolina delegation to improve the corridors and highways in eastern North Carolina.” Senator Thom Tillis, who will introduce the Senate companion bill said, “In midst of a sluggish national economy, North Carolina has been a bright spot for growth and innovation, and one of the keys to sustaining that economic success is through continued investment in transportation, infrastructure, and our military. The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act is a true bipartisan effort to support North Carolina’s military installations and complement the state’s 25-year transportation-improvement plan, which in turn will generate economic development, provide a boost for local communities and create good-paying jobs.” H.R. 1844 is supported by North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory, North Carolina Secretary of Transportation Tony Tata, the U.S. 70 Corridor Commission, the Wayne County Transportation Committee and many local governmental entities, chambers of commerce and regional transportation associations. The Federal Highway Administration estimates that $1 billion in transportation funding can support approximately 30,000 jobs which would be critical to economic development in eastern North Carolina. Passing legislation to designate the highways as future interstates can lead to future investments in and modernization of highway infrastructure in the region. This legislation is the first step in Butterfield’s plan to help build a strong transportation network, put North Carolinians to work, and strengthen the economy of eastern North Carolina. Representatives David Price (NC-04), Mark Meadows (NC-11), George Holding (NC-13), David Rouzer (NC-07), and Dr. Alma S. Adams (NC-12) are also cosponsors of this bill. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) was joined by 11 congressional colleagues to introduce a resolution urging the full House of Representatives to formally recognize Duke University’s Division I Men’s Basketball team on winning its fifth NCAA National Championship last week. Butterfield spoke on the House floor to announce the resolution’s introduction and personally congratulate the team and coaches. He said, “I rise to congratulate Duke University and its Division One Men’s Basketball team on winning the 2015 national Championship. Duke’s win against UW-Madison on April 6, 2015, marks their fifth national championship victory. “At the team’s helm is the winningest coach in Division One men’s basketball history – legendary Coach Mike Krzyzewski. This year’s team – led by senior Quinn Cook – continued the tradition of excellence in my district in Durham, North Carolina by earning the 88th school-wide NCAA tournament victory. Even more impressive is the fact that the Duke University Blue Devils had five All-ACC Academic players, which is the most in school history. “Today I introduced a resolution along with my colleagues to recognize the team for its extraordinary achievement. I urge quick consideration of my resolution and encourage my colleagues to support it. “I ask my colleagues to join me in congratulating the Duke University Blue Devils on their historic tournament win.” The cosponsors of the resolution are Representatives David Price (NC-04), Alma Adams (NC-12), Walter Jones (NC-03), Richard Hudson (NC-08), George Holding (NC-13) and David Rouzer (NC-07), who are all members of the North Carolina Delegation. Other cosponsors include Representatives Bradley Byrne (AL-01), Scott Peters (CA-52), Mo Brooks (AL-05) and David Trott (MI-11), who are alumni of the university, and Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) who is a parent of a Duke alumna. The video of the Congressman’s floor remarks can be found here. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
04.13.2015	WILSON, NC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement regarding this morning’s shooting at Wayne Community College, located in North Carolina’s First Congressional District: “I am troubled to learn of the shooting at Wayne Community College in Goldsboro. As we await more details on this unfolding tragedy, I hope any suspect involved will be quickly apprehended and brought to justice. I will continue to monitor the situation and offer to assist those affected by this unfortunate incident in any way I can.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
04.06.2015	Durham, NC — Congressman Mark Pocan (D-WI) placed a friendly wager with Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) on the 2015 NCAA Men’s Basketball Championship game tonight between the University of Wisconsin—Madison and Duke University. Rep. Pocan wagered a selection of Wisconsin cheese and beer while Rep. Butterfield wagered eastern North Carolina barbecue, slaw, and iced tea. “I’m looking forward to savoring Rep. Butterfield’s delicious barbecue after the Badgers beat the Duke Blue Devils tonight,” said Rep. Mark Pocan. “The Badgers have proven they are a strong team that can compete with any team in the country. After a long season, I know Coach Bo Ryan and his team are ready to bring the championship trophy home to Madison. Go Bucky!” “I don’t have to remind my good friend, Representative Pocan, that Duke basketball is led by the incomparable Coach K., the winningest coach in NCAA Division I men’s basketball history,” said Rep. G. K. Butterfield. “And I hope he remembers that the Blue Devils bested Wisconsin in their own house by 10 points in December. I’m confident on a neutral court Duke will win by a much larger margin. Duke fans in North Carolina and throughout the world are excited and ready to bring home a 5th national championship tonight.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
03.27.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Alma Adams (NC-12), G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and David Price (NC-04) today sent a letter urging North Carolina’s two U.S. Senators to support Loretta Lynch, who is a North Carolina native, in her nomination for Attorney General. Senators Burr and Tillis previously announced their opposition to Lynch’s nomination. The Senate has yet to move forward with a vote on the floor on Lynch’s nomination and does not come back into session until April 13th. Lynch has now waited longer than the last seven U.S. Attorneys General combined to have a floor vote in the U.S. Senate. During her nomination hearing, Loretta Lynch endured more than eight hours of testimony and has since responded to almost 900 questions entered into the Congressional record. “I just don’t understand how Senators Burr and Tillis could not support this North Carolina native,” said Congresswoman Adams. “Her resume is impeccable and she is rightly positioned to be our U.S. Attorney General. With every week that passes, our nation is denied a leader to the highest law enforcement post in the country. I urge Senators Burr and Tillis to do what is right by our state and our country, and support Loretta Lynch for Attorney General.” “Loretta Lynch is abundantly qualified to serve as the next Attorney General, and the time she has waited to receive a simple up-or-down vote on her nomination is unprecedented,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Ms. Lynch deserves the support of Senators Burr and Tillis. Their support stands to be deciding factors in whether or not she will make history as the first African American woman to serve as United States Attorney General.” “The broad bipartisan support for Ms. Lynch’s nomination reflects her distinguished record as a U.S. Attorney and excellent testimony in her confirmation hearing,” said Congressman Price. “Our North Carolina Senators are uniquely familiar with her character and credentials, and they have every reason to support her. I hope they will agree with their Republican and Democratic colleagues that she is extremely well-qualified for the position of Attorney General when her nomination comes before the full Senate for a vote.” In their letter to Senators Burr and Tillis, the Representatives wrote, “We recognize that as members of the Senate it is your duty to ensure that our Attorney General meets the qualifications for this important position. This is a sacred duty that must be taken seriously. That is why we ask that you judge Ms. Lynch’s nomination solely on her qualifications and not allow partisan distractions to cloud your judgements.” The full text of the letter follows. March 27, 2015 The Honorable Richard Burr United States Senator 217 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, D.C. 20510 The Honorable Thom Tillis United States Senator G55 Dirksen Senate Office Building Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Senator Burr and Senator Tillis: We strongly urge you to reconsider your position on the nomination of Loretta Lynch for United States Attorney General. We ask that you set aside partisan politics and support the nomination of this qualified nominee who is a native North Carolinian. Ms. Lynch’s extensive resume as a successful litigator speaks volumes to her qualifications to fill the role of United States Attorney General. As United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, Ms. Lynch has passionately prosecuted cases involving public corruption, terrorism, narcotics, and violent crime. She has earned a reputation from law enforcement and elected officials on both sides of the aisle as being a fair but tough prosecutor who is more than capable of serving as our next Attorney General. We recognize that as members of the Senate it is your duty to ensure that our Attorney General meets the qualifications for this important position. This is a sacred duty that must be taken seriously. That is why we ask that you judge Ms. Lynch’s nomination solely on her qualifications and not allow partisan distractions to cloud your judgements. As fellow members of the North Carolina Congressional Delegation, we strongly encourage you to stand on the right side of history and support the nomination of the first African American woman, North Carolina’s own, Loretta Lynch, to be the next United States Attorney General. Sincerely, Alma S. Adams, Ph.D. Member of Congress G. K. Butterfield Member of Congress David Price Member of Congress https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Walter B. Jones (NC-3) and Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-1) introduced H.R.1642 to designate a United States Courthouse in Greenville, North Carolina as the “Randy D. Doub United States Courthouse” in honor of the late Randy D. Doub of North Carolina’s third district. Judge Doub, 59, passed away on Saturday, January 25, 2015. He was judge for the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina and practiced law in private practice for nearly 26 years in Greenville, North Carolina. He was known for cherishing his faith and his family above all things. “I am pleased to introduce this bill with Congressman Butterfield to honor the memory of my friend, Judge Randy D. Doub, who passed away in January. He served his community with the utmost integrity, and was most importantly a family man of great faith,” said Congressman Walter B. Jones. “He is greatly missed in the community and his legacy of fairness and honesty should be commemorated, which is why the Greenville courthouse should be hereafter known as the ‘Randy D. Doub United States Courthouse.’” “Judge Doub was an outstanding public servant and leader,” said Congressman G. K. Butterfield. “Renaming a courthouse in his honor is a fitting way to commemorate his judicial legacy and his contributions to the Greenville community.” ###
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) issued the following statement today on the passing of Durham great, Willie Bradshaw: “I join the entire Durham community in expressing my deepest sorrow at the passing of Mr. Willie Bradshaw. Mr. Bradshaw is fondly remembered as an iconic athlete, coach, and educator, who committed his life to mentoring youth through sports and ensuring all kids had opportunities to reach their full potential. I have no doubt that his expansive legacy will live on in the lives of those he touched and sets an example to which others should aspire. My prayers are with his wife, Shirley M. Bradshaw; daughter, Natalyn Bradshaw-Haile Selassie; and granddaughter, Fana Ruth Haile Selassie during this difficult time.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) issued the following statement after voting against the Republican Fiscal Year 2016 Budget, which passed in the House today: “I’m dismayed that we find ourselves here yet again. The Republican majority, moments ago, passed their FY’16 budget which does little to address the concerns and needs of everyday Americans. Not only does their budget make drastic reductions in funding to important economic drivers such as education, research, and infrastructure, but it also makes the American dream even more unattainable. Year after year the Republican majority passes budgets that give significant tax breaks to the super wealthy at the expense of stifling the progress of children, women, seniors, and hard-working families. “What’s even more egregious are the steep $125 billion cut to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and the $913 billion cut to Medicaid. If implemented, these proposals would have devastating effects on our nation’s most vulnerable citizens, including many in my home state of North Carolina. “I cannot and will not support a measure that does so little for poor, low-income, and middle-class Americans. We need an alternative budget plan that eases the paths to homeownership, the middle-class, higher wages, college, and retirement—not a plan that reverses it.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
03.23.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today introduced the Advancing Hope Act of 2015, a bipartisan bill that will make permanent the Rare Disease Priority Review Voucher Program, which was created through the inclusion of the Creating Hope Act in the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) reauthorization. The Creating Hope Act, which was signed into law by President Obama in 2012 as part of the PDUFA reauthorization, expanded the cost-neutral Food and Drug Administration (FDA) priority review voucher (PRV) program, allowing pharmaceutical companies to expedite FDA review of more profitable drugs in return for developing treatments for rare diseases. Prior to the Creating Hope Act, the FDA had approved only one new drug for treatment of childhood cancer in the past 35 years, compared to dozens for adults. Despite this significant unmet medical need, in the past pharmaceutical companies have been reluctant to develop drugs for rare pediatric diseases because it required making an investment in products that are unlikely to cover the high costs associated with its research, development, marketing, and distribution. In addition, developing products for children was particularly challenging because of the difficulties associated with conducting clinical trials on this patient population. The Creating Hope Act helped to ease this process by incentivizing and fast-tracking much-needed pediatric drugs to market. The bill, however, only provided three vouchers to be used to expedite treatments for rare diseases through the FDA approval process. The Advancing Hope Act seeks to remove the three-voucher cap and would clear the way for more therapies to be approved by FDA in an expedited fashion so long as they are used to treat rare diseases. It will also modify the definition of “rare pediatric disease” to include “any form of sickle cell disease” and “any pediatric cancers.” “The Creating Hope Act was a historic bill that’s been wildly successful in directly addressing the lack of drug development for rare disorders,” Congressman Butterfield said. “In a matter of months we were able to safely fast-track important rare disease treatments to market, something many thought would take years. Let’s expand on this success by quickly passing the Advancing Hope Act so that rare disease treatments can reach the people that need them the most.” Representatives Mike McCaul (R-TX), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Mike Kelly (R-PA), and Steve Cohen (D-TN) are all original cosponsors of this bill. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
03.20.2015	WASHINGTON, DC -- On Monday, March 23rd, Rep. G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will join Dr. Pamela Roshell, Department of Health and Human Services Director for Region IV, for a roundtable discussion and celebration of the 5th Anniversary of the Patients’ Protections and Affordable Care Act (PPACA). Joining in the celebration, which also marks Women’s History Month, will be key government and healthcare leaders who will discuss the Affordable Care Act’s success in North Carolina, and underscore what its passage means to women’s health. Since President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act five years ago, about 560,357 North Carolinians selected plans or were automatically re-enrolled through the health insurance Marketplace under the Affordable Care Act. In addition to Rep. Butterfield and Dr. Roshell, the panelists for the roundtable on Women’s Health and the ACA will include: Kellan Moore, Executive Director, Care Share Health Alliance Nicole Dozier, NC Justice Center Penny Washington, Wake & Franklin Health Services Sorien Schmidt, Enroll America, North Carolina Dr. Sharon Elliott Bynum, Healing with CAARE Krystal Holman, Project Access Sally Wilson, Director, Project Access Durham County Commissioner Brenda Howerton Dr. Elaine Hart Brothers, Director of the Community Health Coalition This event is free and open to the public and press. Additional details follow: Who: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services with guest Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) What: Roundtable Discussion & Listening Session: The Impact of ACA on Women (Women’s Health) in North Carolina When: Monday, March 23rd, 12:00 – 1:00 p.m. Where: Community Health Coalition, 407 Crutchfield Street, Durham, NC 27704 Why: Commemorating the 5th Anniversary of the Affordable Care Act and Women’s History Month https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
03.13.2015	GREENVILLE, NC - Congressman Butterfield joined Google and [75] Greenville small businesses to launch the Let’s Put Our Cities on the Map program in Greenville. At the event, Google experts helped small business owners create their own website and verify their listing on Google Search and Maps. Businesses also receive a customized domain name, free web hosting for one year, free tools, training and resources. Google, joined by local partners including the Greenville-Pitt Chamber of Commerce and the City of Greenville, designed the program to drive economic growth by giving North Carolina businesses the tools and resources to establish a website, find new customers, and grow their business. “Small businesses are the backbone of the Greenville economy. Given the critical role technology plays in driving growth and creating jobs, we need to make sure every local business is embracing the web to reach customers whether they're three miles or 3000 miles away,” said Congressman Butterfield. “This event will make it fast and easy for North Carolina's world-class small business owners to embrace the power of the web to grow and thrive.” “With customers increasingly turning to technology to search for what they need, it’s important that local businesses can be found online when people are looking for them.” said Soo Young Kim, Head of Google’s Get Your Business Online Program. “We want small businesses to be online and on the map to continue shaping communities around the country.” Small businesses need to be online because their customers are. While 97% of consumers look online for local products and services, 54% of North Carolina small businesses do not have a website. Businesses that are online grow 40% faster than those that aren’t. For the next year, participating North Carolina businesses can go to www.gybo.com to get a free website as well as free tools, training, and resources to help their business succeed online. Google is partnering with StartLogic to provide its popular website offerings for free including an easy-to-build website, a customized domain name, and web-hosting for one year. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
03.11.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) this week announced it has approved the first pediatric cancer drug due to the voucher program that became law under the Creating Hope Act. The drug, Unituxin, developed by United Therapeutics, designed to treat neuroblastoma, is only the third drug to receive initial FDA approval for a pediatric cancer in the last 20 years. The Creating Hope Act was signed into law in 2011, and was sponsored by Representatives Michael McCaul (TX-10), G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), and Chris Van Hollen (MD-08). Congressman McCaul said, “The scientists and doctors who developed this drug deserve credit and recognition for this amazing achievement. Too many children suffer from neuroblastoma and for them and their families, the development of the first FDA approved treatment in decades is welcome news. I am proud that the Creating Hope Act played an important role in this process. The voucher program established by this law has once again demonstrated its value. I look forward to working with my colleagues to make this program permanent for children with all rare diseases, such as pediatric cancer and sickle cell disease.” “I’m pleased to learn that the Creating Hope Act is fulfilling its purpose of advancing drugs for rare pediatric diseases to market,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Since its enactment, less than four years ago, we've already seen two pediatric drugs receive approval by the FDA. I look forward to more drugs gaining approval and more children receiving the treatment they need.” “The Creating Hope Act was designed to spur both lifesaving cures for children and new innovations that help American companies grow and create jobs,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “I’m glad a Maryland business is the latest to benefit from this program to kick-start investment in treatments and cures for children and families affected by cancer.” The Creating Hope Act provides market incentives to pharmaceutical companies to develop new drugs for children with rare pediatric diseases, such as childhood cancers and sickle cell. This is the second voucher awarded under the law. The Creating Hope Act: Establishes the Priority Review Voucher program to include treatments for pediatric rare diseases, such as childhood cancers. Offers unlimited transferability of vouchers to create a more easily traded asset. Provides greater certainty to sponsors that the drug, if approved, will qualify for a voucher, by permitting them to seek a designation from FDA before they submit their new drug application. ###
03.10.2015	WILSON, NC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement regarding the Amtrak train collision in Halifax, North Carolina: “My thoughts and prayers are with the passengers injured in this terrible train crash. I am very grateful that there are no fatalities at this time. I will carefully follow the Federal Railroad Administration’s investigation and review recommendations on preventing accidents like this from ever happening again.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
03.09.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, released the following statement regarding his trip to Selma, Alabama to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of Bloody Sunday: “It was one of the highest honors of my life to join President Obama, President Bush, and dozens of congressional colleagues in commemorating the 50th Anniversary of Bloody Sunday that led to the passage of the Voting Rights Act. As Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, I had the privilege of sitting in the front section during the ceremonies at the Edmund Pettis Bridge, Alabama State Capital, 16th Street Baptist Church, Brown Chapel AME Church, and First Baptist Church. “The weekend of activities consisted of speeches from the original demonstrators, the daughter of Viola Liuzzo, and the daughter of former Alabama Governor George Wallace. Their testimonies were remarkable as they told the stories of how their parents were related to the March but in contrasting ways. Mary Liuzzo Lilleboe told of how her white mother was murdered by the Ku Klux Klan following the Selma to Montgomery March. Peggy Wallace Kennedy spoke to the crowd and apologized for the racist behavior of her father, Governor George Wallace, who sanctioned racism in the state of Alabama. “The highest moment of the weekend was the keynote address by President Barack Obama. This speech will be recited for generations to come. “Our congressional delegation was very diverse consisting of Democrats and Republicans who represent districts across America. We had a unique opportunity to witness recounts of decades of segregation and the denial of the right to vote. The Selma story provides compelling reasons why a strong Voting Rights Act is absolutely critical to protecting Americans’ right to vote. “I call on my many Republican colleagues who made this journey to join the effort to amend the Voting Rights Act to comply with the United States Supreme Court’s decision by updating the coverage formula. It would be unforgivable for my Republican friends to have made this historic journey and then turn their backs on the need to protect the voting rights of African Americans and other racial minority groups.” Congressman Butterfield’s personal photos of the pilgrimage can be found here. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
03.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Walter Jones (NC-03) today introduced bipartisan legislation that would make deserving World War II U.S. Merchant Mariners eligible for honorary veterans’ status and certain veterans’ benefits. H.R. 1288, the World War II Merchant Marine Service Act of 2013, would expand the list of documents accepted by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to prove service and to grant honorary veterans status to a forgotten segment of the World War II Merchant Marine, the Coastwise Merchant Seamen. The bill would also award any commendations, ribbons, or honors earned during time of service, and provide burial benefits to these individuals that played such an invaluable role in the World War II efforts. "During World War II, thousands of Americans served as an extension of our armed forces when our nation was in need,” said Butterfield. “These brave men and women were known as Coastwise Merchant Seamen. For far too long they have been denied the proper recognition of their service. With the help of my colleagues in both the House and Senate, I hope to pass this bill so these fine Americans can finally receive the distinction they deserve." The Merchant Marines were private citizens employed by freight shipping companies. In an effort to support the American war effort during World War II, freight shipping companies and their employees became an auxiliary to the U.S. Navy. Their mission was to transport bulk war materials including food, clothing, weapons, and even troops to all areas of conflict and coastal installations here at home. Coastwise Merchant Seamen were tasked with the critically important role of transporting materials for the war effort along the U.S. coast. Although Coastwise Merchant Seamen did not sail across the Atlantic or Pacific Oceans into areas of conflict, they still encountered the enemy while delivering cargo that kept the war effort moving forward. Congress has previously passed laws to recognize the efforts of the Merchant Marine. However, these laws have failed to incorporate the entirety of those who served in the Merchant Marine during World War II, and have placed onerous and sometimes impossible criteria on these individuals to prove their service. In most cases, the documentation currently required to prove service no longer exists or can be extremely hard to find. Butterfield’s bill allows Social Security Administration records, validated testimony by the applicant or closest living relative, and other official records that provide sufficient proof of service. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
02.26.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding North Carolina Senator Thom Tillis’ vote against the nomination of Loretta Lynch for Attorney General of the United States: “I am deeply disappointed, as I’m sure many North Carolinians are, in Senator Thom Tillis’ vote this morning in the Senate Judiciary Committee. Senator Tillis voted against the nomination of North Carolina’s own, Loretta Lynch, for Attorney General of the United States, despite a successful 30-year legal career as a lawyer, prosecutor, and U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York. Senator Tillis had an opportunity today to be on the right side of history in supporting the nomination of Ms. Lynch, who would be the first African-American woman to serve as Attorney General. “The politics that Republicans have played with Ms. Lynch’s nomination is deplorable. Ms. Lynch’s nomination has been pending for more than 100 days. During this time she has been open and transparent, answering hundreds of questions requested by members of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Opposition to her nomination is nothing more than a political ploy by Republicans to once again use any means necessary to show their disdain for the President. “It is disturbing that Senator Tillis is beginning his tenure in the Senate by casting such a misguided and politically calculated vote. However, I’m confident that the full Senate will confirm Loretta Lynch, a daughter of North Carolina, as the next Attorney General of the United States.” ###
02.09.2015	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, Representatives Kathy Castor (FL-14) and G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) introduced the Permanent Investment in Health Research Act to remove medical research funding from the political whims of congressional budget battles and place the National Institutes of Health (NIH) on more certain footing. Flat funding and cuts to NIH are eroding America’s global competitive edge and costing high-paying jobs across the country. The Permanent Investment in Health Research Act seeks to shield medical research funding from the mindless austerity of Congressional Republicans. “We will only save lives if we can robustly fund medical research in America and keep America as a world leader,” Rep. Castor said. “Today, funding for medical research is discretionary and at the mercy of the budget battles in Congress. This harms momentum towards cures and creates economic uncertainty.” An article published last month by Journal of the American Medical Association shows research funding is suffering in the United States, while other countries increase their support. This study shows the need for the United States to step up funding for medical research to keep a competitive edge. “Funding for medical research is too essential to be subjected to political squabbles,” said Rep. Butterfield, who serves with Rep. Castor on the House Energy & Commerce Committee and represents a part of the Research Triangle in North Carolina. “This bill ensures that regardless of the political climate medical research will be considered as a non-discretionary program, guaranteeing funding, jobs, and scientific advancement.” In addition to NIH funding lagging behind inflation over the last decade, from 2010 – 2013, funding decreased 11.4 percent. In 2013, Florida alone suffered a $67 million setback, according to the National Institutes of Health. “What happened during those years? Republican budgets, sequester, government shutdowns,” Castor explained. “During this time, interest in biomedical research by the rest of the world increased.” ###
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement in recognition of Black History Month: “Black History Month is an opportunity for us to reflect on the countless contributions that African Americans have made to this nation. “During the month of February, we remember civil rights pioneers who led the fight for political change and equality. We remember courageous African American visionaries who were relentless in their pursuit of technological and scientific discoveries that have made the world a better place. And, we remember African American vanguards that pushed the boundaries of art, literature, music, and sport. “Black History Month reminds our nation of where we’ve been and helps to focus us on where we’re headed in the future. Let us use this month for not only celebration, but also for a recommitment to the values our nation holds dear like equal access to the voting booth, economic equality, and fairness.” ###
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brett Guthrie (R-KY), Congressman G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Congressman Todd Young (R-IN), and Congressman Ron Kind (D-WI) joined together to introduce H.R. 592, which will allow Medicare to reimburse pharmacists in medically underserved communities for certain health care services. The bipartisan legislation, the Pharmacy and Medically Underserved Areas Enhancement Act, was supported by 123 bipartisan cosponsors during the 113th Congress. “Whether it’s to inquire about medication, potential side effects, or discussing other ailments and complications, many patients depend on their local pharmacists,” said Congressman Guthrie. “Expanding access to other basic services that pharmacists are already licensed to provide will not only benefit seniors in Kentucky, but across the country.” Most states already allow pharmacists to provide additional services, such as immunizations, diabetes management, blood pressure screenings and routine checks. Despite the ability to perform such services, there is currently no mechanism for pharmacists to be reimbursed for these by the Medicare program. “Pharmacists are highly trained health care professionals who, in coordination and collaboration with other health care providers, can help to deliver improved patient outcomes,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Allowing these qualified medical professionals to operate in underserved areas and receive payment for their services is a practical way to address the basic health care needs of vulnerable communities and the shortage in the delivery of care in those areas.” “Southern Indiana, like many regions of the country, is full of rural communities without adequate access to health care providers,” said Congressman Young. “A simple solution to that problem is to allow pharmacists to offer clinical services already within their scope of practice to Medicare patients in medically underserved areas. I’m proud to join Reps. Guthrie, Butterfield and Kind in once again introducing legislation that would give them that ability.” “In a rural district like mine, health care accessibility is a major concern. Pharmacists play an important role in rural health care, providing important services like blood-pressure screenings, immunizations, and routine checkups,” said Congressman Kind. “By providing Medicare coverage for these services in medically-underserved communities, we improve access to these services in rural areas and allow pharmacists to practice to the full extent of their training.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “There’s no denying that the country continues to make great gains. Over the past six years, President Obama and Congressional Democrats have together delivered the longest stretch of economic and job growth in this nation’s history; made accessing health care affordable, easier, and transparent; and safeguarded the American people by enacting strong financial reforms. However, the President’s proposals tonight for free community college, paid sick leave, tax hikes on the rich, tax cuts for the middle-class, and expanded broadband deployment will only accelerate our progress. It ensures that every American, not just the wealthy, has the tools to achieve their version of the American dream. The President’s priorities address important issues impacting people across the country and reflect the concerns and will of all Americans. “I applaud the President for his continued focus on growing paychecks and shrinking the wealth disparity gap while building a 21st century infrastructure that will ensure America’s long term success. I look forward to working with my colleagues to move the President’s bold agenda forward.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
01.15.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) applauded the U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan’s decision to enable students and their families to take advantage of new William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program regulations, also known as PLUS Loan regulations, as early as the summer semester. The new PLUS Loan regulations reverse changes made to the program in 2011 which resulted in more than 17,000 students at Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) losing loan eligibility. The new regulations will help an additional 370,000 students across the country to afford higher education according the Education Department. “The unintended consequences of the 2011 changes to the PLUS Loan program were devastating for students from low-income backgrounds and for HBCUs,” Butterfield said. “The new PLUS Loan regulations are a step in the right direction and will expand access to loans for students and families who demonstrate need. I applaud the Education Department’s early implementation decision to ensure students and their families can benefit from these new rules as soon as possible.” PLUS Loans are federal loans for educational expenses available to parents of dependent undergraduate students or graduate students. The new regulations for PLUS Loans were finalized on August 22, 2014 and will establish a threshold debt amount of $2,085 to determine if a potential borrower has an adverse credit history, define terms such as “in collection” and debt “charged off” to determine credit history, reduce the review period for charge offs and collections from five years to two years, and provide those with adverse credit histories under extenuating circumstances pathways to access PLUS Loans. Early implementation of the new rules will allow potential borrowers who apply on or after March 30, 2015 to take advantage of those changes. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), joined by Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Congressman Blake Farenthold (R-TX), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Congressman Walter B. Jones (R-NC), Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), and Congressman Gerry Connolly (D-VA), introduced H.R. 313, the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015. This bipartisan legislation would provide federal employees, who are also veterans with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or greater, with 104 hours of “Wounded Warrior leave” during their first year in the federal workforce so that they may seek medical treatment for their service-connected disabilities without being forced to take unpaid leave or forego their appointments altogether. Congressman Lynch first introduced the legislation in the 113th Congress and it was reported favorably to the House by the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on September 17, 2014. “It is unacceptable that our Wounded Warrior federal employees who are just starting out in the federal workforce are often faced with the difficult choice of having to take unpaid leave to attend their VA appointments or miss their medical visits. The Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015 provides vital federal leave for our heroic and dedicated wounded warriors so that they are able to take the time they need to address their disabilities, while continuing their much appreciated service to our country,” said Congressman Lynch. Newly hired federal employees begin their federal government careers with a zero sick leave balance. As a result, disabled veterans who have recently entered the federal workforce do not have sufficient sick leave to attend medical appointments to treat their service-connected disabilities on a regular basis. Many veterans are returning from multiple tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan with PTSD and other health issues. Congressman Lynch introduced H.R. 313 to address the concerns raised by many veterans regarding the substantial burden placed on Wounded Warriors in the federal workforce who have to skip appointments, rather than miss work. In order for eligible federal employees to make use of such leave, the bill would simply require employees to submit certification to their agency as prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management or in the case of postal employees, the Postmaster General. Given that these dedicated federal workers will have accumulated up to 104 hours of traditional federal sick leave by the beginning of their second year on the job, this legislation would also provide that any unused “Wounded Warrior leave” would not be carried over to the following year. “I am pleased to reintroduce this legislation with bipartisan support and look forward to swift passage of this important effort to reduce the burden placed on our Wounded Warriors who choose to continue their much appreciated service by entering the federal workforce,” Lynch added. “I am proud to be a co-author of this legislation that will provide disabled veterans that enter the federal workforce the opportunity to seek medical treatment for their service-related disabilities without being forced to take unpaid leave. We must support our veterans, especially those who suffered a disability protecting our freedom,” said Congressman Farenthold. “This bipartisan legislation would ease the transition of our wounded warriors from military to federal service by providing them with 104 hours of paid leave to use during their first year of federal employment to obtain the medical care that they need and deserve. The Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015 honors the commitment of these brave men and women to public service,” said Ranking Member Cummings. “I’m pleased to again cosponsor this bill that will help the many disabled veterans in North Carolina and throughout the nation,” said Congressman Butterfield. “This is common-sense legislation. I urge my colleagues to pass the Wounded Warrior Federal Leave Act and allow disabled veterans to access the care they need without sacrificing their livelihoods.” “Once again, I am proud to cosponsor the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act,” said Congressman Jones. “These men and women have made incredible sacrifices to defend our freedom and have been wounded as a result. They deserve an adequate amount of time to tend to their wounds while beginning a new chapter in their careers after they leave the military. That is why I am cosponsoring the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act and will continue to do everything I can to help our veterans.” “The least we can do to thank our veterans who have been wounded while fighting for our freedom is to give them peace of mind while they attend to their medical needs,” said Congresswoman Norton. “Our Nation is deeply indebted to the brave men and women that serve in uniform with honor and distinction, particularly those disabled veterans who have made significant sacrifices on behalf of our country, and continue to bear the costs of war over a lifetime,” said Congressman Connolly. “We are just as fortunate when these patriotic Americans return home and decide to continue serving the public, even though in the first year of transitioning to the civilian workforce these veterans lack the necessary sick leave to cover medical treatments for service-related disabilities. No disabled veteran should be forced to use leave without pay as a cost of joining the federal workforce, and that is why I am proud to cosponsor Mr. Lynch’s bipartisan legislation that will ensure service-disabled veterans can enter the federal workforce with sufficient sick leave to cover treatments for disabilities that result from military service.” H.R. 313 has received endorsements from a number of federal employee and veterans’ organizations, including the Federal Managers Association (FMA), the American Federation of Government Employees, the National Treasury Employees Union, the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States, and the Disabled American Veterans. It is also strongly supported by the Federal-Postal Coalition, an organization representing nearly 5 million federal and postal workers and annuitants. “As the federal government continues to strive to be a model employer, FMA is grateful for the work of Representative Lynch and his legislation, the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act. This would provide federal employees who qualify as 30 percent disabled by the Department of Veterans Affairs, and are within their first year of federal employment, with 104 hours of sick leave in order to attend medically necessary appointments for their service-related disability,” said Federal Managers Association National President Patricia Niehaus. “FMA members have seen first-hand the stress these new employees face as they struggle with their disability on top of the demands of their jobs. As these veterans served their country on and off the battlefield, it is only right that the federal government provides this much needed leave.” Senator Jon Tester (D-MT) and Senator Jerry Moran (R-KS) introduced a Senate companion bill in the 113th Congress and they plan to reintroduce the bill in this new Congress. ###
01.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) congratulated Pitt County, North Carolina on its receipt of a U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant. The $2 million investment grant will be used to construct the new 75,000-square-foot Science and Technology Training Center on the Winterville Campus of Pitt Community College, which serves both Pitt and Beaufort counties. According to the Pitt County Board of Commissioners, the Center is expected to create 642 jobs and generate more than $190 million in private investments. The project has strong support from local and regional partners who plan to invest more than $16 million into the project. When completed, the Center will address regional workforce training needs in biology, physics, biotechnology, and engineering and has the potential to attract new businesses to the area “I congratulate Pitt County on its receipt of this much-needed grant, and thank the EDA for investing in a deserving initiative,” said Butterfield. “Over the past 20 years this region has experienced devastating setbacks due to slowing demand for domestically produced products. This grant will help to further Pitt County as a science and technology workforce pipeline, and position the region to thrive once more.” EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon the application’s merit, the applicant’s eligibility, and the availability of funds. For more information on this grant and other economic development-related opportunities, visit: www.eda.gov. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
01.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – This morning, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) was sworn in as the 24th Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) during a ceremony hosted by the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation (CBCF) at the U.S. Capitol. The historic ceremony marked the induction of the largest class in the CBC’s 44-year history, which includes five new members of which 20 are women. During the event, Chairman Butterfield recognized Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, and Assistant Democratic Leader Jim Clyburn, who were all in attendance, and welcomed Representatives Alma Adams (NC-12), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Mia Love (UT-04), and Stacey Plaskett (USVI) to the Caucus. Over the next two years, Chairman Butterfield will lead the Caucus, also known as the “Conscience of the Congress” in carrying out its mission of empowering the African American community and addressing its legislative concerns. In his remarks, Butterfield outlined the CBC’s focus for the 114th Congress to include: Criminal justice reform; Reducing poverty; Safeguarding social safety net programs; Creating educational opportunities; Strengthening Historically Black Colleges and Universities; Restoring section 5 of the Voting Rights Act; and Ensuring corporate diversity. Butterfield said, “We are ready for these fights. The fight for the future is not a black fight, a Democratic or Republican fight; it is a fight that all fair minded Americans should promote. We need to use political means, policy and legal means, to reduce racial disparities and move closer to the day when all African Americans will benefit from fairness and justice and realize the American dream.” The Chairman’s full remarks follow. Swearing-In Speech for Congressman G. K. Butterfield, the Chairman-Elect of the Congressional Black Caucus for the 114th Congress “Respect the Past, Confront the Future: Building an America That Works For All of Us” Let me begin by thanking Congresswoman Marcia Fudge for her friendship and leadership, and for taking the Congressional Black Caucus to higher heights. Someone asked me a few days ago if I thought I could fill the shoes of Marcia Fudge. No one in their right mind should ever believe they can fill the shoes of Congresswoman Marcia Fudge! Marcia is a unique leader who commands respect. To the Dean of the CBC and the House of Representatives, Congressman John Conyers, Jr., my other colleagues and their families, CBCF Chair Congressman Chaka Fattah, CEO Shuanise Washington and your team, and the congressional staff, thank you for all you do. Thank you to my friend and former law partner, Judge Jim Wynn, for administering the oath. To Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, thank you for your leadership and your friendship. Assistant Leader, Jim Clyburn, the CBC is honored to have one of your caliber among us. Thank you to the hundreds of friends who are viewing this ceremony at watch parties in my district, and to my family-- a small number of whom are here today. I ask my daughter, Valeisha Butterfield Jones, to stand. I ask my cousins and their spouses to stand. Thank you for supporting me. It is one of the highest honors of my life to start the daunting process of leading a Caucus that has a legacy of advocating for African American interests. Our 46 members hail from 22 states, the District of Columbia and the Virgin Islands; representing more than 30 million people. We are 23 percent of the House Democratic Caucus and 10 percent of the House of Representatives. CBC members hold seven Ranking Member full committee leadership positions. We are one of the largest Caucuses in the House of Representatives, and I’m proud to say that we have 20 women members! All of our new members are women! The composition of our Caucus brings a diverse set of experiences and viewpoints to address the unique challenges of African American communities. Every day, members of this Caucus go beyond their constitutional duties to lead in their communities. They are making a difference in the lives of millions of people. My colleagues are smart and intelligent legislators. Each of them was elected to Congress because they prepared themselves, served their community, and knocked down barriers. I am also mindful that we were elected to Congress because great men and women, over the past 150-plus years got their hands dirty (some gave their lives) to empower future generations. During the Reconstruction and Post-reconstruction era, 20 African Americans served in Congress. They advocated for educating the children of the former slaves. They advocated for building black high schools and colleges. They advocated for jobs and decency. They even sought to make it a federal crime to lynch. The work of these twenty Reconstruction Congressmen was too visionary for the “Southern power structure.” And so, in 1900, Southern states passed Literacy Tests and the poll tax as devices to prevent black people from voting. And now, in the 21st century, efforts are still afoot to disenfranchise African American voters. As a consequence of the literacy test and poll tax and acts of sheer violence, black political participation ended in 1901 when Congressman George H. White (from NC-02) stood in the well of the House at the close of the 56th Congress and said: “Mr. Chairman, the Negro asks no special favors, but simply demands that he be given the same chance for existence, for earning a livelihood, for raising himself in the scales of manhood and womanhood, that are accorded to kindred nationalities. Obliterate race hatred, party prejudice, and help us to do the greatest good for the greatest number. This, Mr. Chairman, is perhaps the Negroes' temporary farewell to the American Congress; but…phoenix-like he will rise up some day and come again.” As we stand here now on the dawn of a new Congress, the 114th Congress, we must tell the full story – for many Black Americans, they are not even close to realizing the American dream. Depending on where they live, an economic depression hangs over their head, and it is burdening their potential and the potential of their children. Black America is in a state of emergency today as it was at the turn of the century! My message to those across the country who are tired of business as usual and for those who want to hold our country accountable for treating you with disrespect, I hear you. The CBC hears you. America hears you. The world hears you. That is why the theme today is so important: “Learn from our past, but boldly confront an uncertain future.” The CBC was formed in 1971 because its founders understood that Black lives matter. Black boys matter. Black girls matter. The Black family matters. The Black church matters. Black America in its totality matters. In 2015, we are still fighting generations of discrimination. We are fighting generations of indifference on the part of those in power. The statistics tell the story: • Twenty-five percent of black households live below the poverty line as compared to eight percent for white households. • One out of three black children lives in poverty. • African Americans are twice as likely as whites to be unemployed. • African Americans earn $13,000 less per year than their white counterparts. • The unemployment rate of African Americans has consistently been twice as high as for whites over the last 50 years. • For every $100 in wealth of a white household, the black household only has $6 in wealth. What is this if it’s not an emergency? America is not working for many African Americans and we, as the Congressional Black Caucus, have an obligation to fight harder and smarter in the next Congress to help repair the damage. My leadership of this Caucus will be influenced by my experiences growing up in a segregated South. Jim Clyburn often says that, “we are the sum total of our experiences;” and that is so true. My life’s experiences are similar to many of my colleagues. We saw racism at its worst. In my hometown of Wilson, North Carolina, the railroad tracks divided our town; a town where 23 miles of unpaved streets greeted black citizens every day. They were relegated to second class citizenship. Our mothers and fathers; grandmothers and fathers; our aunts and uncles worked every day to support the Jim Crow economy. I recall so vividly wealthy white citizens (each morning) driving into our neighborhood to transport black women to the paved streets on the west side of town to do domestic work for a few dollars per week. I recall white farmers driving onto our street corners at 6 a.m. to transport black laborers to the tobacco fields to harvest the crops for 50 cents per hour. I recall the structurally inferior black schools and how great black educators were paid less than their white counterparts. Because of these unbearable conditions, my generation escaped the south as quickly as it could; most went to the North; some to college and some to the military. Those experiences have helped mold my perspective and make me determined to fight every day to expose and defeat racism and discrimination wherever it may exists. And so if anyone has any doubt that this Chairman and this Congressional Black Caucus will have any reluctance to fight for our communities – you are mistaken. • You will see the Congressional Black Caucus make criminal justice reform a centerpiece of our work. There is a well-founded mistrust between the African American community and law enforcement officers. The statistics are clear. Video clips are clear. We recognize that the overwhelming majority of law enforcement officers put their lives on the line every day to protect our communities. Unfortunately, there are some officers who abuse the sacred responsibility to protect and serve by using excessive, and sometimes deadly force when a less severe response is warranted. The CBC will seek legislative action to reverse this terrible trend. Let me also be clear. To reform the “law enforcement system” will not reform the “criminal justice system.” The CBC will address outdated sentencing laws, unethical prosecutors and communicate the importance of criminal defendants having competent counsel. • You will see the Congressional Black Caucus fighting for Targeted Funding for Persistent Poverty Communities. There are 384 counties in the United States where at least 20 percent of the population has been living below the poverty line for the last 30 years. The Congressional Black Caucus will be strongly advocating the “Clyburn 10-20-30 Plan,” which would direct that at least 10 percent of an agency’s grants and discretionary budget be targeted to these counties. This is not a partisan issue. More than 24 million Americans live in these counties. And the truth is that Republican members represent more of these communities than Democratic members. We will call on the Republican Conference to join with the Democratic Caucus and the CBC to pass legislation that will address persistent poverty in America. • We will continue to fight against any additional efforts to reduce the deficit by dismantling the social safety net that our communities depend on and programs that create jobs for the unemployed and underemployed. Irresponsible budgeting in this Congress will be met with dogged resistance. • The CBC understands that nothing is more important than an education system that works for black children and an education system that demands excellence. We will propose and support legislation to enhance educational opportunities for African American students and strengthen our 105 Historically Black Colleges and Universities who educated black children when other institutions were closed. We will continue to push for Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education for young African Americans, and provide retraining for adults in the 21st century workforce. • On June 25, 2013, the US Supreme Court suspended the use of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act because of an outdated formula. The absence of Section 5 protection allows states to pass discriminatory laws that disenfranchise African American voters and other groups. Partisan redistricting schemes have been enacted with impunity. We will continue our fight to restore Section 5. • We will evaluate whether American corporations who depend on government contracts and tax preferences are making a serious diversity effort in Board Rooms, executive suites, and the workforce. We will look at whether corporations are investing in underserved communities. And if they are failing, we will expose it and insist on change. We are ready for these fights. The fight for the future is not a black fight, a Democratic or Republican fight; it is a fight that all fair minded Americans should promote. We need to use political, policy and legal means to reduce racial disparities and move closer to the day when all African Americans will benefit from fairness and justice and realize the American dream. I issue a call to action for an “All Hands on Deck” strategy where the CBC will: 1) Work with our allies in Congress, and in state and local government, to push for policies that will close racial disparities especially in wealth, education, health care, and in the criminal justice system. 2) We will work with grassroots organizations. We will work with National Black Organizations and with the faith community. We will gather data, educate the public and organize masses of people to promote our agenda. 3) We will work with the legal community to pursue a legal strategy to reverse some of the most egregious laws. 4) And we will push for full participation in presidential, state and local elections with the goal of electing people at every level that share our values. This is our all hands on deck strategy through which the CBC and its allies will promote a progressive agenda. As we begin our work, we will continue the struggle to provide leadership and make a difference for those whom we represent. May God continue to bless our communities with talented leaders as you see on this stage today. And may God continue to bless each of you. CBC, it’s our time to make a difference. https://cbc-butterfield.house.gov ###
12.11.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will join U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy in visiting Durham on Friday for the agency’s Energy Efficiency Action Week and to tour a new ENERGY STAR-certified Habitat for Humanity home, in the North East Central neighborhood, that includes energy-efficient features that will save homeowners money on their utility bills. Administrator McCarthy and Butterfield will be joined by Durham Mayor Bill Bell, Habitat for Humanity International Vice President for the U.S. and Canada Sue Henderson, and representatives from Advanced Energy, Southern Energy Management and Habitat for Humanity Durham. The home tour, which will include blower door and duct blaster tests as well as an explanation of ENERGY STAR upgrades, is open to the press and will be immediately followed by a press conference. Administrator McCarthy will highlight a new EPA tool, the ENERGY STAR Home Advisor, launched this week to help Americans save money and energy by improving the energy efficiency of their existing homes through recommended, customized and prioritized home-improvement projects. As we enter the winter months, homeowners can use the new ENERGY STAR Home Advisor to increase energy efficiency and save money while reducing greenhouse gas emissions that fuel climate change. WHEN: Friday, December 12, 2014 11:15 a.m. EST WHO: EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy G. K. Butterfield, U.S. Representative for North Carolina’s 1st District Mayor Bill Bell, City of Durham Sue Henderson, Vice President for the U.S. and Canada, Habitat for Humanity International Blake Strayhorn, Executive Director for Habitat for Humanity Durham Keith Aldridge, Vice President for Business Development, Advanced Energy Heather McTeer Toney, EPA Regional Administrator WHERE: Habitat for Humanity home 2200 Ashe Street Durham, N.C. 27703 RSVP: Media who would like to attend either event should contact Davina Marraccini at 404-562-8293 or marraccini.davina@epa.gov https://www.Butterfield.House.Gov ###
11.19.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) was unanimously elected today as the 24th Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus for the 114th Congress. Beginning in January, Butterfield will lead the largest CBC in the organization’s history, which will be comprised of 45 members. “I’m moved by the unwavering support the CBC has shown me throughout the years,” said Butterfield. “Each year they’ve continued to elect me to senior positions within the Caucus, solidifying their confidence in me to help steer and now lead the conscience of the Congress as Chair. I do not take this endorsement lightly.” Butterfield, whose ascension to Chair comes after serving eight years in the Caucus leadership, also thanked the current chair for her support. “I’m grateful to outgoing Chairwoman Marcia Fudge for her hard work and commitment over the past two years. There is no doubt that the CBC is better off as a result of her vision and leadership.” Other CBC Members elected to leadership posts include Representatives Yvette Clarke, First Vice-Chair; Andre Carson, Second Vice-Chair; Karen Bass, Secretary; and Hakeem Jeffries as Whip. “The new Congress provides a fresh start to address the issues that are important to us all. Members of the CBC come from every region of the country. While we each have our own priorities, we speak with a singular, powerful voice in our fight to deliver on the expectations of Americans—to have a government that works for us all. “I look forward to working with Caucus members as we implement a new agenda in the 114th Congress—one that respects the past, but boldly confronts the future.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
11.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today commended the House passage of H.R. 5142, a bill he introduced to name the U.S. Post Office in Rich Square, North Carolina as the “Chief Joseph E. White, Jr. Post Office Building.” Butterfield said, “For more than 20 years, Chief Joseph White, Jr. served Northampton County with honor and courage. Within law enforcement he was regarded as a courageous leader, and within the larger community as a selfless hero. We show our gratitude for his service and sacrifice by naming the Rich Square Post Office in his honor.” Born and raised in Ahoskie, Chief White joined the U.S. Navy at the age of 18 and served for 20 years before retiring. After his naval career, Chief White entered law enforcement where he served as Northampton County deputy sheriff, a corrections officer, and as Chief of Police for both the Woodland and Rich Square Police Departments. Throughout his life, Chief White was heavily involved in his community and family. He was a Deacon and Sunday school teacher, as well as a volunteer firefighter for the Woodland Fire Department. On July 16, 2000, while serving as Chief of Police for the Rich Square Police Department, Chief White was shot and killed five months before his retirement after he stopped a vehicle during an investigation of a possible drive-off at a local gas station. The post office facility is located at 113 West Jackson Street, Rich Square, N.C. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
11.12.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement congratulating U.S. Representative Alma Adams on becoming a Member of Congress: “I congratulate U.S. Representative Alma Adams, of North Carolina’s 12th Congressional District, on being sworn-in as one of Congress’s newest representatives tonight. Today marks an historic occasion as Representative Adams becomes the 100th woman to serve in the 113th Congress. I am proud to call her my colleague and friend, and I look forward to working with Representative Adams on behalf of all North Carolinians.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
11.08.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s nomination of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch as Attorney General of the United States: “I could not be more pleased that President Obama nominated North Carolina native, U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch to serve as our nation’s next Attorney General. Her decades of experience as a prosecutor and in private practice makes her ideally suited to lead the Justice Department and the nation in this capacity. I look forward to the Senate’s swift confirmation of U.S. Attorney Lynch, and I commend the President on this historic nomination.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
11.08.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s nomination of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch as Attorney General of the United States: “I could not be more pleased that President Obama nominated North Carolina native, U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch, to serve as our nation’s next Attorney General. Her decades of experience as a prosecutor and in private practice makes her ideally suited to lead the Justice Department and the nation in this capacity. I look forward to the Senate’s swift confirmation of U.S. Attorney Lynch, and I commend the President on this historic nomination.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
10.28.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will welcome U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx to North Carolina’s First Congressional District this afternoon. The Congressman and Secretary will spend the day touring IMPulse NC in Mount Olive and the Global TransPark (GTP) in Kinston, North Carolina. IMPulse and the Global TransPark are examples of two local businesses that would benefit from the passage of H.R. 5561, the Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act of 2014, which Butterfield introduced last month. During the tour of IMPulse NC, Butterfield and Foxx will be joined by IMPulse President Jeff Wharton, Vice President of Operations Butch Campbell, Vice President and Controller Sandy Facello, Factory Leadman Gary Thigpen, and Manufacturing Engineer Alan Story. At Global TransPark, Butterfield and Foxx’s tour will be guided by Executive Director Sherman Lupton, Airport Director Rick Barkes, Spirit AeroSystems A350 Operations Director Tom Greenwood, Spirit AeroSystems Vice President and General Manager Charles Baggett, and Spirit AeroSystems Operations Director Jeff Lohrengel. Following the official tour, Butterfield and Foxx will meet with a dozen students from Spirit AeroSystems Composite Center of Excellence (CCoE), a training center designed to serve the growing aerospace industry in Eastern North Carolina as well as the education and training needs of companies throughout the region. Students will have the opportunity to share with the Congressman and Secretary the importance of the training they receive at CCoE. Butterfield and Foxx will be available to speak with the press following their tour of IMPulse NC. The press is also welcome to attend the meet and greet with students at CCoE. Today’s schedule is as follows: 1:30 pm Arrival at IMPulse NC, 100 Impulse Way, Mount Olive, NC 1:50 pm Tour of IMPulse NC 2:15 pm Meet and Greet IMPulse NC Employees 2:30 pm Press Availability, Front entrance of IMPulse NC 2:45 pm Depart for Global TransPark Tour, 3800 Hwy. 58 North Kinston, NC 3:40 pm Arrive at Kinston Regional Jetport 3:45 pm Tour Kinston Regional Jetport Control Tower 4:05 pm Tour Spirit AeroSystems Production Facility 4:25 pm Meet with Students at CCoE, Press permitted 4:45 pm Brief Remarks on Future of Transportation in Eastern NC, Press permitted 5:00 pm Q&A from Invited Guests (Time Permitting) 5:30 pm Program Ends 5:35 pm Group Departs https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
10.27.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will welcome U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx on Tuesday, October 28, to tour IMPulse NC in Mount Olive and the Global TransPark (GTP) in Kinston, North Carolina. IMPulse and the Global TransPark are examples of two local businesses that would benefit from the passage of H.R. 5561, the Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act of 2014. Congressman Butterfield introduced the Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act in September to connect the north-south Interstate 795 corridor from the City of Goldsboro to Interstate 40 by ensuring improvements to a section of U.S. Highway 117 through Mount Olive. H.R. 5561 would also guarantee the U.S. Highway 70 corridor through Kinston from Raleigh to the Port of Morehead City is built to interstate standards and prioritized when allocating funding for federal highways. This legislation is key to IMPulse and the GTP’s growth since both are economic drivers and major employers in the region. “Improving access to eastern North Carolina is essential to boosting economic development, stimulating job creation, reducing traffic congestion,” Butterfield said. “The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act would connect military bases, cities, and business throughout eastern North Carolina, including Mount Olive and Kinston, with an important port, the state capital, and the entire eastern seaboard. I thank Secretary Foxx for visiting the First District, and I look forward to discussing with him the future of transportation in eastern North Carolina.” During the tour of IMPulse NC, Butterfield and Foxx will be joined by IMPulse President Jeff Wharton, Vice President of Operations Butch Campbell, Vice President and Controller Sandy Facello, Factory Leadman Gary Thigpen, and Manufacturing Engineer Alan Story. At Global TransPark, Butterfield and Foxx’s tour will be guided by Executive Director Sherman Lupton, Airport Director Rick Barkes, Spirit AeroSystems A350 Operations Director Tom Greenwood, Spirit AeroSystems Vice President and General Manager Charles Baggett, and Spirit AeroSystems Operations Director Jeff Lohrengel. Following the official tour, Butterfield and Foxx will meet with a dozen students from Spirit AeroSystems Composite Center of Excellence (CCoE), a training center designed to serve the growing aerospace industry in Eastern North Carolina as well as the education and training needs of companies throughout the region. The facility also features two composites training labs, operated by Lenoir Community College to support pathways for careers in aerospace and related industries. Students will have the opportunity to share with the Congressman and Secretary the importance of the training they receive at CCoE. Tomorrow’s schedule is as follows: 1:30 pm Arrival at IMPulse NC, 100 Impulse Way, Mount Olive, NC 1:50 pm Tour of IMPulse NC 2:15 pm Meet and Greet IMPulse NC Employees 2:30 pm Press Availability, Front entrance of IMPulse NC 2:45 pm Depart for Global TransPark Tour, 3800 Hwy. 58 North Kinston, NC 3:40 pm Arrive at Kinston Regional Jetport 3:45 pm Tour Kinston Regional Jetport Control Tower 4:05 pm Tour Spirit AeroSystems Production Facility 4:25 pm Meet with Students at CCoE, Press permitted 4:45 pm Brief Remarks on Future of Transportation in Eastern NC, Press permitted 5:00 pm Q&A from Invited Guests (Time Permitting) 5:30 pm Program Ends 5:35 pm Depart https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
10.23.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will present a $6 million check to the Roanoke Electric Cooperative made available through the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Rural Development Electric Program during a check presentation ceremony at 11:30 a.m. on Friday, October 24, 2014 at the Roanoke Electric Cooperative Headquarters, 518 NC Highway 561, Aulander, N.C. The check represents a USDA Electric Guaranteed Loan to Roanoke Electric Cooperative to implement a pilot project that provides energy efficiency retrofits to existing houses in an effort to lower co-op members utilities cost. Roanoke Electric Cooperative serves an economically challenged region home to a large number of households with high energy burdens. The USDA Rural Development Electric Program offers financing assistance in the form of FFB Guaranteed Loans, Hardship Loans, Treasury Rate Loans, Municipal Rate Loans, and Assistance to Rural Communities with Extremely High Energy Costs (loan and grant assistance). These loans are used to acquire, construct, extend, upgrade, and otherwise improve energy generation, transmission, or distribution facilities serving communities in which the average residential energy expenditure for home energy is at least 275 percent of the national average. The Roanoke Electric Cooperative Board of Directors will be in attendance. This event is open to the public. All media outlets are also invited to attend the check presentation. For more information on the loan program, visit here. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
10.23.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) sent a letter to North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory urging that the state meet its commitment to provide the remaining $200,000 needed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to complete the Town of Princeville Flood Damage Reduction Feasibility Study. The study, which was conducted by the USACE and seeks to identify the best methods to protect the area from future natural disasters, commenced in 2002 following the devastating affects Hurricane Floyd left on the region three years earlier. The USACE has set aside $200,000 of federal funds to complete the project, but under law may only use those funds if matched by state appropriations. However, in 2011, the North Carolina General Assembly voted to discontinue funding for the study just shy of its completion after already investing $1.6 million in matching funds. Butterfield is concerned that this decision not only fails to honor the Feasibility Cost Sharing Agreement, where the state of North Carolina agreed to match federal funds to complete the study, but it also leaves Edgecombe County vulnerable to potential future natural disasters. He writes, “Without adequate flood mitigation research and protections there is nothing to stop similar disasters from occurring. Cutting off funding for this project when nearly completed is a step in the wrong direction for eastern North Carolina and needlessly endangers communities which have already suffered extensively from natural disasters. It is time for the state government to fulfill its commitment to ensure the safety and wellbeing of people in the Edgecombe County region, and ensure the investments made by taxpayers are not wasted by helping to fund the completion of this study.” The Congressman’s full letter to Governor McCrory follows. October 23, 2014 The Honorable Patrick McCrory Governor Office of the Governor 20301 Mail Service Center Raleigh, North Carolina 27699-0301 Dear Governor McCrory: I write to urge the State of North Carolina to provide the funding required to complete the Town of Princeville Flood Damage Reduction Feasibility Study conducted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE). I understand that $3.2 million has already been invested in the report and it is near completion. In 2011, the North Carolina General Assembly discontinued funding the study. This decision leaves Edgecombe County vulnerable to potential future natural disasters. I urge you to assist Edgecombe County by directing $200,000 in funding to the USACE to complete the study. In September 1999, Edgecombe County was devastated by Hurricane Floyd. In 2002, the state of North Carolina and the USACE began the Town of Princeville Flood Damage Reduction Feasibility Study to identify the best methods to protect the area from future natural disasters. Under Article III of the Feasibility Cost Sharing Agreement executed on July 10, 2002, the state of North Carolina agreed to match federal funds to complete the study. The state and federal government have invested $3.2 million to date and the USACE issued a draft integrated feasibility report and environmental assessment (EA) on March 25, 2014. Only $400,000 is needed to finalize the report and help prepare the vulnerable region for future storms. The USACE has $200,000 on hand to complete the study which may only be used once matching state funds are received. The threats future storms pose to Edgecombe County must not be taken lightly. Hurricane Floyd caused waters to surge more than 20 feet above flood stage. Without adequate flood mitigation research and protections there is nothing to stop similar disasters from occurring. Cutting off funding for this project when nearly completed is a step in the wrong direction for eastern North Carolina and needlessly endangers communities which have already suffered extensively from natural disasters. It is time for the state government to fulfill its commitment to ensure the safety and wellbeing of people in the Edgecombe County region, and ensure the investments made by taxpayers are not wasted by helping to fund the completion of this study. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me, or Dennis Sills on my staff, at 202.225.3101. Thank you very much. Very truly yours, G. K. Butterfield Member of Congress cc: The Honorable John E. Skvarla III, Secretary, North Carolina Department of Environment cc and Natural Resources The Honorable Tony Tata, Secretary, North Carolina Department of Transportation The Honorable Leonard Wiggins, Chairman, Edgecombe County Board of Commissioners Mr. Lorenzo Carmon, Manager, Edgecombe County Colonel Steven A. Baker, Commander Wilmington District, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
10.21.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – The Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield will hold its 3rd Annual Grants Workshop for small business owners and non-profit organizations on Wednesday, October 22, 2014 from 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. at the Durham Armory, 220 Foster Street, Durham, N.C. The Grants Workshop will offer small business owners and non-profit organizations the opportunity to learn about funding opportunities, the grant application process, and capacity-building methods once grant funds are received. The workshop will also include representatives from federal, state, and private agencies, panel discussions, and how-to exercises. This event is free and open to the public with registration. The media is encouraged to attend. For more information, visit here. WHO: The Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield WHAT: The 3rd Annual Small Business and Non-Profit Grants Workshop WHEN: 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., Wednesday, October 22, 2014 WHERE: The Durham Armory, 220 Foster Street, Durham, N.C. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
10.21.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released a letter to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder asking that he review the circumstances regarding the termination of former Assistant District Attorney Faris C. Dixon by the Pitt County (North Carolina) District Attorney’s office. In his letter, Butterfield shared public concern over whether District Attorney Kimberly Robb’s motivation for firing Dixon was politically motivated, and concern for the pace of the subsequent investigation by the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation. He writes, “Five months removed from the initiation of this investigation and this sensitive issue has yet to be resolved with no indication that a resolution is forthcoming. “Mr. Dixon is an Eastern North Carolina native and has practiced law for 22 years. He has diligently served his community, spending more than 13 years with the Pitt County District Attorney’s office prior to his firing in May. Due to the political circumstances which coincide with Mr. Dixon’s firing, there are very real concerns regarding the veracity of the allegations, motivations behind the charges, and fairness of the subsequent investigation. The community and parties involved request, and justice dictates, that this matter receives full and fair consideration.” The Congressman’s full letter to Attorney General Holder follows. October 21, 2014 The Honorable Eric Holder, Jr. Attorney General United States Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Holder: I am writing to follow up on an August 25, 2014 letter sent to my Congressional office, the U.S. Department of Justice, and the North Carolina Department of Justice from a number of constituents in Pitt County, North Carolina regarding the employment practices in the Pitt County District Attorney’s office. In particular, these constituents, as well as several media outlets, have concerns regarding the firing of former Assistant District Attorney Faris C. Dixon, Jr., the subsequent investigation by the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation (NCSBI) into the matter, and any political or otherwise improper motivations behind the actions taken by District Attorney Kimberly Robb and the Pitt County District Attorney’s office. On May 6, 2014, Mr. Dixon, candidate for the Pitt County district court judge seat, received the most votes in the primary race against incumbent Judge Lee Teague. The following week, on May 14, 2014, Mr. Dixon was fired from his position as Assistant District Attorney with the Pitt County District Attorney’s office. The investigation of Mr. Dixon, based on allegations that he failed to discharge duties of his office, was then referred to the NCSBI. Five months removed from the initiation of this investigation and this sensitive issue has yet to be resolved with no indication that a resolution is forthcoming. Mr. Dixon is an Eastern North Carolina native and has practiced law for 22 years. He has diligently served his community, spending more than 13 years with the Pitt County District Attorney’s office prior to his firing in May. Due to the political circumstances which coincide with Mr. Dixon’s firing, there are very real concerns regarding the veracity of the allegations, motivations behind the charges, and fairness of the subsequent investigation. The community and parties involved request, and justice dictates, that this matter receives full and fair consideration. I respectfully request that you review this matter to ensure a fair and timely investigation of Faris C. Dixon, Jr. is completed by the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation. If you have any questions regarding this inquiry, please contact me or Brandon Coleman on my staff at (202) 225-3101. Thank you very much. Very truly yours, G. K. Butterfield Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Roy Cooper, North Carolina Attorney General Mr. B.W. Collier, Director, North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
10.16.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – The Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will hold its annual U.S. Service Academy Day on Saturday, October 18, 2014 from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at the Paramount Theatre in Goldsboro, N.C. Service Academy Day is an important opportunity for prospective students, parents, guidance counselors, and members of the academic community to speak directly with representatives and cadets from each of the U.S. Service Academies. These Academies include: the U.S. Military Academy (USMA), U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), and U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA). Representatives will provide detailed information on each academy’s programs, nomination and admission process, and answer any related questions. Service academies offer students an excellent four-year education, as well as an opportunity to serve their country. Upon graduation, students receive a bachelor’s degree and a commission in the uniformed services. This event is free and open to the public. Please confirm your attendance at Butterfield’s Service Academy Day. For more information on U.S. Service Academies and the nomination process, visit HERE. WHO: The Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield, the U.S. Military Academy (USMA), U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), and U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA). WHAT: U.S. Service Academy Day WHEN: Saturday, October 18, 2004, 9:00 AM to 12:00 PM WHERE: Paramount Theatre, 139 S. Center Street, Goldsboro, N.C. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
10.08.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) tonight released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s decision to stay the ruling of the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals in Louis Duke v. State of North Carolina: “I am deeply disappointed with the Supreme Court’s decision to stay the 4th Circuit’s decision in Louis Duke v. North Carolina. The Supreme Court is continuing to dismantle the Voting Rights Act, which is a signal to states to pass discriminatory elections laws. There is a concerted effort to dilute the vote of minority citizens by erecting procedural hurdles that discourage them from voting. If we believe that an active and engaged electorate is a key element of the American experience and crucial to the health of our society, it is essential that courts end these discriminatory practices and fully restore the right to vote. “The Supreme Court’s regressive decision is a step in the wrong direction. While this certainly is an unexpected and unwelcomed hurdle, I remain positive that the cases challenging North Carolina’s Voter ID law will succeed on its merits at trial and all North Carolinians will once again enjoy their full, unobstructed Constitutional right to participate in our electoral process.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
10.01.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement regarding the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals ruling in Louis Duke v. State of North Carolina to grant a preliminary injunction blocking several changes to North Carolina voting laws: “Although today’s ruling did not go as far as I hoped in blocking all the changes to the state’s election laws, I’m very pleased that the 4th Circuit Court prevented the state from ending same-day voter registration and out-of-precinct voting. This ruling clearly shows that the Republican-led legislature violated the rights of voters, as defined by the Voting Rights Act and the U.S. Constitution, when they pushed through a discriminatory bill. I’m optimistic that the plaintiffs will ultimately be successful in their challenge to overturn all provisions of the state’s new voting law—particularly the requirement to show identification at the polls. I’m confident that today’s decision is one of many wins to come in reversing North Carolina’s suppressive election laws, and in restoring fairness and access for all in our voting process.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
09.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today cheered the President’s signing of H.J. Res 120, a bill Butterfield introduced to approve the location selected for a memorial that will recognize the thousands of slaves and free African Americans who fought for America’s independence during the American Revolution. “For generations, historians estimated that at least 5,000 African Americans – both slaves and free – fought for American independence. Revised estimates now show more than 10,000 brave men joined in the fight. At least 252 of these patriots came from North Carolina, and at least 109 came from counties which now comprise much of my congressional district. “The memorial that will eventually be constructed to honor tens of thousands of slaves and free African Americans who helped to secure American independence during the American Revolution will be a fitting tribute to their heroic actions that helped shape the very foundation of our great nation. “There are over two million descendants of these Revolutionary War patriots nationwide. This memorial will show the nation and world that the sacrifices of African Americans – both slaves and free – who took up arms to secure America’s independence are not forgotten. “I thank President Obama, Senator Chris Murphy (CT), and Representatives Doc Hastings (WA) and Peter DeFazio (OR) for helping to ensure the swift passage and enactment of H.J. Res 120. I particularly thank the late-Representative Donald Payne, Sr. (NJ) who conceived this idea to honor these brave men and their descendants in a permanent and meaningful way.” Federal law requires that the location for the memorial identified by the Administrator of the General Services Administration be formally approved by Congress within 150 days of receiving the recommendation by the GSA Administrator. H.J. Res 120 passed the House and Senate earlier this month. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
09.19.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) introduced a bipartisan bill to designate two highways as “future interstates” that will better connect Seymour Johnson Air Force Base, Cherry Point Marine Corps Air Station, and the Port of Morehead City with the rest of North Carolina and the eastern seaboard. H.R. 5561, or the Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act of 2014, is cosponsored by Congressman Walter Jones (NC-03) and will enable transportation improvements to U.S. Highways 70 and 117. Specifically, H.R. 5561 will guarantee the east-west U.S. Highway 70 corridor from Raleigh to the Port of Morehead City will be built to interstate standards and prioritized when allocating funding for federal highways. The legislation seeks to also connect the north-south Interstate 795 corridor from the City of Goldsboro to Interstate 40 by ensuring improvements to a section of U.S. Highway 117. The bill will improve access to area military installations, support the growth of the Port at Morehead City, and make Raleigh more accessible to eastern North Carolinians. “Improving access to eastern North Carolina is essential to supporting our military and boosting economic development and job creation,” Butterfield said. “The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act would connect military bases and cities throughout eastern North Carolina with an important port, the state capital, and the entire eastern seaboard. This plan will benefit eastern North Carolina by improving military readiness and commerce, stimulating job creation, and reducing traffic congestion.” “These future interstates will benefit the entire state of North Carolina,” said Congressman Jones. “Eastern North Carolinians will have easier access to other parts of the state and there will be easier access to the Port of Morehead City and our military bases. When interstate travel is made more efficient it will spur job creation and greater opportunities for Eastern North Carolinians, in addition to easing traffic.” The Federal Highway Administration estimates that $1 billion in transportation funding can support approximately 30,000 jobs which are critical to economic development in eastern North Carolina. Passing legislation to designate the highways as future interstates is the first step in Butterfield’s plan to build a strong transportation network, put North Carolinians to work, and strengthen the economy of eastern North Carolina. H.R. 5561 is supported by the U.S. 70 Corridor Commission. The Wayne County Transportation Committee, many local governmental entities, chambers of commerce, and regional transportation associations are supportive of designating U.S. Highways 70 and 117 as future interstates. The Military Corridor Transportation Act of 2014 can be considered as part of the annual Surface Transportation Reauthorization Bill, which may be considered in the U.S. House of Representatives in November. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
09.19.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the death of Dr. John T. Daniel of Durham, N.C.: “I’m deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Dr. John T. Daniel. Dr. Daniel was a world-class physician and surgeon, and a highly-respected steward of the Durham community. He achieved many firsts in his remarkable career, including serving as the first African American President of the North Carolina Board of Medical Examiners, as the Medical Director for the North Carolina Mutual Life Insurance Company, and as Assistant Clinical Professor of Surgery at Duke University Medical Center. For more than forty years, Dr. Daniel used his talents to help heal the sick and console the grieving. His presence and contribution will be sorely missed. I extend my deepest condolences to his family.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
09.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the judicial nomination of Ms. Loretta Copeland Biggs by the President of the United States: “I commend President Obama’s nomination of Judge Loretta Copeland Biggs for the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina. Loretta is a long-time friend and colleague that is eminently qualified to serve in this capacity. She has a remarkable legal mind, and broad legal experience that I’m certain will be of great benefit to the federal bench. I’m encouraged by the bipartisan support she appears to have, and I look forward to her swift confirmation.” Judge Loretta Copeland Biggs has been a partner at Allman Spry Davis Leggett & Crumpler, PA, since May 2014 and previously was a partner and managing shareholder at Davis Harwell & Biggs, PA, from 2003 to 2014. From 2001 to 2002, Judge Biggs served as a Judge on the Court of Appeals of North Carolina. From 1994 to 2001, she worked in the United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of North Carolina, serving as Executive Assistant United States Attorney from 1997 to 2001. Judge Biggs also served as a Judge on the Forsyth County District Court from 1987 to 1994 and as an Assistant District Attorney in Forsyth County from 1984 to 1987. She began her legal career as Staff Counsel for The Coca-Cola Company from 1979 to 1982. Judge Biggs received her J.D. with honors in 1979 from Howard University School of Law and her B.A. cum laude in 1976 from Spelman College. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
09.15.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the U.S. Department of Education’s award of a Federal TRIO programs grant to The Renaissance Education Group, Incorporated in Durham, North Carolina. The $125,000 grant will assist low-income students, disadvantaged youth, and first generation college students in North Carolina by strengthening the training of TRIO educators in the state. “A strong educational foundation is becoming increasingly important for North Carolinians to compete in today’s global economy. TRIO programs are absolutely essential to enable many low-income North Carolinians and first generation college students to receive a quality education and prepare to enter the workforce,” said Butterfield. The Renaissance Education Group fills an important role in the Durham community by providing educational programs and services to low-income communities, disadvantaged youth, and other organizations who serve similar constituents. Incorporated in 2006, the Renaissance Education Group has promoted the principles of the Harlem Renaissance of the 1920’s and 1930’s which was a period of economic and community growth for low-income and minority communities in New York City. The TRIO grant will enable the Renaissance Education Group to provide additional support and training to North Carolinians for the next two years. “This grant will enrich the entire Durham region and strengthen educational outcomes for North Carolinians who most need assistance, and I thank Education Secretary Arne Duncan for recognizing this opportunity and awarding this grant,” said Butterfield. Congressman Butterfield has been a longtime supporter of TRIO programs which serve almost 800,000 students and adults across the country. TRIO programs can be found throughout North Carolina’s First Congressional District at institutions of higher learning and non-profit organizations. In April, Butterfield sent a letter to the House Committee on Appropriations requesting an increase in TRIO funding in 2015. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
09.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), former civil rights attorney and judge, will return to his alma mater, North Carolina Central University, to participate in a special topics class as a guest lecturer on “The Politics of Race and Crime in a Democratic Society” at 12:00 p.m. on Friday, September 12, 2014. The class will focus on the role race and class plays in crafting and establishing criminal justice and public policies. The class is open to the NCCU community and to campus and local media. Space is limited. WHO: Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) Democratic Chief Deputy Whip First Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus Ranking Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee Former Civil Rights Attorney and Judge WHAT: Congressman Butterfield to lecture on race and politics in America at North Carolina Central University. WHEN: Friday, September 12th, 12:00 PM – 1:00 PM WHERE: North Carolina Central University Edmonds Building, Room 105 1801 Fayetteville Street Durham, NC 27701 https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
09.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and David Price (NC-04) announced today that the City of Durham has been awarded $222,700 in funding from the United States Department of Transportation’s TIGER IV program for the Duke Beltline Trail Master Plan: “I’ve been working with the City for over a decade on the Duke Beltline Trail Master Plan, which will make Durham an even better place to live,” said Representative Price. “The Department of Transportation TIGER grant is a smart investment that will create new outdoor recreation and transportation opportunities for residents of central Durham.” The Duke Beltline Trail Master Plan will turn a 2-mile stretch of historic Norfolk-Southern rail corridor into a crescent trail connecting Duke Park with downtown Durham. The trail will be open to walkers, bikers, and horseback riders. “As the City of Durham and the Triangle area continue to grow it becomes even more vital to invest intelligently in ways to make the area more livable and more connected,” Representative Butterfield said. “The future of transportation in North Carolina must enable people to access different modes of transport easily and improve the quality of life by providing opportunities for people to stay active. This TIGER grant is positive for people who live in, work in, or visit Durham, and I thank Secretary Foxx for supporting this project.” Since the signing of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act in 1976, rails-to-trails projects have created over 20,000 miles of healthier spaces nationwide, including the American Tobacco Trail. The Duke Beltline will join a network of trails connecting Durham, Wake, and Chatham counties. A conversion of the Beltline into trail use has been part of the Durham Trails and Greenways Master Plan since 2001. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
09.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the U.S. Department of Transportation’s award of a Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) VI grant to the North Carolina & Virginia Railroad Company. The $5.8 million grant is vital to the modernization of freight rail in Bertie, Halifax, and Northampton counties. The project stands to better interconnect eastern North Carolina businesses with the rest of the country and boost the region’s economy. “Upgrading eastern North Carolina’s infrastructure to better connect our businesses to the global economy is critical to our state’s long-term economic competitiveness,” said Butterfield. “This investment in Bertie, Halifax, and Northampton counties has the potential to enhance the entire eastern North Carolina region. Specifically, these funds will enable the North Carolina & Virginia Railroad Company to develop a modern 52-mile freight corridor through the heart of eastern North Carolina and increase transportation options for commerce in North Carolina’s First Congressional District. I thank Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx for recognizing the importance of this project and awarding this grant.” Jim Irvin, President of North Carolina & Virginia Railroad Company said, “This grant supports a project that will be an economic game-changer for eastern North Carolina, both to help the existing industries that need modern, efficient rail freight service and to attract new industry to the region. Thanks goes to Congressman Butterfield, North Carolina DOT, U.S. DOT, and our local communities and customers for their support to make this project a reality.” Butterfield has been integral to North Carolina & Virginia Railroad Company’s efforts to support freight transportation in eastern North Carolina, strengthen the economy, and create jobs. In addition to discussing the company’s application with Secretary Foxx, Butterfield sent a letter of support on the project’s behalf to USDOT, and has visited Nucor Steel in Hertford County which stands to benefit from increased freight rail capacity from the project. The Congressman was also instrumental in securing TIGER VI grant awards for the Duke Belt Line Trail in Durham, North Carolina, and for the Carolinian and Piedmont rail lines between Raleigh and Charlotte. Last year Butterfield also helped secure $10 million in the previous round of TIGER grants for the City of Goldsboro to complete the city’s Center Streetscape and Union Station projects. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
09.05.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the selection of Stacey Franklin Jones as Elizabeth City State University Chancellor: “I congratulate Dr. Stacey Franklin Jones on being named the new chancellor of Elizabeth City State University. Dr. Jones credentials and accomplishments are nothing short of exemplary, making her the obvious choice for this position. I am confident that her leadership and vision will help the university grow and thrive during this difficult period.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
08.06.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) has introduced H.R. 5323, the Medical Leave for Veterans Act. The bill seeks to ensure that newly-hired returning veterans with service-connected disabilities who are full-time Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employees are able to receive the medical care they need without having to take unpaid leave. Under current law, full-time Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employees accrue a total of 104 hours, or 13 days, of annual sick leave. While unused annual sick leave may be carried over from year to year, first-year full-time VA employees start their careers in the federal workforce with a zero sick leave balance. This lack of initial leave for full-time VA workers in their first year on the job is particularly onerous for those who are also disabled veterans. “I am pleased to introduce this important bill with Representatives Jones, Lynch, and Price that will enable disabled veterans working for the VA to receive the care they need and have earned,” Congressman G. K. Butterfield said. “Too often disabled veterans must take unpaid leave during their first year of public service to attend medical appointments or physical therapy due to service-connected disability. This bill will benefit veterans working at VA facilities in Durham, Elizabeth City, Goldsboro, Greenville, and throughout North Carolina. I urge my colleagues to pass this bill to enable employees of the VA who are veterans to access the care they need without sacrificing their livelihoods.” Specifically, Butterfield’s bill would: Provide first-year VA employees with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or greater with 104 hours of “Medical Leave for Veterans” for the purposes of undergoing medical treatment for their disability. Require the Secretary of the VA to implement a system for certification for such leave. Limit any unused “Medical Leave for Veterans” from being carried over to the following year. Provide medical leave to all first-year VA veteran employees with service-related disability, including non-combat related injuries. It also covers employees as defined in chapters 73 or 74 of title 38, U.S.C., and includes physicians, dentists, registered nurses, optometrists, physician assistants, and podiatrists. If passed, the Veterans Medical Leave Act would take effect one year after enactment, and require the VA to issue regulations within six months of enactment. The bill is cosponsored by Representatives Walter Jones (NC-03), Stephen Lynch (MA-08), and David Price (NC-04), and compliments H.R. 5229 which impacts title 5 federal employees, but not title 38 VA employees, with service-connected disabilities. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement after the Republican-led House of Representatives passed a resolution, H. Res. 676, to allow Speaker John Boehner and House Republicans to sue President Obama for using executive authority to delay implementation of the employer mandate provision of the Affordable Care Act: “Never before in the history of the United States Congress has there been ‘institutional litigation’ between two equal branches of government. Passage of this resolution and initiation of a lawsuit without Senate authorization is an overreach of power by House Republicans that threatens the integrity of our federal government and erodes the checks and balance system we have long cherished in this country. “Republicans are using this misguided and politically motivated resolution to continue to discredit President Obama. Every day that President Obama has occupied the oval office, Republicans have attacked him, his ideas, and those in his cabinet. They have denied the American people a well-functioning government with political stunts like this, the government shutdown, and sequestration. “Republicans fail to understand that the House, as an institution, as a subset of the Congress cannot by itself enforce a legislative enactment. It must be bicameral. Otherwise, in the future, the House or the Senate acting alone could allege a constitutional violation and get their day in Court. If a President is unhappy with the House or the Senate, she could just allege a constitutional violation and have the Courts settle that dispute as well. “This nonsensical resolution will also give Speaker Boehner unbridled discretion and an open tab to incur legal costs that will add to the deficit Republicans incessantly bemoan. “Republicans have long opposed the employer mandate. Pursuing this lawsuit that would undermine the enforcement of the employer mandate only highlights their hypocrisy. I hope that Americans will see through and reject this is as a thinly veiled and ill-advised strategy to set the stage for an impeachment proceeding should Republicans gain a majority in the Senate next year. This is a very sad day in the House. They have reached a new low.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Reps. G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) and Hank Johnson (D-GA) marked the 49th anniversary of the enactment of Medicare and Medicaid. President Lyndon Johnson signed Medicare and Medicaid into law on July 30, 1965. “Forty-nine years ago, Democrats created Medicare and Medicaid; over nearly half a century, we have sustained them; now and into the future, we will protect them,” stated Rep. Butterfield. This spring, Republicans once again passed a House GOP budget that ends Medicare as we know it and turns this sacred initiative into a privatized voucher plan, increasing future health costs for seniors. “On the 49th anniversary of the enactment of Medicare, I will stand with our seniors and recommit to rejecting plans that will end Medicare as we know it and increase costs,” said Rep. Butterfield. “Democrats have also been working to strengthen Medicare,” Rep. Johnson said. “The Affordable Care Act contains several provisions to improve Medicare. The ACA provides free Medicare coverage for key preventive services and it also has created significant savings for many seniors by providing discounts on their drugs for those in the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole’ coverage gap.” Since the Affordable Care Act was enacted, people with Medicare in Georgia have saved $327 million on prescription drugs. So far in 2014 alone, more than 47,000 individuals in Georgia saved $39 million, or an average of $835 per enrollee. In North Carolina, people with Medicare have saved $359 million on prescription drugs. So far in 2014 alone, 56,000 individuals in North Carolina saved $41 million, or an average of $741 per enrollee. Furthermore, there is lots of other good news about how the ACA has benefited Medicare enrollees: Since the passage of the Affordable Care Act, the life of the Medicare Trust Fund has been extended by 13 years. The provisions of the ACA have played a critical role in helping to extend the Trust Fund. The growth rate in Medicare spending per person has fallen dramatically – falling from an annual average growth rate per person of 6.3 percent in 2000-2008 to 2.0 percent in 2009-2012. Lower Medicare spending means lower cost sharing and lower premiums for Medicare enrollees. For example, after having grown rapidly under President George W. Bush, the Medicare Part B premium did not increase at all in 2014 – remaining at the 2013 level – and it is projected it will remain again at the 2013 level in 2015. “Democrats are also proud of the health security being provided to millions of Americans by the Medicaid program,” Rep. Butterfield added. More than 60 million Americans are currently enrolled in Medicaid. In addition, for those states that have chosen to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act, the ACA has made a tremendous difference already. According to a study by the nonpartisan Commonwealth Fund, in states that expanded Medicaid, the uninsured rate for poor adults has dropped from 28 percent to 17 percent, whereas in states that have refused to expand Medicaid, the uninsured rate for low-income adults has only dropped from 38 percent to 36 percent. “As we celebrate the anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid, I am determined to continue to strengthen them,” Rep. Johnson said. “Over the last 49 years, Democrats have fought vigorously to enact Medicare and Medicaid and protect them and we will not stop.” www.facebook.com/MedicaidExpansionCaucus ###
07.28.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) joined Mayor Adam O’Neal during the final leg of his near 300-mile walk from Belhaven, NC to Washington, DC. Republican Mayor O’Neal began his walk two weeks ago to protest the state’s refusal to expand Medicaid following the closing of the only hospital in the Belhaven region. Congressman Butterfield, co-chair of the new State Medicaid Expansion Caucus in the U.S. House of Representatives, applauded O’Neal’s efforts to bring attention to Medicaid expansion. Butterfield said, “Mayor O’Neal’s support for Medicaid expansion shows that this is a non-partisan issue. Poor democrats and republicans alike need health insurance. Health care should be a right for all, not a privilege for the few. It must be made available to every American regardless of their income status. The state’s refusal to expand is an injustice not only to the 500,000 North Carolinians it affects, but also to the millions of Americans nationwide being denied expansion in their states. I applaud Mayor O’Neal for his courage and activism, and hope more Republicans will put aside party differences to do what’s right.” To see images and footage from today’s walk, click on pictures and video. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
07.25.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the appointment of former North Carolina Supreme Court Associate Justice Patricia Timmons-Goodson to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. As a Commissioner, Justice Timmons-Goodson will join the 8-member panel in informing the development of national civil rights policy and in enhancing enforcement of federal civil rights laws. “Justice Patricia Timmons-Goodson possesses the experience, judgment and integrity to advance the mission of the Commission in developing sound civil rights policy and overseeing enforcement of civil rights laws,” Butterfield said. “From counseling clients about fair housing to advocating for the restoration of rights of ex-felons, Justice Timmons-Goodson has been committed to protecting civil and human rights throughout her entire career. As a former civil rights attorney and judge, I’m confident that there is no person more capable or fair to join this important commission.” Justice Timmons-Goodson began her legal career as an Assistant District Attorney in North Carolina, where she prosecuted cases both in District and Superior Courts. Subsequently, she was appointed to serve as District Court Judge by former North Carolina Governor James B. Hunt to preside over criminal, domestic, juvenile, and civil cases. She went on to become an Associate Judge of the North Carolina Court of Appeals, where she served on a 12-member intermediate appellate court that ruled on nearly 1500 appeals. Most recently, Justice Timmons-Goodson served as the first African American female Justice of the Supreme Court of North Carolina, and the first African American to serve on the court since Butterfield’s term. Justice Timmons-Goodson completed her undergraduate and law degrees at The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and earned an L.L.M. from Duke University School of Law. The Civil Rights Act of 1957 created the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. Since then, Congress has reauthorized or extended the legislation creating the Commission several times; the last reauthorization being in 1994 by the Civil Rights Commission Amendments Act of 1994. Established as an independent, bipartisan, fact-finding federal agency, the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights’ mission is to inform the development of national civil rights policy and enhance enforcement of federal civil rights laws. The Civil Rights Commission pursues its mission by studying alleged deprivations of voting rights and alleged discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, age, disability, or national origin, or in the administration of justice. The Commission plays a vital role in advancing civil rights through objective and comprehensive investigation, research, and analysis on issues of fundamental concern to the federal government and the public. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
07.23.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Hank Johnson (GA-04), along with more than 30 House colleagues, announced the formation of the State Medicaid Expansion Caucus during a press conference earlier today. Although the caucus will work to amplify all Medicaid-related issues, they will emphasize the need for recalcitrant states to expand Medicaid via floor speeches, op-eds, social media posts, briefings and events. “Expanding Medicaid will ensure access to health care for millions of low-income Americans, said Johnson. “It will bring the security of health insurance to working people who are struggling to make ends meet. But it will also bring billions of dollars into each states economy as people go to work providing care and beneficiaries see improved health outcomes. The people who will benefit from expanding Medicaid are no less deserving of health care than anyone else.” “Twenty four states’ decision to not accept billions of dollars in federal support defies logic and will prove catastrophic for the very people the Medicaid program is intended to help,” Butterfield said. “The public is demanding action in states that have not expanded and members of the State Medicaid Expansion Caucus are tired of inaction. We will continue to press this issue until all 50 states have expanded Medicaid.” The members were joined by representatives from healthcare advocacy groups, including: Families USA; Center on Budget and Policy Priorities; Coalition on Human Needs; the Catholic Health Association of the United States; and the Georgetown Center for Children and Families. Visit here to learn more about the new State Medicaid Expansion Caucus. To view Congressman Butterfield’s floor speech announcing its launch click here. ###
07.18.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) introduced legislation to name the U.S. Post Office in Rich Square the “Chief Joseph E. White, Jr. Post Office Building.” In 2000, Chief White, a twenty-year veteran of the U.S. Navy and a twenty-year law enforcement veteran in Northampton County, was killed in the line of duty during a traffic stop. “Chief Joseph White, Jr. was a patriot, community leader, and a local hero,” Butterfield said. “He personified love, decency and selflessness throughout his 40 year career as a public servant. His service to our nation and to Northampton County should always be remembered and should not be taken lightly. We can pay our tribute to his life and legacy by renaming the Rich Square Post Office in his honor.” Born and raised in Ahoskie, Chief White joined the U.S. Navy at the age of 18 and served for 20 years before retiring. After his naval career, Chief White entered law enforcement where he served as Northampton County deputy sheriff, a corrections officer, and as Chief of Police for both the Woodland and Rich Square Police Departments. Throughout his life, Chief White was heavily involved in his community and family. He was a Deacon and Sunday school teacher, as well as a volunteer firefighter for the Woodland Fire Department. On July 16, 2000, while serving as Chief of Police for the Rich Square Police Department, Chief White was shot and killed five months before his retirement after he stopped a vehicle during an investigation of a possible drive-off at a local gas station. The bill, H.R. 5142, is cosponsored by Representatives Renee Ellmers (NC-02), Walter Jones (NC-03), David Price (NC-04), Howard Coble (NC-06), Mike McIntyre (NC-07), Richard Hudson (NC-08), Robert Pittenger (NC-09), Patrick McHenry (NC-10), and Mark Meadows (NC-11). The post office facility is located at 113 West Jackson Street, Rich Square, N.C. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
07.11.2014	Wilson, NC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) sent a letter to the North Carolina State Board of Elections (NCSBE) asking they approve an early voting plan that does not restrict voters’ access to the polls. Yesterday, the Wilson County Board of Elections approved an early voting plan that excludes Sunday voting and does not provide for any early voting sites outside of the City of Wilson. This misguided decision was made at a public meeting where residents were denied the right to comment prior to the Board voting. Butterfield wrote, “I am extremely concerned about the latest actions taken by the Board because they will ultimately disenfranchise voters and stifle electoral participation. Public support for Sunday voting was clearly demonstrated at yesterday’s Board meeting where two dozen residents attempted to voice support but Board Chairman Robert Brown did not let them speak prior to the vote. Residents of Wilson County were rightfully outraged with their inability to offer public comment during Thursday’s meeting. Restricting voter access amounts to voter suppression, not voter protection.” Because the vote of the Wilson County Board of Elections was not unanimous, the ultimate fate of the plan will be decided by the North Carolina Board of Elections. Butterfield’s letter to the North Carolina State Board of Elections follows. -- July 11, 2014 Mr. Joshua B. Howard Chairman North Carolina State Board of Elections 441 North Harrington Street Raleigh, North Carolina 27603 Dear Chairman Howard: I write regarding the public meeting held by the Wilson County Board of Elections (Board) on Thursday, July 10, 2014. I am extremely concerned about the latest actions taken by the Board because they will ultimately disenfranchise voters and stifle electoral participation. The Board, with a 2 – 1 vote, approved the plan establishing hours and locations for early voting for the November 2014 general election. The plan passed by the Board would add another polling place inside the Wilson city limits bringing the total number of polling places inside the city limits to three with none located in the county. Forty percent of the population of Wilson County lives outside the city limits which will surely be an impediment to their desire to participate in early voting. The plan also excluded Sunday voting. This action will further limit voter participation, particularly among African Americans and senior citizens. I believe this move is the result of recent actions by the General Assembly to make it more difficult to vote. Wilson County has a history of Sunday voting including as recently as the 2012 general election and is widely supported by Wilson County residents. Public support for Sunday voting was clearly demonstrated at yesterday’s Board meeting where two dozen residents attempted to voice support but Board Chairman Robert Brown did not let them speak prior to the vote. Residents of Wilson County were rightfully outraged with their inability to offer public comment during Thursday’s meeting. I understand that because the Board’s vote was not unanimous, the North Carolina State Board of Elections (NCSBE) is compelled to render a decision on the plan. I have been informed that Board member Chip Futrell, who was the dissenting vote to yesterday’s plan, will request to speak at the NCSBE meeting on this issue and present an alternative plan for Wilson County. I respectfully request you permit him to formally address the NCSBE so that the residents of Wilson County will have every opportunity to voice their opinion and have the opportunity to exercise their constitutional right to vote for their candidates of choice. Restricting voter access amounts to voter suppression, not voter protection. I ask that you not participate in this obvious plan to limit voter participation in Wilson County. I request that you enact a fair plan for early voting that will make voting accessible for all citizens. Thank you very much. Very truly yours, G. K. Butterfield Member of Congress cc: Ms. Rhonda K. Amoroso Mr. Joshua D. Malcolm Mr. Paul J. Foley Ms. Maja Knicker Ms. Kim Westbrook Strach Mr. Robert D. Brown Mr. Joel Killion Mr. Chip Futrell Ms. Rena’ Morris Ms. Tasha Bell https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
07.08.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today sent a letter to United States Postal Service (USPS) Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe seeking specifics on the impact of the upcoming change in mailing processing operations at the Rocky Mount Processing and Distribution Facility. In his letter, Butterfield expressed concern over how the proposed changes will affect employees of the Rocky Mount facility and the customers it serves. Butterfield wrote, “While many Americans have adopted electronic forms of communication, there are still areas of our nation, including many parts of my district, which have not received the benefit of widespread broadband connectivity and are highly dependent on the reliability and certainty of postal services. Beyond the important mail processing services the Rocky Mount facility provides, it is also a major employer in an area that continues to recover from the most recent economic downturn. “My constituents and others working at or receiving mail serviced by the Rocky Mount Processing and Distribution Facility are concerned about the practical implications of the proposed changes. I share those concerns and write to request you provide answers to the following questions by Friday, July 11, 2014.” Congressman Butterfield received a letter from USPS last week announcing its intent to move forward with network rationalization of mail processing operations. These changes will affect up to 82 USPS sites nationwide, including its Rocky Mount facility. The USPS cited a $26 billion financial loss, which they attribute to the decline in First-Class mail revenue, wage and benefit inflation, and increasing operating costs, as the reason for the proposed changes. Consequently, the network rationalization could result in employees being reassigned to another USPS facility. Butterfield’s letter to Postmaster General Donahoe follows. -- July 8, 2014 The Honorable Patrick R. Donahoe Postmaster General and Chief Executive Officer United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20260 Dear Mr. Donahoe: I write in response to the June 30, 2014 letter from your office regarding the U.S. Postal Service’s (USPS) network rationalization of mail processing operations. I understand that as part of this nationwide plan, several North Carolina postal facilities, including the Rocky Mount Processing and Distribution Facility in my congressional district, will be impacted. I am very concerned by the proposed changes and what impact they will likely have on the employees of the Rocky Mount facility and the customers it serves. While many Americans have adopted electronic forms of communication, there are still areas of our nation, including many parts of my district, which have not received the benefit of widespread broadband connectivity and are highly dependent on the reliability and certainty of postal services. Beyond the important mail processing services the Rocky Mount facility provides, it is also a major employer in an area that continues to recover from the most recent economic downturn. My constituents and others working at or receiving mail serviced by the Rocky Mount Processing and Distribution Facility are concerned about the practical implications of the proposed changes. I share those concerns and write to request you provide answers to the following questions by Friday, July 11, 2014. When will the announced changes commence at the Rocky Mount Processing and Distribution facility? By what date will those changes be fully implemented? What operations, which employees and how many jobs at the Rocky Mount facility will be affected by the announced network rationalization? How many employees are expected to remain at the Rocky Mount facility? Specifically, how will displaced employees be accommodated during and after the transition of operations to the Raleigh Processing and Distribution Center? If immediate positions are not available for displaced employees, how will they be compensated? I look forward to your response. Thank you very much. Very truly yours, G. K. Butterfield Member of Congress ###
07.02.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement today to mark the 50th anniversary of President Lyndon Johnson enacting the landmark Civil Rights Act on July 2, 1964: “Without question, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is one of the most significant laws in this nation’s history. This 50th anniversary is a time to remember the debt all of us owe to the courageous leaders of the civil rights movement of the 1960s. “This landmark law helped bring an end to the Jim Crow era – banning discrimination of any kind on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. In addition, it provided a long-awaited enforcement mechanism for the integration of schools. “Although the Civil Rights Act of 1964 represented great progress by bringing an end to one fight, it sparked a new battle to safeguard these rights that too many were beaten and killed for. “I call upon all Americans to take pause on this historic occasion, and to continue to help America live up to our creed that all individuals are created equal.” ###
06.27.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Kay Hagan and Congressman G.K. Butterfield introduced legislation in the Senate and House that will protect the ability of North Carolinians harmed by toxic chemicals to seek legal recourse, including Marines harmed by contaminated drinking water at Camp Lejeune and families exposed to toxic chemicals at the CTS superfund site near Asheville. A recent Supreme Court ruling could prevent these individuals and families from pursuing legal recourse, and Hagan and Butterfield’s legislation clarifies that federal law preempts state laws that limit the timeframe in which damages could be recovered for injuries and diseases that often do not appear for decades after toxic exposure. “This legislation clarifies the intent of existing federal law and addresses the Supreme Court’s recent ruling that delivered a major blow to the servicemembers and families affected by the water contamination at Camp Lejeune and the CTS site, making it nearly impossible for these victims to seek justice under the law,” Hagan said. “One short-sighted decision by the U.S. Supreme Court should not stand in the way of getting these victims the answers and justice they deserve.” “North Carolinians and people across the country deserve protection from hazardous substances with the potential to endanger public health and the environment,” Butterfield said. “Those who release harmful substances into the environment have a responsibility to clean up contamination and address any suffering they have caused. This bill protects federal Superfund law as we know it, holds polluters accountable, and defends the rights of communities in North Carolina and across the country.” In 2012, Hagan helped pass the bipartisan Honoring America's Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act, which ensured that those who were exposed to contaminated water at Camp Lejeune will receive the health care they need and deserve from the VA. She was also instrumental in ensuring that the Department of Defense released documents related to the water contamination to the public. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
06.25.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement today on the one-year anniversary of the Selby County v. Holder ruling: “In the year since the Supreme Court overturned Section 4 of the 1965 Voting Rights Act (VRA) in Shelby County v. Holder, many Republican-led states passed laws that severely diminish Americans right to vote. “In my home state of North Carolina, Governor Pat McCrory and his party members have destroyed the progressive reputation for voting inclusion the state has long held. With one stroke of his pen, McCrory reversed 50 years of progress toward expanding access to the voting booth, and enacted a new voting law that discriminates against poor, minority, college age, and elderly voters. “Without question, North Carolina’s voting laws are now the most restrictive in the country. As a young lawyer, I began my legal career advocating for equity in voting. Now, as a Member of Congress, I continue to fight these overtly discriminatory and racially motivated initiatives. “Those whose chief goal is to maintain political power at the cost of disenfranchising thousands of North Carolinians must be stopped. I continue to call on my congressional colleagues to pass a bill that will fully reinstate the protections of the VRA and undo the discriminatory voting policies enacted in North Carolina and across the country. We must protect the right to vote for all.” ###
06.20.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released a letter to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Tom Wheeler concerning increased connectivity and broadband access to underrepresented areas. The letter, which was cosigned by 18 of his congressional colleagues, urges swift action by Chairman Wheeler to modernize President’s Obama ConnectED initiative that will provide students with high-capacity broadband services and high-speed wireless in time to be of use to schools during the next E-rate funding year. In his letter, Congressman Butterfield writes, “A failure to modernize E-Rate will further entrench the digital divide. For many of our under-represented and underserved communities, high-capacity broadband access at schools and libraries is absolutely essential. This can be particularly true in suburban and rural areas. A recent analysis demonstrated that the wealthiest school districts in the country are almost twice as likely as the average school to have adequate broadband speeds. The schools serving the most financially challenged students are 30 percent less likely than average to have access to the same bandwidth. This is the case even though the E-rate fund is set up to provide the greatest discounts to the poorest schools—program modernizations should ensure improved outcomes for schools and libraries serving the lowest income communities. “The technological priorities of the E-rate program should be updated to fit current needs. Children require connectivity in the classroom, and technologies such as Wi-Fi which bring the Internet into classrooms should receive a greater emphasis than when E-rate was created in 1996.” The Congressman’s full letter follows. June 20, 2014 The Honorable Tom Wheeler Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street, SW Washington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Wheeler: E-rate modernization, as part of the President Obama’s ConnectEd proposal, is essential to improve equitable educational opportunities for all children and to connect 99 percent of all American students with access to next generation, high-capacity broadband services and high-speed wireless. While the E-rate program has been successful at bringing technology and telecommunications into the classroom, improvements to bring the program up-to-date are needed. We urge you to move promptly to ensure that the most commonsense changes are implemented in time to be of use to schools during the next E-rate funding year and beyond. A failure to modernize E-Rate will further entrench the digital divide. For many of our under-represented and underserved communities, high-capacity broadband access at schools and libraries is absolutely essential. This can be particularly true in suburban and rural areas. A recent analysis demonstrated that the wealthiest school districts in the country are almost twice as likely as the average school to have adequate broadband speeds. The schools serving the most financially challenged students are 30 percent less likely than average to have access to the same bandwidth. This is the case even though the E-rate fund is set up to provide the greatest discounts to the poorest schools—program modernizations should ensure improved outcomes for schools and libraries serving the lowest income communities. The technological priorities of the E-rate program should be updated to fit current needs. Children require connectivity in the classroom, and technologies such as Wi-Fi which bring the Internet into classrooms should receive a greater emphasis than when E-rate was created in 1996. As you recently noted, “’connectivity’ used to mean connecting to the school; today it means connections to each student.” In order to have the greatest impact and to meet the President’s ConnectED goals, updates to E-rate must focus on broadband capacity and infrastructure, transparency, accountability, and simplified administrative process, all of which will enable schools to select the fastest technologies at the lowest prices and stretch scarce program dollars farther. We encourage rapid action now, and comprehensive changes to the program in no less than one year. Implementing changes in time for the next E-rate funding year will have a profoundly positive impact in many areas of the country. There is no time to waste. This year 3.3 million high school seniors graduated relying on an E-rate program geared toward yesterday’s needs. Please act quickly so that today’s sophomores can see the benefits of an improved E-rate before they finish high school, and act comprehensively so that every school can afford the fastest, most economically-efficient technology. Sincerely, __________________ __________________ __________________ G. K. Butterfield Mark Meadows Ruben Hinojosa Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________ __________________ __________________ Walter B. Jones David Scott Richard Hudson Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________ __________________ __________________ Gene Green Sheila Jackson Lee Bobby Rush Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________ __________________ __________________ Hank Johnson Cedric Richmond Collin Peterson Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________ __________________ __________________ Ben Ray Lujan Sam Farr William Enyart Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________ __________________ __________________ Carol Shea-Porter Steve Cohen Juan Vargas Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress cc: Commissioner Clyburn Commissioner O’Rielly Commissioner Pai Commissioner Rosenworcel ###
06.20.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) “interim response” to his request made last week for an explanation of the long wait times for new mental health patients at the Durham Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC), and the 79-day discrepancy in reported wait times by the Durham VAMC and the Veterans Health Administration (VHA): “I am deeply troubled that the VA did not provide clear, sufficient and complete responses regarding the wait times that new mental health patients at the Durham VAMC are facing, particularly after the VA received more time to respond. “Their ‘interim’ explanation that the average wait times reported by the Durham VAMC are ‘retrospective,’ while the Veterans Health Administration’s wait times are ‘prospective’ is completely misleading and is not helpful to me, veterans in North Carolina, or the public. “I strongly urge the Acting Under Secretary for Health to provide a thorough response to my questions by Wednesday, June 25th. And I hope a more serious attempt to respond is made by the Acting Under Secretary than the one I received today.” The VA’s response to Congressman Butterfield can be found here <https://butterfield.hdvdevedit1.house.gov/sites/butterfield.house.gov/files/14%206%2020%20VA%20INTERIM%20RESPONSE.pdf> . https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
06.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and David Price (NC-04) released a letter urging Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy for tougher standards regarding the storage and disposal of coal ash. Their letter, which is cosigned by 83 members of Congress, presses for stricter standards and enforcement under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act by year’s end, and follows several recent coal ash spills, including the Dan River spill in North Carolina in March. The congressmen write, “It appears we are only now beginning to see the alarming truth about coal ash in our communities. It is troubling that it has taken large coal ash spills like those in North Carolina and Tennessee to mobilize stakeholders to engage in a frank dialogue about its dangers and propose changes to mitigate those hazards. Those catastrophes could have been avoided and we owe it to all Americans to put the necessary safeguards in place to ensure similar disasters do not occur in the future.” Coal ash is the byproduct left from coal combustion. Although it can be safely reused, if it is not stored properly the chemicals in coal ash can contaminate ground water, posing significant harm to human health and the environment. “Coal ash can enter the watershed through the catastrophic failure of an impoundment wall or can slowly leach into groundwater and surface water when the impoundment is unlined,” wrote Butterfield and Price. “Our constituents deserve to be able to count on safe drinking water and to have their waterways protected from harmful contaminants.” Supporters of the rule include Representatives Blumenauer, Brownley, Capps, Cartwright, Castor, Christensen, Cicilline, Cleaver, Cohen, Connolly, Conyers, Jr., Courtney, Cummings, DeGette, DeLauro, Deutch, Doggett, Edwards, Ellison, Engel, Eshoo, Esty, Farr, Fattah, Grayson, Grijalva, Gutiérrez, Himes, Holt, Honda, Huffman, Israel, Jackson Lee, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Hank Johnson, Keating, Robin Kelly, Kuster, Langevin, Lee, Levin, Lewis, Lofgren, Lowenthal, Lynch, Carolyn Maloney, Matsui, McCollum, McDermott, McGovern, Michaud, George Miller, Moran, Nadler, Norton, Pallone, Pascrell, Scott Peters, Shea-Porter, Pingree, Quigley, Rangel, Roybal-Allard, Ruppersberger, Rush, Sarbanes, Schakowsky, Schiff, Schneider, Schwartz, Bobby Scott, Serrano, Sherman, Slaughter, Adam Smith, Speier, Mike Thompson, Tierney, Tonko, Tsongas, Van Hollen, Waters, and Waxman. The complete letter to Administrator McCarthy follows. June 17, 2014 The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator United States Environmental Protection Agency Ariel Rios Building 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20460 Dear Administrator McCarthy: We write to respectfully urge the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to finalize strong federal standards for the safe disposal of coal ash under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) by the end of 2014. We support a final coal ash rule which establishes federal backstop protections including financial assurance, enforceable deadlines, and stringent requirements for coal ash management and cleanup. We encourage the EPA to finalize protections that phase out dangerous wet impoundments, including those at legacy sites, and ensure that facilities use protective liners and groundwater monitoring to safeguard against contamination. Coal ash, the byproduct left from coal combustion, has several safe reuses but excess coal ash is often stored in more than 400 landfills and more than 1,000 wet impoundments near power plants across the country. Chemicals in coal ash can be harmful to human health and the environment if storage impoundments fail and they contaminate ground water, streams, rivers, or lakes. Coal ash can enter the watershed through the catastrophic failure of an impoundment wall or can slowly leach into groundwater and surface water when the impoundment is unlined. Our constituents deserve to be able to count on safe drinking water and to have their waterways protected from harmful contaminants. Major coal ash spills in 2014 into the Dan River in North Carolina and in 2008 in Kingston, Tennessee are examples of full impoundment failures and show that our constituents must be better protected. Both spills originated from wet coal ash impoundments located near power plants adjacent to rivers where the failure of impoundment walls sent harmful chemicals directly into the waterways. The Dan River spill caused coal ash to travel 70 miles downstream and the Kingston spill caused more than one billion gallons of coal ash to enter the water supply and destroyed residential communities. The EPA has evaluated wet coal ash impoundments across the country and found more than 300 sites which would endanger human life, or cause significant economic, environmental, or infrastructure damage if full failures occurred. Far more common than full impoundment failure is the slow leaching of coal ash contaminants from wet impoundments into ground and surface waters. The majority of wet impoundments across the country lack adequate liners and groundwater monitoring systems. The EPA has identified more than 200 cases of water contamination from coal ash in 27 states. It appears we are only now beginning to see the alarming truth about coal ash in our communities. It is troubling that it has taken large coal ash spills like those in North Carolina and Tennessee to mobilize stakeholders to engage in a frank dialogue about its dangers and propose changes to mitigate those hazards. Those catastrophes could have been avoided and we owe it to all Americans to put the necessary safeguards in place to ensure similar disasters do not occur in the future. Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to its timely resolution. Sincerely, G. K. BUTTERFIELD DAVID PRICE Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
06.12.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released a letter to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Legislative Affairs Joan Mooney expressing serious concerns over reports of exceptionally long wait times for patients at the Durham Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC). On Monday, the U. S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ Nationwide Access Audit revealed that new patients at the Durham VAMC are waiting an average of 104 days for mental health appointments, the longest of any VA healthcare facility in the country. In his letter, Congressman Butterfield states, “Particularly troubling is that Durham VAMC challenged the validity of the average wait times for new patient mental health appointments. Yesterday, the Durham VAMC, through a press release claimed that it is not able to validate the data in the Nationwide Access Audit and that, ‘according to a June 9 VSSC report covering fiscal year 2014 to date, more than 58% of new mental health patients were seen within 14 days and the overall average wait time for a new patient appointment was 25 days to the first visit.’ “These conflicting claims within the same Department are a glaring example of the systemic failures within the VA healthcare system. The 79 day discrepancy of average wait times at the Durham VAMC is completely unacceptable and demands immediate clarification. Our nation’s veterans deserve true and accurate information.” Butterfield went on to request that Assistant Secretary Mooney provide detailed responses to his questions listed in the letter and explain the conflicting reports by Wednesday, June 18th. The Congressman’s full letter with questions follows: June 11, 2014 The Honorable Joan Mooney Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Legislative Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20420 Dear Assistant Secretary Mooney: The Department of Veterans Affairs’ Nationwide Access Audit has revealed many troubling failures throughout the Department’s healthcare system, and I am particularly concerned with the revelation of extensive wait times for new patients seeking an appointment for mental health issues at the Durham Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) in Durham, North Carolina. According to the Department’s audit released on Monday, new patients are waiting an average of 104 days for new patient mental health appointments. I am informed that this wait time is the longest of any VA healthcare facility in the country. Particularly troubling is that Durham VAMC challenged the validity of the average wait times for new patient mental health appointments. Yesterday, the Durham VAMC, through a press release claimed that it is not able to validate the data in the Nationwide Access Audit and that, “according to a June 9 VSSC report covering fiscal year 2014 to date, more than 58% of new mental health patients were seen within 14 days and the overall average wait time for a new patient appointment was 25 days to the first visit.” These conflicting claims within the same Department are a glaring example of the systemic failures within the VA healthcare system. The 79 day discrepancy of average wait times at the Durham VAMC is completely unacceptable and demands immediate clarification. Our nation’s veterans deserve true and accurate information. I ask that you provide detailed answers to the following questions no later than Wednesday, June 18, 2014: What is the average wait time for new patient mental health appointments at the Durham VAMC? Why does the press release distributed by Durham VAMC directly contradict the Veteran’s Administration’s National Access Audit? If the average wait time for new patient mental health appointments at Durham VAMC is indeed 104 days as reported in the Department’s National Access Audit, what specific actions will the Department implement to remedy the wait time faced by veterans? Our nation’s brave veterans put themselves in harm’s way and they deserve the highest quality medical care available. It is our responsibility to ensure they have access to the care they need when they need it and are not subject to intolerable wait times. I respectfully request your prompt attention to this matter, clarification of the contradictions between the figures reported in the Department’s Nationwide Access Audit and the Durham VAMC’s June 10th press release, and detailed responses to the questions above no later than June 18, 2014. Thank you very much. Very truly yours, G. K. Butterfield Member of Congress cc: Daniel F. Hoffmann Network Director Veterans Affairs Mid-Atlantic Health Care Network (VISN 6) ###
06.11.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) introduced a bipartisan bill to designate two highways as a “future interstate” that will originate in Raleigh, North Carolina, and travel through Rocky Mount, Williamston, and Elizabeth City, North Carolina to Norfolk, Virginia. H.R. 4829, or the ROAD Act, is cosponsored by Representatives Walter Jones (NC-03), David Price (NC-04), Howard Coble (NC-06), Mike McIntyre (NC-07), Mark Meadows (NC-11), and Renee Ellmers (NC-02), and will enable transportation improvements to U.S. Highways 17 and 64. Specifically, H.R. 4829 guarantees that the corridor connecting Raleigh and Norfolk is built to interstate standards, travels through eastern North Carolina, and that U.S. Highways 17 and 64 are prioritized when allocating funding for federal highways--saving taxpayers money by improving on existing infrastructure. A portion of U.S. Highway 64 between Raleigh and Interstate 95 was designated as a future interstate last year and, according to the Regional Transportation Alliance (RTA), half of the route already meets federal freeway standards. Butterfield said, “The ROAD Act will help connect eastern North Carolina to our state’s Capitol and to one of the country’s premier ports in Hampton Roads. Our vision to advance transportation in the region will reduce traffic congestion, improve access, and pave the way for job creation and further economic development in North Carolina and Virginia.” The Federal Highway Administration estimates that $1 billion in transportation funding can support approximately 30,000 jobs which are critical to economic development in eastern North Carolina. Passing legislation to designate the highways as a future interstate is the first step in the plan to build a strong transportation network, put North Carolinians to work, and speed the project’s completion. H.R. 4829 is supported by North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory and Secretary of Transportation Tony Tata. Many local governmental entities, chambers of commerce, and regional transportation associations are also supportive of this designation. “I’d like to thank Congressman Butterfield for introducing the ROAD Act today, which is vitally important to economic development in the corridor between Raleigh and Norfolk, Virginia,” said North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory. “Not only is this designation part of our future vision for transportation in our State, it is also key to attracting companies to North Carolina and expanding those that are already here. I, along with DOT Secretary Tony Tata and a bipartisan group of U.S. House Members, stand ready to help get this legislation passed and to the president’s desk for signature.” The ROAD Act will be considered as part of the annual Surface Transportation Reauthorization Bill, which may be considered in the U.S. House of Representatives later this month. https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
06.09.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Nationwide Access Audit: “The release of the Department of Veterans Affairs nation-wide audit highlights the extent to which the VA healthcare system has failed our veterans. The mistreatment of our veterans is not acceptable and the VA must do better. In this report, the VA has identified procedures, areas of care, and facilities in North Carolina and across the country that are in desperate need of reform. I am encouraged by the corrective actions the Department has already began to address these serious problems. However, actions speak louder than words and we need to see results. I am calling on the VA to quickly make meaningful reforms to remedy the problems within the VA healthcare system so our veterans can start receiving the care they deserve. I join every American in demanding that the VA provide high quality healthcare service to our veterans that honors their service to our country.” https://Butterfield.House.Gov ###
06.03.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Tomorrow, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will join Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Regional Administrator Heather McTeer Toney and City of Wilson Mayor C. Bruce Rose at 10:00 a.m. at Vollis Simpson Whirligig Park, 112 Goldsboro Street East, Wilson, N.C. at a ceremony to award the City of Wilson and the Upper Coastal Plain Council of Governments a $1 million Brownfields Revolving Loan Fund Grant and a $400,000 Brownfields Community Assessment Grant, respectively.The grants, funded by the EPA, will enable the recipients to assess, cleanup, and redevelop Brownfields sites, which will help boost local economies and create jobs while protecting public health.Butterfield said, “I applaud the City of Wilson and the Upper Coastal Plain Council of Governments receipt of these grants. Retrofitting formerly polluted sites into safe, usable properties will improve the health of the community and provide opportunities to expand Wilson’s economy. I thank EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy and Regional Administrator Heather McTeer Toney for awarding these much-needed funds to Wilson.”Following the grant ceremony, the Congressman will attend a U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) StrikeForce for Rural Growth and Opportunity outreach meeting at 1: 00 p.m. at Cornerstone Baptist Church, 1095 Allen Road, Greenville, N.C. While there, Butterfield will discuss the importance of the StrikeForce Initiative, which seeks to grow economies, increase investments, and create opportunities in poverty-stricken rural communities in eastern North Carolina.For more information on the EPA grants visit: www.epa.gov/brownfields. Information on the StrikeForce Initiative can be found at: www.usda.gov/strikeforce. ###
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) cheered today’s passage of the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2015 that provides the highest funding level for the National Science Foundation that the agency has ever had. This victory follows Representatives Butterfield and David McKinley (R-WV) urging, through a joint letter that was co-signed by 132 members of Congress, the Chair and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science to fully fund NSF. “I am pleased to see our efforts pay off,” said Butterfield. “The National Science Foundation is the sole federal agency specifically responsible for supporting education and research in science and engineering fields. Fully funding NSF demonstrates the federal government’s commitment to investing in STEM education and fields, and developing a workforce capable of meeting related needs.” The measure provides $232 million (3 percent) more than current funding and $149 million (2 percent) more than requested. The bill passed the House by a 321-87 bipartisan vote. It now heads to the Senate for consideration. ###
05.28.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the death of great American author and poet, Maya Angelou:“This day is one of extreme sadness as we mourn the passing of renowned American poet, best-selling author, and revered civil and women’s rights activist, Dr. Maya Angelou. Through her inspiring written work and commanding oratory skills, Maya Angelou touched the lives of countless people. She dared women to be phenomenal and challenged us all to overcome adversity. She was a voice for good and decency throughout the world. I join millions of people today in mourning this tremendous loss. I extend my deepest condolences to her family and take solace in her incredible legacy that will undoubtedly live on.”###
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4435, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) with provisions authored by Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01). Butterfield successfully offered an amendment to the NDAA that expands the list of documents accepted by the Federal Government to prove service and grant veterans status to a forgotten segment of the Merchant Marine that operated domestically during World War II. Butterfield said, “For decades, brave men and women who served their country during World War II in the Merchant Marine have gone unrecognized for their valiant service. Through no fault of their own, these individuals have been unable to prove their service because the documents needed to prove service have either not survived over time or never existed at all. Today, the House of Representatives did the right thing and took the first step needed to honor these mariners while they are still with us.” Last year, Butterfield introduced H.R. 1288 to make deserving World War II U.S. Merchant Mariners eligible for veterans’ status and certain veterans’ benefits, and has championed the effort to recognize these mariners for the past three Congresses.In October, H.R. 1288 was passed a part H. R. 2189, a bill to improve the processing of disability claims by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs; however, the bill failed to pass the U.S. Senate.The National Defense Authorization Act, with Butterfield’s Merchant Mariner provisions, now heads to the Senate where it will have to be passed and then signed by the President before it becomes law. ###
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today congratulated the City of Durham, N.C. on its receipt of an Environmental Workforce Development and Job Training (EWDJT) program grant from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The $200,000 grant will be used to fund training programs that provide unemployed and under-employed, including veterans, minority, and predominately low income individuals, with the skills and certifications needed to enter careers in the environmental field. The funding also supports job placement and recruitment activities for green jobs.“This grant has the double benefit of helping individuals overcome barriers to employment through receiving training in a new career field, while also working to protect the public health of our local communities and the environment,” said Butterfield. “It is essential that federal, state, and local governments continue to provide opportunities like these to develop a skilled workforce for the jobs of tomorrow. I thank EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy for awarding Durham this grant.”The City of Durham is one of 18 grantees selected to receive a portion of the $3.6 million Environmental Workforce Development and Job Training program grant from the EPA. Graduates of the program develop a comprehensive set of skills to secure full-time, sustainable employment in many areas of the environmental field and average an hourly starting wage of $14.00. Graduates obtain employment in fields such as: recycling, brownfields assessment and cleanup, wastewater treatment, stormwater management, emergency response, oil spill cleanup, solar installation, and Superfund site remediation. Durham plans to use its grant to train 65 students, place 46 graduates in environmental jobs, and track the progress of graduates for at least one year. Since the EWDJT program’s inception in 1998, the EPA has funded 239 job training grants totaling more than $50 million. Roughly 12,800 individuals have completed training, and of those, more than 9,100 have secured employment in the environmental field.More information on environmental workforce development and job training grants can be found here.###
05.11.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the passing of longtime North Carolina Central University Photographer Robert Lawson:"It is with a heavy heart that I express extreme sadness over the passing of my longtime friend and North Carolina Central University photographer, Mr. Robert Lawson. Robert was known by the entire Durham community for his warm spirit and steadfast commitment to his beloved alma mater, NCCU. For more than 50 years, he captured some of the most memorable moments in the university's history--first as a student and then as the school's official photographer before retiring last year. My prayers and condolences are with Robert Lawson's family during this difficult time. He will be sorely missed."###
05.09.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) expressed disappointment that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) denied Governor Pat McCrory's request to make emergency federal funds available through a major disaster declaration for North Carolina. These funds were requested to assist residents in Beaufort, Chowan, Pasquotank, and Perquimans counties after they were hit by severe storms for several days in late April. After learning of the denial, Butterfield held an emergency call with FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate. Butterfield disagreed with FEMA's denial because he saw the devastation first hand when he visited the region after the storm. State officials reported more than 500 homes sustained damage, including 60 homes that were totally destroyed."I am outraged that my constituents in eastern North Carolina are being denied urgently needed federal assistance," said Butterfield. "Hundreds of people have been displaced and need help. This is a time where families whose lives have been upended by the storm need their government the most."Butterfield continues to work with the Governor and the Obama Administration to identify resources to provide assistance to affected families. ###
04.28.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) congratulates Carmen Li of Roanoke Rapids High School, who earned the top honor of “Best in Show” during Saturday’s official awards ceremony for the 2014 Congressional Art Competition themed, An Artistic Discovery. Li, whose charcoal piece entitled “Exhaustion”, was one of 50 students from 14 high schools in North Carolina’s First Congressional District that entered the competition.“It is essential that we nurture and support our youth’s artistic talent to help them realize their gifts and provide platforms to pursue their dreams,” said Butterfield. “I congratulate all of the participating students who competed this year. This is an accomplishment that they should all be most proud of.”The judges, Kenneth Rogers, Director of North Carolina Central University’s Art Museum; Anne Gregory, Artist and Instructor at Durham Arts Council; and Rita Rathbone, Visual Arts Educator and Curriculum Specialist, selected eight finalists from the 62 submissions received based on technique, storytelling, detail, and medium. Li, the competition’s overall winner, will have her artwork displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol for one calendar year and additionally, the chance to qualify for a $3,000 per year scholarship to a prestigious College of Art and Design.The full list of North Carolina’s First District winners follows. Best in ShowCarmen Li of Roanoke Rapids High School, “Exhaustion”1st PlaceDestiny Everette of Durham School of the Arts, “Exciting News”2nd PlaceMadeline Partner of Durham School of the Arts, “Curiously Me”3rd PlaceRegina Bayne of Franklinton High School, “Baby Pit”Honorable MentionRachel Heidelmeier of Rocky Mount High School, “Good Night Moon”LaBria Lloyd of Rocky Mount High School, “(SA)”Brittany Forbes-Epps of KIPP Pride/Gaston College Prep, “Motown Reality”Ivan Martinez-Cortez of Southern School of Energy, “Downtown”###
04.24.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- The Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) announced that more than 500 area residents attended Butterfield’s job fair today. The 1st Annual Jobs & Opportunities Fair featured dozens of employers and professional development experts from federal, state, and local governments, as well as the private and non-profit sectors. Job fair attendees were able to meet one-on-one with prospective employers and receive career-readiness training and tips.Among the employers featured were: Branch Banking & Trust (BB&T), Butner Federal Prisons, Dill Air Control Products, Kindred Healthcare, Kittrell Job Corp, Manpower, Revlon, and Staffmark. “Today’s turnout shows that jobs and the economy remains residents’ first priority,” said Butterfield. “I’m delighted that so many North Carolinians were able to take advantage of this opportunity to receive job hunting tips from qualified experts and to speak with hiring managers face-to-face. I’m confident that today’s event helped residents develop skills to be competitive when searching for new jobs.”The organizations providing career counseling services included the Division of Workforce Solutions, Franklin-Vance-Warren Opportunity, Inc., NCBA-Senior Community Service Employment Program, TRIO-Piedmont Community College, Vance County Department of Social Services, Vance-Granville Community College, and the Vocational Rehabilitation Services.Congressman Butterfield kicked-off the Jobs and Opportunities Fair at 10:00 a.m. with opening remarks, followed by information sessions on Career Readiness, Business Development Strategies, Drug Testing Procedures, and Criminal-Records Rights. From 12:00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. attendees met with prospective employers in the main hall of the job fair.###
04.23.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Tomorrow, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will host the 1st Annual Jobs & Opportunities Fair for residents of Franklin, Vance, Granville, and Warren counties at Henderson Middle School. The fair, which is scheduled from 9:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., will feature dozens of employers and career-training experts that will provide job seekers with resume-writing skills, interviewing tips, and other professional development services.This event is free and open to the public. The media is also encouraged to attend.Additional details below.WHO: The Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield, Franklin-Vance-Warren Opportunity, Vocational Rehabilitation Services, TRIO-Piedmont Community College, Vance County Department of Social Services, Kerr-Tar Workforce Development, Vance-Granville Community College, Altec, Lowes Distribution, Manpower, Dill, Kittrell Job Corps, and many more.WHAT: The1st Annual Job & Opportunities Fair for residents of Franklin, Vance, Granville, and Warren counties.WHERE: Henderson Middle School, 219 Charles Street, Henderson, North Carolina, 27536WHEN: Thursday, April 24, 2014 from 9:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.###
04.23.2014	Durham, NC – After a lesson on how energy is generated the fourth graders taught by Aaron Sebens at the Central Park School for Children decided to take the solutions to global warming into their own hands.To promote clean energy and limit their carbon pollution, the students fundraised for and installed solar panels that provide the classroom with 100% of the electricity it needs. And the students haven’t stopped there: they are currently assembling a wind turbine that will be installed on the school roof in the coming weeks.“We wanted to help the environment,” said fourth grade student Margo Russell. “And clean energy is healthier for people and the planet.”In an event organized by Environment North Carolina, Congressmen G.K Butterfield and David Price stopped by the school on Wednesday to learn more about the class’s clean energy projects and to update the students about their work in Washington, D.C. to limit the impacts of climate change and promote clean energy sources like solar power.The students led the Congressmen on a tour of their projects, explaining how much power the projects produce and how they help protect North Carolina’s air and water. Both Congressmen came away impressed with the student’s efforts. “Every American, every family and every public official has a role to play addressing climate change and finding clean energy solutions that protect the air we breathe and the water we drink,” said Congressman Price. “I am so encouraged to see how students and teachers have confronted these issues head-on. Their project is an impressive reminder that the decisions we make in our schools, homes, businesses and in government directly affect the health of the environment we will pass on to future generations.”“I applaud these students and teachers for their innovative and entrepreneurial spirits, which has helped to highlight the need for energy solutions,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Through this project and campaign, these young people showed us that using solar energy and finding solutions to meet our country’s energy needs is achievable when communities work together. Renewable energy and energy diversity are critical to our future global competitiveness.”After hearing about different ways to generate energy, the fourth graders voted make their classroom solar powered and launched a campaign on kickstarter to raise funds to install enough renewable energy to power their classroom. Their goal was $800, and they raised more than $5,800. With help from their teacher and Carolina Solar Energy, students purchased the panels and installed the units themselves on the school’s rooftop. Under the guidance of King Brothers Electric, they’re now in the process of assembling a wind turbine that will sit alongside the solar panels.Environment North Carolina organized the gathering as part of an effort to highlight how people are already acting across the state to fight global warming.“I think it’s important to show people across North Carolina how communities are already doing a lot to limit the impacts of climate change,” said David Rogers, field director for Environment North Carolina. “These kids are the ones that will need to live with the future impacts, so it’s inspiring to see them already taking the lead.”###
04.21.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- This week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will spend much of the district work period focused on education, the arts and job creation, which will include hosting a job fair.Congressman Butterfield’s public schedule begins on Tuesday at a Veterans Benefits for Justice event at Peace Missionary Baptist Church in Durham. Later in the day, Butterfield will attend the North Carolina Justice Center 16th Annual Defender of Justice Awards Ceremony, where he will be honored with the Legislative and Administrative Advocacy Award for his work in healthcare and poverty.On Wednesday morning, the Congressman will be joined by officials from the U.S. Department of Agriculture at the Northampton County Department of Social Services Ribbon Cutting Ceremony. In the afternoon, Butterfield will attend the Environment N.C. Solar School Tour at the Central Park School for Children, and visit with the innovative and nationally recognized 4th graders that used a Kickstarter campaign to purchase solar panels to power their classroom.On Thursday, Congressman Butterfield will host a Jobs & Opportunities Fair at Henderson Middle School, from 9:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., for the residents of Franklin, Granville, Vance and Warren counties. The Jobs & Opportunities Fair will feature dozens of employers and career-training organizations that will offer help to people looking for jobs. Some of the services will include resume-writing training and interviewing tips.To close the week, Butterfield will also host a First Congressional District Art Competition Awards Reception to recognize all district entrants and to announce this year’s art competition winner. The winning artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year.Butterfield’s full public schedule follows.Tuesday, April 22nd 10:00 AM – 11:00 AMVeterans Benefits for JusticePeace Missionary Baptist Church2608 Apex Highway 55, Durham, NC 6:00 PM – 9:00 PMNorth Carolina Justice Center16th Annual Defender of Justice Awards Ceremony William and Ida Friday Center100 Friday Center Drive, Chapel Hill, NC Wednesday, April 23rd 11:00 AM – 12:00 PM Northampton County Department of Social ServicesRibbon Cutting Ceremony 9588 NC 305 Hwy, Jackson, NC 27845 2:00 PM - 3:00 PM Environment N. C. Solar School TourCentral Park School for Children724 Foster St, Durham, NC Thursday, April 24th 9:30 AM – 3:30 PM Jobs and Opportunities FairThe Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield Henderson Middle School219 Charles Street, Henderson, NC Saturday, April 26th 12:00 PM – 2:00 PM Artistic Discovery: Congressional Arts Competition CeremonyThe Office of G. K. ButterfieldNC Mutual Life Insurance Building411 W. Chapel Hill Street, Durham, NC ###
04.10.2014	For families trying to make it in this economy, every dollar counts. And it’s getting harder. The Department of Agriculture (USDA) recently announced that it expects food prices to jump 3.5 percent in 2014. For these families, food costs make up a substantial part of their spending each and every week.Yet activists are calling for a 50-state patchwork of labeling laws for foods containing everyday genetically modified ingredients that could cause food prices to skyrocket by 15 to 30 percent without improving the safety of the food supply.We have to do better by America’s families. That’s why we are proud to introduce bipartisan legislation that would establish, once and for all, a federal standard for labeling foods with genetically modified ingredients that would keep prices low, enhance consumer choice, and ensure that information that reaches consumers is accurate and does not mislead.The premise of our effort is simple: The Food and Drug Administration, our nation’s foremost food safety authority, should have the ultimate authority to require labeling on genetically modified foods. Just as with other foods, if the FDA ever has cause to believe genetically modified foods pose even the slightest health effect or are shown to be materially different from foods made without GMOs, the agency would be required to step in.Under our legislation, the FDA would establish federal standards for companies to voluntarily label their products for the absence or presence of GMO food ingredients so that consumers would clearly understand their choices in the marketplace.We work every day to ensure that America’s farmers are able to maintain the world’s most abundant food supply, while also giving American families the reassurance and comfort of knowing that their food is safe.Modern biotechnology has made this possible, particularly over the last 20 years, through genetically modified ingredients. Farmers have used this technology to increase their yields, reduce the use of pesticides, and blunt the impact of crippling droughts. They have also allowed food producers to reduce the price of crucial crops, such as corn, soybeans, and sugar beets, by 15 to 30 percent.Our country’s orange crop was afflicted with aggressive and devastating bacteria. Scientists and farmers came together and discovered an orange tree that was naturally immune to the bacteria. By cross pollinating that tree with others, they were able to genetically modify orange trees to prevent a total collapse of one of America’s most nutritious and popular fruit crops. How’s that for a GMO success story?Such innovations are now used to produce about 80 percent of the food in your grocery store and have allowed us to add desirable traits from nature without introducing unnatural pesticides or chemicals.Most importantly, there is clear scientific consensus that GMOs are safe.Every major health organization has determined GMOs have no health effects. Italian scientists recently reviewed nearly 2,000 different studies of GMOs — failing to find a single credible study indicating that GMOs are unsafe or different from foods grown without this technology.That hasn’t stopped opponents of GMOs, who have undertaken efforts in some states to use labeling laws as a way to malign your food and make life harder for farmers. These efforts are irresponsible, ill-informed, and would impact our ability to grow safe, affordable food for America’s families.Food labels need to make sense and give consumers real, accurate information. Instead of mandating labels based on the personal preferences of political activists, we believe the only mandatory information that appears on a food label should be decided by the FDA, and it should focus on the safety and nutritional content of a product.We’re working together on this balanced approach to protect America’s farmers and families from expensive and burdensome activist-driven regulations that vary state by state, while also giving consumers the confidence they need to ensure the safety and security of our food supply.This new legislation encourages innovation and expands techniques that ultimately make our farms more efficient, protects our environment, and allows us to keep food prices as affordable as possible. Keeping food safe and affordable: It’s a policy that just makes sense.Pompeo has represented Kansas’s 4th Congressional District since 2011. He sits on the Energy and Commerce and the Intelligence committees. Butterfield has represented North Carolina’s 1st Congressional District since 2004. He sits on the Energy and Commerce Committee.Read more: https:/thehill.com/opinion/op-ed/203140-keeping-americas-food-supply-safe#ixzz2yUVqwWOW
04.09.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- Reps. Mike Pompeo and G. K. Butterfield introduced a bill today creating federal standards for food labeling in order to keep American-produced food safe, nutritious, and affordable. The bipartisan federal solution, named the “Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act of 2014” (HR 4432) would protect consumers by eliminating confusion and advancing food safety.The Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act of 2014 would establish a federal labeling standard for foods with genetically modified ingredients, giving sole authority to the Food and Drug Administration to require mandatory labeling on such foods if they are ever found to be unsafe or materially different from foods produced without GM ingredients.“From the Kansas farmer’s harvest to a Kansas family’s table, our food supply is crucial to our economy, to our health, and to our way of life,” said Rep. Mike Pompeo. “The Sunflower State has relied on technological advances in order to feed the world, and this bill would ensure our continued success in providing safe, affordable, and nutritious food.”“This bill has resounding support from the North Carolina Farm Bureau and the agriculture community at-large,” said Rep. G. K. Butterfield. “It prevents a mishmash of labeling standards and allows farmers to continue to produce higher yields of healthy crops in smaller spaces with less water and fewer pesticides. If passed, this will be a big win for farmers nationwide.”The legislation takes an approach that is far better than a 50-state patchwork of GMO labeling laws that could mislead consumers, raise the price of groceries for American families and yet do nothing to advance food safety.GMOs are safe and have a number of important benefits for people and our planet. GMO crops use less water and fewer pesticides and reduce the price of crops by 15-30 percent. They also help us feed a global population of 7 billion that will grow to 9 billion by 2050, especially providing assistance to those who suffer from hunger and malnutrition. Contrary to claims by activists, there is no scientific evidence that suggests foods that contain GMOs are anything but safe. ###
04.04.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement applauding the installation of Dr. Debra Saunders-White as the chancellor of North Carolina Central University (NCCU):“I congratulate Dr. Debra Saunders-White on her official installation as the 11th chancellor of North Carolina Central University. In addition to her years of service in the private sector, Dr. Saunders-White brings to her role more than 14 years of leadership experience in higher education, holding positions at the U.S. Department of Education, the University of North Carolina at Wilmington, and Hampton University. I admire her high goals of academic excellence and applaud her efforts to emphasize technology across all academic disciplines. I am fully confident in her abilities to build upon the successes of her predecessors, and I am excited to witness the positive changes she will bring to my alma mater, NCCU.”###
04.02.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today expressed grave concern over the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling in McCutcheon v. Federal Election Commission, which strikes down contribution limits for individual campaign donors by claiming that it restricts First Amendment rights.Butterfield said, “The Supreme Court has ruled to drown out the voice of the common man in elections by, again, empowering those with vast monetary resources. Since the Citizens United decision, the massive infusion of corporate financing has dramatically altered the electoral process, making it more difficult for the interests of everyday Americans to be heard. This will occur more widely as a result of the McCutcheon decision.“Freedom of speech is one of the most important tenets of our Constitution; however, extending this right to corporations and eliminating limits on individual campaign contributions has the unintended effect of empowering the wealthy and special interest groups at the cost of the common American.“This is a game changer, and a cruel April Fool’s joke.”Butterfield is a cosponsor of H.R. 20, the Government By the People Act, which was introduced to address the imbalance in political influence since the Court tossed out corporate campaign spending bans in 2010.“There’s no question that this is a clear win for the Republican Party and their efforts to dismantle fair elections.”###
04.02.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today expressed grave concern over the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling in McCutcheon v. Federal Election Commission, which strikes down contribution limits for individual campaign donors by claiming that it restricts First Amendment rights.Butterfield said, “The Supreme Court has ruled to drown out the voice of the common man in elections by, again, empowering those with vast monetary resources. Since the Citizens United decision, the massive infusion of corporate financing has dramatically altered the electoral process, making it more difficult for the interests of everyday Americans to be heard. This will occur more widely as a result of the McCutchen decision.“Freedom of speech is one of the most important tenets of our Constitution; however, extending this right to corporations and eliminating limits on individual campaign contributions has the unintended effect of empowering the wealthy and special interest groups.“This is a game changer, and a cruel April Fool’s joke.”Butterfield is a cosponsor of H.R. 20, the Government By the People Act, which was introduced to address the imbalance in political influence since the Court tossed out corporate campaign spending bans in 2010.“There’s no question that this a clear win for the Republican Party and their efforts to dismantle fair elections.”###
04.01.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) and David McKinley (R-WV) led 132 congressional colleagues in sending a letter to the Chair and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies urging them to provide $7.5 billion in funding for the National Science Foundation (NSF) in its FY2015 appropriations bill.In their joint letter, the Representatives state, “Demand for highly educated and highly trained professionals in STEM and health care-related fields is at an all-time high. … The NSF is the only federal agency specifically responsible for supporting essential education and research across all science and engineering fields—a role that is vital to cultivating a workforce capable of keeping pace with global demand. … We must remain committed to strengthening our workforce and competing with countries that are investing significant resources in STEM education and innovation. We urge you support $7.5 billion to fund the NSF to ensure that we continue to cultivate STEM talent so our nation remains globally competitive.”Similarly, Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) will lead a letter in the U.S. Senate requesting that the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies also includes $7.5 billion in funding for the NSF in its appropriations bill.The full text of the letter follows.April 1, 2014 The Honorable Frank Wolf The Honorable Chaka FattahChairman Ranking MemberSubcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Science, and Related AgenciesH-309 The Capitol 2301 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Wolf and Ranking Member Fattah: We write to urge you to include $7.5 billion in funding for the National Science Foundation (NSF) in the FY2015 Commerce, Justice, and Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill.The future is now. A foundation and fundamental understanding of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) is vitally important as we educate the next generation of leaders to compete in the global economy. Demand for highly educated and highly trained professionals in STEM and health care-related fields is at an all-time high. The U.S. must produce one million more STEM professionals in the next decade to keep up with workforce needs in growing STEM fields. Our nation is ranked 26th in math and 21st in science performance. We cannot afford to continue to fall further behind in STEM education. The NSF is one of our country’s most important workforce development initiatives and tools for economic competitiveness. The NSF is the only federal agency specifically responsible for supporting essential education and research across all science and engineering fields—a role that is vital to cultivating a workforce capable of keeping pace with global demand. Nearly one out of every four basic research projects at colleges and universities across the U.S. is supported by the NSF. The NSF awards the majority of its budget on a competitive basis to small groups of researchers at public and private institutions of higher learning through approximately 11,000 new grant awards per year. Awards from the NSF help enable faculty and students to access the resources they need and support the necessary infrastructure and tools to address some of our society’s most pressing concerns. Research funded by the NSF has led to discoveries as small as antifreeze proteins to those as large as new planets. In many cases, the basic research facilitated by the NSF is expanded upon and applied commercially by domestic companies benefiting the private sector and the U.S. economy. The applications of NSF research have helped many businesses create jobs by developing new products from advanced radar systems and next generation high definition videoconferencing to more efficient and affordable solar energy materials and genetically engineered tissues for medical procedures.We must remain committed to strengthening our workforce and competing with countries that are investing significant resources in STEM education and innovation. We urge you support $7.5 billion to fund the NSF to ensure that we continue to cultivate STEM talent so our nation remains globally competitive. Thank you very much. Very truly yours, G. K. Butterfield David McKinleyMember of Congress Member of Congress Rep. Barber, Rep. Beatty, Rep. Bera, Rep. Tim Bishop, Rep. Sanford Bishop, Jr., Rep. Blumenauer, Rep. Bonamici, Rep. Braley, Rep. Brownley, Rep. Bustos, Rep. Capuano, Rep. Cárdenas, Rep. Carson, Rep. Cartwright, Rep. Castro, Rep. Christensen, Rep. Chu, Rep. Clark, Rep. Clarke, Rep. Clay, Rep. Cleaver, Rep. Cohen, Rep. Connolly, Rep. Conyers, Rep. Costa, Rep. Courtney, Rep. Susan Davis, Rep. Danny Davis, Rep. DeFazio, Rep. Delaney, Rep. DeLauro, Rep. DelBene, Rep. Dingell, Rep. Doyle, Rep. John Duncan, Jr., Rep. Edwards, Rep. Ellison, Rep. Engel, Rep. Enyart, Rep. Eshoo, Rep. Esty, Rep. Foster, Rep. Fudge, Rep. Gabbard, Rep. Gallego, Rep. Grayson, Rep. Green, Rep. Grijalva, Rep. Hanabusa, Rep. Hastings, Rep. Heck, Rep. Higgins, Rep. Hinojosa, Rep. Holt, Rep. Honda, Rep. Horsford, Rep. Huffman, Rep. Jackson Lee, Rep. Hank Johnson, Rep. Keating, Rep. Kelly, Rep. Kennedy, Rep. Kilmer, Rep. Kind, Rep. Kirkpatrick, Rep. Kuster, Rep. Langevin, Rep. Larsen, Rep. Barbara Lee, Rep. Levin, Rep. John Lewis, Rep. Lipinski, Rep. Loebsack, Rep. Lofgren, Rep. Lowenthal, Rep. Lujan, Rep. Lujan Grisham, Rep. Lynch, Rep. Carolyn Maloney, Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney, Rep. Matsui, Rep. McDermott, Rep. McGovern, Rep. McIntrye, Rep. McLeod, Rep. McNerney, Rep. Meeks, Rep. George Miller, Rep. Moore, Rep. Moran, Rep. Patrick Murphy, Rep. Nadler, Rep. Norton, Rep. Owens, Rep. Pascrell, Jr., Rep. Payne, Jr., Rep. Perlmutter, Rep. Scott Peters, Rep. Peterson, Rep. Pingree, Rep. Pocan, Rep. Polis, Rep. David Price, Rep. Rahall, Rep. Rangel, Rep. Richmond, Rep. Roybal-Allard, Rep. Ruppersberger, Rep. Rush, Rep. Sarbanes, Rep. Schakowsky, Rep. Schneider, Rep. Schwartz, Rep. Bobby Scott, Rep. David Scott, Rep. Shea-Porter, Rep. Sinema, Rep. Sires, Rep. Slaughter, Rep. Smith, Rep. Speier, Rep. Takano, Rep. Tierney, Rep. Tonko, Rep. Tsongas, Rep. Van Hollen, Rep. Vargas, Rep. Vela, Rep. Waters, Rep. Waxman, Rep. Welch.###
03.21.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the passing of Mr. Joe Willie Dickens, Jr.:“It is with a heavy heart that I grieve the passing of my long-time friend, Mr. Joe Willie Dickens, Jr. Joe was an extraordinary community leader and human being, who dedicated his entire life to public service. In addition to serving as both an educator and a member of the Edgecombe County School Board, he owned and operated Dickens Funeral Service in Tarboro, North Carolina for more than 28 years. Through his business, Joe was able to help hundreds of families at their most vulnerable moments and brought comfort during times of deep sadness. His presence will be sorely missed and I extend my sympathies to his family during this very difficult time.”###
03.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the North Carolina Central University (NCCU) Men’s Basketball team for winning the 2014 Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference (MEAC) championship and finishing the regular season with the best record in the MEAC. The NCCU Eagles finished the regular season with one of the school’s best records ever following a 71-62 championship victory over Morgan State University on March 15, 2014. For the first time in school history, NCCU will play in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Tournament.The entire NCCU community deserves recognition for supporting the Eagles throughout the entire 2013-2014 season where the team amassed an impressive overall record of 28-5 and a MEAC record of 15-1. The team invigorated the campus with a 20 game winning streak and perfect record attheir home court, McLendon-McDougald Gymnasium. And they gained national recognition by defeating perennial power and regional rival North Carolina State University. The remarkable success of the NCCU Men’s Basketball team is even more impressive considering the team has only been competing at the Division 1 level in the MEAC for 7 seasons. The NCCU Men’s Basketball program has benefited from the exceptional leadership of Head Basketball Coach Levelle Moton and Athletic Director Ingrid Wicker-McCree. “Congratulations to the NCCU Men’s Basketball Team and the entire Eagle community on this historic season,” Butterfield said. “The hard work of the Men’s Basketball team and the unwavering support and Eagle Pride of NCCU students, faculty, and staff have made this amazing accomplishment possible. I wish my alma mater great success as they embark on their first NCAA Tournament appearance in school history.” NCCU faces Iowa State University in the second round of the NCAA Tournament on March 21, 2014 at 10:00 p.m. ###
03.13.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Next week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will spend part of the District Work Period focused on education and women’s economic success.On Monday, Congressman Butterfield will attend the Edgecombe County Board of Education Town Hall Meeting, where he will provide an update on federal funding for education. In addition to members of the county’s Education Board, he will be joined by members of the Parent Advisory Council, the Teacher Advisory Council, and the Student Advisory Council.On Tuesday, Butterfield will return to his alma mater to present North Carolina Central University (NCCU) with a $5 million grant award from the National Science Foundation to further development of NCCU’s Computational Center for Fundamental and Applied Science and Education, also known as NSF-CREST. The grant will help to improve math- and science-related research opportunities for students and solidify NCCU as one of the world’s preeminent research universities.The Congressman will conclude his public schedule by co-hosting a forum entitled, “When Women Succeed, America Succeeds: An Economic Agenda for Women and Families” at New Oxley Hill Missionary Baptist Church. Roughly 100 women are expected to attend to discuss and provide insight on the economic challenges affecting women.Butterfield’s full public schedule follows.Monday, March 17th 6:00 – 7:00 PM Edgecombe County Board of Education Town Hall MeetingNash-Rocky Mount Public Schools930 Eastern AvenueRocky Mount, NC Tuesday, March 18th10:45 - 11:45 AMNorth Carolina Central University Check PresentationMary Townes Science Complex1801 Fayetteville StreetDurham, NC Wednesday, March 19th 6:30 – 8:00 PMWhen Women Succeed, America Succeeds: An Economic Agenda for Women and FamiliesNew Oxley Hill Missionary Baptist Church110 Jeff White RoadMerry Hill, NC###
03.13.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released a letter to North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources Secretary John Skvarla expressing grave concern over the Dan River coal ash spill in Rockingham County, North Carolina and seeking clarification on the potential threat of other coal ash ponds located near communities throughout the state. In his letter Butterfield writes, “The safety of coal ash ponds has concerned North Carolinians since long before the February 2, 2014 Dan River coal ash spill and it appears that we are only now beginning to see the alarming truth about coal ash in our communities. It is troubling that it has taken the third largest coal ash spill in U.S. history to mobilize North Carolina’s regulators and private sector to engage in a frank dialogue about its dangers and propose changes that mitigate those hazards. To that end, I respectfully request that you respond to the questions included in this letter.”Several coal ash ponds are located in Wayne County at the H.F. Lee Plant near Goldsboro, which is mostly located in the First Congressional District, and sits near the Neuse River that runs through much of eastern North Carolina. The Congressman has contacted Duke Energy to request a tour of their Wayne County facilities.Butterfield’s full letter with questions to Secretary Skvarla follows. March 13, 2014 The Honorable John E. Skvarla, IIISecretaryNorth Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources1601 Mail Service Center, Raleigh 27699-1601 Dear Secretary Skvarla: The safety of coal ash ponds has concerned North Carolinians since long before the February 2, 2014 Dan River coal ash spill and it appears that we are only now beginning to see the alarming truth about coal ash in our communities. It is troubling that it has taken the third largest coal ash spill in U.S. history to mobilize North Carolina’s regulators and private sector to engage in a frank dialogue about its dangers and propose changes that mitigate those hazards. To that end, I respectfully request that you respond to the questions included in this letter. I ask that you provide this information not later than March 21, 2014. Estimates about the magnitude and impact of the coal ash spill have varied dramatically and North Carolinians deserve accurate information. Initial estimates of 82,000 tons of coal ash spilled into the Dan River made the spill one of the largest in U.S. history. The health and environmental threats posed by the Dan River coal ash spill are alarming. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) have indicated that there are coal ash bars up to six feet deep in the river and contaminants have traveled up to seventy miles downriver. The Dan River spill has an impact that extends beyond the boundaries of Rockingham County and reverberate throughout North Carolina and into Virginia. Undoubtedly the investigation by federal authorities and evaluation from the general public will help shed some light on the cause of this calamity. The scrutiny of the spill has also helped highlight troubling revelations about other coal ash ponds in our state. It is clear that Duke Energy and NCDENR have a daunting challenge in cleaning up the catastrophe and remediating other coal ash hazards throughout the state. The Dan River spill could have been avoided and we owe it to all North Carolinians to put the necessary safeguards in place to ensure a disaster of that magnitude does not occur again.We must take a serious look at all of the aspects that contributed to the Dan River spill and ensure our children do not feel the effects of insufficient coal ash regulation decades in the future. Please provide answers to these difficult questions so I may be better informed.What quantity of coal ash spilled into the Dan River? How did the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources (NCDENR) reach that estimate? Were estimates of the amount of coal ash spilled into the Dan River made by surveyors paid by Duke Energy?Did any coal ash from the spill reach Kerr Lake or Lake Gaston? Could clean-up activities cause coal ash to re-enter the water current and travel downstream to Kerr Lake and Lake Gaston? Does scientific evidence show that it could take years for the full impacts of the spill to work through the Dan River ecosystem?The H.F. Lee Plant near Goldsboro, North Carolina on the Neuse River is one of the six Duke Energy facilities that were found to lack federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits to legally discharge stormwater. Can NCDENR account for the quality of water discharged into rivers from those facilities during unpermitted time periods? What impact can uncontrolled stormwater discharge have on human health, wildlife, and the environment? Mandatory groundwater samples near three unlined coal ash ponds at the H.F. Lee Plant have exceeded 15A North Carolina Administrative Code 02L groundwater rules and EPA standards for arsenic and heavy metals on numerous occasions. Will NCDENR provide a comprehensive summary of each groundwater test that has exceeded groundwater safety levels? What actions did NCDENR take to address those exceedances? If none, why did NCDENR fail to act? A March 6, 2014 ruling by a Superior Court Judge requires Duke Energy to clean up coal ash hazards immediately. What steps will NCDENR take to help Duke Energy comply with the court ruling? What is the timetable for cleanup? Will NCDENR work with the North Carolina General Assembly to develop new safeguards to ensure this sort of catastrophe does not happen again? Duke Energy’s Chief Financial Officer Steve Young estimated the company will pay $5.5 billion to clean up coal ash threats across the state through 2024. While Duke Energy has said it will pay for the cleanup of the Dan River spill the same cannot be said for other coal ash sites. Will NCDENR work with the North Carolina Utilities Commission to ensure ratepayers in North Carolina are not saddled with the financial burden of cleaning up coal ash at ponds throughout the state? If you have any questions regarding this inquiry, please contact me or Dennis Sills on my staff at (202) 225-3101. I look forward to your timely response. Thank you very much. Very truly yours, G. K. ButterfieldMember of Congress cc: The Honorable Pat McCrory, Governor, North CarolinaThe Honorable Heather McTeer Toney, Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Region 4 ###
03.11.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- In a bipartisan effort, Reps. Brett Guthrie (R-KY), G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) and Todd Young (R-IN) today introduced legislation (H.R. 4190) that will allow Medicare reimbursement for certain pharmacist services in medically underserved communities. Many states allow pharmacists to provide additional services, such as immunizations, diabetes management, blood pressure screenings and routine checks. However, there is currently no mechanism for pharmacists to be reimbursed by the Medicare program. This common-sense bill creates a means for pharmacists to be reimbursed for these services they are already allowed to perform, when performed in medically underserved areas.“Many rural communities, like those spread across southern Indiana, struggle with inadequate access to doctors and other health care providers,” said Congressman Young. “This legislation would begin to fill that void in those areas designated as ‘medically underserved’ by allowing pharmacists to offer clinical services within their current scope of practice to Medicare patients.”“I routinely hear from Kentuckians who rely on their pharmacists as their initial access point to health care,” said Guthrie. Whether it’s to inquire about medication, potential side effects, or discussing other ailments and complications, many patients view their pharmacist as a critical member of their health care team. This legislation will increase patient access to basic services in a cost-effective and responsible way.”“This simple bill would benefit millions of seniors across the country and particularly those that live in rural and underserved areas,” said Butterfield. “Expanding patient access to primary care through trained, qualified, and licensed pharmacists, while also addressing the shortage in the delivery of care is basic supply and demand. I thank my colleagues Representatives Guthrie and Young for partnering with me to introdce this much-needed bill.”###
03.07.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the passing of Retired Bishop Mordecai Johnson:“I am saddened to learn of the passing of Bishop Mordecai Johnson. Bishop Johnson selflessly served the church community as a spiritual leader for more than 50 years. He will be remembered fondly for his work and friendships across the eastern North Carolina communities of Wilson, Goldsboro, Kinston, and New Bern. My condolences are with his family during this very difficult time.”###
03.05.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), former North Carolina Judge and First Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, today released the following statement regarding the Senate’s failure to advance Debo P. Adegbile through the confirmation process:“I have spent my entire career – first as a civil rights attorney, superior court judge, state Supreme Court justice, and now as a Member of Congress – supporting and defending the U.S. Constitution by advocating for equal justice under the law.“I am disappointed the United States Senate deprived the country of a talented attorney and civil rights advocate who has dedicated his professional career to defending Americans’ constitutional right to legal representation.“Mr. Debo Adegbile has been unfairly disqualified by a Senate that is more interested in folding to media mischaracterizations than in evaluating his extensive qualifications and experience.“It is unfortunate that the Senate has a double standard where they expect judicial nominees to only uphold Americans’ constitutionally-afforded right to legal representation when it is politically convenient.”###
03.05.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the passage of legislation to enable the use of large electric water heaters in voluntary energy efficiency programs. Butterfield is a cosponsor of the water heater legislation, H.R. 4066, which was included as part of the larger energy efficiency bill that passed the House of Representatives earlier today. The water heater bill will help reduce demand for electricity during peak hours and encourage the use of renewable energy from intermittent sources such as the sun or the wind.Under certain energy efficiency programs, individuals can volunteer to allow their electricity provider to turn off the electricity to their water heaters during periods of high demand and still receive hot water. On average, consumers save $100 per person each year by participating in these voluntary programs.“This is an important piece of legislation that would help North Carolinians rein in energy costs,” Butterfield said. “It is a significant step toward reducing our energy needs during peak hours and increasing our use of renewable energy. I urge the Senate to swiftly pass this legislation and ask the President to sign it into law.”H.R. 4066 is supported by many leading groups including the American Public Power Association, the Edison Electric Institute, the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, and the Natural Resources Defense Council. The larger legislative package which includes the water heater bill, H.R. 2126, passed the House of Representatives by a margin of 375 – 36. The bill will now go to the Senate for consideration.###
03.03.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the passing of the former Chairman of Mutual Community Savings Bank and the Durham Committee on the Affairs of Black People, F.V. “Pete” Allison, Jr.: “I am saddened to learn of the passing of my good friend, F.V. “Pete” Allison, Jr. Pete was a personable, kind, and effective business leader that took great pride in his work, but even greater pride in his family. He successfully used his career in banking to enrich the lives of countless individuals through his involvement in many organizations and charities. His loss will be felt throughout the Durham community. My sympathies are with Pete's wife , Dr. E. Lavonia Allison, and their entire family during this difficult time.”###
02.28.2014	WASHINGTON, DC - Gallaudet University today announced the appointment of Representative G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) to its Board of Trustees effective immediately.Chartered in 1864 by President Abraham Lincoln, Gallaudet University is the world's only liberal arts university for the deaf and hard of hearing that offers a bilingual learning environment in American Sign Language and English. The university is located in Washington, D.C., within walking distance of the U.S. Capitol.In accordance with the Education of the Deaf Act, Butterfield was appointed to the university's Board of Trustees by Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives John Boehner (R-Ohio)."Gallaudet University is pleased to welcome Congressman Butterfield to the Board of Trustees," said Board Chair Benjamin J. Soukup. "Congressman Butterfield has long fought for the equal rights and treatment of his fellow citizens and his proven leadership qualities will be an asset to our Board to guide the university in meeting the needs of present and future generations of students."Butterfield represents the first district of North Carolina which includes the Eastern North Carolina School for the Deaf, a day and residential pre-kindergarten through high school program for deaf and hard of hearing children and young adults.Butterfield, a life-long resident of eastern North Carolina, was first elected to serve in the U.S. House of Representatives in a special election on July 20, 2004. He serves in the Democratic leadership as Chief Deputy Whip and as First Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus. Butterfield sits on the Committee on Energy & Commerce as the eighth most senior Democrat on the Health Subcommittee. In addition, he serves as a member of the subcommittees of Communications and Technology, and Oversight and Investigations."I am honored to be appointed to the Board of Trustees for Gallaudet University," said Butterfield. "My district includes the Eastern North Carolina School for the Deaf and many students, alumni, and their families live in the area. Through my position on the Board, I will be an advocate for the deaf students and deaf community within my district, my home state, as well as the entire country."In Congress, Butterfield is known as a champion of affordable medical care, education, investments in rural communities, veterans, renewable energies, and federal programs that support low-income and middle-class Americans.In 1988, Congressman Butterfield was elected as Resident Superior Court judge. In this role, he presided over civil and criminal court in 46 counties of North Carolina. For two years, he served on the North Carolina Supreme Court by appointment of the governor. Butterfield retired from the judiciary after 15 years of service before running for Congress.Raised in Wilson, N.C., Butterfield was heavily involved in the Civil Rights Movement as a youth. His father practiced dentistry for 50 years and served as the first black elected official in Wilson since Reconstruction. His mother was a teacher for 48 years. Butterfield graduated from college and law school at North Carolina Central University in Durham, N.C. After earning his law degree, Butterfield founded a law practice in Wilson and served the community in that capacity for 14 years. He is best known for his successful litigation of voting rights cases that resulted in the election of African-American elected officials. Butterfield is also an U.S. Army veteran.Congress also approved the continuation of the appointment of Representative Kevin Yoder (R-Kan.) to the Gallaudet Board of Trustees. Yoder has served on the Board since 2011.Gallaudet University, federally chartered in 1864, is a bilingual, diverse, multicultural institution of higher education that ensures the intellectual and professional advancement of deaf and hard of hearing individuals through American Sign Language and English. Gallaudet maintains a proud tradition of research and scholarly activity and prepares its graduates for career opportunities in a highly competitive, technological, and rapidly changing world.###
02.25.2014	WASHINGTON, DC-- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement concerning the February 2, 2014 coal ash spill from a Duke Energy coal ash pond in Rockingham County, North Carolina: “I am deeply concerned about the potential health and environmental threats posed by the coal ash spill on the Dan River in Rockingham, North Carolina. Evidence of coal ash from the spill has been observed as much as 70 miles downstream and could reach Kerr Lake and Lake Gaston which provide drinking water to many counties in northeast North Carolina. At this point the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has said water in the region is safe to drink after treatment. However, it is critical that Duke Energy work with local, state, and federal officials to contain the spill, rehabilitate the environment from any harm caused by coal ash release, and restore the public’s confidence that their drinking water is safe and the river is ready for use. “Out of my concern for the safety of North Carolinians and as a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I spoke directly with Mr. Paul Newton, president of Duke Energy’s utility operations in North Carolina, and Mr. George Everett, Director of Environmental and Legislative Affairs at Duke Energy to better assess the situation. Duke Energy has plugged the leak from the coal ash pond and is working in conjunction with the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to test the safety of the water and conduct cleanup activities including the vacuuming of coal ash sediment from the river. Duke Energy has assured me that any clean up associated with the Dan River incident will not affect ratepayers. “I will continue to monitor the situation closely and gather information from officials on the ground. I look forward to reviewing future reports on the management of the coal ash pond and the spill from proper authorities.“Like all North Carolinians it is my expectation that this cleanup be thorough and swift. This spill could have been avoided and I will review options to prevent future spills.” ###
02.24.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today applauded the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) approval of the first voucher made available under legislation he successfully included in the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA). The voucher was issued for Vimizim, a pharmaceutical drug that will be used to treat a rare childhood disorder called “Mucopolysaccharidosis” that leads to problems with bone development, growth, and movement. Representatives Butterfield and Michael McCaul (R-TX) co-sponsored the Creating Hope Act, which was passed and signed into law by the President in 2012 as part of the PDUFA reauthorization. The provision provides market incentives to pharmaceutical companies to develop new drugs for children with rare pediatric diseases, such as childhood cancers and sickle cell.“Passing the Creating Hope Act marked the first time the Congress acted to directly address the lack of drug development for rare pediatric disorders,” said Butterfield. “I am pleased that the FDA is already issuing vouchers to manufactures for the development of drugs that will help children cope and survive these rare illnesses.”The Creating Hope Act expanded the cost-neutral Food and Drug Administration priority review voucher (PRV) program, allowing pharmaceutical companies to expedite FDA review of more profitable drugs in return for developing treatments for rare pediatric diseases. Since 1980, the FDA has approved only one new drug for treatment of childhood cancer, compared to dozens for adults. Despite this significant unmet medical need, in the past pharmaceutical companies have been reluctant to develop drugs for rare pediatric diseases because it required making an investment in products that are unlikely to cover the high costs associated with its research, development, marketing, and distribution. In addition, developing products for children was particularly challenging because of the difficulties associated with conducting clinical trials on this patient population. The Creating Hope Act helped to ease this process by incentivizing and fast-tracking much-needed pediatric drugs to market.###
02.20.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced the following staffing updates:Administrative DepartmentReggie McCrimmon, who has served as Staff Assistant since July, has been promoted to Special Assistant. As Special Assistant, Reggie will manage all special administrative, communications, legislative, and outreach projects; in addition to serving as the internship coordinator. Reggie is a 2013 graduate of North Carolina Central University, where he served two terms as Student Body President. Previously, Reggie interned in the offices of former North Carolina Governor Beverly Perdue and Senator Kay Hagan (D-NC). He is a member of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. and hails from Fayetteville, North Carolina.Aaron-John “AJ” Malicdem will join the Washington, D.C. office as Staff Assistant and Systems Administrator. AJ will be responsible for managing the front office, tour coordination, flag requests, and will troubleshoot all technological issues. Prior to joining our team, AJ interned at the Democratic National Committee and he volunteered with several Northern Virginia campaigns. He graduated from East Carolina University in 2011 with a B.S. in Biomedical Engineering and holds a Master’s in Applied Information Technology from George Mason University. AJ is a member of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. Communications DepartmentBrandon Coleman was hired as Legislative Correspondent in December. In this role, Brandon drafts responses to constituent letters, manages housing issues, and assists with communications and press outreach. Before relocating to D.C. from North Carolina last year, Brandon worked as a law clerk at The Banks Law Firm in Durham, where he focused on affordable housing laws. Brandon is a graduate of the University of Michigan and Duke University School of Law. He is licensed to practice law in North Carolina. Legislative Department Dennis Sills has been promoted to Senior Legislative Assistant, where he will take on an expanded legislative portfolio that includes all or parts of Education, Labor, Energy and Commerce, Natural Resources, Trade, Transportation and Infrastructure, and Science, Space and Technology issues. Dennis will also help manage outreach to federal agencies, Floor statements and amendments, and any additional special legislative projects that may arise. Dennis first joined Butterfield’s staff in 2010 as a Staff Assistant and has been promoted annually since then. Dennis briefly served as an intern in the Office of Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01), and previously managed an industrial supply company in Los Angeles prior to working for Congressman Butterfield. Dennis is a proud alum of Duke University. ###
02.19.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement regarding Duke University Health System CEO Dr. Victor J. Dzau being named as the next president of the Institute of Medicine:“I congratulate Dr. Victor Dzau on being named the new president of the Institute of Medicine, the health arm of the National Academies. For decades, Dr. Dzau has been recognized as a world-renowned pioneer in scientific and medical research. As Duke University’s Chancellor of Health Affairs, President and CEO of Duke University Health System, and a James B. Duke Professor of Medicine, Dr. Dzau’s commitments to students, faculty, and the patients they serve has been nothing short of exemplary. Dr. Dzau shoes will be hard to fill, but, our loss is the nation’s gain, as Dr. Dzau goes on to capably lead a key national organization responsible for many of the most important medical findings in recent history. I am confident Dr. Dzau will continue to do extraordinary work that will benefit North Carolinians and all Americans.”###
02.14.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – During next week’s District Work Period, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will crisscross the district to highlight tax season, economic development, and Black History Month. On Tuesday, Congressman Butterfield will be joined by federal and state officials at events in Greenville and Louisburg to promote awareness of a Free File tax program North Carolinians can access to prepare and file their taxes for free. The Free File program is a partnership between the Internal Revenue Service and brand name tax software companies that provides eligible taxpayers free use of their tax software products. On Wednesday, Butterfield will tour Halifax Community College and participate in the college’s Black History Month program. Later in the day, he will attend the Nash Street Lofts Ribbon Cutting Ceremony. Congressman Butterfield was integral in helping the Nash Street Lofts project secure a $550,000 federal grant for the development of the historic building. The Congressman will close the week by keynoting the 22nd Annual U.S. Department of Agriculture Employees’ Celebration luncheon, where he will focus his remarks on the Civil Rights Movement and the Voting Rights Act. Following the luncheon, Butterfield will visit the Durham Housing Authority to tour many of the new U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development-funded projects currently underway. The Congressman’s full public schedule follows. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18 9:00 AM-10:00 AM Intuit Free File Event STRIVE, 600 West 3rd Street Greenville, NC 1:30 PM-2:30 PM Intuit Free File Event Vance-Granville Community College 8100 N.C. Highway 56 Louisburg, NC WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19 11:30 AM-1:30 PM HCC Tour and Black History Month Program Halifax Community College 100 College Drive Weldon, NC 5:00 PM-6:15 PM Nash Street Lofts Ribbon Cutting Ceremony 215 Nash Street Wilson, NC THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 20 10:00 AM-11:30 AM The 22nd Annual USDA Employees’ Celebration 4405 Bland Road, Suite 267 Raleigh, NC 1:30 PM-2:30 PM Tour of Durham Housing Authority 330 East Main Street Durham, NC ###
02.07.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – In a letter delivered last night, Representatives David Price (NC-04) and G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) responded to North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory’s justification for waiting until November 4th to hold the special election to fill North Carolina’s 12th Congressional District House seat. The representatives ask the Governor to hold the special general election on September, 16, 2014, saying there is no legal or administrative justification for delaying the special election until November. The representatives also point to potential hearings and House votes that could occur between September and November, and write that the 12th district’s constituents deserve a strong advocate on matters before federal agencies.Delaying the 12th Congressional District Special Election until November 4th would leave the district’s House seat vacant for 310 days, the longest a Congressional district has gone without a representative in the last 50 years according to the non-partisan Congressional Research Service.The text of the representatives’ letter is below.February 6, 2014The Honorable Pat McCroryGovernorOffice of the Governor20301 Mail Service CenterRaleigh, NC 27699-0301Dear Governor McCrory:We write as a follow up to our letter on January 9, 2014, regarding the vacancy in North Carolina’s 12th Congressional district. Seating an elected representative in Congress as soon as practicable would ensure that the people of the 12th Congressional District have constitutional representation, would give them a vote and a voice on important legislative matters before Congress, and would facilitate the provision of full constituent services. Therefore, we propose holding the Special General Election on September 16, 2014, which would ensure compliance with the law and significantly reduce the vacancy period.Since our initial letter, our staff has met with your staff to get additional clarity about the numerous factors you considered when deciding to hold the 12th Congressional District Special Election on November 4, 2014. We understand your reasons for holding the Special Primary (May 6) and Special Runoff (July 15) concurrently with existing election dates. However, we can find no legal or administrative justification for delaying the Special General Election until November 4th, a full 16 weeks after the Special Runoff. As we indicated in our previous letter, a vacancy of 310 days would be the longest a Congressional district has gone without representation in the last 50 years. We believe that is not a distinction North Carolina should hold.Our proposed schedule provides nine weeks between the Special Runoff Election and the proposed expedited Special General Election.Special Primary ElectionSpecial Runoff ElectionSpecial General ElectionMay 6, 2014*July 15, 2014*September 16, 2014* Same as the current general election scheduleThe proposed expedited Special General Election meets the following legal and administrative requirements: RestrictionTime NeededTime Provided Under ProposalStateThe county board of elections must transmit a ballot and balloting materials to military-overseas voters no later than 50 days before the election.50 Days*50 DaysThere must be at least 10 weeks between a primary and second primaryin U.S. House elections.Does not apply to the general electionn/aAdministrativeBoard of Elections officials need time to prepare the ballots.Approximately 7-10 Days7 DaysBoard of Elections officials need time to tally the election results.Approximately 7-10 Days6 Days* The federal requirement that states must transmit the official printed ballot to absent uniformed services and overseas voters no later than 45 days before a federal election is covered by the 50 days required by state law.It is critically important that the 12th Congressional District have elected representation, and for North Carolina to have a full congressional delegation to advance priorities that benefit our state. The House could potentially hold several important hearings and votes between September and November on key issues such as appropriations bills, immigration reform, international affairs, highway authorization, and a comprehensive tax reform.In addition to representation on legislative matters, 12th District residents deserve an advocate on casework matters. Under the supervision of the Clerk of the House, former Congressman Mel Watt’s staff is limited on the services it can provide. Therefore, residents of the 12th District now lack a strong advocate to federal agencies on issues such as Medicare, Social Security and veterans’ benefits. In contrast, a congressional office lead by an elected Member of Congress helps constituents cut through red tape at federal agencies and access federal programs and funding opportunities.We understand that a vacancy of some duration may be unavoidable in some cases. However, we urge you to authorize an alternative election schedule that limits the vacancy to the greatest extent practicable. Therefore, we believe that holding the Special General Election on September 16, 2014 is in the best interest of the constituents of the 12th Congressional District, the people of North Carolina, and our democracy.Sincerely,David PriceMember of CongressG. K. ButterfieldMember of Congress# # #
02.04.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement concerning Duke Energy Progress’s announcement that it is in discussions to buy the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency’s (NCEMPA) partial ownership of its plants:“I’m pleased to learn that Duke Energy Progress is considering the purchase of a partial ownership interest in plants that provide energy to my congressional district. The ratepayers in the cities served by NCEMPA have been burdened with high utility costs and trapped in a power deal that requires them to pay more than consumers in other communities. I have worked tirelessly over the years to find a common sense solution to high utility cost and this announcement brings hope that a deal can be structured that will reduce the cost of utilities for families and businesses in eastern North Carolina. The merger of Duke Power and Progress Energy results in a new corporate entity that should be capable of purchasing the assets of NCEMPA and restructuring the debt.“I will support a common sense business arrangement that will substantially lower utility costs for consumers and will oppose it if it does not."I appreciate the willingness of Duke Energy Progress to begin these discussions and pledge to them my support for a meaningful reorganization."###
02.03.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement concerning Duke Energy Progress’s announcement that it is in discussions to buy the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency’s (NCEMPA) partial ownership of its plants:“I’m pleased to learn that Duke Energy Progress is in talks with ElectriCities to purchase the NCEMPA’s partial ownership interests in several Duke Energy Progress plants that service much of eastern North Carolina. Six years ago, I suggested that both entities find a resolution to increasing energy production costs, which left residents and municipalities saddled with high utility bills. I’m happy to see these companies work towards a solution that would be beneficial to them and to the dozens of cities they serve. I’m hopeful that this deal, if approved, will result in significantly lower utility bills for consumers and ratepayers and relieve the debt burden of many communities.”###
02.03.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement concerning Duke Energy Progress’s announcement that it is in discussions to buy the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency’s (NCEMPA) partial ownership of its plants:“I’m pleased to learn that Duke Energy Progress is in talks with ElectriCities to purchase the NCEMPA’s partial ownership interests in several Duke Energy Progress plants that service much of eastern North Carolina. Six years ago, I suggested that both entities find a resolution to increasing energy production costs, which left residents and municipalities saddled with high utility bills. I’m happy to see these companies work towards a solution that would be beneficial to them and to the dozens of cities they serve. I’m hopeful that this deal, if approved, will result in significantly lower utility bills for consumers and ratepayers and relieve the debt burden of many communities.”###
01.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement regarding tonight’s State of the Union address:“Tonight, President Obama unveiled a bold agenda to create and expand opportunity for all Americans. In his speech, he touched on the pervasiveness of income inequality caused by stagnant minimum wages, shrinking access to education, and limited opportunities for upward mobility.“The top 1 percent of American households earn above $394,000 each year, while the top 50 percent only earn $35,000 each year. And those living in extreme poverty earn even less.“In my congressional district alone, one in four people live in poverty, including 73,000 children. We have the highest unemployment rate of all congressional districts in North Carolina, yet last year Governor Pat McCrory and the General Assembly caused the state’s long term unemployed to go without federal emergency unemployment insurance.“So I applaud the President for reiterating his desire to work with Congress to raise the federal minimum wage and immediately boost 4.6 million Americans out of poverty. I am pleased the President will also, through Executive Order, raise the minimum wage to $10.10 per hour for people working under new federal contracts. But it cannot stop there. Swift and decisive action needs to be taken on other poverty-reduction measures such as passing an extension to unemployment insurance, reforming the tax code, and investing in job creation and training programs.“I am hopeful that the President’s speech marks the beginning of a long and sustained effort to address Americans everyday challenges. I look forward to working with my colleagues to move the President’s agenda forward and create opportunity for all.”###
01.24.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the death of Wayne County Sheriff Carey A. Winders:“I am saddened to learn of the unexpected passing of Wayne County Sheriff Carey Winders. Sheriff Winders nobly committed his life to law enforcement, serving Goldsboro and Wayne County for more than thirty years. My condolences are with his wife, daughters, and grandchildren during this very difficult time.”###
01.16.2014	WASHINGTON, DC-- Congressman G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) today cheered North Carolina Central University (NCCU) in Durham, North Carolina for receiving a $5 million grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to continue development of its Computational Center for Fundamental and Applied Science and Education, known as NSF-CREST. The grant will help to improve research opportunities for students and solidify NCCU as one of the world’s preeminent research universities.“Never has education in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics been as important as it is now in today’s competitive global economy,” Butterfield said. “This grant is critical to the growth of North Carolina Central University and the state of North Carolina. I congratulate NCCU on this tremendous achievement and applaud the outstanding research being conducted there.” This is the second grant NCCU has received from the NSF to construct the Computational Center for Fundamental and Applied Science and Education. In 2008, NCCU was able to begin planning and construction of the center using $5.7 million of initial NSF funding. Since its inception the center has helped NCCU make significant strides in strengthening and developing opportunities for students and faculty in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields. This NSF grant recognizes the success of the center and will enable NCCU to increase research infrastructure to support additional STEM training and educational opportunities for students. NCCU will receive $1 million per year for five years to continue to build NSF-CREST. Butterfield has been a leader in supporting funding for the NSF and authored a letter in support of the agency to the House Committee on Appropriations in 2012. In FY’12, the 17 campuses of the University of North Carolina received more than $111 million in funding from the NSF. ###
01.16.2014	WASHINGTON, DC-- Congressman G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) today cheered North Carolina Central University (NCCU) in Durham, North Carolina for receiving a $5 million grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to continue development of its Computational Center for Fundamental and Applied Science and Education, known as NSF-CREST. The grant will help to improve research opportunities for students and solidify NCCU as one of the world’s preeminent research universities.“Never has education in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics been as important as it is now in today’s competitive global economy,” Butterfield said. “This grant is critical to the growth of North Carolina Central University and the state of North Carolina. I congratulate NCCU on this tremendous achievement and applaud the outstanding research being conducted there.” This is the second grant NCCU has received from the NSF to construct the Computational Center for Fundamental and Applied Science and Education. In 2008, NCCU was able to begin planning and construction of the center using $5.7 million of initial NSF funding. Since its inception the center has helped NCCU make significant strides in strengthening and developing opportunities for students and faculty in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields. This NSF grant recognizes the success of the center and will enable NCCU to increase research infrastructure to support additional STEM training and educational opportunities for students. NCCU will receive $1 million per year for five years to continue to build NSF-CREST. Butterfield has been a leader in supporting funding for the NSF and authored a letter in support of the agency to the House Committee on Appropriations in 2012. In FY’12, the 17 campuses of the University of North Carolina received more than $111 million in funding from the NSF. ###
01.16.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the Obama Administration’s expansion of the Strong Cities, Strong Communities (SC2) Initiative to include Rocky Mount, NC and six additional cities. President Obama established SC2 in 2011 as an innovative and flexible program designed to strengthen local capacity, coordinate federal investments, and spark growth in economically distressed communities. The SC2 Initiative was developed through engagement with mayors, Members of Congress, foundations, nonprofits, and other community partners who are committed to addressing the challenges facing local governments as they work to create economic opportunity for all residents.Butterfield said, “I am pleased that the Obama Administration has recognized the city of Rocky Mount as a community that would benefit from the Strong Cities, Strong Communities Initiative. The Twin Counties region is at crossroads where the right investment, training, and strategic planning will position Rocky Mount for unparalleled economic success. This is an exciting time of change and opportunity for Rocky Mount. I thank U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan for this inclusion, and I look forward to working with Rocky Mount Mayor David Combs on this initiative.”In July 2013, Congressman Butterfield sent a letter to President Obama requesting the Rocky Mount region be designated as Promise Zones, the umbrella housing and economic development federal program that the SC2 Initiative is a part of. In his letter, Butterfield noted that the designation signals to residents, businesses, and local governments that with targeted investments, Rocky Mount can revitalize their economy and see tangible benefits for their residents.As part of the SC2 Initiative, federal inter-agency expert teams will be deployed to work alongside city leadership, community organizations, local businesses, and philanthropic foundations to support the city’s visions for economic growth and development. The primary goal is to help the city of Rocky Mount more effectively invest existing resources, provide advice and expertise in support of local priorities, better align federal programs and investments, and facilitate new partnerships and peer learning opportunities wherever possible. In addition, AmeriCorps VISTA members will aid this effort as on-the-ground liaisons with local leaders and citizens to help implement the solutions that meet the community’s needs.The SC2 Teams will aim to duplicate the record of success established in the original seven pilot cities. SC2 Teams enabled those communities to more effectively use more than $368 million in existing federal funds and investments. They also provided advice and expertise that have helped these communities make significant progress toward their priorities in economic development, housing, transportation, public safety, and public health, among other areas.The seven additional cities selected are: Brownsville, TX; Flint, MI; Gary, IN; Macon, GA; Rockford, IL; St. Louis, MO; and Rocky Mount, NC.For more information, visit: https:/portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/press/press_releases_media_advisories/2014/HUDNo.14-006. ###
01.14.2014	WASHINGTON, DC - Tomorrow, Members of the Congressional Black Caucus(CBC) will discuss the 2014 CBC Policy Agenda during a press call. The call will start promptly at 11:00am ET on Wednesday, January 15, 2014. CBC Members will provide brief remarks and will open up the call for questionsfrom participating press. Please see the call details and information below. WHO: CBC Chair Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) Assistant Democratic Leader Jim Clyburn (SC-06) Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC) Rep. Barbara Lee (CA-13) Rep. G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) WHAT: Press Call on 2014 Congressional Black Caucus Policy Agenda Topics Include: Addressing Poverty and Closing the Income Inequality Gap, the Current Crisis at our HBCUs, and Diversity in Judicial Nominations WHEN: Wednesday, January 15, 2014 at 11:00am – 11:30am ET WHERE: DIAL IN: (530) 881-1212 ###
01.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and David Price (NC-04) have written North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory urging him to reconsider his decision to delay the special election for the 12th Congressional District for more than 300 days and to adopt an alternative timeline to cut the period of vacancy by several months. The Representatives write that the Governor’s decision is unacceptable and unprecedented, and that it deprives the district’s residents of their constitutionally guaranteed right of representation. They called the Governor’s rationale for delaying the special election (cost and logistical concerns) “unconvincing.” The full text of the representatives’ letter is below. January 9, 2014 The Honorable Pat McCroryGovernorOffice of the Governor20301 Mail Service CenterRaleigh, NC 27699-0301 Dear Governor McCrory: We are writing to encourage you to reconsider your decision to delay until November the special election for our state’s 12th Congressional District. We are confident that an alternative timeline could cut the vacancy period by several months. The successive elections could readily be scheduled in ways that maximize their coincidence with already-scheduled elections and minimize the added cost.As you know, more than 700,000 North Carolinians live in the 12th Congressional District. Under your announced timetable, they will go without voting representation for more than 300 days. Such a delay is unacceptable; indeed, it is unprecedented in recent congressional history. Of the seven other vacancies in the 113th Congress, six were filled in an average of 126 days. The general election to fill the seventh is scheduled to take place 145 days after our colleague Bill Young’s unexpected passing. The rationale you have offered, that it is both too costly and logistically impossible to hold the special election before November, is not convincing. The 2013 filing period is fully 30 days away; not a single primary ballot has yet been printed for any precinct in the state. The assumption that North Carolina is better served by having one less advocate in the House for nearly a full year than by finding a cost-effective way to minimize the vacancy is seriously misguided. The fact that your decision requires so many of our state’s citizen’s to forgo their constitutionally guaranteed right of representation for twice as long as common practice is indefensible.We urge you to ensure that all North Carolinians have voting representation in Congress. All of our people deserve a voice in future of our country, especially as the House of Representatives considers legislation affecting their lives and livelihoods. Sincerely, DAVID PRICE Member of Congress G.K. BUTTERFIELDMember of Congress ###
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- Reps. Phil Gingrey, M.D., (R-GA), Gene Green (D-TX), G.K. Butterfield, (D-NC), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Morgan Griffith (R-VA), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), John Shimkus (R-IL), and Ed Whitfield (R-KY) today introduced The Antibiotic Development to Advance Patient Treatment (ADAPT) Act of 2013. This legislation is a successor to the GAIN Act, introduced by Gingrey, Green and others, and signed into law last year. The ADAPT Act advances drug development in order to combat the growing public health threat of “superbugs,” which the Center for Disease Control (CDC) warned of earlier this year.Rep. Phil Gingrey, M.D.: “Since the GAIN Act was signed into law, it has played an important role in restoring antibiotic development. The ADAPT Act is an important next step in the effort to fight antimicrobial resistance, and I’m grateful for Congressman Green’s and my other colleagues’ efforts on this legislation. As a physician for more than 30 years, I understand the critical need for life-saving medical treatments. The ADAPT Act provides incentives for investment and innovation and is another step forward in developing treatments for patients with antibiotic-resistant infections.”Rep. Gene Green: “I am proud to be joined by health policy leaders from both sides of the aisle in introducing this important bill, especially my friend Representative Phil Gingrey. “For decades, antibiotics have been taken for granted, but their effectiveness is waning and the pipeline for new drugs is running dry. We need to invest in new, effective antibiotic therapies in order to combat serious and life-threatening drug-resistant infections. The ADAPT Act, will build on the success of the GAIN Act, and serve as the next important step in advancing the development of new antibiotics.”Rep. Eliot Engel: “Antibiotic resistance is a serious and growing threat in the United States and across the world. This important legislation gives the Food and Drug Administration the ability to quickly approve medications specifically designed to treat drug resistant bacteria. Having actively worked for years to stop the spread of drug-resistant tuberculosis and having seen its tremendously damaging impact, it is important to give the FDA another tool in the fight to treat Americans stricken by these dangerous “superbugs.”Rep. Anna Eshoo: “This bill is an important next step in in our effort to address antibiotic resistance. Patients are in need of new drugs to treat increasingly common infections and it’s critical that we stay a step ahead of the next drug-resistant threat. The ADAPT Act will help us get there.”Rep. John Shimkus: “This bipartisan group of members recognized the need to get more life saving antibiotics available to the public and helped accomplish that goal by getting the GAIN Act included in law. GAIN 2.0 looks to build on the successes we have already seen as a result of our previous efforts by providing a expedited pathway at FDA for approval of certain antibiotics while at the same time gathering valuable information on the resistance of these drugs and how they are being used.”Rep. Morgan Griffith: “I believe very strongly that, when battling deadly diseases, patients and their physicians need more choices. Our great nation boasts an array of companies and individuals that are working hard to develop new treatments and therapies. The ADAPT Act will further innovation, and ultimately will provide new, antibiotic options in the fight against superbugs.”Rep. Butterfield: “The CDC has confirmed that new treatment options are critical to combating drug resistant infections. The ADAPT Act will help to speed new drug treatments to market for people suffering from life-threatening infections. I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing this bill that will help to safeguard the American public.” About the legislationThe ADAPT Act of 2013 is the successor to the GAIN Act and advances drug development in three ways:1.) Develops a new, accelerated pathway for antibiotics and antifungalsThis pathway provides for FDA-approval of drugs in order to treat emerging threats in limited and specific patient populations. 2.) Strengthen resistance monitoring by the CDCThe CDC will also monitor use of antibiotics to treat serious and life-threatening infections and make this data publically available to providers, hospitals, and academics. 3.) Update Susceptibility Test Interpretive Criteria for Microbial Organisms or “breakpoints”The ADAPT Act streamlines the antibiotics labeling process at the FDA to ensure up-to-date and cutting-edge data is available to healthcare professionals. ###
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for awarding a $2.2 million grant to 32 community health centers in North Carolina, including 10 in the First Congressional District. The grant award will be divided between the health centers and used to expand enrollment assistance efforts as more North Carolinians enroll in affordable health insurance coverage. “This investment is essential to enrolling as many eligible North Carolinians as possible into new health insurance plans, which will significantly lower the cost of medical care nationwide,” said Butterfield.North Carolina has 32 health centers operating 184 sites that served 430,885 patients last year, 52 percent of whom were uninsured. With these awards, health centers will be able to meet immediate needs, including expanding the hours of existing outreach and enrollment assistance workers, and hiring new or temporary outreach and enrollment assistance workers. This award builds upon earlier health center program investments to support outreach and enrollment activities. In July, or during FY’13, North Carolina health centers received $4.1 million to help residents understand the coverage options available in the new Health Insurance Marketplace, determine their eligibility for Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program, search for any available financial assistance, and enroll individuals in affordable health plans. The awardees were also expected to hire 87 additional workers to assist 48,465 North Carolinians with sign up for affordable health insurance coverage. The community health centers in the First Congressional District receiving FY’14 grant awards include: Albemarle Hospital Authority ($30,215), Bertie County Rural Health Association ($30,187), Carolinas Family Health Center ($116,658), Greene County Health Center ($214,119), Kinston Community Health Center ($57,109), Lincoln Community Health Center ($178,412), Metropolitan Community Health ($37,075), Rocky Mount Opportunities Industrialization Center ($36,685), Roanoke Chowan Community Health Center ($41,226), and Rural Health Group ($78,354).For FY’13 award information, visit here.###
12.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the confirmation of veteran lawmaker Congressman Mel Watt as the new Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency:“I congratulate my good friend and fellow North Carolinian Congressman Mel Watt on his confirmation as the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. “This well-earned appointment is a result of his more than twenty years experience as an outspoken leader on both the House Financial Services and the House Judiciary Committees where he worked to stop predatory lending, protect Americans from harmful financial practices, and increase access to affordable housing.“As a small business owner, attorney, and now as a senior member of Congress, Watt’s entire life’s work has been to create economic opportunity for all Americans. He has repeatedly demonstrated his ability to bring together consumer advocates and industry leaders to bring about much-needed financial reforms. The integral role he played in passing the Dodd-Frank Act is just one of many examples of his commitment to this work. “Overall, there is no person more knowledgeable on the housing and financial industries in this Congress than Mel Watt. I have no doubt in his ability to successfully lead the Federal Housing Finance Agency and build upon our nation’s economic recovery.“I applaud Congressman Watt on this great achievement.”###
12.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the memorial service for Nelson Mandela:"Today I joined tens of thousands of South Africans and world leaders in Johannesburg to pay my last respects at the memorial service for anti-apartheid revolutionary, Nobel Peace Prize recipient, and former South African President, Nelson Mandela.“It was moving to see people come together from every corner of the world and all walks of life to pay proper tribute to a global giant.“I met President Mandela on three occasions, most recently during his last visit to Washington. And each time it was an honor to sit at the feet of a transformational leader that made it his life’s purpose to pursue justice and equality.“While we mourn the world's loss, we celebrate President Mandela's tremendous life. His legacy will continue to serve as an inspiration for all.” ###
12.05.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement expressing his heartfelt condolences regarding the passing of Nelson Mandela:“Today, I join hundreds of millions of people worldwide in mourning the extraordinary life and legacy of anti-apartheid revolutionary, Nobel Peace Prize recipient, and first Black President of South Africa, Nelson Mandela. Words alone cannot adequately praise his historic achievements or fully express my sympathy in learning of his passing. Mandela was an icon of the global community. He epitomized leadership, humanitarianism, and activism. Since first learning of Mandela as a young man, I have deeply admired his courage and vision to end racism and inequality through racial reconciliation. In many ways, Mandela inspired my life and career. I offer my heartfelt condolences to his family and the millions of South Africans and global citizens whose lives he influenced. Unequivocally, there will never be another quite like Nelson Mandela.”
12.05.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding Governor Pat McCrory’s refusal to publicly oppose all sequestration cuts, not just military cuts, when asked during yesterday’s briefing with the North Carolina Congressional Delegation:“I am deeply disappointed that Governor Pat McCrory refused to publicly voice his opposition to all sequestration cuts including cuts to social safety net programs. “The governor seemingly wants it both ways--by supporting across-the-board cuts to important federal programs, but opposing cuts to the defense budget.“While I share Governor McCrory’s position that we must prevent harmful cuts to the military budget, he forgets that sequestration’s crippling effect is not exclusive to our military. These cuts are also devastating for low-income and poor North Carolina families. It harms social safety net programs like Head Start, Meals on Wheels, and Housing Choice Vouchers, which millions of North Carolinians depend on.“I urge the governor to be a full participant in the debate to suspend sequestration’s damaging effects and support a full repeal of the law.” ###
12.03.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – The Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield will hold its 2ndAnnual Grants Workshop for small business owners and non-profit organizations on Wednesday, December 4, 2013 from 8:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. at the East Carolina Heart Institute.The Grants Workshop will offer small business owners and non-profit organizations the opportunity to learn about funding opportunities, the grant application process, and capacity-building methods once grant funds are received. The workshop will also include representatives from federal, state, and private agencies, panel discussions, and how-to exercises.Some of the organizations that will be represented are The Conservation Fund, the N. C. Department of Agriculture, the N.C. Department of Homeland Security, the N. C. Department of Public Safety, The Duke Endowment, the Duke Energy Foundation, the Kate B. Reynolds Charitable Trust, the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Natural Resource Conservation Services, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation.Featured guest speakers include Daniel Mallison III, Vidant Health Capacity Building Program; W. S. Robinson, Certified Public Accountant; Angel Wright-Lanier, Assistant City Manager of Goldsboro, N.C.; and Evan Lewis, CEO, Martin Community Action.This event is free and open to the public with registration. The media is encouraged to attend. WHO: The Office of Congressman G. K. ButterfieldWHAT: The 2nd Annual Small Business and Non-Profit Grants WorkshopWHEN: 8:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., Wednesday, December 4, 2013WHERE: East Carolina Heart Institute, 115 Heart Drive, Greenville, North Carolina ###
11.25.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will present a $400,000 check to the New Bern Housing Authority and the City of New Bern at a press conference on Tuesday, November 26, 2013 at 9:30 a.m. at the New Bern Housing Authority, 837 South Front Street.The check represents a U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Choice Neighborhoods Planning Grant awarded to the Housing Authority and the City to develop New Bern’s Five Points commercial area and surrounding residential neighborhood.The grantees will work together to develop a comprehensive approach to transform the Five Points neighborhood, redevelop its distressed Trent Court and Craven Terrace public housing, and serve the needs of the Greater Five Points residents, which includes education, employment, better health outcomes, community services, and recreation. The proposed plan will build on the neighborhood’s assets, including its proximity to the waterfront, two parks, and anchor institution Carolina East Medical Center.The New Bern Housing Authority and the City of New Bern are one of only nine applicants selected for the Choice Neighborhoods Planning Grant. Choice Neighborhoods Planning Grants support the development of comprehensive neighborhood revitalization plans which focused on directing resources to address three core goals: Housing, People and Neighborhoods. To achieve these core goals, communities must develop and implement a comprehensive neighborhood revitalization strategy, or Transformation Plan. The Transformation Plan will become the guiding document for the revitalization of the public and/or assisted housing units while simultaneously directing the transformation of the surrounding neighborhood and positive outcomes for families.All media outlets are invited to attend tomorrow’s check presentation and press conference. This event is open to the public.Additional details below.WHO: Congressman G. K. Butterfield, New Bern Elected Officials, and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban DevelopmentWHAT: Press Conference and Check Presentation Ceremony to award HUD Choice Neighborhoods Planning Grant to New BernWHEN: Tuesday, November 26, 2013 at 9:30 a.m.WHERE: The New Bern Housing Authority, 837 South Front Street ###
11.22.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the award of a U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Choice Neighborhoods Planning Grant to the New Bern Housing Authority and the City of New Bern, North Carolina in the amount of $400,000. The grant will be used to develop New Bern’s Five Points commercial area and surrounding residential neighborhood, which was once a thriving community, but in recent years have experienced economic challenges, high unemployment rate, and an above average violent crime rate.“This grant is essential to revitalizing and rebranding the Five Points corridor, which in its heyday was a vibrant community of mixed-income families, retail shops and restaurants, and several other amenities,” said Congressman Butterfield. “The partnership between the New Bern Housing Authority, the City, and its key sponsors will help this community realize its full potential while also spurring economic development and improving the quality of life of its residents. I thank U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan for selecting New Bern as a grant recipient.” The grantees will work together to develop a comprehensive approach to transform the Five Points neighborhood, redevelop its distressed Trent Court and Craven Terrace public housing, and serve the needs of the Greater Five Points residents, which includes education, employment, better health outcomes, community services, and recreation. The proposed plan will build on the neighborhood’s assets, including its proximity to the waterfront, two parks, and anchor institution Carolina East Medical Center.The New Bern Housing Authority and the City of New Bern are one of only nine applicants selected for the Choice Neighborhoods Planning Grant. Choice Neighborhoods Planning Grants support the development of comprehensive neighborhood revitalization plans which focused on directing resources to address three core goals: Housing, People and Neighborhoods. To achieve these core goals, communities must develop and implement a comprehensive neighborhood revitalization strategy, or Transformation Plan. The Transformation Plan will become the guiding document for the revitalization of the public and/or assisted housing units while simultaneously directing the transformation of the surrounding neighborhood and positive outcomes for families.For more information on HUD Planning Grants, visit here. Specific information on New Bern’s award can be found here. ###
11.01.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding a nationwide reduction in benefits to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), commonly known as Food Stamps:“Today is a sad day for many low-income families in North Carolina and across the country that struggle daily to put food on their tables. In 2009, Congress passed the Recovery Act which temporarily increased food stamps benefits for millions of Americans. However, today, that modest increase ends.“While the reduction in benefits may sound insignificant to some, it could result in hungry families being deprived of a week’s worth of food. A family of four will see up to $36 cut from their monthly benefits, and a single parent with two children will experience a reduction of about $29. This equates to struggling families receiving less than $1.40 per person per meal, and will affect over 1.7 million North Carolinians, including 758,000 children and 285,000 elderly or disabled, which is more than 17 percent of North Carolina’s population.“Even more disturbing is that my House Republican colleagues knew this reduction was coming, but have persisted in their war on the poor by pushing for even deeper cuts to SNAP. The Republican-led House passed a bill in September without the support of a single Democrat that would cut $40 billion in SNAP benefits over the next 10 years. That’s in addition to the cuts that occurred today, and all while the national and state’s unemployment rates stands at 7 percent and 8.7 percent, respectively.“Now is not the time to cut a program that helps the most vulnerable in our country feed their families and get back on their feet. I hope that my Republican colleagues will reevaluate their position on SNAP and seriously consider the real life impact their actions will have on millions of Americans.” ###
10.31.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement after the U.S. Senate failed to reach cloture on the nomination of Congressman Mel Watt (NC-12):“I am utterly disappointed that Senate Republicans have blocked a straight up or down vote on the confirmation of Congressman Mel Watt, who clearly had the support of the majority of the Senate. “As a former real estate attorney, the representative of the second largest banking center in the nation, and an author of Dodd-Frank, there is no doubt that Congressman Watt is qualified to serve as the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency.“Throughout his career, Congressman Watt has worked tirelessly to stop predatory lending, protect Americans from harmful financial practices, and increase access to affordable housing. Yet, Senate Republicans have denied him confirmation to further their own political interests on Wall Street and, in the process, denied the nation of a capable leader that would ensure fair finance practices and the recovery of our sluggish housing industry.“I truly hope that Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and the White House acts quickly to urge Senate Republicans to reconsider.”###
10.29.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Late yesterday evening, the U.S. House of Representatives approved a provision authored by Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) that expands the list of documents accepted by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to prove service and to grant honorary veterans status to a forgotten segment of the World War II Merchant Marine, the Coastwise Merchant Seamen. H.R. 1288, the World War II Merchant Mariner Service Act, was passed by a vote of 404-1 as part of H. R. 2189, a bill to improve the processing of disability claims by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Butterfield said, “This is a special moment. For too long, the brave men and women who served their country during World War II in the Merchant Marine have gone unrecognized for their service. We have taken another step in an effort to do the right thing and honor these mariners while they are still with us.”In March, Butterfield introduced H.R. 1288 to make deserving World War II U.S. Merchant Mariners eligible for honorary veterans’ status and certain veterans’ benefits, and has championed the effort to recognize these mariners for the past three Congresses. H.R. 2189, with the Merchant Mariner provisions, now heads to the U.S. Senate where it will have to be passed and then signed by the President before it becomes law. On Wednesday, October 30, 2013, the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee will hold a legislative hearing on the companion bill to Butterfield’s legislation, S. 1361. “Through no fault of their own, these selfless individuals have been unable to prove their service because the documents needed to prove service have either not survived over time or never existed at all. Now is the time to stand-up for these great Americans and give them the recognition they rightly deserve.” ###
10.29.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Late yesterday evening, the U.S. House of Representatives approved a provision authored by Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) that expands the list of documents accepted by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to prove service and to grant honorary veterans status to a forgotten segment of the World War II Merchant Marine, the Coastwise Merchant Seamen. H.R. 1288, the World War II Merchant Mariner Service Act, was passed by a vote of 404-1 as part of H. R. 2189, a bill to improve the processing of disability claims by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Butterfield said, “This is a special moment. For too long, the brave men and women who served their country during World War II in the Merchant Marine have gone unrecognized for their service. We have taken another step in an effort to do the right thing and honor these mariners while they are still with us.”In March, Butterfield introduced H.R. 1288 to make deserving World War II U.S. Merchant Mariners eligible for honorary veterans’ status and certain veterans’ benefits, and has championed the effort to recognize these mariners for the past three Congresses. H.R. 2189, with the Merchant Mariner provisions, now heads to the U.S. Senate where it will have to be passed and then signed by the President before it becomes law. On Wednesday, October 30, 2013, the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee will hold a legislative hearing on the companion bill to Butterfield’s legislation, S. 1361. “Through no fault of their own, these selfless individuals have been unable to prove their service because the documents needed to prove service have either not survived over time or never existed at all. Now is the time to stand-up for these great Americans and give them the recognition they rightly deserve.”###
10.24.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- Earlier today, during the Republican-led House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing criticizing the implementation of the Affordable Care Act, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) offered the following statement:“Today’s hearing would be appropriate if my Republican colleagues would have approached it in a constructive way so as to learn about the rollout challenges of Healthcare.gov. It would be appropriate to work in a bipartisan way to support the administration’s efforts to fix the problems with the website. “But the title of today’s hearing – PPACA Implementation Failures: Didn’t Know or Didn’t Disclose – very clearly illustrates my colleagues’ motives and intentions. I assure my Republican colleagues that their vehement opposition to Obamacare is very well known…It was just 24 days ago that Republicans forced the shutdown of the federal government over their fervent opposition to the law.“For 16 days, Republicans held the American people, our country’s financial stability, and the world economy hostage in an effort to delay, dismantle, and defund Obamacare. Their efforts cost the U.S. economy $3.1 billion and cost 120,000 new jobs.“The administration, members of Congress, and the public all agree there are problems with Healthcare.gov. Those problems are being addressed right now. But I must remind my colleagues that Obamacare is not just a website. It’s a law that has already helped tens of millions of Americans. “Young adults can stay on their parents’ insurance until their 26th birthday. Insurance companies can no longer deny people because of a pre-existing condition and they can’t drop someone from coverage if they get sick. The law ends caps on yearly and lifetime benefits and requires insurance companies to spend at least 80 percent of premiums on patient care and quality improvements.“But my colleagues don’t talk about the dividends Obamacare is already paying to millions of Americans, instead choosing to focus on the technical glitches with Healthcare.gov. “Complaining about a website with design problems that can and are being fixed as we speak is nothing more than a thinly veiled excuse to disparage President Obama and the law that he and many in Congress have championed.“Obamacare is a good law that benefits the American people. It will empower Americans to live healthier lives while ultimately saving taxpayers money. We should not throw the baby out with the bath water. Let’s work together in a bipartisan way to address aspects of the law that could be improved instead of grandstanding in an effort to score political points.“I yield back.”###
10.22.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Marsha Blackburn (R-TN07) joined Representatives Gene Green (D-TX29), Dr. Phil Gingrey (R-GA11), Diana DeGette (D-CO01), Greg Walden (R-OR02), and G. K. Butterfield (D-NC01) today in introducing the Sensible Oversight for Technology which Advances Regulatory Efficiency (SOFTWARE) Act to provide regulatory clarity regarding mobile medical applications, clinical decision support, electronic health records, and other health care related software. By building on the guidance recently released by the FDA and codifying their risk based regulatory approach this important legislation provides the regulatory certainty that technology companies need in order to continue to drive innovation and ensure patient safety. Estimates indicate that the number of consumers using medical apps on their smart phones will grow to 500 million by 2015. But today the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) lacks the necessary tools to appropriately oversee these innovative products without overstepping their authority and stifling innovation. Under current law, the FDA could use its definition of a medical device to assert broad regulatory authority over a wide array of software. The SOFTWARE Act tailors their authority to the realities of the 21st century by focusing their authority onto the products that pose a potential risk to human health.Rep. Marsha Blackburn: “Our legislation takes the necessary steps to protect technological innovation that is filtering into growth sectors like health care. This bill would provide the FDA with the tools it needs to effectively protect consumers who use high risk technologies, while allowing the innovation of low risk technologies to continue without being caught up in the expensive and time consuming FDA approval process all while protecting patient safety. Technology and connectivity is sweeping into nearly every industry, revolutionizing the products and services we rely on and it is imperative that we work to encourage the continued development of new technologies to improve healthcare and create new jobs.Rep. Gene Green: “As new technologies emerge, it’s important that federal regulatory agencies like the FDA are properly equipped to provide a common sense level of oversight of medical software. This bill builds on the steps forward made by the FDA in their recently released guidance and focuses federal resources on the medical software that pose a risk to patients and should be trusted to be safe and effective by patients and providers alike. This bill aims to encourage innovation in medical related software while providing the regulatory framework to keep us safe.”Dr. Phil Gingrey: “Health care delivery will continue to be impacted by the advent of new technology, specifically with health care software. This bill provides innovators clear regulatory guidelines that allows for breakthrough medical advancements and innovation. As a physician, I’ve seen firsthand the benefits of life-changing medical software and applications that better support doctors, manage disease, and ultimately, save patients’ lives.”Rep. Diana DeGette: “As technological advances change the face of medicine in the 21st century, the FDA is hamstrung with outdated tools that limit oversight and could ultimately stifle innovation. This bill will help create a regulatory framework that ensures emerging technologies are effective and secure, while protecting patient safety. The SOFTWARE Act is also a great example of bipartisan cooperation paving the way for a stronger, healthier future for our country.”Rep. Greg Walden: “Every day, innovative pioneers in the mobile health sector are working on solutions that help patients while reducing health care costs. The app economy is characterized by low barriers to entry, quick time to market, and the ability to adapt to quickly changing user needs. Medical devices, on the other hand, face a long and costly pre-market approval process at the FDA. We all want to ensure patient safety, but why would we treat mobile applications the same as a dialysis machine? Our common-sense legislation gives regulatory clarity to this innovative industry while focusing efforts on potential risks to human health.” Rep. G. K. Butterfield: “In rural areas like many I represent, access to care can be a challenge. Smartphone apps can help individuals better monitor their health and improve health outcomes when used in conjunction with the tools available to healthcare providers. With more than 40 million people gaining access to affordable health care thanks to the Affordable Care Act, the use of mobile healthcare applications will only continue to rise. That’s why it’s important that the FDA be given clear direction from Congress moving forward.” According to a recent report, there are currently 97,000 mobile health apps in the Apple app store that generate 3 million free and 300,000 paid downloads. 15 percent of these apps are designed specifically for health care providers and over 60 percent of doctors are using tablets – compared to half of that just over a year ago.Click here to read the full bill text of the SOFTWARE Act.
10.18.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today sent a letter to the North Carolina Department of Commerce urging Secretary Sharon Decker to participate in the SelectUSA 2013 Investment Summit to be held in Washington, D.C. on October 31st. Assembled by the U.S. Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration, the inaugural SelectUSA Investment Summit is a first-of-its-kind event to encourage investment in the U.S economy and connect world business leaders with state and local economic development organizations.The NC Commerce Department has not confirmed its participation in the summit which could help generate future economic growth and introduce local economic development organizations to valuable experts, service providers, and senior government officials.Butterfield wrote, “The Summit is an opportunity for the North Carolina Department of Commerce and Governor McCrory’s administration to show that it is committed to creating jobs...Your Department must do all it can by paricpating in this event to signal that North Carolina is open for business and investment and help put North Carolinians back to work."The two day networking event will feature sucessful speakers such as the Research Triangle Regional Partnership CEO Charles Hayes and Walmart President William Simon. Additionally, matchmaking services will connect attendees with potential investors and relevant government officials.
10.16.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the passage of a bill to reopen the federal government and avoid financial default:“For more than two weeks, this nation was held hostage by the political theater of the right-wing faction of Republicans in Congress. This radical minority not only threatened the livelihoods of millions of government employees and their families, but also millions of people across the country. In North Carolina alone, over 1.8 million seniors would not have received their monthly social security check, and 135,000 veterans would not receive their disability compensation had this continued.“Their extremely reckless behavior even threatened the full faith and credit of the United States and the security of the global economy by once again bringing our nation dangerously close to defaulting for the first time in American history. Republicans’ efforts were nothing more than a hollow attempt to score political points at the expense of millions of hardworking Americans.“However, Speaker Boehner finally capitulated and allowed for the consideration of a bill that passed both chambers of Congress with significant bipartisan support. The agreement that passed tonight immediately reopens the government and provides funding through January 15, 2014. It raises the debt limit through February 7, 2014, and provides back pay to furloughed government employees. “This bill’s passage ends the standoff that brought Washington and the nation to a halt. I sincerely hope Republicans have learned that jeopardizing the prosperity of this nation is both extremely irresponsible and an unacceptable way to govern. Americans and North Carolinians deserve better and will be watching closely when we revisit these issues early next year.” ###
10.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – In an open letter sent to North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory today, North Carolina Representatives David Price (D-NC), G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) and Melvin Watt (D-NC) pushed the Governor and his administration to explain why North Carolina is the only state in the country to discontinue the operation of its Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program. Last week, the McCrory Administration abruptly reversed its decision to suspend the Women, Infants and Children (WIC) supplemental nutrition program.The text of the letter is below. October 15, 2013The Honorable Pat McCroryGovernorOffice of the Governor20301 Mail Service CenterRaleigh, NC 27699-0301Dear Governor McCrory:It has come to our attention that North Carolina is the lone anomaly in deciding to discontinue the operation of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program.While other states are maintaining their TANF programs, North Carolina has ceased processing new applications. It is the only state in the country to do so.The Administration for Children and Families has committed itself to working with every state to ensure that essential TANF benefits remain available and that all expenditures are reimbursed when the federal government reopens. This guarantee of reimbursement, which is apparently good enough for 49 other states, would enable the state to meet its responsibility to administer the program.Last week your state DHHS announced it would re-open the Women, Infants and Children supplemental nutrition program. North Carolina was, again, the only state in the country to discontinue WIC benefits even though federal contingency funds were available. We are concerned that the decision to suspend the TANF program may reflect a disturbing trend, and urge you again to reverse course.As we work to resolve the political impasse in Congress and reopen the federal government, we urge your administration to undertake all possible measures to ensure that the most vulnerable families in our state get the services they need.Sincerely,DAVID PRICEMember of CongressG. K. BUTTERFIELDMember of CongressMELVIN L. WATTMember of Congress # # #
10.07.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded Greene Early College High School in Snow Hill, North Carolina for being honored as a 2013 National Blue Ribbon School by the U.S. Department of Education. Greene Early College High School is one of only six schools in North Carolina, and the only school in eastern North Carolina, to receive the 2013 National Blue Ribbon School designation for academic excellence from the Department of Education.Greene Early College High School was selected for this distinction due to its students overall performance on its end-of- grade exams and its outstanding graduation rate. From 2011 to 2012, all of the school’s students tested at or above proficiency level on state assessments and all of their seniors graduated. “I applaud the students, faculty, and parents of Greene Early College High School for their commitment to academic excellence,” Butterfield said. “Never has a solid educational foundation been as critical as it is in today’s globalized society and competitive job market. Greene County, the Snow Hill community, and Greene Early College High School have done an exemplary job preparing their students for success.” The National Blue Ribbon School designation recognizes elementary, middle, and high schools across the country whose students excel academically or show significant academic growth on state assessments. Green Early College High School is being recognized along with approximately 300 other schools nationwide.At the invitation of Education Secretary Arne Duncan, the school’s principal, Charlie Langley, and former principal, Patrick Greene, will attend a recognition ceremony in Washington, D.C. on November 18and 19. Greene Early College High School will receive a U.S. flag and plaque to mark their status as a National Blue Ribbon School.###
10.04.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the U.S. Department of Education for awarding Louisburg College a $2.5 million Title III Strengthening Institutions Program grant. Louisburg College will use the grant to strengthen its academic curriculum, improve student support services, and upgrade its technology and infrastructure.“I thank the U.S. Department of Education for investing in Louisburg College and its students,” Butterfield said. “I have no doubt that these funds will help increase student success and enhance institutional productivity and sustainability.”“This Title III grant award is the result of the vision and hard work of the staff and faculty of Louisburg College, the support of Congressman Butterfield, and the priority of the U.S Department of Education in strengthening institutions of higher learning,” said Dr. Mark La Branche, President of Louisburg College. “We celebrate the significant impact this award will have on the College. The resources provided will allow us to upgrade technology, transform our library into a state-of-the-art collaborative learning environment, and train our faculty and staff for higher levels of effectiveness. All of this will be done for the sake of greater levels of student success.”Located in Louisburg, North Carolina, Louisburg College is the nation’s oldest residential two-year college serving more than 700 students. The College is also the state’s only residential two-year liberal arts college.To learn more about Louisburg College, visit www.louisburg.edu.More information on the U.S. Department of Education’s Title III Strengthening Institutions Grant program can be found here.###
10.02.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – On Tuesday, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) held a telephone town hall meeting to answer First District residents’ questions on the Affordable Care Act and on open enrollment in the new Health Insurance Marketplace, which began on October 1. The live telephone town hall started at 6:30 p.m. and lasted over an hour with more than 8,500 district residents joining the call.“The high number of participants shows that people are eager to get the information they need to get affordable health insurance,” Butterfield said. “There has been a lot of misinformation surrounding the costs, benefits, and enrollment. Yesterday’s forum dispelled many of those myths and gave residents the information necessary to make informed decisions when selecting healthcare coverage.”In North Carolina’s First Congressional District alone, Obamacare has helped 94,000 seniors have received Medicare preventive services without paying anything out-of-pocket; more than 5,000 young adults have coverage through their parents’ health insurance; about 400 small businesses received tax credits to expand care to employees; and 34,000 children with preexisting health conditions are no longer denied coverage by insurers. To enroll in the Health Insurance Marketplace visit, www.healthcare.gov. Open enrollment continues through March 31, 2014. ###
10.01.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the Republican-imposed government shutdown:“In all my years of having a front row seat to their antics, today House Republicans have reached a new low. For the first time in 17 years the federal government has shutdown. Government buildings are closed. Federal employees will lose pay. Public servants will work without the guarantee of pay. And far too many Americans will experience unnecessary delays in services. All of this has happened because House Republicans decided to take the government hostage in their effort to overturn a law produced through a fair and lengthy democratic process and affirmed by the reelection of President Obama.“I am astounded by the party’s pettiness and narrow-minded agenda. House Republicans would rather jeopardize the livelihood of millions of civilian and military employees and those that rely on the business of the government, than to work with their colleagues in a sensible manner. Hardworking Americans deserve better.” ###
10.01.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the Republican-imposed government shutdown:“In all my years of having a front row seat to their antics, today House Republicans have reached a new low. For the first time in 17 years the federal government has shutdown. Government buildings are closed. Federal employees will lose pay. Public servants will work without the guarantee of pay. And far too many Americans will experience unnecessary delays in services. All of this has happened because House Republicans decided to take the government hostage in their effort to overturn a law produced through a fair and lengthy democratic process and affirmed by the reelection of President Obama.“I am astounded by the party’s pettiness and narrow-minded agenda. House Republicans would rather jeopardize the livelihood of millions of civilian and military employees and those that rely on the business of the government, than to work with their colleagues in a sensible manner. Hardworking Americans deserve better.” ###
09.30.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – On Tuesday, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will host a telephone town hall for residents of the First Congressional District to provide an update on the implementation of the Affordable Care Act including enrolling in the health insurance marketplace, which begins on October 1. He will also answer questions posed directly by his constituents.“Many people have questions about how the Affordable Care Act will impact them and their families and whether or not they qualify for a subsidy if purchasing insurance through the marketplace,” said Congressman Butterfield. “This telephone town hall is an excellent opportunity to dispel many of the myths surrounding the law and for the residents of my district to learn more about the Affordable Care Act and to get their questions answered.”In North Carolina’s First Congressional District alone, under the law, 94,000 seniors have received Medicare preventive services without paying anything out-of-pocket; more than 5,000 young adults have coverage through their parents’ health insurance; about 400 small businesses received tax credits to expand care to employees; and 34,000 children with preexisting health conditions are no longer denied coverage by insurers. Please see the additional details below.WHO: Congressman G. K. Butterfield and Healthcare ExpertsWHAT: Healthcare Telephone Town Hall on Enrollment in ObamacareWHEN: Tuesday, October 1, at 6:30 p.m. – 7:30 p.m.HOW: To sign-up for the town hall, residents of the First Congressional District may call (202) 225-3101 or complete the form located here. ###
09.30.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) for filing suit against North Carolina over its restrictive new voting law that includes discriminatory provisions aimed at disenfranchising thousands of North Carolinians. The lawsuit follows Butterfield’s repeated requests to the DOJ to legally challenge the state law under the Voting Rights Act. “I applaud Attorney General Eric Holder for acting within his constitutional duty to protect the voting rights of North Carolinians,” said Butterfield. “The state’s new voting law reverses years of progress toward expanding access to the voting booth and discriminates against poor, minority, college age, and elderly voters. North Carolina’s voting law is the most restrictive in the country and I am confident it will be struck down by the court.”The DOJ lawsuit targets four provisions in North Carolina’s Voter Information Verification Act, including the new photo identification requirement. In August, Butterfield called for Attorney General Holder to explore the constitutionality of the Voter Information Verification Act. In July, Butterfield wrote Governor McCrory urging him to veto the bill.###
09.26.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman Butterfield (NC-01) announced today that he has been appointed to the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, which he previously served on during the 111th Congress. This appointment fills the vacancy created by Massachusetts Senator Edward Markey election to the US Senate. Last week, Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry Waxman recommended Butterfield for the subcommittee post.“I thank my good friend and colleague Ranking Member Henry Waxman for nominating me to serve on the Communications and Technology Subcommittee,” said Butterfield. “I rejoin this important subcommittee at a time where strong but flexible communications and technology policies are needed to aid national security, improve economic development, and ensure privacy. I look forward to working with my fellow committee members to meet our nation’s most pressing communications and technological challenges.”The Communications and Technology Subcommittee oversees all electronic communications including mobile, broadcast, cable, satellite and emergency and public safety communications as well as cyber and data security and privacy. The subcommittee also has jurisdiction over the Federal Communications Commission and National Telecommunications and Information Administration. Butterfield plans to use this new post to push for better broadband connectivity for rural America, a nationwide first responders’ network, and to promote policies that spur job creation and economic growth. Butterfield has been a member of the influential House Energy and Commerce Committee since 110th Congress. He also serves on the Subcommittees on Health and Oversight and Investigations.###
09.19.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – During an Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigation subcommittee hearing today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield again blasted Committee Republicans for launching an unwarranted investigation into 51 community organizations that received Navigator grants to help enroll people in health insurance plans made possible by the Affordable Care Act.“The chairman of this committee has abused his investigatory authority by launching a fishing expedition into Navigators who received federal funding solely for the purpose of discrediting the President,” said Butterfield. “This sideshow only served to distract the Navigators attention from their mission of helping the poor and indigent to access health insurance.”Navigators will be essential guides for uninsured Americans who may require help understanding their benefits and gaining coverage through the healthcare marketplaces. Navigator grantees are preparing for October 1 when open enrollment for the health marketplaces begins. In North Carolina, one million people are expected to qualify for a subsidy under the Affordable Care Act.Committee Republican Congresswoman Renee Ellmers confirmed that she was unconcerned by the possibility of enrollment delays caused by committee’s requests. Congressman Butterfield called the reaction an “outrage.” Butterfield’s full statement follows. Thank you Mr. Waxman for yielding. Already hundreds of thousands of my constituents in North Carolina’s First Congressional District have benefited from the Affordable Care Act. 130,000 seniors are now eligible for Medicare preventative services, 41,000 children can no longer be denied coverage based on preexisting conditions, and 8,200 young adults now have coverage on their parents’ plans. It has been a long path to help the 137,000 uninsured individuals who live in my district, but we are almost there. With the beginning of open season on October 1st we will be one step closer to helping many of my constituents in eastern North Carolina receive affordable and quality health care. The opening of the Marketplace, the education and support provided by the Navigators, and the outreach efforts by the Department of Health and Human Services will help directly enroll 1.1 million uninsured people and assist an additional 7.3 million uninsured people to receive health insurance. But instead of touting the success of soon having nearly every American insured, my Republican colleagues have forced more than 40 votes to dismantle and defund the Affordable Care Act. The chairman of this committee has abused his investigatory authority by launching a fishing expedition into Navigators who received federal funding solely for the purpose of discrediting the President. This sideshow only served to distract the Navigators attention from their mission of helping the poor and indigent to access health insurance. The Charlotte News and Observer reported that Ms. Ellmers, one of my North Carolina colleagues said of the baseless investigation that “she would be pleased if the congressional navigator inquiry stymies the nonprofits planning navigator work.” And she is quoted as saying “if this ended up resulting in a delay, I wouldn’t be unhappy about it.” This is an outrage!###
09.17.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today met with students from East Carolina University’s (ECU) Pirate Veterans organization to discuss and underscore student veteran issues including the need to equalize veterans’ tuition benefits under the Post 9-11 GI Bill.In February, Congressman Butterfield introduced H.R. 595, the Veterans’ Education Equity Act of 2013, to reward equal educational benefits to veterans whether they choose to attend a private or public institution of higher learning. The bill would change an inequity in existing law which allots more education funds to veterans enrolled in private colleges than those in public institutions. Currently, the Post 9-11 Veterans’ Educational Improvements Assistance Act capped the education benefit amount for veterans who enroll in private schools at $18,077.50 and limited the education benefit for those who enroll in public schools to the amount charged for in-state tuition and fees. The Veterans’ Education Equity Act of 2013 would remedy this inequality and allow all veterans to receive up to $18,077.50 in education benefits.“Our veterans deserve access to affordable education to help them succeed in their transition back to civilian life,” said Butterfield. “One way we can support veterans is to eliminate the inequity in tuition benefits for student veterans enrolled at private universities versus public universities. Equalizing tuition benefits for veterans would increase affordability and access to education at exceptional state institutions like East Carolina University.”ECU’s Pirate Veterans serves as the voice for student veterans with regard to veterans’ issues at the university. The Pirate Veterans Organization provides a civic, educational, and social network for student veterans and their families to connect and share information and experiences. One important goal of the group is to make it easier for veterans to attend college.The Veterans’ Education Equity Act has received the support of the American Council on Education, the Association of State Colleges and Universities, the Association of Public and Land-Grant Universities, the Association of American Universities, the American Association of Community Colleges, the University of North Carolina System, and the North Carolina Community College System.Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) introduced the companion bill, S. 262, in the Senate.###
09.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration (EDA) for awarding a $1.4 million investment grant to the city of Washington, N.C. to support critical disaster recovery and resiliency efforts in the state.This EDA investment grant will fund water infrastructure improvements to increase the city’s ability to withstand weather emergencies in historic downtown Washington, an area severely impacted by Hurricane Irene in 2011.Specifically, the grant will fund replacement of a water-pumping station and installation of a new water transmission line from the city’s regional water treatment plant. The project will enhance advanced manufacturing in the region’s energy-efficient green technology sector and save traditional textile manufacturing jobs. This investment is also expected to create 68 new jobs and generate $8 million in private investment, according to grantee estimates.“This project is part of the $200 million appropriation made by Congress to the EDA to help communities that received a major disaster designation in 2011,” said Butterfield. “I applaud the Commerce Department and the Economic Development Administration for awarding this much-needed grant that will help to create jobs and further the city’s recovery efforts.”EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon the applicant’s eligibility, the application’s merit, and the availability of funds. The EDA makes investments in economically distressed communities in order to create jobs for U.S. workers, promote American innovation, and accelerate long-term economic growth. ###
09.11.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In his opening statement before a House Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee hearing on the Affordable Care Act, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) denounced the actions of Committee Republicans that sent an unwarranted investigative letter to 51 community organizations that received Navigator grants to help uninsured Americans enroll in the healthcare exchange authorized under the new healthcare law.“There has been no indication or evidence of any kind that any Navigator grantees have misappropriated or misused grant funds,” said Butterfield. “This is a gross abuse of the committee’s investigative authority and is just another way the Republican Majority is attempting to intimidate the public and derail the Affordable Care Act.”With enrollment into the new healthcare Marketplaces set for October 1, thousands of organizations are preparing for the wave of people that will require guidance in obtaining health coverage and understanding their benefits. According to Butterfield, attempts by Navigators to meet the unreasonable requests made by Committee Republicans in the investigative letter will detract from their ability to be ready when the Marketplaces open next month. “The Majority is distracting these recipients from their important work of readying for Open Season that begins on October 1st by diverting their limited resources to entertain its fishing expedition that will surely come back empty-handed,” said Butterfield.Butterfield’s full statement follows. House Committee on Energy and CommerceSubcommittee on HealthStatement by Congressman G. K. ButterfieldAffordable Care Act Thank you, Mr. Waxman for yielding me the time. The health insurance marketplace is a critical part of delivering affordable healthcare to Americans who do not have employer-sponsored insurance. Beginning in 2014, more than 25 million individuals will be eligible for a premium tax credit and 23 million of those belong to working families, many of whom struggle to make ends meet on a minimum-wage hourly income. Obamacare marks a seismic shift in federal policies and educating the public is paramount to ensure full participation. CMS has recently distributed Navigator grants to non-profits across the country in order to help educate the public and guide them through the application process. The entities receiving the Navigator grants are professionally run and have decades of experience administering federal government grants and working with the public. That is why I couldn’t believe that the Chairmen of the full committee and subcommittees on Health and Oversight and Investigations, as well as other Republican members of the Committee sent a three page, investigatory letter to 51 Navigator grant recipients demanding they answer questions by September 13th – giving them only two weeks to provide detailed descriptions of the anticipated scope of work among other very specific questions and to “provide all documentation and communications related to [their] navigator grant.” Wasn’t the vast majority of the information being sought by Chairmen Upton, Pitts, and Murphy included in the navigator’s application to CMS? These navigator grantees only received word they were selected to receive the grant on August 15th. Might I remind my colleagues that the marketplace is going live on October 1 for open season enrollment. That’s less than one month away. The Majority is distracting these recipients from their important work of readying for Open Season that begins on October 1st by diverting their limited resources to entertain its fishing expedition that will surely come back empty-handed. There has been no indication or evidence of any kind that any Navigator grantees have misappropriated or misused grant funds. This is a gross abuse of the committee’s investigative authority and is just another way the Republican Majority is attempting to intimidate the public and derail the Affordable Care Act. This committee has important work to get done. Obamacare is the law of the land and it’s high time the Majority stop acting with reckless abandon and get to the real work on behalf of the American people. I yield back. https:/Butterfield.House.Gov###
09.09.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – In an effort to help North Carolina businesses get a leg up in a difficulty economy, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) has joined his fellow members of the North Carolina Congressional Delegation to host the annual “Taking Care of Business” North Carolina Business and Economic Development Summit on September 9 and 10. The two-day summit will connect North Carolina businesses with congressional leaders, administration officials, and others to discuss current issues affecting the economy and the business community in North Carolina.“We have repeatedly heard from our constituents that creating jobs and strengthening the economy should be Congress’ first priority,” said Butterfield. “This important summit is just one way to provide resources to North Carolina businesses in order to help them create jobs, prosper and grow.” During the two-day summit, local businesses will have the opportunity to attend workshops on government contracting, workforce development, raising capital, and building leadership skills. Attendees will also hear from a number of speakers which include U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx, U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew, U.S. Representative James Clyburn, Our State Magazine Editor Elizabeth Hudson, and several others.A full schedule of the two-day event follows. Monday, September 9Cannon House Office BuildingCanon Caucus Room 12:30pm - 1:00pm:Registration and Materials Pickup 1:05pm – 1:25pm:Remarks by Alexander JulianNC-Based Clothing Designer 1:25pm – 1:45pm:Presentation By Joe FreddosoPresident and CEO of MCNC 1:45pm-2:05pm:Presentation By Aaron SyrettDirector of the NC Film Office 2:05pm-2:20pm:Presentation By Elizabeth HudsonEditor of Our State Magazine Specialized Workshops2:30pm-3:20pm:Key Strategies For Accessing Government ContractsLocation: Veterans Affairs Committee Meeting Room (334 Cannon)Leann Delaney, Assistant Director of the Office of Contract AssistanceU.S. Small Business Administration Workforce Development And The Skills GapJohan Uvin, Deputy Assistant SecretaryU.S. Department of EducationOffice of Vocational and Adult Education Green Light To Growth: Driving Job Creation Through Increased Access To CapitalPatrick Kelley, Deputy Associate AdministratorU.S. Small Business Administration 3:30pm-4:45pm: Official Briefing By Hosting U.S. RepresentativesModerated by Jim MccleskeyFeaturing U.S. Representatives Mcintyre, Butterfield, Ellmers, Hudson, Price, Holding, Pittenger, Coble, and Meadows 4:45pm-5:30pm: The North Carolina Executive Leadership PanelModerated by Joe StewartJohn W. Palmour, Ph.D. Executive Vice President of Cree, Inc.David Simmons Chairman and CEO of PPDJennifer L. Weber, Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of Duke Energy 5:30pm-5:45pm:Secretary Sharon DeckerNorth Carolina Department of Commerce Tuesday, September 10Capitol Visitors CenterCongressional Auditorium 8:40am – 9:00am:General James AmosCommandant of the United States Marine Corps 9:00am – 9:20am:Secretary Anthony FoxxU.S. Department of Transportation 9:20am – 9:40am:Senator Richard BurrState of North Carolina 9:40am – 10:00am:Roy WilliamsUNC Men’s Basketball Coach 10:00am – 10:20am:Representative Marsha BlackburnTennessee’s 7th Congressional District 10:20am – 10:40am:Representative Debbie Wasserman SchultzFlorida’s 23rd Congressional DistrictChair, Democratic National Committee 10:40am – 11:00am:Secretary Jacob J. LewU.S. Department of Treasury 11:00am – 11:20am:Representative Jim ClyburnSouth Carolina’s 6th Congressional District 11:20am – 11:40am:Chuck ToddChief White House Correspondent For NBC NewsSpecial Greetings from Representative Steny Hoyer 11:40am – 12:00pm:Senator Kay HaganState of North Carolina ###
09.03.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today cheered the U.S. Department of Transportation’s award of a Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) V grant to the city of Goldsboro. The much-needed $10 million grant will be used to complete the Gateway Transfer Center Project, the Center Streetscape Project, and the Goldsboro Union Station Multimodal Transportation Facility, all already underway.“This award is the culmination of many years of efforts to fund this project,” said Butterfield. “This investment in Goldsboro will provide an economic boost to the entire eastern North Carolina region after tough economic challenges. Specifically, these funds will enable Goldsboro to completely renovate the downtown, expand public transportation capacity to interconnect an entire rural region, and restore historic infrastructure. I thank Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx and former Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood for recognizing the importance of these projects and awarding this grant to Goldsboro.”There have been several rounds of TIGER grants and Butterfield has been integral to Goldsboro’s efforts throughout. In addition to meeting with the transportation secretaries concerning Goldsboro’s grant application, in April, Butterfield led a tour for then-Transportation Secretary LaHood of the downtown area and the site of Goldsboro Union Station. Last year, Butterfield urged North Carolina Department of Transportation Secretary Gene Conti to reallocate unspent transportation funds to Goldsboro for its transportation projects. Prior to that, Butterfield sent several letters in support of Goldsboro’s TIGER grant applications. ###
09.01.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement on President Obama's decision to seek Congressional approval for military intervention in Syria:“I’m deeply troubled by the Assad Regime’s use of chemical weapons on innocent civilians in Syria. As a Member of Congress, authorizing the use of military force is one of our most important responsibilities and it should not be taken lightly. This situation deserves careful consideration and I look forward to a thorough debate in the Congress.” ###
08.30.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Next week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will meet with a number of business and community leaders to discuss transportation, education, and job creation in the First Congressional District.On Tuesday, Congressman Butterfield will hold a town hall style meeting with the staff of IMPulse North Carolina to discuss transportation technology. IMPulse was recently recognized by the White House for its potential to spur much-needed economic development across the state, and for its innovation in transportation.On Wednesday, Butterfield will meet with members of the North Carolina League of Credit Unions to discuss economic issues relevant to the credit union industry. Later in the day, and following a tour of the Lincoln Community Health Center, the Congressman will attend a ribbon cutting ceremony for the Maureen Joy Charter School. Formerly the East Durham Graded School, the newly renovated facility was the oldest existing school building in Durham. With a multi-million dollar investment from Self-Help the property was renovated for use by Maureen Joy Charter School. The school serves 450 students, grades K-8.To close the week, Butterfield will deliver remarks in Greenville on job creation and employment at the Small Business Technology Center’s Business Development Workshop for Veterans and Service Disabled Veterans. Butterfield will then participate in a Veterans’ Administration Town Hall on the new VA Super Clinic and the Affordable Care Act.Monday is a federal holiday.The Congressman’s full public schedule follows. WHAT: Butterfield to Highlight Transportation, Education, and Jobs in the District, Next WeekWHEN & WHERE:Tuesday, September 3 10:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m.IMPulse NC Tour100 Impulse WayMt. Olive, N.C. 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.NC Radiological Society Meeting2700 Medical Office PlaceGoldsboro, N.C. Wednesday, September 42:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m.Lincoln Community Health Center Tour1301 Fayetteville StreetDurham, NC 4:30 p.m. – 5:30 p.m.Maureen Joy Charter School Ribbon Cutting Ceremony107 South Driver StreetDurham, N.C. Thursday, September 58:30 a.m. – 10:00 a.m.SBTC Business Development Workshop of Veterans and Service Disabled VeteransEast Carolina State University300 East First Street, Willis BuildingGreenville, N.C. 11:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m.Veterans’ Administration Town Hall hosted by the Marine Corps League403 St. Andrews DriveGreenville, N.C.###
08.27.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will appear on MSNBC’s “PoliticsNation” at 6:00 PM today with host Al Sharpton to discuss North Carolina’s new voter ID law and the Voting Rights Act. Reverend Dr. William Barber will also be a guest on today’s show. Please see details below. WHO: Butterfield and Barber to Make Guest Appearance on “PoliticsNation” with Al Sharpton, TodayWHAT: To discuss North Carolina’s new voting laws, the Voting Rights Act, and related issuesWHEN: Tuesday, August 27, 2013, 6:00 pm – 7:00 pm EasternWHERE: Check your local cable/satellite listings for MSNBCWHY: Congressman G. K. Butterfield, a former civil rights attorney and judge, and Reverend Dr. William Barber, President of the North Carolina NAACP, have been outspoken critics of North Carolina’s new voter ID law, which will suppress and disenfranchise voters throughout the state. Butterfield is leading federal efforts to protect voting rights in North Carolina, while Reverend Barber is leading efforts in the state. Press Contact: Kezmiché “Kim” Atterbury(202) 225.3101###
08.26.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– For the second time in a week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will appear on MSNBC’s “The Rachel Maddow Show” tonight with host Rachel Maddow to discuss North Carolina’s new voter ID laws and the Voting Rights Act. Please see details below. WHO: Butterfield to Appear on “The Rachel Maddow Show” TonightWHAT: To discuss North Carolina’s new voting laws, the Voting Rights Act, and related issuesWHEN: Monday, August 26, 2013, 9:30 pm – 10:00 pm EasternWHERE: Check your local cable/satellite listings for MSNBCWHY: Congressman G. K. Butterfield, a former civil rights attorney and judge, has been a leading critic of North Carolina’s new voter ID laws, which aims to suppress and disenfranchise voters throughout the state. Press Contact: Kezmiché “Kim” Atterbury(202) 225.3101 ###
08.26.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– For the second time in a week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will appear on MSNBC’s “The Rachel Maddow Show” tonight with host Rachel Maddow to discuss North Carolina’s new voter ID laws and the Voting Rights Act. Please see details below. WHO: Butterfield to Appear on “The Rachel Maddow Show” TonightWHAT: To discuss North Carolina’s new voting laws, the Voting Rights Act, and related issuesWHEN: Monday, August 26, 2013, 9:30 pm – 10:00 pm EasternWHERE: Check your local cable/satellite listings for MSNBCWHY: Congressman G. K. Butterfield, a former civil rights attorney and judge, has been a leading critic of North Carolina’s new voter ID laws, which aims to suppress and disenfranchise voters throughout the state. Press Contact: Kezmiché “Kim” Atterbury(202) 225.3101 ###
08.26.2013	ICYMI: Butterfield Speaks with MSNBC’s Melissa Harris-Perry on NC Voter ID Laws and March on Washington AnniversaryWASHINGTON, DC – On Sunday, MSNBC aired a brief discussion between its host Melissa Harris-Perry, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), and Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee (TX-18) on the aggressive efforts to disenfranchise voters in both North Carolina and Texas. The group also discussed the upcoming anniversary of the 1963 March on Washington.In case you missed it, see the video below. ###
08.26.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will spotlight economic development and veterans in the First Congressional District before returning to Washington, D.C. to officially commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the 1963 March on Washington.Today, Congressman Butterfield will give brief remarks at the Roanoke Electric Cooperative district meeting in Aulander, North Carolina on the importance of safe, reliable, and affordable energy. Later, Butterfield will present a proclamation of recognition from the U.S. Congress to local hero, World War II Merchant Marine Captain Jack O. Horton. On Wednesday, Butterfield will join Presidents Obama, Clinton and Carter, civil rights leaders, and other dignitaries during the Let Freedom Ring ceremony, which marks the 50th Anniversary of the historic 1963 March on Washington.On Friday, Butterfield will visit the GE Aviation facility in Durham, where he will discuss job creation and economic development with the staff.Butterfield’s full public schedule follows. WHAT: Butterfield to Spotlight Economic Development, Veterans and Civil Rights, This WeekWHEN & WHERE:Monday, August 2611:00 am -12:00 pmRoanoke Electric Cooperative District Meeting518 NC Highway 561 WAulander, N.C . 2:00 pm – 3:00 pmWorld War II Coastwise Merchant Mariner Recognition CeremonyMuseum of the Albemarle501 S. Water StreetElizabeth City, N.C. Wednesday, August 289:00 am – 10:30 amThe Interfaith Service hosted by The King CenterShiloh Baptist Church1500 9th Street, NWWashington, D.C. 11:00 am – 4:00 pmThe Let Freedom Ring Commemoration and Call to Action CeremonyThe Lincoln MemorialWashington, .DC. Friday, August 3010:00 am – 11:30 amGeneral Electric (GE) Aviation Visit and Tour3701 South Miami BoulevardDurham, N.C.###
08.22.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will appear on MSNBC’s The Rachel Maddow Show tonight with host Rachel Maddow to discuss North Carolina’s new voter ID law. Please see details below. WHO: Butterfield to Appear on The Rachel Maddow ShowWHAT: To discuss North Carolina’s new voting laws, the Voting Rights Act, and related issuesWHEN: Thursday, August 22, 2013, 9:00 pm – 10:00 pm EasternWHERE: Check your local cable/satellite listings for MSNBCWHY: Congressman Butterfield has been a vocal critic of North Carolina’s new voter ID laws, which will suppress and disenfranchise voters throughout the state. Press Contact: Kezmiché “Kim” Atterbury(202) 225.3101
08.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) expressed his extreme disappointment with Governor Pat McCrory for signing into law House Bill 589, the Voter Information Verification Act, which makes sweeping and regressive reforms to voting laws in the state. In reaction to the bill’s enactment, Butterfield said, “Governor McCrory and his party members have destroyed the progressive reputation for voting inclusion this state has long held. With one stroke of his pen, McCrory has effectively reversed 30 years of progress and reinstated practices similar to the discriminatory ‘Southern strategy’ adopted by the Republican party in the 60’s and 70’s. Without question, today is a shameful day for Republicans in North Carolina.”Following today’s bill signing, Butterfield sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder asking him to use all available options to challenge North Carolina’s Voter Information Verification Act.In his letter, Butterfield wrote, “I respectfully request your urgent attention to the Voter Information Verification Act that was signed into law by North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory on August 12, 2013. I ask that you take swift and decisive action by using any legal mechanisms at your disposal to protect voting rights for North Carolinians. “This unjust and discriminatory law will have disastrous and long-term effects on the ability of minorities, new and college-age voters, the elderly, and the disabled to exercise their Constitutional right to vote in free and fair elections. The law passed by the North Carolina legislature and signed by Governor McCrory claims to secure and streamline elections in North Carolina. But its ultimate impact will be extreme voter suppression.”Last month, Butterfield wrote Governor McCrory urging him to veto the bill and promising to demand the U.S Justice Department challenge the new law because it violates the Voting Rights Act and the United States Constitution. Butterfield’s full letter to Holder follows. August 12, 2013 The Honorable Eric HolderAttorney General of the United StatesU. S. Department of Justice950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Holder:I respectfully request your urgent attention to the Voter Information Verification Act that was signed into law by North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory on August 12, 2013. I ask that you take swift and decisive action by using any legal mechanisms at your disposal to protect voting rights for North Carolinians. This unjust and discriminatory law will have disastrous and long-term effects on the ability of minorities, new and college-age voters, the elderly, and the disabled to exercise their Constitutional right to vote in free and fair elections. The law passed by the North Carolina legislature and signed by Governor McCrory claims to secure and streamline elections in North Carolina. But its ultimate impact will be extreme voter suppression. Like you, I have fought my whole life for equity in voting. I spent my entire legal career advocating for civil rights and helped to expand rights for minorities. Now, as a Member of Congress, my fight continues. I simply cannot stand idly by and watch overtly discriminatory and racially motivated initiatives go unchallenged. I am outraged.I applaud your courageous efforts in Texas to fight similar attempts at voter disenfranchisement. The right to vote is sacred in this country. Those whose chief goal is to maintain political power at the cost of minorities, new and college-age voters, the elderly, and the disabled must not be allowed to continue. Their blatant discrimination and systematic disenfranchisement must be stopped.I strongly urge you to utilize any and all legal avenues at your disposal to fight this horrible law that turns back the clock on a generation of progress for voting rights.Thank you very much. Very truly yours, G. K. ButterfieldMember of Congress
08.03.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement on the passing of civil rights leader and former North Carolina Central University Chancellor Julius L. Chambers:“The loss of Julius Chambers will be felt across North Carolina and the civil rights community. As an attorney and educator, Julius enriched the lives of people nationwide, including my own. His dogged pursuit of fairness and equality helped to usher in an era of change. And his life’s work in civil rights opened doors previously closed to African Americans. He was the Thurgood Marshall of my generation.“I offer my deepest sympathy to his children and grandchildren during their time of grief.” ###
07.31.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Late yesterday evening, the House unanimously passed Congressman G. K. Butterfield’s (NC-01) bill, H.R. 2754, the Collectible Coin Protection Act. Under existing law, the Hobby Protection Act, it is unlawful to manufacture in the U.S. or to import into the U.S. for distribution in commerce any imitation coin or currency unless it is “plainly and permanently” marked with the word “copy.” The Collectible Coin Protection Act would extend the law to cover the commercial sale of an imitation coin not marked with “copy.” In addition, the bill makes it unlawful to provide substantial support or assistance to a manufacturer, importer or seller if the person providing support knows or should know that the other is manufacturing, importing or selling imitation coins illegally.Butterfield said, “With the rise in counterfeit coins due to new technologies, such as 3-D printers, it’s becoming more and more difficult for even the trained eye to discern between authentic and fake coins, particularly rare collectible coins. One way to reduce counterfeiting is to strengthen the law pertaining to counterfeiting and hold all parties involved accountable.”Many of these imitation coins originate in China and are funneled into the United States by teams of nefarious importers with the sole purpose of passing the coins off as legitimate and authentic currency. “Unloading these imitation coins on unsuspecting collectors has become big business and cuts to the very core of our ability to control and regulate currency,” said Butterfield. “By the time the collector realizes that he has been scammed, it’s too late.”H.R. 2754 also addresses the problem of counterfeit certificates by making the remedies for trademark infringement available for violations of the Hobby Protection Act where the violation also involves unauthorized use of a registered trademark. Butterfield was joined by Congressmen Bill Cassidy (R-LA-06), Steve Scalise (R-LA-01), Lamar Smith (R-TX-21), Lee Terry (R-NE-02), and Henry Waxman (D-CA-33) making its passage a rare bipartisan victory.The bill will now go to the Senate for a vote.###
07.31.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - North Carolina Democratic Representatives David Price (NC-04) and G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) today urged their colleagues to support complementary bills they will introduce this afternoon to address two critical aspects of our national teacher shortage: improving teacher retention and attracting teachers to schools with the greatest needs. The representatives, whose districts both include portions of North Carolina’s Research Triangle, believe that recruiting and retaining high-quality teachers is a critical component of improving public education and maintaining our economic competitiveness. Both bills have been endorsed by the National Education Association.“Nothing we do to improve public education in our communities will matter if we don’t keep high-quality teachers in the classroom,” Rep. Price said. “My bill aims to help states and localities develop programs tailored to their circumstances in order to meet this challenge—and then to disseminate these best practices throughout the country.”Rep. Price’s bill, the Keep Teachers Teaching Act, would make states or school districts eligible for federal grants to develop innovative teacher retention programs, such as the Kenan Fellows program administered by North Carolina State University. The bill would also direct the Department of Education to identify the most promising teacher retention approaches and disseminate information about them to states and school districts around the country. Rep. Price introduced the same bill during the last Congress. According to the Congressional Research Service, half of all of K-12 teachers leave the profession within five years of being hired because of poor working conditions, low pay, low morale, or lack of opportunities for advancement. Rep. Butterfield is an original co-sponsor of the bill.“Half of all teachers leave the profession after only five years,” said Rep. Butterfield. “One way to encourage teachers to stay in their communities and to help ensure our kids receive the quality education they deserve is by providing additional support to our most dedicated educators, particularly those serving in low-income schools.” Rep. Butterfield’s bill, the Support Educators and Reinvest in Valuable Education (SERVE) Act, rewards teachers who stay in low-income schools in the same school district for at least five years by increasing loan forgiveness benefits. Under current law, special education teachers and those who teach science or math subjects in low-income schools for at least five years are eligible for up to $17,500 in loan forgiveness, but those who teach all other subjects are eligible for only $5,000 in loan forgiveness. The legislation would make all teachers who teach in low-income schools and remain in the same school district eligible for the full $17,500 in loan forgiveness, helping schools with the greatest needs recruit quality teachers for every classroom. Rep. Price is an original co-sponsor of the bill.With the new school year starting later this month, the two proposals also seek to respond to the severe cuts to public education imposed in North Carolina and other states in recent years, which have resulted in the loss of thousands of teaching jobs and reduced teacher pay. In light of these damaging cuts, giving teachers an incentive to serve in high-need classrooms and supporting school systems’ ability to keep them there have become more important than ever.Rep. Price, a former educator who taught public policy and political science at Duke University, has been a leader in Congress on legislation to improve the quality of public education throughout the nation by bringing teachers of the highest caliber into the profession and then keeping them in the classroom.The son of a school teacher, Rep. Butterfield is a product of the North Carolina public school system, graduating from Charles H. Darden high school in Wilson, North Carolina. He also attended North Carolina Central University, where he earned undergraduate and Juris Doctor degrees.
07.26.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – At a press conference today, U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (CT) announced the introduction of the Senate companion bill to U.S. Representative G. K. Butterfield’s (NC-01) World War II Merchant Mariner Service Act. Like the House bill, the Senate version, S. 1361, would also expand the very specific list of acceptable documents considered by the Federal government for Merchant Mariners who served during World War II when they apply for veterans’ status. “I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues to move this legislation forward,” said Butterfield. “These brave individuals honorably sacrificed and risked their lives to defend our great nation and preserve the values we hold paramount.” Merchant Mariners were asked to assist in the war effort by the War Shipping Administration and many were not issued formal military records proving their service. Instead, captains of vessels kept “Merchant Vessel Logbooks” that recorded who was aboard the vessel and its intended destination, among other information. Currently, the documents permitted to satisfactorily prove service in the Merchant Marines during World War II can be extremely hard to find, may have been ordered destroyed, or never existed at all.Representative Butterfield first introduced the World War II Merchant Mariner Service Act in the 110th Congress. The House version of the bill, H.R. 1288, will be marked up by the Veterans’ Affairs Committee next week and currently has 93 cosponsors.Senators Richard Blumenthal (CT) and Susan Collins (MA) have cosponsored the Senate bill.###
07.26.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today sent a letter to North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory strongly urging that he veto House Bill 589, the so-called Voter Information Verification Act that passed the North Carolina legislature yesterday.In his letter, Butterfield wrote, “[T]he goal of this legislation is to systematically suppress minority votes in order to affect the outcome of state elections. While supporters of the bill purport there is rampant voter fraud when defending why the bill is necessary, nothing could be further from the truth … The real reason for ramming this partisan bill through the North Carolina Legislature without any support from Democrats is not to protect elections from nearly non-existent voter fraud, but rather for Republicans to remain in political control so more laws can be enacted to limit the freedoms North Carolinians hold dear. Now, only you have the power to stop these sweeping changes from taking place.”If the Governor signs the bill into law, Butterfield has vowed to ask the United States Attorney General to use all available options to challenge it because it will violate the Voting Rights Act and the United States Constitution. For a summary of the proposed changes to the state’s election laws, visit here.Butterfield’s full letter follows. July 26, 2013The Honorable Pat McCroryGovernor of North Carolina20301 Mail Service CenterRaleigh, NC 27699-0301 Dear Governor McCrory:I write with urgency to request in the strongest possible terms that you reject House Bill 589, the so called Voter Information Verification Act that passed the North Carolina legislature yesterday. If signed into law, North Carolina voters’ ability to meaningfully and equally participate in the electoral process will be severely restricted. This discriminatory and deplorable legislation will turn back the clock on the advancements that so many have fought to obtain.Simply put, the goal of this legislation is to systematically suppress minority votes in order to affect the outcome of state elections. While supporters of the bill purport there is rampant voter fraud when defending why the bill is necessary, nothing could be further from the truth. The North Carolina State Board of Elections has identified only two instances of potential voter fraud in the last 10 years. House Speaker Thom Tillis’ comments during an interview seem to directly conflict with supporters’ stated reason for supporting the bill when he said “[t]here is some voter fraud, but that's not the primary reason for doing this."The real reason for ramming this partisan bill through the North Carolina Legislature without any support from Democrats is not to protect elections from nearly non-existent voter fraud, but rather for Republicans to remain in political control so more laws can be enacted to limit the freedoms North Carolinians hold dear. Now, only you have the power to stop these sweeping changes from taking place.I again implore you to veto this egregious bill. Your failure to do so will reverse a generation of electoral progress in North Carolina that was largely fought and won through the courts. Should you sign this bill, I will have no choice but to demand the United States Attorney General use all available options to challenge the new law because it is a blatant violation of the Voting Rights Act and the United States Constitution. As elected officials, we take an oath to protect and defend the Constitution of the United States. I hope that you will do what is right and just on behalf of the nearly 10 million North Carolinians you have the duty of protecting.Thank you very much. Very truly yours, G. K. Butterfield Member of Congress ###
07.25.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) condemned the North Carolina Senate for passing House Bill 589, the so called Voter Information Verification Act, which would have a devastating and regressive impact on the ability of North Carolinians to vote and called on the House to reject final passage. The Senate’s action today is one of the final steps before the bill goes to Governor Pat McCrory for his signature.“The Anti-Voting Bill being considered by the North Carolina legislature is blatant in its goal to limit the ability of North Carolinians to exercise their Constitutional right to vote,” said Butterfield. “The legislature’s mean-spirited and overtly discriminatory insistence on disenfranchising North Carolina voters is reprehensible. Those who have advocated for the passage of this egregious bill should be ashamed.” The bill would eliminate same day voter registration during early voting; restrict early voting by a full week causing long lines on election day and discouraging people from voting; and also require that registered voters show a government-issued photo ID before being permitted to vote, among other harmful changes.“This action will reverse a generation of electoral progress for African Americans in North Carolina,” Butterfield said. “Much of this progress was fought and won through the courts. All North Carolinians should be outraged with this discriminatory legislation and should not sit idly by and see these deplorable changes turn back the clock on the advancements that so many have fought to obtain.”Butterfield vowed to request that US Attorney General Eric Holder challenge the changes to the election law because they clearly dilute minority voting strength – a violation of the Voting Rights Act and the United States Constitution.The bill will be voted on later tonight by the North Carolina House of Representatives and, if passed, will be forwarded to the Governor for his signature. ###
07.24.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Late yesterday, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) was joined by Congresswoman Donna Christensen (USVI) in offering an amendment to H.R. 2218, the Coal Residuals Reuse and Management Act of 2013, to help protect vulnerable populations from the public health risks associated with the storage of and emission of coal ash residue from power plants and industrial facilities. The amendment would ensure that low-income families, children, pregnant women, the elderly, and workers at industrial facilities are better protected from potential health risks from the storage of coal ash in ponds or landfills through the implementation of new safety standards. Under current law, states are given the ability to permit coal ash storage facilities and implement standards to prevent the ash from contaminating the environment and threatening public health. However, Butterfield and Christensen’s amendment would ensure that states consider the impact of any coal ash permitting program on populations located near where coal ash storage infrastructure most commonly exists.“When handled responsibly, coal ash can have many safe and useful benefits to industries and the economy,” said Butterfield. “But in my home state of North Carolina, the ninth highest producer of coal ash in the country, most of the areas where coal ash plants are located or stored are poverty-stricken. Seventy percent of coal ash impoundment areas in the top producing states are located in poor communities. This puts those communities at greater risk for environmental contamination and public health threats. It is important to protect those vulnerable communities from being disproportionately affected by enacting thoughtful coal ash disposal and storage requirements.” In 2008, there was a breach of a coal ash surface impoundment pond in Kingston, Tennessee. The spill damaged homes and property across 300 acres and cost $1.2 billion to cleanup. In 2011, a bluff collapse at a Wisconsin power plant sent coal ash into Lake Michigan. Butterfield offered the amendment to H.R. 2218 although he opposes the underlying bill, which would allow states the option to adopt more lax regulations for the handling of coal combustion residuals, and prevent the Environmental Protection Agency from establishing and enforcing any national standards related to coal ash. The bill is opposed by the majority of Democrats serving on the House Energy and Commerce Committee.Butterfield’s amendment was not adopted.###
07.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for awarding $4.1 million in grant awards to 31 health centers in North Carolina, including 10 in the First Congressional District. The grant award will be divided amongst the community health centers and used to hire additional staff that will help enroll uninsured North Carolinians in new health coverage options made available by the Affordable Care Act. In North Carolina, 31 health centers operating more than 180 sites served over 430,000 patients last year, 52 percent of whom were uninsured. With these funds, the awardees expect to hire 87 additional workers, who will assist 48,465 North Carolinians with sign up for affordable health insurance coverage. Across the nation, 1,159 health centers will receive $150 million in grant awards.“Expanding health care coverage to uninsured Americans will require trained workers on the ground to educate people about their benefits and help them understand how the health care law will affect them and their families,” said Butterfield. “This investment is essential to enrolling as many eligible Americans as possible into new health insurance plans, which will lower the cost of medical care nationwide.”Specifically, the health centers will help Americans understand the coverage options available in the new Health Insurance Marketplace, determine their eligibility for Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program, search for any available financial assistance, and enroll individuals in affordable health plans. Open enrollment for Health Insurance Marketplace plans begins on October 1 and will be fully implemented and operational on January 1, 2014.The community health centers in the First Congressional District receiving grant awards include: Albemarle Hospital Authority ($67,195), Bertie County Rural Health Association ($67,151), Carolinas Family Health Center ($203,034), Greene County Health Center ($356,187), Kinston Community Health Center ($109,457), Lincoln Community Health Center ($300,076), Metropolitan Community Health ($77,795), Opportunities Industrialization Center ($80,505), Roanoke Chowan Community Health Center ($84,498), and Rural Health Group ($142,842).The complete list of recipients follows. NameCity Award Amount ALBEMARLE HOSPITAL AUTHORITYElizabeth City $ 67,195ANSON REGIONAL MEDICAL SERVICESWadesboro $ 66,788BAKERSVILLE COMMUNITY MEDICAL CLINICBakersville $ 63,147BERTIE COUNTY RURAL HEALTH ASSOCIATIONWindsor $ 67,151BLUE RIDGE COMMUNITY HEALTH SERVICESHendersonville $ 193,970C.W. WILLIAMS COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERCharlotte $ 109,028CABARRUS COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERSConcord $ 92,528CAROLINA FAMILY HEALTH CENTERSWilson $ 203,034CASWELL FAMILY MEDICAL CENTERYanceyville $ 66,986FIRST CHOICE COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERSLillington $ 110,062GASTON FAMILY HEALTH SERVICESGastonia $ 248,365GOSHEN MEDICAL CENTERFaison $ 201,967GREENE COUNTY HEALTH CARESnow Hill $ 356,187HIGH COUNTRY COMMUNITY HEALTHBoone $ 63,147KINSTON COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERKinston $ 109,457LINCOLN COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERDurham $ 300,076MEDICAL RESOURCE CENTER FOR RANDOLPH COUNTYAsheboro $ 79,812METROPOLITAN COMMUNITY HEALTHWashington $ 77,975NEW HANOVER COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERWilmington $ 88,700OPPORTUNITIES INDUSTRIALIZATION CENTERRocky Mount $ 80,505PERSON FAMILY MEDICAL CENTERRoxboro $ 79,999PIEDMONT HEALTH SERVICESChapel Hill $ 341,348ROANOKE CHOWAN COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERAhoskie $ 84,498ROBESON HEALTH CARE CORPPembroke $ 146,109RURAL HEALTH GROUPRoanoke Rapids $ 142,842SOUTHSIDE UNITED HEALTH CENTERWinston Salem $ 72,585STEDMAN - WADE HEALTH SERVICESWade $ 71,705TRI COUNTY COMMUNITY HEALTH COUNCILNewton Grove $ 216,570WAKE HEALTH SERVICESRaleigh $ 108,489WEST CALDWELL HEALTH COUNCILCollettsville $ 71,639WESTERN NC COMMUNITY HEALTH SERVICESAsheville $ 141,775 https:/Butterfield.House.Gov###
07.11.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) blasted the Republican leadership of the U.S. House of Representatives for passing a revised Farm Bill without funding for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), formerly known as food stamps. The revised bill excluded the nutrition title that authorizes SNAP and other vital nutrition-related programs that benefit millions of Americans.Butterfield said, “House Republicans showed the American people that they don’t care about those most in need--about the single mother with children who is trying to make ends meet and feed her family, or about low-income seniors and school children who depend on SNAP funding. They instead showed that they care more about scoring political points and passing a partisan bill that will save face for Speaker Boehner and Majority Leader Cantor.”On June 20, the House defeated the first Farm Bill which included a nutrition title by a vote of 195 to 234. The defeat was embarrassing for the House Majority because 62 Republicans joined with Democrats to strike down the bill. Democrats disagreed with the $20.5 billion in spending cuts to the SNAP program, and Tea Party Republicans voted against the bill because they believed the drastic cuts to the program were not significant enough.“Today was a very sad day for America. I am sorely disappointed by repeated attempts by the Republican Majority to further disenfranchise poor and minority communities. The American people deserve better.” The revised Farm Bill passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 216 to 208. No Democrats voted for final passage. ###
07.11.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- On Wednesday, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) offered an amendment to H.R. 2609, the Fiscal Year 2014 Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, to prioritize disaster relief and flood mitigation for Army Corps of Engineers construction projects. The Corps works to improve the safety of communities such as those near the Neuse River in Goldsboro, North Carolina and in Princeville, North Carolina where Hurricane Floyd all but destroyed the town due to rapidly rising water levels and poor containment of the Tar River.Butterfield said, “We must ensure that the federal government is doing everything possible to help protect and reinforce communities from natural disasters. With an active hurricane season ahead, the need to support the Corps is imminent and critical to the cities and towns that are often impacted by severe weather.” Although Butterfield offered an amendment to H.R. 2609, he voted to oppose the bill which cuts funding for the U.S. Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, and all federal water projects by $2.9 million. Included in those cuts is a $304 million reduction to Corps funding that will weaken the nation’s ability to respond to threats and damage from severe weather. Dating back to 1779, the Corps provides essential engineering, design, and construction management services such as repairing damaged levees, providing emergency water supplies, and developing infrastructure that helps protect against natural disasters. Due to continued budget cuts, the Corps currently faces a $60 billion backlog of construction projects, and has not completed any new projects since 2010. Congressman Butterfield’s amendment was not adopted in the bill that passed the House late last night. ###
07.11.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), Vice Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), and members of the CBC protested removing the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) from the Farm Bill during rule debate on the House Floor. CBC Members, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and Members of the Democratic Caucus stood together in opposition to separating nutrition programs and farm subsidies from the Farm Bill as an effort to pass legislation without regard to the impact it will have onfeeding millions of children, seniors andfamilies in need across America. Watch the full video of their remarks here. ###
07.11.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), Vice Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), will take to the House floor during the 9 ‘o clock hour this morning with his CBC colleagues to protest House Republicans dropping the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) from the Farm Bill.Watch the protest live on C-SPAN here.###
07.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- Late last night, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) offered a bipartisan amendment to H.R. 2609, the Fiscal Year 2014 Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, that would provide funding for Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) to distribute to critical energy research projects throughout the country. Innovations funded by ARPA-E have spurred millions in economic activity and helps the U.S. economy compete in emerging energy markets.“Our ability to compete in energy innovation is critical to the national economy,” said Butterfield. “ARPA-E plays a critical role in supporting the research and development that creates new paths to energy sustainability. Eliminating this research program would cost the country important jobs and harm our global competitiveness in emerging energy markets.” H.R. 2609 cuts funding for the U.S. Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, and all federal water projects by $2.9 billion, while providing $29 million in excess of what the President requested for fossil fuel research and $98 million in additional funding for nuclear weapons. Butterfield’s amendment would have redirected the monies for fossil fuel research and nuclear weapons to energy research.Since 2009, ARPA-E has supported 275 innovative energy technology projects. In North Carolina, the Research Triangle Institute has used ARPA-E funds to develop technologies to reduce the cost of carbon capture to coal-fired power plants and to convert biomass into transportation fuels.Butterfield’s amendment failed to pass the House but received bipartisan support from 150 of his congressional colleagues.###
07.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for clearing the way for the production of renewable fuel from giant reed (Arundo donax) and napier grass (Pennisetum purpureum). This decision directly affects North Carolina farmers and Chemtex International, a global renewable energy company seeking to create jobs by opening a new renewable energy plant in eastern North Carolina.Butterfield said, “The EPA’s decision to allow production of renewable fuel from Arundo donax is a win for the people of eastern North Carolina. Investing in renewable fuel creates jobs and stimulates economic development while having the added benefit of lowering our carbon footprint and reducing our dependence on foreign oil.” In May, Butterfield sent a letter to White House Office of Management and Budget Director Sylvia Burwell urging consideration of the biofuel feedstock Arundo donax as a pathway fuel under the Renewable Fuel Standard, and in the interest of job creation. Chemtex International is slated to develop a new 20 million gallon cellulosic ethanol plant in eastern North Carolina. The plant would bring more than $26 million annually and hundreds of jobs to an area with an unemployment rate of 9 percent. ###
07.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) praised the U. S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) decisions to award Rural Business Enterprise Grants to the cities of Warrenton and Wilson, North Carolina.The grant for Warrenton will be used to assist the town with a streetscape beautification project to encourage tourism and increase traffic to the downtown area. Several businesses have expressed interest in moving to the downtown district, but requested that Warrenton first improve its landscaping and install bike racks, benches, and trash receptacles to spur patronage of businesses and attractions downtown.The city of Wilson will use its grant to update its storm water infrastructure. The project will provide environmentally sustainable storm water run-off for businesses in the Goldsboro Street area. “I’m very pleased with USDA’s decision to award these grants to Warrenton and Wilson,” said Congressman Butterfield. “These grants will provide much-needed financial assistance for projects that will help drive the economic development and revitalization of these downtown districts.”The two grants will fund portions of the total costs needed to complete these projects. The remainder of the funds will come from partnering non-profits.“These grants are true demonstrations of how the federal government can work with local partners to achieve great things. I look forward to the completion of these projects and the added benefits they will bring to both cities.”###
07.09.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) addressed a capacity crowd of policymakers, advocates, and industry leaders at the Minority Media and Telecom Council’s (MMTC) 11th Annual Access to Capital and Telecom Policy Conference where he underscored the need for broadband access in rural communities and among economically disadvantaged populations across the country. Butterfield represents one of the poorest congressional districts, and serves as a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over telecommunications issues. Butterfield has been a longtime proponent of closing the digital divide among underserved communities across the United States.Butterfield said, “Less densely populated, economically depressed areas like much of my District are no less in need of access to quality broadband and are certainly no less deserving…With commerce, education, and communication being just a few of the everyday tasks that have largely moved online, those who cannot access broadband become further disenfranchised and unprepared for achieving a successful and productive life.” MMTC is one of the leading organizations dedicated to promoting equal opportunity in the mass media, telecommunications and broadband industries, and closing the digital divide of those who have access to technology and those who do not..Butterfield’s full remarks follow.Despite being from different political parties, there is one thing that my former colleague Cliff Stearns and I certainly agree on: in today’s world, people who don’t have access to technology or people who don’t utilize the technology they can access will be left by the wayside to find their own way. Having ready access to technology and possessing the skills needed to make the most of that technology is an imperative of the 21st century. Some 95% of households in the United States have access to broadband while 5% of households do not. As you might imagine, many of those un-served or underserved areas are in southern or rural areas like my Congressional District in eastern North Carolina. With commerce, education, and communication being just a few of the everyday tasks that have largely moved online, those who cannot access broadband become further disenfranchised and unprepared for achieving a successful and productive life. Congress took note of the growing digital divide between rural and urban areas and established the Broadband Technology Opportunities Program (BTOP) and the Broadband Initiatives Program (BIP) in an effort to expand high speed internet access to nearly every American home. Efforts were focused on connecting the unconnected first so that students, teachers, job-seekers, and others like those in my Congressional District have the opportunity to learn and work on equal footing. Less densely populated, economically depressed areas like much of my District are no less in need of access to quality broadband and are certainly no less deserving. The BTOP and BIP programs have proved their great benefits and continue to demonstrate how important they are to the strength and viability of American businesses. President Obama plans to build on the success of those programs. The president recently announced his ConnectED initiative that would connect 99 percent of America’s students to high speed broadband in five years through improving access at schools and libraries across our country. The plan provides for increased training for teachers in the use of technology in the classroom. And, it also calls on school districts to consider the benefits of providing students, beginning as early as kindergarten, with individual laptop computers, tablets, or other high-tech devices that can store nearly unlimited numbers of textbooks, school work, and other educational materials for use in the classroom. If we are to have a generation of young people ready to compete with the rest of the world. Some of this is already happening. In North Carolina, a non-profit called MCNC has built 2,600 miles of fiber connecting key community anchor institutions like school districts, colleges and universities, hospitals, and libraries through its North Carolina Research and Education network (NCREN). Today, NCREN serves more than 450 of these institutions, including all public K-12 schools in the state and provides students and teachers with quality high speed broadband so they can integrate multimedia and distance education into the curriculum. Today, technology changes and improves at an amazing pace. What is new today is old hat by next week. The United States continues to operate under the regulatory authority set by the Communications Acts of 1934 and 1996. At best we’re operating off of a framework that is 17 years old potentially stifling innovation, job creation, and a renaissance of new and useful technologies that we didn’t know we couldn’t live without. Congress must act quickly to update its communications policy framework while partnering and empowering private industry to robustly invest in network expansion and improvements. Outdated regulations are not beneficial to industry and it’s the American people that ultimately pay the price of burdensome rules. I know that if policymakers, industry stakeholders, and regulators work in concert to enact smart policies that protect consumers, foster innovation, and help to build and sustain new businesses, the United States will continue to be the standard which other nations look to when developing policies in the telecommunications space. Thank you very much.###
07.02.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today expressed his sadness on the passing of former Philadelphia Congressman and House Majority Whip William “Bill” H. Gray III. Congressman Gray was the first African American to chair the House Budget Committee and also the first to serve as the Majority Whip before resigning in 1991 to head the United Negro College Fund. Butterfield’s statement follows.“News of Congressman William Gray’s death came as a shock. Just last week we enjoyed lunch together at the U.S. Capitol. During our meeting, Bill was his usual upbeat self and looked forward to traveling to Wimbledon with his son.“I am truly saddened to learn of his passing. Our nation has lost a pioneer of justice and a representative of good. My sincerest condolences go out to Bill’s family and the people of Philadelphia, who he truly loved and loved him in return.”###
07.01.2013	
06.28.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) testified in support of his bill, H.R. 1288, the World War II Merchant Mariner Service Act, at the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs. H.R. 1288 would expand the very specific list of acceptable documents considered by the Federal government when Merchant Mariners who served during World War II apply for veterans’ status. Currently, the documents permitted to satisfactorily prove service can be extremely hard to find, may have been ordered destroyed, or never existed at all.Merchant Mariners were asked to assist in the war effort by the War Shipping Administration and many were not issued formal military records proving their service. Instead, captains of vessels kept “Merchant Vessel Logbooks” that recorded who was aboard the vessel and its intended destination, among other information. According to United States Coast Guard Information Paper 77, the Merchant Vessel Logbooks were turned over to the War Shipping Administration and were destroyed in the 1970s. “Merchant Mariners who served during World War II don’t deserve their recognition of service be held hostage just because the acceptable documentation proving service is too narrow,” Butterfield said. “These everyday people who were turned into an auxiliary of the War Shipping Administration deserve to be honored for their sacrifices and contributions to the war effort, and that’s what my bill aims to do.”The window is quickly closing to expand what documents the Federal government can consider when determining whether to award veterans’ status to a Merchant Mariner who served during World War II. Estimates show that fewer than 2,000 of these mariners who served the United States during World War II are still living. “Coastwise Merchant Mariners who served our country during World War II did so without formal training or the equipment necessary to defend themselves,” Butterfield said. “We must act swiftly if we are to honor these unsung heroes, many of whom paid the ultimate price. These men and women answered the call to serve when our country needed them the most and they deserve to be honored for their sacrifices.”H.R. 1288 currently has 85 bipartisan cosponsors and is endorsed by American Merchant Marine Veterans, Inc. ###
06.27.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01)sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee leaders urging the panel to fully fund the Federal Contract Tower (FCT) program under the Fiscal Year 2014 Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations bill. The FCT program staffs air traffic control towers with contractors instead of Federal Aviation Administration employees, which help to manage air traffic control and increase air safety. Butterfield additionally emphasized the program’s contribution to the local economies and national security. In his letter, Butterfield wrote, “FCTs are critical components for our regional economies and national security. Eliminating the FCT program at 149 airports across the country would negatively impact commerce by reducing the flow of air traffic those airports could safely manage. Additionally, many FCTs serve vital national security roles by serving as training facilities or alternate landing locations for military aircraft, National Aeronautics and Space Administration aircraft, and other essential aircraft.” In March, 149 contract control towers were scheduled to close due to funding cuts imposed by sequestration. Congress passed legislation to enable the towers to remain open for the remainder of the fiscal year. However, the stopgap measure is scheduled to expire on October 1, 2013.Butterfield’s full letter follows. June 27, 2013 The Honorable Harold RogersChairmanHouse Committee on AppropriationsH-307, The CapitolWashington, DC 20515The Honorable Nita M. LoweyRanking MemberHouse Committee on Appropriations1016 Longworth HOBWashington, DC 20515 The Honorable Tom LathamChairmanSubcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related AgenciesHouse Committee on Appropriations2358-A Rayburn HOBWashington, DC 20515The Honorable Ed PastorRanking MemberSubcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related AgenciesHouse Committee on Appropriations1016 Longworth HOBWashington, DC 20515 Dear Chairmen and Ranking Members: I write to urge you to include full and robust funding for the Federal Contract Tower (FCT) program in the FY2014 Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations bill. Without adequate funding, many FCTs will be in danger of closure. In fact, in March 2013, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) slated 149 contract control towers across the nation for closure beginning in April 2013. It took an act of Congress, specifically the passage of H.R. 1765, the Reducing Flight Delays Act of 2013, on May 1, 2013 and a bipartisan letter signed by 82 Members of Congress urging Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood to use the authority prescribed in that law to keep the towers operational. This fix and the funding for FCTs is set to expire at the end of this fiscal year, so I urge you to act now to support these important towers. The FCT program staffs air traffic control towers with contractors instead of FAA employees, which help to manage air traffic control and increase air safety. If the FCT program is cancelled, the affected airports would remain functional and in operation despite the tower being unstaffed. Should this occur, pilots would be forced to audibly communicate with towers that are offsite until they are within five miles of landing. Pilots would then switch to communications with on-the-ground employees who have visual sight of the runway. FCTs are critical components for our regional economies and national security. Eliminating the FCT program at 149 airports across the country would negatively impact commerce by reducing the flow of air traffic those airports could safely manage. Additionally, many FCTs serve vital national security roles by serving as training facilities or alternate landing locations for military aircraft, National Aeronautics and Space Administration aircraft, and other essential aircraft. We must remain committed to strengthening our economy and our nation’s security. I urge you to fully fund FCTs to continue to improve our airports and ensure that the United States remains globally competitive. Thank you very much. Very truly yours, G. K. Butterfield Member of Congress ###
06.27.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01)today announced his office will host the official grand opening of its new Durham office on Tuesday, July 2, 2013, from 5:30 – 7:30 p.m. The Open House will provide Durham residents an opportunity to meet and visit with Congressman Butterfield and his entire Congressional staff. Invited guests include state and local officials and community leaders. Butterfield became the congressional representative of the city of Durham in January as a result of redistricting.“I am happy to welcome the city of Durham to the newly expanded First Congressional District and I am so pleased Durham has been so welcoming to me,” said Butterfield. “As an alumnus of North Carolina Central University and its school of law, my roots in Durham are deep. I came of age in Durham and got my start as an attorney there as well. I look forward to building upon my longstanding relationships within the Durham community to best represent its residents.”In addition to the Open House event, Butterfield also announced two new additions to his team, Annette Taylor and Reggie McCrimmon.Annette Taylor leads the Durham office as Director of Community Engagement. In this role she oversees community outreach and relationship-building with elected officials, community and business leaders, non-profit and faith-based organizations, and advocacy groups throughout the district. Prior to joining Butterfield’s staff, Annette worked in the non-profit sector as a relationship manager and administrator. A native North Carolinian, Annette has an undergraduate degree in English from North Carolina Central University and a certificate in Nonprofit Management from Duke University. She is nearing completion of a master’s degree in Organizational Change and Leadership from Pfeiffer University.Reggie McCrimmon joins the Washington, D.C. office as a Staff Assistant. In this position, Reggie is responsible for overseeing the front office, tour coordination and flag requests, and provides support to the D.C. staff. He is a 2013 graduate of North Carolina Central University, where he served two terms as Student Body President. Previously, Reggie interned in the offices of former North Carolina Governor Beverly Perdue and Senator Kay Hagan (D-NC). He is a member of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. and hails from Fayetteville, North Carolina.“Annette and Reggie are great additions to my staff. They both possess a passion for public service, which is essential to their positions. I am confident in their abilities to serve the people of the First District.”Butterfield’s new Durham office is located in the North Carolina Mutual Building at 411 West Chapel Hill Street, Suite 905, Durham, NC 27701. The Open House is free and open to the public by confirming attendance here. Press is also welcomed with RSVP to kim.atterbury@mail.house.gov. Butterfield’s complete staff directory follows. D. C. OfficeTroy Clair, Chief of StaffSaul Hernandez, Legislative DirectorKezmiché “Kim” Atterbury, Communications DirectorHeather Asata, Executive Assistant and SchedulerDennis Sills, Legislative AssistantKyle Parker, Legislative AssistantJeremy House, Legislative CorrespondentReggie McCrimmon, Staff Assistant Weldon OfficeDollie Burwell, Constituent Services Director Wilson OfficeRay Rogers, District DirectorReginald Speight, Economic Development DirectorSonja Bloodworth, Administrative Services ManagerRosena Ricks, Constituent Services RepresentativeCammie Britton, Constituent Service Representative Durham OfficeAnnette Taylor, Community Engagement Director ###
06.27.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the confirmation of Anthony Foxx as the third African American U.S. Secretary of Transportation, 17th overall:“I applaud the U.S. Senate’s swift action in confirming former Charlotte Mayor Anthony Foxx to lead the United States Department of Transportation as its 17th secretary. President Obama has selected a very capable public servant to lead the department and the nation in this capacity. Then-Mayor Foxx’s work to improve Charlotte’s transit system has transformed the Queen City. I know Anthony will bring his considerable public and private sector experience to the department at a time when our nation’s infrastructure demands serious attention. I congratulate my good friend Secretary Foxx on his confirmation, and I commend President Obama for adding diversity to his Executive Cabinet.”###
06.25.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) issued the following statement regarding the Supreme Court of the United States’ decision declaring Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 unconstitutional:“I am outraged with the Supreme Court’s decision to declare as unconstitutional Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act. The decision will lead to less protection for minority voters in covered jurisdictions.“When the Voting Rights Act was reauthorized in 2006 by an overwhelming bi-partisan majority, Congress found that the extension of Section 5 was necessary to prevent covered jurisdictions from enacting laws and procedures that would dilute the vote of minority citizens. “Today, five of the nine justices on the Supreme Court essentially overruled the will of Congress and found as unconstitutional the formula used to require certain jurisdictions to submit election law changes to the Department of Justice for preclearance. The Supreme Court apparently expects that Congress will make revisions to the coverage formula, an act that is highly unlikely given the political environment in the House of Representatives.“It is an absurd remedy for the Supreme Court to expect Congress to redefine the coverage formula to prevent discriminatory voting changes. The Republican House majority has shown its disdain for civil rights laws. It is unreasonable to believe Congress will act in good faith and in the spirit of the court’s decision. And so, the result of this decision will be a complete gutting of Section 5 which will embolden state efforts to enact discriminatory laws and procedures.“Just today, North Carolina state Senate Rules Committee Chairman Tom Apodaca announced his intent to bring up a bill next week to require voter ID as a condition for registering to vote in North Carolina. Undoubtedly, there will be more efforts to suppress minority voting strength.“The court should have implemented an interim formula that could be used until Congress enacts a formula that is constitutional and protects minority communities from vote dilution.”###
06.20.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today praised the defeat of H.R. 1947, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013 (Farm Bill), by a 195-234 vote. This controversial Farm Bill, which governs the nation’s nutrition and agriculture policies, sought to cut the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), formerly known as the Food Stamp Program, by almost $21 billion. These cuts would have eliminated food assistance to nearly 2 million low-income people, including working families with children and senior citizens.Butterfield said, “The defeat of this bill today sends a clear message to Speaker John Boehner and the House Republican leadership. They cannot play partisan games with the well-being of the American people. We have a responsibility to our fellow Americans to help care for them in their time of need, and today’s attempt to push almost 2 million Americans off of food stamps undermines that responsibility. Democrats will not stand by and let funding to an essential program like SNAP be gutted. As we showed today, Democrats will fiercely defend low-income families, seniors, and the poor. This is a big win for the nation and for the people of North Carolina’s First Congressional District. I applaud the 62 House Republicans who joined us in rejecting this poison pill of a bill. I hope they will urge the Republican leadership to work with Democrats to pass a clean farm bill.”Also today, Congressman Butterfield’s amendment, which garnered the support of House Democratic Leaders Nancy Pelosi (CA-12), Steny Hoyer (MD-05) and Jim Clyburn (SC-06), to expand the types of items that can be purchased with SNAP benefits to include “personal hygiene” products was defeated by a vote of 122-296. However, Butterfield vows to reintroduce the amendment should a bipartisan Farm Bill come to the House floor for a vote.###
06.18.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) introduced five amendments to H.R. 1947, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013 (Farm Bill) to block an attempt at rolling back federal services to seniors, low-income families, and the poor--impacting more than two million Americans. If adopted, three of Butterfield’s amendments would restore the proposed cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) commonly known as food stamps.The current House version of the Farm Bill, led by Republicans, seeks to drastically slash SNAP funding by $20.5 billion, largely through preventing states from enrolling people in SNAP under categorical eligibility. Presently, states are able to enroll residents in SNAP if they are already receiving certain benefits. However, the Farm Bill seeks to stop that. One of Butterfield’s amendments would continue to allow states to exercise this option. “We are witnessing a rising tide against seniors, low-income families, and the poor on both the state and federal levels,” said Butterfield. “In North Carolina, it is the Republican-led state legislature’s refusal to expand Medicaid—a decision that leaves 500,000 North Carolinians without health insurance. In Washington, D.C., it is the Republican-led House attempting to cut SNAP funding that goes to provide food for the poor. I will not stand idly by and watch the Republican-led House systematically disenfranchise people who are struggling to stay afloat. My amendments would preserve funding for SNAP and its eligibility requirements.” Butterfield’s other amendments would add personal hygiene products to the list of items that can be purchased with food stamps, reverse funding cuts in nutrition education, and preserve the federal government’s ability to use federal funds to inform prospective recipients of SNAP. The Congressman’s final amendment to the Farm Bill would authorize the U.S. Department of Agriculture to explore creating a graduate-level fellowship program to conduct research and propose solutions to the growing problem of food insecurity both domestically and internationally. The fellowship program would be named for Butterfield’s predecessor and longtime anti-hunger advocate, former Congresswoman Eva Clayton (D-NC).The House begins debate on the Farm Bill today. ###
06.18.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and David Price (NC-04) sent a letter to the leadership of the Republican-led North Carolina General Assembly, strongly urging that they repeal State Law (SL) 2013-2, which will cut emergency unemployment insurance for up to 170,000 long-term unemployed workers beginning July 1. As part of the fiscal cliff deal reached earlier this year, Congress passed an extension through January 1, 2014 for the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation Program (EUC08). EUC08 gives assistance to the long-term unemployed by providing federal unemployment benefits after state benefits are exhausted, and under the condition that states maintain their current benefits for the unemployed. However the change in benefits, as a result of SL 2013-2, makes North Carolina ineligible to receive the $780 million in federal funds necessary to support those who need it most--people who have been searching for work for more than 26 weeks. In their letter, the representatives wrote, “Contrary to Governor McCrory’s claims about SL 2013-2, the law will not reduce taxes on businesses, repair North Carolina’s Unemployment Insurance Trust Fund solvency issues, or eliminate the state’s debt repayment of $2.5 billion to the United States Department of Labor. Instead, SL 2013-2 raises the maximum state unemployment tax rate and will result in increasing taxes for employers, while penalizing those searching for work and their families.” This is the second letter that Butterfield and Price have sent to state leaders concerning emergency unemployment insurance. In February, Representatives Butterfield, Price, and Mel Watt (NC-12) wrote a similar letter requesting that the state legislature and governor abandon their efforts to end employment insurance.Today’s full letter follows. June 18, 2013The Honorable Thom Tillis The Honorable Phil BergerSpeaker President Pro TemporeNorth Carolina House of Representatives North Carolina Senate16 W. Jones Street, Room 2304 16 W. Jones Street, Room 2008Raleigh, North Carolina 27601-1096 Raleigh, North Carolina 27601-2808 The Honorable Larry D. Hall The Honorable Martin L. Nesbitt, Jr. Democratic Leader Minority LeaderNorth Carolina House of Representatives North Carolina Senate300 N. Salisbury Street, Room 506 16 W. Jones Street, Room 1129Raleigh, North Carolina 27603-5925 Raleigh, North Carolina 27601-2808 Dear Senate and House Leaders:Earlier this year, members of North Carolina’s congressional delegation wrote to you and to Governor McCrory urging disapproval of House Bill 4. Despite our concerns and the strong opposition of residents across our state, on February 19, 2013 the measure was signed into law. As you know, North Carolina State Law (SL) 2013-2 now stands to cut Emergency Unemployment Compensation Program (EUC08) funding for up to 170,000 workers in North Carolina, rejecting $780 million in approved federal funds, effective July 1.We urge you in the strongest possible terms to restore North Carolina’s unemployment insurance program and ensure unemployed workers receive their earned benefits by immediately introducing and swiftly passing legislation to repeal SL 2013-2. The dramatic reductions included in that law make North Carolina ineligible for $780 million in federal funding and eliminate support to unemployed workers who have been searching for work for more than 26 weeks. Eliminating this critical safety net for workers in need would also cost North Carolina’s economy $1.5 billion in economic activity, at a time when our unemployment rate remains above the national average. Worse, implementation of SL 2013-2 will ultimately take food from families’ tables and support from our state’s children. We urge you to repeal SL 2013-2 so the many disastrous and unintended consequences of the law can be averted.Contrary to Governor McCrory’s claims about SL 2013-2, the law will not reduce taxes on businesses, repair North Carolina’s Unemployment Insurance Trust Fund solvency issues, or eliminate the state’s debt repayment of $2.5 billion to the United States Department of Labor. Instead, SL 2013-2 raises the maximum state unemployment tax rate and will result in increasing taxes for employers, while penalizing those searching for work and their families. SL 2013-2 is reckless and heartless. It blocks federal support earned by our constituents and costs our economy billions in exchange for simply changing the state’s debt repayment schedule. North Carolinians should have access to federal benefits promised to them under the law. We urge you to act to reverse this troubling decision before it is too late.Thank you very much. Very truly yours,G. K. Butterfield David PriceMember of Congress Member of Congress
06.17.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will appear on MSNBC’s NewsNation with Tamron Hall at 2:45 p.m. He will discuss the growing “Moral Monday” protests at the North Carolina legislature. Please see the details below.Who: Congressman Butterfield will be a guest on MSNBC’s NewsNation with Tamron Hall What: To discuss the Moral Monday protests at the North Carolina General Assembly When: Monday, June 172:45 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Where: Check your local cable/satellite listings for MSNBC Why: CongressmanButterfield said, “The Republican-led legislature in North Carolina has made severe and unilateral cuts to vitally important programs such as healthcare, education and unemployment insurance. I have been deeply troubled by these cuts which disproportionately target low-income people, many of whom I represent. These injustices have not received enough attention outside of North Carolina and it is time the nation sees what is happening in my home state.” Additional Info:See press release on Moral Monday Protests See websitefor a list of actions taken by NC General Assembly that negatively affects North Carolinians Press Contact: Kezmiché "Kim" Atterbury(202) 225-3101 https:/Butterfield.House.Gov###
06.14.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Gus M. Bilirakis (R-FL) introduced H.R. 2330, the bi-partisan Medicare Audiology Services Enhancement Act, which clarifies current Medicare rules to expand access to audiology services for seniors who are hearing impaired. Congressman Butterfield (D-NC), Congressman Guthrie (R-KY), Congressman Gerlach (R-PA), Congressman Huizenga (R-MI), Congresswoman Capps (D-CA), Congressman McKinley (R-WV), Congressman Meehan (R-PA) and Congressman Michaud (D-ME) joined Bilirakis as original co-sponsors. “This important piece of legislation fixes an inequity that punishes both seniors and audiologists,” said Bilirakis. “It also expands access to care for our seniors on Medicare and increases the choices they have when treating their hearing needs.” Under current Medicare rules, seniors are unable to visit independent audiologists due to a payment structure that classifies these specialists differently based on their location. Even though they offer the same care, an in-practice audiologist for an ENT can bill services directly to Medicare under the ENT’s provider number. However, if the patient is referred to an independent audiologist, they cannot bill these services directly. The Medicare Audiology Services Enhancement Act will end this inequity and allow independent audiologists to directly bill Medicare.“This bill is about expanding access to specialized care for our nation’s seniors,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Currently, only in-practice audiologists employed by an ENT can bill directly to Medicare using the ENT’s provider number, meaning seniors cannot go to the audiologist of their choice. Seniors seeking care from an independent audiologist cannot bill Medicare directly even though they provide the exact same services. Updating this policy will bring greater parity and provide seniors with greater access to care.”The American Speech Language Hearing Association and American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery have already expressed their support.###
06.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will join the Moral Monday protests at the North Carolina Legislature, making him the first federal elected official to participate in the demonstrations which have garnered national attention. Please see the details below. Who: Congressman Butterfield and “Moral Monday” Protests at the North Carolina General Assembly When: Monday, June 105:00 PM: Rally begins5:30 PM: Rep. Butterfield’s speech Where: Halifax MallLocated between the Legislative Office Building (300 N. Salisbury Street) and the General Assembly (16 W. Jones Street) Why: Butterfield said, “I’ve been deeply troubled by the severe and unilateral cuts being made by the Republican-led legislature in North Carolina. The cuts to healthcare, education, and unemployment insurance, just to name a few, disproportionately target low-income people, many of whom I represent in the U. S. House of Representatives.” Additional Info:See Butterfield’s press releaseon Moral Monday Protests See Butterfield’s website for a list of actions taken by the NC General Assembly that negatively affects North Carolinians ###
06.07.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will join local chapters of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), clergy members, and thousands of supporters on Monday, June 10 during the “Moral Monday” protest at the North Carolina General Assembly in Raleigh. Butterfield said, “I’ve been deeply troubled by the severe and unilateral cuts being made by the Republican-led legislature in North Carolina. The cuts to healthcare, education, and unemployment insurance, just to name a few, disproportionately target low-income people, many of whom I represent in the U. S. House of Representatives.” Monday’s protest will include the support of dozens of religious leaders from across the state and be led by several Durham pastors including Reverend Jimmie Hawkins of Covenant Presbyterian Church, Reverend Dr. William Turner of Duke University School of Divinity, and Reverend Jonathan Wilson-Hartgrove of St. John’s Missionary Baptist Church.“This is a moment when our convictions embolden us to act and take a firm stance against misguided politics. It is during troubling times when our voices and actions are needed most. There’s a time to legislate, andthere’s a time to demonstrate. The Republican-led legislature’s attack on the disadvantaged and less fortunate cannot be allowed to continue.”Butterfield will be the first federal elected official to join the peaceful, but impactful demonstrations. “As a participant in the 1963 March on Washington, and as a former civil rights attorney, I have seen firsthand how peaceful, civil demonstrations can affect change. Based on the turnout at the General Assembly over the past few weeks, change is already being realized. What began as a group of ten has grown to thousands of protestors standing up for what is right. “I will join them in sending a strong message to the Republican-led state legislature: they cannot continue to ignore the concerns of the people. They cannot put politics before people. And they cannot make blind and uninformed decisions that bring dire consequences to North Carolinians. “I believe that these demonstrations will continue until the Republican-led legislature abandons their dearth of consciousness and moves toward a more balanced agenda that reflects the needs of all its citizens.”The Congressman will also deliver remarks during the protest.###
06.06.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) sent a letter to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, urging the department to approve the City of Goldsboro’s Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) V grant application. Goldsboro is requesting $16.5 million in much-needed funding that would make upgrades and significant functional and aesthetic improvements to Goldsboro Union Station, Center Street Streetscape, and begin construction on the Gateway Transfer Center.Butterfield, who was instrumental in securing nearly a million dollars in federal funding for the development of these projects, welcomed Secretary LaHood to Goldsboro in April to visit the progress of all three projects which are currently underway.In his letter, Butterfield wrote, “…[T]his project will be a magnet which will draw together people and create jobs. A recent economic study shows that investing in Goldsboro will contribute $17 million to the local economy in a region facing 8.4 percent unemployment.”The full letter of support follows. June 6, 2013The Honorable Ray LaHoodSecretary U.S. Department of Transportation1200 New Jersey Avenue, SEWashington, D.C. 20590Dear Secretary LaHood:I write to urge the Department of Transportation to approve the City of Goldsboro, North Carolina’s Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) V grant application. I appreciate that you traveled to Goldsboro in April to survey firsthand the transportation opportunities, economic development potential, and broad community support for this important and multimodal transportation project. Goldsboro is requesting $16.5 million of federal support to make functional and aesthetic design improvements to the Center Street Streetscape project, much needed upgrades to transform Goldsboro Union Station to a regional transit hub, and construction of a Gateway Transfer Center to improve area transit.As we observed during our visit, the region’s aging and outdated transportation infrastructure is no longer able to support the city’s 36,000 residents or the military families serving at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base. Goldsboro serves as the seat of Wayne County, but the city’s downtown is not currently pedestrian- or vehicle-friendly and is impeding economic growth. As local officials mentioned during our visit, Goldsboro has already received funding to start the project from the Federal Transit Authority but more resources are needed to make the region’s multimodal transportation vision a reality. Since 2006, Goldsboro has invested in a bold plan to improve safety by completely renovating the downtown area, expand public transportation capacity to interconnect an entire rural and geographically distant region, promote commerce, and restore historic infrastructure. In Goldsboro’s TIGER V application, the City’s project consists of $7 million for the Center Street Streetscape project, $13.8 million for modernization of Goldsboro Union Station, and $2.1 million to construct the Gateway Transfer Center. Goldsboro has already invested $2.5 million in the project and is committed to providing an additional $5.4 million. Therefore, the City is requesting $16.5 million in TIGER V grant funding. As you alluded to during your visit, this project will be a magnet which will draw together people and create jobs. A recent economic study shows that investing in Goldsboro will contribute $17 million to the local economy in a region facing 8.4 percent unemployment. Because of the economic advantages this project will bring to the region, I ask for your full consideration of Goldsboro’s application. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Dennis Sills of my staff at 202.225.3101.Thank you very much. Very truly yours, G. K. Butterfield Member of Congress ###
06.06.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced his support for H.R. 2228, the Assessment Accuracy and Improvement Act, which would help educators better assess student achievement through the use of a computer-based adaptive testing system that more accurately pinpoints students’ grade level performance. This is in contrast to current law which allows limited types of standardized testing that can only identify if students are performing at or below their grade level. However, H.R. 2228 would give states the option to implement comprehensive adaptive testing systems to fulfill Elementary and Secondary Education Act requirements, which many states are currently barred from doing.“In order to help our teachers better perform, we need a system that better assesses students’ performance,” said Butterfield. “Without a clear or accurate picture of student achievement we are limited in our efforts to reform education and meet academic needs. The Assessment Accuracy and Improvement Act will grant states the option to use a dynamic computer-based system that will more accurately detail the academic achievement of students and help improve K-12 education.”North Carolina is one of several states that received a $160 million grant from the Race to the Top Program to develop computer-based adaptive assessments to better measure student performance and inform future teaching instructions. Adaptive testing measures student grade level by adjusting the difficulty of the test questions based on the student’s response. Correct answers will prompt questions of increased difficulty. Incorrect responses generally result in questions of lesser difficulty.A number of national testing programs have already adopted the adaptive testing assessment model including the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, Graduate Record Examination, and the Graduate Management Admissions Test. The Assessment Accuracy and Improvement Act was originally introduced by Congressman Tom Petri (R-WI-06) in the 112th Congress. Butterfield is the lead Democrat co-sponsoring this bill. ###
05.24.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will spend next week in the First Congressional District celebrating veterans’ contributions, discussing economic development, and recognizing the significance of Juneteenth.On Monday, Butterfield will join fellow veterans to observe Memorial Day at the Next Level Veterans Day Campus/Drop-In Center in Durham. Next Level is a nationally accredited continuum of care facility providing educational assistance and career and mental health services to veterans. The facility also serves as a drop-in center for homeless veterans. While there, homeless veterans are able to receive meals, rest, and access the business center, along with a number of recreational activities. Congressman Butterfield will be the first elected official to visit the campus.On Wednesday, Congressman Butterfield and Congressman David Price (NC-04) will co-host “Marketplace 2013: Procurement Opportunities for Small Businesses.” Marketplace 2013 provides an opportunity for small business owners to meet contracting officers from 50 federal, state and local government agencies and large prime contractors. It also gives attendees an opportunity to learn how to secure government contracts through a variety of educational sessions offered. Among the government agencies and organizations that will be represented are the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and the North Carolina Small Business & Technology Development Center.Later in the week, Butterfield will speak at two events highlighting African American history. On Friday, Congressman Butterfield will keynote The Legacy of Freedom Symposium. The two-day legal and academic symposium will examine the life of President Abraham Lincoln, the Emancipation Proclamation, and related constitutional amendments. Both days will include guest speakers, panel discussions, and historical reenactments. On Saturday, the Congressman will address attendees during the city of Rocky Mount’s Juneteenth Celebration. Juneteenth is nationally recognized as Emancipation Day and commemorates the end of slavery in Texas; two years after President Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation to free slaves in confederate states.The Congressman’s full public schedule follows.WHAT: Butterfield’s District Work Week Schedule WHEN & WHERE:Monday, May 2710:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. Next Level Veterans Center’s Memorial Day Celebration1107 Holloway StreetDurham, NC Tuesday, May 2810:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. River City Community Development Corporation Youth Build Visit303 W. Ehringhaus StreetElizabeth City, NC 1:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Coastal Beverage Company Meet and Greet888 Forest Park Road Hill RoadElizabeth City, NC Wednesday, May 298:45 a.m. -12:00 p.m.Marketplace 2013: Procurement Opportunities for Small BusinessesSheraton Imperial-Research Triangle Park, NC4700 Emperor BoulevardDurham, NC Thursday, May 304:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m.:Rocky Mount Downtown Streetscape Celebration119 S.E. Main StreetRocky Mount, NC Friday, May 311:00 p.m.- 2:30 p.m.The Legacy of Freedom SymposiumNorth Carolina Museum of History5 East Edenton StreetRaleigh, NC Saturday, June 14:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.Rocky Mount Juneteenth CelebrationThe Douglas BlockRocky Mount, NC
05.23.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) took to the House floor today to voice his strong opposition to the Republican-led “Making College More Expensive Act” that would change the interest rates for all new federal student loans made on or after July 1, 2013, from a fixed interest rate to a variable market-based interest rate. Presently, the interest rate for subsidized loans is 3.4 percent, however, the rate is scheduled to double to 6.8 percent after July 1 if Congress does not act.Butterfield said, “Instead of considering freezing current rates or enacting comprehensive reforms, House Republicans want to tie student loan rates to the free market. We are still recovering from the devastating results of adjustable interest rates with home mortgages, but Republicans want to do the same with student loans. Allowing these rates to fluctuate with the market increases uncertainty and exposes students to significantly higher student loan costs. Our students deserve better.”Under the bill, interest rates for all new subsidized and unsubsidized student loans would be based on the interest rate on a 10-year Treasury note plus 2.5 percentage points, with a cap of 8.5 percent. The interest rate for all new GradPLUS and parent loans would be based on the interest rate on a 10-year Treasury note plus 4.5 percentage points, capped at 10.5 percent. The bill also would eliminate the cap on interest rates for all new consolidation loans originated on or after July 1.In light of this, Congressman Butterfield has cosponsored H.R. 532, the Private Student Loan Bankruptcy Fairness Act of 2013. H.R. 532 would restore fairness in student loan lending by allowing a common consumer protection, applied to other private debts, to be extended to private student loans. Under current law, private education loans are not dischargeable in bankruptcy. The Private Student Loan Bankruptcy Fairness Act of 2013 would eliminate that provision and treat student loans equally with other traditional debts such as car loans and home mortgages. “A post-secondary education is essential to securing gainful employment in the United States. The cost of attending college continues to rise and for many people, financing their education with loans is the only option. Student borrowers that are forced into bankruptcy should get relief from their private student loans to escape the threat of lifelong indebtedness.”According to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, outstanding student loan debt in the United States topped $1 trillion in 2011 -- including approximately $150 billion of private student loan debt. Unlike federal student loans, which can have flexible repayment options for borrowers and limits on interest rates, private student loans have no protections and no caps on the total amount a student can borrow.Butterfield’s Floor remarks can be seen here.
05.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today commended the United States Coast Guard’s decision to continue maintenance, repair, and overhaul work of the Coast Guard’s C-130 aircraft fleet at the Coast Guard’s Aviation Logistics Center in Elizabeth City, North Carolina. Maintenance on the Coast Guard’s C-130 fleet has been performed in Elizabeth City for the past three years and employs around 240 people, making it one of the largest sources of jobs in the area. “I am thrilled the Coast Guard will continue its C-130 maintenance work in Elizabeth City,” said Butterfield. “This decision will ensure that good, high-paying jobs stay in Elizabeth City. There is a lot of potential for the aviation industry in this region and I hope this announcement is just the first of many more to come.”The Coast Guard made its announcement yesterday after completing a competitive solicitation that began in October 2012. The Coast Guard’s decision continues the aircraft and maintenance repair contract in Elizabeth City for one year with options to extend up to four additional years.In January, Senator Kay Hagan and Congressmen Butterfield, Howard Coble, and Walter Jones sent a letter to the Commanding Officer of the United States Coast Guard Aviation Logistics Center all agreeing that the aircraft and maintenance repair contract should remain in North Carolina, and specifically Elizabeth City, due to the number of jobs it supports. ###
05.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today submitted testimony to the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs in support of the Veterans Education Equity Act of 2013. Butterfield introduced H.R. 595, the House version of the legislation, in February to reward equal educational benefits to veterans whether they choose to attend a private or public institution of higher learning. Today’s hearing is the first Senate hearing on S.262, the companion bill introduced by Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL), and the bill’s second legislative hearing overall. In April, the House Veteran Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity also held a hearing on the bill. “The current law unintentionally burdens a significant number of American veterans, requiring them to pay out-of-pocket thousands of dollars in nonresidential tuition rates, which could add up to more than $80,000 in North Carolina,” said Butterfield. “Let’s treat all of our veterans fairly by passing the Veterans Education Equity Act out of committee and helping it become law.”If found favorable, the Veterans Education Equity Act will advance to a markup hearing, where committee members will decide whether the full Senate and/or House should vote on the legislation. The bill has received the support of the American Council on Education, the Association of State Colleges and Universities, the Association of Public and Land-Grant Universities, the Association of American Universities, the American Association of Community Colleges, the University of North Carolina System, and the North Carolina Community College System. ###
05.14.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) decision to continue the Federal Aviation Administration Contract Tower (FCT) Program at the Kinston Regional Jetport at Stallings Field (ISO) and Coastal Carolina Regional (EWN) Airport through the remainder of fiscal year 2013, ending the threat of closures and employee furloughs. Butterfield said, “I applaud the DOT’s decision to continue the FAA Contract Tower Program at the Kinston Regional Jetport, the Coastal Carolina Regional Airport, and the other 147 contract control towers nationwide—all of which were scheduled for closure due to sequestration. These control towers are critical components of our economy and national security. I am pleased that government leaders were able to work together to ensure the continuation of jobs and our safety.”After last week’s passage of the Reducing Flight Delays Act of 2013, Butterfield joined 82 of his congressional colleagues in sending a bipartisan letter to Transportation Secretary LaHood urging him to use the authority given in the Act to ensure the safety of our nation’s air transportation system by preventing the closure of the air traffic control towers.The FCT program staffs air traffic control towers with contractors instead of Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) employees, which help to manage air traffic control and increase air safety. If the FCT program is cancelled, the affected airports would remain functional despite the tower being unstaffed. Should this occur, aircrafts would have to audibly communicate with towers that are offsite until they are within five miles of landing. At which time, they would switch to communications with on-the-ground employees who have visual sight of the runway.Earlier this year, both the Kingston Regional Jetport and the Coastal Carolina Regional Airport were notified by the FAA that they are among roughly 150 FCTs slated for closure in June due to the sequester. In March, Butterfield wrote a letter to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta asking him to reconsider based on military and businesses using both airports.Last month, Butterfield welcomed Secretary LaHood to Goldsboro, NC to visit the progress of three major transportation projects currently underway. Goldsboro’s revitalization spotlighted the unique transportation needs of rural communities. ###
05.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for awarding three brownfield grants to the cities of Greenville and Wilson, North Carolina. The grants, valued at $400,000 and $200,000 respectively, will help fund the cleanup of the former Imperial Tobacco Outparcel Property and the former Imperial Tobacco Warehouse Property in Greenville, and complete environmental site assessments in Wilson.Butterfield said, “The hazardous effects of brownfields have historically impacted the physical and economic health of rural and low-income communities nationwide. The effort being made by the EPA to test, cleanup, and, eventually, help redevelop these local sites will drive much-needed economic development in these cities. I congratulate Greenville and Wilson on its receipt of these grants.”Hazardous substances and petroleum grant funds will be used to clean up the former Imperial Tobacco properties, both located at 710 Atlantic Avenue. The parcels are part of a larger property that operated as a tobacco processing plant from about 1900 to 1977. The plant used coal as a source of power until 1929, switching to fuel oil until operations ceased. Two above-ground and underground storage tanks remain on the property. Surface and subsurface soil in the vicinity of the tanks has been impacted by total petroleum hydrocarbons and heavy metals.In Wilson, community-wide petroleum grant funds will be used to conduct at least seven Phase I and four Phase II environmental site assessments. Funds also will be used to expand the city's inventory of sites, conduct community outreach activities, and develop cleanup plans for area sites.In 2002, the Small Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act was passed to help states and communities around the country cleanup and revitalize brownfields sites. Under this law, the EPA provides financial assistance to eligible applicants through four competitive grant programs: assessment grants, revolving loan fund grants, cleanup grants, and job training grants. Additionally, funding support is provided to state and tribal response programs through a separate mechanism. ###
05.01.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the nomination of veteran lawmaker Congressman Mel Watt as the new Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency:“Congressman Mel Watt has proudly represented the people of Charlotte, North Carolina in the U.S. House of Representatives for more than twenty years. He has been an outspoken leader on both the House Financial Services and the House Judiciary Committees where he has worked tirelessly to stop predatory lending, protect Americans from harmful financial practices, and increase access to affordable housing.“From the time he was in the private sector as a small business owner and attorney, until now as a highly respected senior member of Congress, Watt’s entire life’s work has been to create economic opportunity for the middle class and those striving to reach it. His ability to bring together consumer advocates and industry leaders has resulted in much-needed reforms, which have spurred economic growth and reduced fraud.“The key role he played in passing the Dodd-Frank Act is just one example of his commitment to this work. Overall, his expertise and judgment has made him the 'go-to' person on these matters.“It is no wonder then that President Obama has decided to nominate Congressman Watt as the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency.“There is no person better suited, more tenured, or as knowledgeable on the housing and financial industries in this Congress than my good friend, and fellow North Carolinian, Mel Watt. I am confident that he will successfully lead the Federal Housing Finance Agency.“I congratulate him and his family on this well-deserved nomination.” ###
04.29.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement expressing his condolences on the passing of Josephine Farmer Edwards: “Today, I join countless others in mourning the loss of former teacher and Wilson County Commissioner Josephine Farmer Edwards. Mrs. Edwards leaves a legacy of excellence and humility. As her former pupil, Mrs. Edwards’ love of education was ever present in the classroom. As a fellow public servant, I witnessed Mrs. Edwards faithfully serve Wilson County with pride. I am blessed to have called Mrs. Edwards a mentor and friend. Her life, teachings, and leadership will never be forgotten.” ###
04.29.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will welcome U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood to Goldsboro on Tuesday, April 30, to discuss and tour the progress of three major local transportation projects currently underway: the Gateway Transfer Center Project, the Center Streetscape Project, and the Goldsboro Union Station Multimodal Transportation Facility.Butterfield was instrumental in securing nearly a million dollars in federal funding for the development of these projects. Through LaHood’s visit, Butterfield hopes to convince the Transportation Department to grant the additional monies needed to help complete construction of these facilities.“I am happy to welcome my friend Secretary LaHood to Goldsboro to have him witness federal dollars at work,” said Butterfield. “Secretary LaHood is no stranger to the transit and economic needs of rural communities. These projects are critically important in making this region more accessible, creating thousands of jobs, and spurring economic development. I look forward to discussing with the Secretary the best ways to move our transportation efforts forward.”Butterfield and LaHood will be joined by Goldsboro Mayor Al King, County Commissioner Steve Keen, Gateway President and Chairman Bruce Gates, Gateway Director Arnold Underwood, Railroad Taskforce Co-chairman John Peacock, Railroad Taskforce Co-chairman Judge Charlie Gaylor, NCDOT Rail Division Engineer Craig Newton, NCDOT Public Transportation Division Director Teresa Hart, and NCDOT Region 4 Member Gus Tulloss, among other community leaders.Tomorrow’s schedule is as follows:2:32 pm Meet and Greet with Invited Guests2:48 pm Tour EXISTING Gateway Transfer Center with Invited Guests3:10 pm Tour Center Street Streetscape Project with Invited Guests3:15 pm Tour Union Station Project with Invited Guests3:30 pm Press Availability, Front Entrance of Union Station3:45 pm End Tour ###
04.29.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the nomination of Mayor Anthony Foxx as the next Secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation:"I am very pleased by the President's decision to nominate Charlotte Mayor Anthony Foxx as the new Transportation Secretary. Mayor Foxx is the best choice given his experience and his work to improve Charlotte's transit infrastructure, something tens of thousands of visitors experienced firsthand during the 2012 Democratic Convention. He will not only bring a full range of leadership and experience to the office, but also much-needed diversity to the Executive Cabinet."I congratulate Mayor Foxx and his family on this nomination. I trust that the Senate will move swiftly to confirm him." ###
04.26.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Next week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will attend a series of meetings and events throughout the First Congressional District to discuss healthcare, economic development, and low-income populations.On Monday, Congressman Butterfield will attend the official opening and launch of BD Rx, Inc. manufacturing plant in Wilson, NC. The Wilson plant will produce BD Simplist, prefilled injectables designed to help improve patient safety by decreasing the number of steps in administering medicine and lowering the risk of medication error. BD Rx is expected to create at least 25 new jobs in Wilson over the next year as a result of this product launch.On Tuesday, the Congressman will be joined by U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, County Commissioner Steve Keen, and other local transportation officials in a tour of the Gateway Transfer Center, Goldsboro Union Station, and the Streetscape Project. Later in the day, Butterfield will tour Tillery People’s Health Clinic in recognition of National Minority Health Awareness Month.To close the week, Butterfield will lead a meeting with the state democratic delegation on the effects of state and federal legislation on low-income residents. The topics to be discussed will include the Affordable Care Act, sequestration, and education.The Congressman’s full public schedule follows. WHAT: Butterfield’s District Work WeekWHEN & WHERE:Monday, April 299:00 a.m. - 9:30 a.m.: Meeting with the American LegionWilson District Office216 NE Nash Street, Suite BWilson, NC 11:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m.:BD Rx Wilson Launch5200 Corporate ParkwayWilson, NC Tuesday, April 30 2:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m.:Transportation Tour with Secretary LaHoodGoldsboro, NC 5:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m.: Barton College Civil Rights Presentation700 Vance Street NortheastWilson, NC Wednesday, May 111:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m.: Metropolitan Community Health Services Tour118 W. Martin Luther King DriveWashington, NC Thursday, May 211:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m.:Halifax Regional Medical Center Tour250 Smith Church RoadRoanoke Rapids, NC 1:00 p.m. - 2:15 p.m.: Roanoke Rapids Clinic Tour1385 Medical Center DriveRoanoke Rapids, NC 3:00 p.m. - 4:15p.m: Tillery People’s Health Clinic Tour321 Community Center RoadTillery, NC Friday, May 3 10:00 a.m.–12:00 p.m.:State House Legislative UpdateWord Tabernacle9121 West Westmount DriveRocky Mount, NC###
04.17.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) was joined by 94 of his democratic colleagues in authoring a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee supporting full funding of the National Science Foundation (NSF) at $7.626 billion for FY 2014. In the letter, the Members stressed the importance of the NSF as the only federal agency responsible for supporting education and research across science and engineering fields—a mission that is essential to developing a workforce qualified to meet global demand.Butterfield said, “Science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) occupations are vital to the prosperity and innovation of the American workforce. STEM professionals complete the research and unlock the mysteries that allow us to live longer and more prosperous lives. As technological advances continue, STEM professions will remain in demand. However, sadly, Americans are not well-positioned to take advantage of these opportunities. This is a problem that we must address, and fully funding the NSF is the way to do it.”The complete letter follows. The Honorable Frank WolfChairmanSubcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies335 Cannon House Office BuildingWashington D.C. 20515 The Honorable Chaka FattahRanking MemberSubcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies2301 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Wolf and Ranking Member Fattah:We write to urge you to include $7.626 billion in funding for the National Science Foundation (NSF) in the FY2014 Commerce, Justice, and Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill.The United States faces a daunting challenge if we are to continue to compete globally in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) related industries. More than 20 countries are currently outperforming American students on international science assessments and graduating a higher percentage of students in science and engineering fields. Funding from the NSF is one of our country’s most important workforce development initiatives. According to Georgetown University’s Center on Education and the Workforce, STEM jobs in the U.S. are predicted to increase to 8.55 million in 2018, or 17 percent greater than in 2008. To meet these demands we must produce approximately one million more STEM professionals over the next ten years. The NSF is the only federal agency specifically responsible for supporting essential education and research across all science and engineering fields—a role that is vital to cultivating a workforce capable of keeping pace with global demand. Funding from the NSF supports one fifth of all federally funded basic research at colleges and universities throughout the United States. The NSF awards the majority of its budget on a competitive basis to small groups of researchers at public and private institutions of higher learning through approximately 11,000 new grant awards per year. Awards from the NSF helps enable faculty and students to access the resources they need and support the necessary infrastructure and tools to address some of our society’s most pressing concerns. In many cases, the basic research facilitated by the NSF is expanded upon and applied commercially by U.S. companies. The applications of NSF research have helped many businesses create jobs by developing new products from advanced radar systems and next generation high definition videoconferencing to more efficient and affordable solar energy materials and genetically engineered tissues for medical procedures.We must remain committed to strengthening our workforce and competing with countries that are investing their resources in STEM education and innovation. We urge you to fund the NSF at the requested $7.626 billion funding level to ensure that we continue to develop a reliable pipeline of STEM talent so that the United States remains globally competitive. Thank you very much. Very truly yours, Rep. G. K. ButterfieldRep. Rob AndrewsRep. Joyce BeattyRep. Ami BeraRep. Sanford BishopRep. Earl BlumenauerRep. Suzanne BonamiciRep. Bruce BraleyRep. Lois CappsRep. Tony CárdenasRep. Andre CarsonRep. Joaquin CastroRep. Donna ChristensenRep. Judy ChuRep. David CicillineRep. Yvette ClarkeRep. Wm. Lacy ClayRep. Emmanuel CleaverRep. Steve CohenRep. John ConyersRep. Jim CostaRep. Elijah CummingsRep. Danny DavisRep. Peter DeFazioRep. Rosa DeLauroRep. Suzan DelBeneRep. John Dingell Rep. Mike DoyleRep. Donna EdwardsRep. Keith EllisonRep. Elliot EngelRep. Bill EnyartRep. Anna EshooRep. Bill FosterRep. Marcia FudgeRep. Peter GallegoRep. John GaramendiRep. Al GreenRep. Janice HahnRep. Alcee HastingsRep. Denny HeckRep. Rubén HinojosaRep. Eleanor Holmes NortonRep. Rush HoltRep. Jared HuffmanRep. Shelia Jackson LeeRep. Hakeem JeffriesRep. Bill KeatingRep. Derek KilmerRep. Ron KindRep. Ann KusterRep. Jim LangevinRep. Sandy LevinRep. John LewisRep. Daniel LipinskiRep. Dave LoebackRep. Zoe LofgrenRep. Ben LujanRep. Michelle Lujan GrishamRep. Stephen LynchRep. Ed MarkeyRep. Jim McDermottRep. Jim McGovernRep. Mike McIntyreRep. Gregory MeeksRep. Gwen MooreRep. Jim MoranRep. Patrick MurphyRep. Jerrold NadlerRep. Rick NolanRep. Bill Pascrell, Jr.Rep. Donald Payne, Jr.Rep. Scott PetersRep. Mark PocanRep. Jared PolisRep. David PriceRep. Charles RangelRep. Cedric RichmondRep. Bobby RushRep. Jan SchakowskyRep. Bobby ScottRep. Terri SewellRep. Carol Shea-PorterRep. Kyrsten SinemaRep. Louise SlaughterRep. Jackie SpeierRep. Mark TakanoRep. Bennie ThompsonRep. John TierneyRep. Paul TonkoRep. Chris Van HollenRep. Mel WattRep. Henry WaxmanRep. Pete WelchRep. Frederica Wilson###
04.03.2013	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) applauded Nash Community College (NCC) for procuring a $1. 5 million grant from the Economic Development Administration (EDA) of the Department of Commerce to construct the Corporate Training Wing of the NCC Continuing Education facility on the college’s Rocky Mount campus. The new training facility will bolster existing partnerships between NCC and the local business community to satisfy a growing demand for skilled workers in the areas of advanced manufacturing, transportation and logistics. The EDA grant will fund nearly half of the projected cost of the building.“I commend the Economic Development Administration for its commitment to strengthening local economies through innovation, planning and collaboration amongst government, local businesses, and nonprofits,” said Butterfield. “The future of America is brightest when we equip students with cutting edge education and experience that transfers directly into the increasingly technical nature of the American workforce.”Since 1965, the EDA has worked to create a foundation for continued job growth and the formation of robust regional economies. The EDA is the only federal agency exclusively dedicated to economic development. NCC’s Corporate Training Wing was funded under the Public Works program of the EDA. ###
03.22.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- Next week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will speak with multiple groups to discuss the impact of sequestration on the First Congressional District and applaud environmental preservation efforts in the state. On Monday, Butterfield will travel to Kinston to speak to the students and staff of Sampson Alternative School. While there he will discuss sequestration and the effects it will have on education. Later in the day, Congressman Butterfield will tour AAR Cargo Systems Corp and meet with its management on how the sequester will impact their business. AAR Cargo Systems designs and manufactures in-craft cargo loading systems for commercial, military, and humanitarian relief operations.On Tuesday, Butterfield will participate in a town hall meeting hosted by the Opportunities Industrialization Center (OIC). During the town hall, Edgecombe and Nash counties residents will have the chance to ask Congressman Butterfield questions on federal budget cuts, efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and the impact on Medicaid following Governor McCrory’s decision to not expand the safety net program, among other issues.On Wednesday, Butterfield will announce a $425,000 grant to The Roanoke Center to support sustainable forestry initiatives. The grant will provide opportunities for farmers to learn sustainable practices of cultivating timber underbrush for sale without having to remove trees. The award will benefit 30 farmers throughout Bertie, Gates, Halifax, Hertford and Northampton counties.The Congressman’s full public schedule follows.WHAT: Butterfield to Engage District Constituents on Sequestration’s Impact, Next WeekWHEN & WHERE:Monday, March 2510:00-11:00 a.m.Sequestration’s Impact on EducationSampson Alternative School2529 Cedar Dell LaneKinston, NC 28504 2:00-3:00 p.m. AAR Cargo Systems Tour & Discussion on Sequestration500 Gateway DriveGoldsboro, NC 27534 Tuesday, March 2610:00-11:00 a.m.Eagle Home Medical Meeting on Sequestration411 W. Chapel Hill Street, Suite 905Durham, NC 27701 2:00-3:00 p.m.Global Scholars Academy Tour & Discussion on Sequestration311 Dowd StreetDurham, NC 27701 6:00-8:00 p.m.Town Hall Meeting on Sequestration, Healthcare, & Voting RightsOpportunities Industrialization Center, Medical Center111 S. Fairview RoadRocky Mount, NC 27801 Wednesday, March 2711:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m.U.S. Endowment Grant AnnouncementRoanoke Electric Cooperative518 NC Hwy 561 WestAulander, NC 27805 Thursday, March 2811:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m.Community Relations and Industry Council Meeting on SequestrationKittrell Job Corps CenterUnderground Café1096 US Hwy 1 SouthKittrell, NC 27544
03.22.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- Next week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will speak with multiple groups to discuss the impact of sequestration on the First Congressional District and applaud environmental preservation efforts in the state. On Monday, Butterfield will travel to Kinston to speak to the students and staff of Sampson Alternative School. While there he will discuss sequestration and the effects it will have on education. Later in the day, Congressman Butterfield will tour AAR Cargo Systems Corp and meet with its management on how the sequester will impact their business. AAR Cargo Systems designs and manufactures in-craft cargo loading systems for commercial, military, and humanitarian relief operations.On Tuesday, Butterfield will participate in a town hall meeting hosted by the Opportunities Industrialization Center (OIC). During the town hall, Edgecombe and Nash counties residents will have the chance to ask Congressman Butterfield questions on federal budget cuts, efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and the impact on Medicaid following Governor McCrory’s decision to not expand the safety net program, among other issues.On Wednesday, Butterfield will announce a $425,000 grant to The Roanoke Center to support sustainable forestry initiatives. The grant will provide opportunities for farmers to learn sustainable practices of cultivating timber underbrush for sale without having to remove trees. The award will benefit 30 farmers throughout Bertie, Gates, Halifax, Hertford and Northampton counties.The Congressman’s full public schedule follows.WHAT: Butterfield to Engage District Constituents on Sequestration’s Impact, Next WeekWHEN & WHERE:Monday, March 2510:00-11:00 a.m.Sequestration’s Impact on EducationSampson Alternative School2529 Cedar Dell LaneKinston, NC 28504 2:00-3:00 p.m. AAR Cargo Systems Tour & Discussion on Sequestration500 Gateway DriveGoldsboro, NC 27534 Tuesday, March 2610:00-11:00 a.m.Eagle Home Medical Meeting on Sequestration411 W. Chapel Hill Street, Suite 905Durham, NC 27701 2:00-3:00 p.m.Global Scholars Academy Tour & Discussion on Sequestration311 Dowd StreetDurham, NC 27701 6:00-8:00 p.m.Town Hall Meeting on Sequestration, Healthcare, & Voting RightsOpportunities Industrialization Center, Medical Center111 S. Fairview RoadRocky Mount, NC 27801 Wednesday, March 2711:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m.U.S. Endowment Grant AnnouncementRoanoke Electric Cooperative518 NC Hwy 561 WestAulander, NC 27805 Thursday, March 2811:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m.Community Relations and Industry Council Meeting on SequestrationKittrell Job Corps CenterUnderground Café1096 US Hwy 1 SouthKittrell, NC 27544
03.21.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), a veteran of the U.S. Army, today sent a letter to Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel urging him to reinstate the tuition assistance programs for members of the U.S. Army, the U.S. Air Force, and the U.S. Marine Corps. Earlier this month, these service branches announced the suspension of their tuition assistance programs as a result of sequester cuts, which will affect more than 250,000 servicemembers.In his letter, Butterfield wrote, “Our all-volunteer force is the finest and most advanced in the world. In order to recruit and retain the best and brightest, we offer tuition assistance so our soldiers can attend college while defending our country. I am very troubled by the recent decisions by the Air Force, Army, and Marine Corps to end their tuition assistance programs. As one of your first orders of business as Secretary, I strongly urge you to reinstate these tuition assistance programs.”A long-time advocate of our men and women in uniform, in February, Congressman Butterfield introduced H.R. 595, the Veterans’ Education Equity Act of 2013, to reward equal educational benefits to veterans whether they choose to attend a private or public institution of higher learning. The bill would change an inequity in existing law which allots more education funds to veterans enrolled in private colleges than those in public institutions. Currently, the Post 9-11 Veterans’ Educational Improvements Assistance Act caps the education benefit amount for veterans who enroll in private schools at $18,077.50 and limits the education benefit for those who enroll in public schools to the amount charged for in-state tuition and fees. The Veterans’ Education Equity Act of 2013 would remedy this inequality and allow all veterans to receive up to $18,077.50 in education benefits.Butterfield’s full letter follows.March 21, 2013The Honorable Chuck HagelSecretary of DefenseU.S. Department of Defense1400 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1400Dear Secretary Hagel:Congratulations on your confirmation as Secretary of Defense. Having bravely and honorably served in the United States Army during the Vietnam War, you are acutely aware of the sacrifices our men and women in uniform make every day in defense of the United States.Our all-volunteer force is the finest and most advanced in the world. In order to recruit and retain the best and brightest, we offer tuition assistance so our soldiers can attend college while defending our country. I am very troubled by the recent decisions by the Air Force, Army, and Marine Corps to end their tuition assistance programs. As one of your first orders of business as Secretary, I strongly urge you to reinstate these tuition assistance programs. Doing so will send a clear message to our men and women in uniform that they have your support and their best interests are at the heart of the Pentagon’s decisions.Many men and women like those in my Congressional District come from humble means and do not have financial assistance from their families to help defray the cost of college. For many of those individuals, serving in the military provides a vehicle to pay for the ever-rising cost of higher education. Without tuition assistance, some of the brightest and most capable soldiers will be forced to postpone their education or worse, end it entirely.I fully understand the financial strain on the Pentagon’s budget caused by sequestration. However, in order to not diminish the morale of our servicemembers or jeopardize the quality of our military forces in the future, I ask that you do everything in your power to reinstate the tuition assistance programs.Thank you very much.Very truly yours, G. K. ButterfieldMember of Congress
03.21.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today introduced bipartisan legislation that would make deserving World War II U.S. Merchant Mariners eligible for honorary veterans’ status and certain veterans’ benefits.H.R. 1288, the World War II Merchant Marine Service Act of 2013, would expand the list of documents accepted by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to prove service and to grant honorary veterans status to a forgotten segment of the World War II Merchant Marine, the Coastwise Merchant Seamen. The bill would also award any commendations, ribbons, or honors earned during time of service, and provide burial benefits to these individuals that played such an invaluable role in the World War II efforts. "During World War II, thousands of Americans stepped forward to serve as an extension of our armed forces when our nation was in great need,” said Butterfield. “These brave men and women, who kept the war effort going here at home, were known as Coastwise Merchant Seamen. For far too long they have been denied the proper recognition of their service. With the help of my colleagues, I hope to pass this bill so these fine Americans can finally receive the distinction they deserve."The Merchant Marines were private citizens employed by freight shipping companies. In an effort to support the American war effort during World War II, freight shipping companies and their employees became an auxiliary to the U.S. Navy. Their mission was to transport bulk war materials including food, clothing, weapons, and even troops to all areas of conflict and coastal installations here at home.Coastwise Merchant Seamen were tasked with the critically important role of transporting materials for the war effort along the U.S. coast. Although Coastwise Merchant Seamen did not sail across the Atlantic or Pacific Oceans into areas of conflict, they still encountered the enemy while delivering cargo that kept the war effort moving forward. Congress has previously passed laws to recognize the efforts of the Merchant Marine. However, these laws have failed to incorporate the entirety of those who served in the Merchant Marine during World War II, and have placed onerous and sometimes impossible criteria on these individuals to prove their service.In most cases, the documentation currently required to prove service no longer exists or can be extremely hard to find. Butterfield’s bill allows Social Security Administration records, validated testimony by the applicant or closest living relative, and other official records that provide sufficient proof of service.###
03.14.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded Duke University and East Carolina University (ECU) on its receipt of two distinct grants from the National Science Foundation in the amount of $302,103 and $358,656, respectively.Duke University will use the grant award to develop an automated coding system to produce near real-time political indicators on the characteristics and behaviors of world governments for the purpose of constructing information on interstate disputes among nations. This system will significantly reduce the time-lag between global events and measurement and analysis of those events in the academic and policy arena. It will also speed the availability of the findings to the public.ECU’s grant will establish a CISE Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) site at the university. The site will provide undergraduate students with experience in software testing and give them a solid research foundation by participating in activities, such as developing solutions and algorithms for fundamental issues in software testing, developing tools to improve testing effectiveness and performance, and testing complex real systems. Through this facility, the university hopes to encourage participating students to pursue graduate studies in computer science.“I congratulate Duke and East Carolina universities on receiving grants from the National Science Foundation,” said Butterfield. “Both universities remain at the forefront in delivering research and development that will benefit our nation and transform our world. The work these universities will complete through each grant is a testament to the state’s leadership in science and technology, and confirms our position as a hub for highly skilled professionals.”The National Science Foundation funds research and education in science and engineering, through grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements. The Foundation accounts for about 20 percent of federal support to academic institutions for basic research. ###
03.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today sent a letter to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator Michael Huerta urging him to do what he can to continue the FAA Contract Tower (FCT) Program at Kinston Regional Jetport at Stallings Field (ISO) and at Coastal Carolina Regional (EWN) Airport.Both the Kingston Regional Jetport and the Coastal Carolina Regional Airport have been notified by the FAA that they are among roughly 200 FCTs being considered for closure due to the sequester that began on March 1.The FCT program staffs air traffic control towers with contractors instead of FAA employees, which helps to manage air traffic control and increase air safety. If the FCT program is cancelled, the affected airports will remain functional despite the tower being unstaffed. Should this occur, aircrafts will have to audibly communicate with towers that are offsite until they are within five miles of landing. At which time, they will switch to communications with on-the-ground employees who have visual sight of the runway.In his letter, Butterfield wrote, “It is my understanding that the FAA will make all closure decisions based on whether doing so would negatively impact the national interest, and intends to notify airports selected for FCT defunding on March 13, 2013. Both Kinston Regional Jetport and Coastal Carolina Regional Airport are vital to our nation’s security and economy. To that end, I urge you to continue to support their towers.”The full letter follows. March 12, 2013The Honorable Michael HuertaAdministrator Federal Aviation Administration800 Independence Avenue, S.W.Washington, D.C. 20591Dear Administrator Huerta:I write to urge the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to continue the FAA Contract Tower (FCT) Program at Kinston Regional Jetport at Stallings Field (ISO) in Kinston, North Carolina, and at Coastal Carolina Regional (EWN) Airport in New Bern, North Carolina.Both Kinston Regional Jetport and Coastal Carolina Regional Airport have been notified by the FAA that they are among 189 FCTs being considered for closure as a result of budget sequestration. It is my understanding that the FAA will make all closure decisions based on whether doing so would negatively impact the national interest, and intends to notify airports selected for FCT defunding on March 13, 2013. Both Kinston Regional Jetport and Coastal Carolina Regional Airport are vital to our nation’s security and economy. To that end, I urge you to continue to support their towers.Specifically, ISO is an emergency divert facility for Seymour Johnson Air Force Base and receives military flights from a dozen other bases. ISO is also the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s staging facility for Eastern North Carolina and home to the North Carolina Global TransPark, where major companies contribute to our national economy and produce critical products such as fuselages for Airbus and Boeing aircraft. EWN is surrounded by military bases including Marine Corps Air Station – Cherry Point which uses the field for helicopter training. Ten percent of EWN’s operations are military-related, and the tower works closely with sixteen military flying units to maintain a safe flow of air traffic. For these reasons and more, I would appreciate your full and careful consideration of this matter. Please contact me or Dennis Sills on my staff at 202.225.3101 should you need additional information.Thank you very much.Very truly yours, G. K. ButterfieldMember of Congress
03.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today sent a letter to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator Michael Huerta urging him to do what he can to continue the FAA Contract Tower (FCT) Program at Kinston Regional Jetport at Stallings Field (ISO) and at Coastal Carolina Regional (EWN) Airport.Both the Kingston Regional Jetport and the Coastal Carolina Regional Airport have been notified by the FAA that they are among roughly 200 FCTs being considered for closure due to the sequester that began on March 1.The FCT program staffs air traffic control towers with contractors instead of FAA employees, which helps to manage air traffic control and increase air safety. If the FCT program is cancelled, the affected airports will remain functional despite the tower being unstaffed. Should this occur, aircrafts will have to audibly communicate with towers that are offsite until they are within five miles of landing. At which time, they will switch to communications with on-the-ground employees who have visual sight of the runway.In his letter, Butterfield wrote, “It is my understanding that the FAA will make all closure decisions based on whether doing so would negatively impact the national interest, and intends to notify airports selected for FCT defunding on March 13, 2013. Both Kinston Regional Jetport and Coastal Carolina Regional Airport are vital to our nation’s security and economy. To that end, I urge you to continue to support their towers.”The full letter follows. March 12, 2013The Honorable Michael HuertaAdministrator Federal Aviation Administration800 Independence Avenue, S.W.Washington, D.C. 20591Dear Administrator Huerta:I write to urge the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to continue the FAA Contract Tower (FCT) Program at Kinston Regional Jetport at Stallings Field (ISO) in Kinston, North Carolina, and at Coastal Carolina Regional (EWN) Airport in New Bern, North Carolina.Both Kinston Regional Jetport and Coastal Carolina Regional Airport have been notified by the FAA that they are among 189 FCTs being considered for closure as a result of budget sequestration. It is my understanding that the FAA will make all closure decisions based on whether doing so would negatively impact the national interest, and intends to notify airports selected for FCT defunding on March 13, 2013. Both Kinston Regional Jetport and Coastal Carolina Regional Airport are vital to our nation’s security and economy. To that end, I urge you to continue to support their towers.Specifically, ISO is an emergency divert facility for Seymour Johnson Air Force Base and receives military flights from a dozen other bases. ISO is also the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s staging facility for Eastern North Carolina and home to the North Carolina Global TransPark, where major companies contribute to our national economy and produce critical products such as fuselages for Airbus and Boeing aircraft. EWN is surrounded by military bases including Marine Corps Air Station – Cherry Point which uses the field for helicopter training. Ten percent of EWN’s operations are military-related, and the tower works closely with sixteen military flying units to maintain a safe flow of air traffic. For these reasons and more, I would appreciate your full and careful consideration of this matter. Please contact me or Dennis Sills on my staff at 202.225.3101 should you need additional information.Thank you very much.Very truly yours, G. K. ButterfieldMember of Congress
02.27.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), a former civil rights attorney and judge, took to the House Floor to discuss the importance of preserving Section 5 of the 1965 Voting Rights Act, which is now being considered in Shelby County v Holder by the Supreme Court. The full video and transcript follows. Mr. BUTTERFIELD. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and particularly thank the chair of the Congressional Black Caucus for her leadership in convening this special hour tonight. As many of our colleagues know, before being elected to Congress 8 years ago, I was a trial judge and an appellate judge in my home State of North Carolina. But what many of you may not know is that, for some 6 years before becoming a judge, I spent considerable time litigating cases under the Voting Rights Act and presenting comments to the Department of Justice in section 5 cases. Mr. Speaker, so many people do not understand section 5. This preclearance provision does not apply in every jurisdiction in America. It only applies to selected counties where there was evidence of discriminatory voting practices when the Voting Rights Act was first enacted in 1965. These jurisdictions are required to submit to the Department of Justice any changes in election law or procedure for determination of whether the change could have a negative impact on the voting strength of minority groups. If the jurisdiction fails in their proof, the change is not allowed. And I will say for the Record today that, in the early days of section 5, many jurisdictions ignored the requirement. It has been proven, Mr. Speaker, time and time again in courtrooms across America that racially polarized voting has existed at the ballot box since the 15th Amendment was ratified--and it exists today. My congressional district in North Carolina, though it is improving, continues to have voting based on the race of the candidate. Many white voters choose not to vote for a candidate who is clearly the preferred candidate of the African American community. When this happens, the black community is handicapped. We call it vote dilution. And so section 5's preclearance provision simply is a backstop against jurisdictions devising election schemes that will make it more difficult for the African American community to elect a candidate of its choice, taking into consideration the existence of racially polarized voting. Mr. Speaker, I can cite dozens of instances in North Carolina where discriminatory changes were proposed to election systems and the Department of Justice stepped forward and denied the change. Had it not been for section 5, black electoral success in my congressional district would be considerably less. Many of the cities and counties in my district now have single-member election districts that were ordered by the courts. The courts have required that some of these districts had to be majority African American, which now enable the African American community to elect candidates of their choice. Elimination of section 5 could enable mischievous jurisdictions to eliminate this in favor of at-large elections, where concentrations of black voters would be submerged into at-large systems. Mr. Speaker, the time has not come when we should eliminate the protection of section 5. The evidence continues to suggest racially polarized voting that discriminates against the African American community. If this protection is struck down, some governing boards at the State and the local level will seize the opportunity to promulgate election rules that disadvantage minority voters, and the only remedy then will be to file an expensive Federal lawsuit and prove intentional discrimination in the district court. And so, Mr. Speaker, I urge the Supreme Court to carefully look at the legislative history that we have provided and decide to maintain the protection of section 5. Again, I thank the gentleman from Nevada for his friendship and his leadership and for working to make this hour happen tonight. ###
02.21.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – On Friday, February 22, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will be joined by North Carolina Department of Revenue officials and community and industry leaders to urge eligible North Carolinians to use the Free File program to prepare and file their taxes for free. Butterfield will speak at a public briefing on the Free File program, which provides eligible taxpayers free use of name-brand tax software products through a partnership between the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and tax software companies.Taxpayers with an adjusted gross income of $57,000 or less in 2012 – 70 percent of all taxpayers - can use Free File. This program not only helps people save on the cost of tax preparation, but also empowers them to claim the credits and deductions for which they are eligible. Following the briefing, the Computer & Communications Industry Association (CCIA) will hold a Free File Training workshop open to the public. WHO: Congressman G. K. Butterfield; Sharon Tanner, North Carolina Department of Revenue; Felicia Coley, North Carolina Department of Revenue; Anthony Bedell, Intuit Financial Freedom Foundation; and David Macklin, Computer & Communications Industry AssociationWHAT: To Encourage Eligible North Carolinians to Use Free File at Tax Time and Free File Training workshop WHEN: Friday, February 22, 2013WHERE:9:00 a.m.STRIVE600 West Third StreetGreenville, NC 1:30 p.m.Franklin- Vance- Warren Opportunity, Inc. - Louisburg Office167 NC Highway 56 EastLouisburg, NC For more information about NC Free File, please visit www.taxprephelp.orgor www.dornc.com.###
02.14.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, North Carolina Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), David Price (NC-04), and Mel Watt (NC-12) sent a letter to North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory strongly urging that he veto House Bill 4, a bill that would block funding of federal emergency unemployment benefits to hundreds of thousands of North Carolinians.In their letter, the congressmen wrote, “As members of North Carolina’s Congressional Delegation, we do not routinely express our views on legislation presented to the Governor. However, the serious threat to 170,000 unemployed and displaced workers in North Carolina posed by House Bill 4, as well as the direct conflict it creates with federal policy, compel us to do so. We urge you in the strongest possible terms to reject this economically and socially costly measure.”Last month, as part of the fiscal cliff deal, Congress passed an extension through January 1, 2014 for the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation Program (EUC08). EUC08 gives assistance to the long-term unemployed by providing federal unemployment benefits after state benefits are exhausted, and under the condition that states maintain their current benefits for the unemployed. However, House Bill 4 seeks to cut spending on the state’s unemployment insurance program, which will have a disastrous effect on those who need help the most.The members explained:“Enacting House Bill 4 would force the long-term unemployed to forfeit $780 million in needed benefits made available by federal law. The dramatic reductions to the state’s unemployment program under this bill, which includes plans to cut the maximum weekly benefits from $535 to $350, to reduce the number of benefit weeks from 26 to 20, and to eliminate benefits for veterans who separate from employment for military service-related disabilities, would make North Carolina ineligible for any EUC08 benefits. Moreover, eliminating this important safety net for jobless residents would cost North Carolina’s economy $1.5 billion in economic activity at a time when we cannot afford to drive business away. “Due to the severe burden this bill would place on jobless North Carolinians, and the regressive impact it would create on our state’s economy, we strongly urge you to veto this deeply flawed and shortsighted legislation.”The full text of the letter is attached.
02.14.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) was joined by 11 of his Congressional Black Caucus colleagues in authoring a letter to Federal Communications Commission Chairman Julius Genachowski supporting immediate finalization of the rule for Connect America Fund (CAF) Phase I. CAF Phase I is used to help quickly deploy robust, high speed broadband and other advanced communication services to unserved areas across the United States. Butterfield was joined by Reps. Rush (IL), Richmond (LA), Davis (IL), Brown (FL), Bishop (GA), Meeks (NY), Clay (MO), Clark (NY), Thompson (MS), Sewell (AL), and Cleaver (MO).The full text of the letter follows: February 13, 2013The Honorable Julius GenachowskiChairmanFederal Communications Commission445 12thStreet, SWWashington, DC 20554Re: In the Matter of Connect America Fund, WC Docket No. 10-90, Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (Released: Nov. 19, 2012) Dear Chairman Genachowski:We applaud your efforts and those of the other commissioners in the above-referenced proceeding “to further accelerate the deployment of broadband facilities to consumers who lack access to robust broadband.” We urge you to proceed promptly to finalize rules for CAF Phase I incremental support so that the $185 million unclaimed in 2012, and the original $300 million in support that is anticipated for 2013, can be invested quickly to deploy broadband and other advanced communication services in unserved areas across America.In November 2011, the Federal Communications Commission began transforming the Universal Service Fund (USF) and intercarrier compensation systems. As part of the Commission’s reforms, costs to deliver modern communication and broadband services to high-cost rural and unserved areas will be partly underwritten by the new Connect America Fund (CAF). In executing on these reforms, CAF will accelerate broadband deployment to more than 18 million Americans who do not have access to broadband today.Broadband is an essential facet of everyday life in our society – whether our constituents live in rural districts far from major shopping centers, or work in businesses fulfilling and delivering orders, or simply want convenient access to educational opportunities, remote health care applications, and the myriad other social interactions available on the Internet. Agricultural markets, emerging small businesses, online retailers, and families spread across the country and around the globe need dependable broadband access regardless of where they are located. We urge you to expedite the network investments that finally would bring broadband to many corners of rural America. These investments will be transformative in growing the economy, creating jobs, and delivering opportunity to more Americans.Thank you for your consideration.Sincerely, ###
02.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) issued the following statement regarding the release of Wilson, N.C. native John McNeil from a Georgia prison today:“As a former judge and Wilson native, I have closely followed the John McNeil case. While many are disappointed McNeil’s conviction was not overturned based on self-defense, today he can at least return home, rejoin his family, and attempt to pick up the pieces of his broken life. Although bittersweet, McNeil’s release from prison is a direct result of the Wilson Branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), which convinced the national office to lead this fight. On the 104thanniversary of its founding, I applaud the NAACP for its tireless and unwavering advocacy on behalf of men and women of color nationwide. I continue to be grateful to the NAACP for the critically important work it completes.”In 2006, McNeil was convicted of shooting Brian Epp, who trespassed on McNeil’s property, threatened his family with a box cutter, and charged at McNeil with the same weapon in his pocket. At the time of the shooting, investigating officers concluded that McNeil did not commit a crime. However, a year later McNeil was charged with murder and subsequently sentenced to life in prison. McNeil was released today after agreeing to a plea bargain. ###
02.11.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced the introduction of H.R. 595, the Veterans’ Education Equity Act of 2013, to reward equal educational benefits to veterans whether they choose to attend a private or public institution of higher learning. The bill would change an inequity in existing law which allots more education funds to veterans enrolled in private colleges than those in public institutions. Currently, the Post 9-11 Veterans’ Educational Improvements Assistance Act capped the education benefit amount for veterans who enroll in private schools at $18,077.50 and limited the education benefit for those who enroll in public schools to the amount charged for in-state tuition and fees. The Veterans’ Education Equity Act of 2013 would remedy this inequality and allow all veterans to receive up to $18,077.50 in education benefits. “The current law unintentionally burdens a significant number of American veterans, requiring them to pay out-of-pocket thousands of dollars in nonresidential tuition rates, which could add up to more than $80,000 in North Carolina,” said Butterfield. “This legislation is an important step towards honoring those who serve and helping them prepare for civilian life.”The bill has received the support of the American Council on Education, the Association of State Colleges and Universities, the Association of Public and Land-Grant Universities, the Association of American Universities, the American Association of Community Colleges, the University of North Carolina System, and the North Carolina Community College System.Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) introduced the companion bill, S. 262, last week. ###
02.08.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the selection of Dr. Debra Saunders-White as the new chancellor of North Carolina Central University (NCCU):“I congratulate Dr. Debra Saunders-White on being selected as the new chancellor of North Carolina Central University. Her experience leading programs that recruit, prepare and support disadvantaged and first-generation students make her an excellent choice to lead my beloved alma mater. Saunders-White’s has demonstrated a strong commitment to higher education as highlighted by her previous leadership positions at the U.S. Department of Education, the University of North Carolina at Wilmington and Hampton University. She is a capable leader and well-qualified to usher NCCU into the future.”Most recently, Saunders-White was the White House appointed Deputy Assistant Secretary for Higher Education Programs at the U.S. Department of Education. Prior to her appointment, Saunders-White was a senior officer at the University of North Carolina at Wilmington and chair of the UNC System Chief Information Officer Council.A native of Hampton, Va., Saunders-White holds an undergraduate degree in History from the University of Virginia, a master’s of business administration from The College of William and Mary, and a doctorate in higher education administration from The George Washington University. Saunders-White will be the 11th chancellor and the first woman to lead NCCU. She begins on June 1.###
02.08.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) introduced the Veterans Education Equity Act of 2013 – championed by Representative G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) in the House of Representatives – to resolve an inequity in the Post-9/11 GI-Bill that hasunintentionally burdened a significant number of American veterans with thousands of dollars of out-of-pocket tuition and fees based on their residency status. Durbin also announced that he will co-sponsor the GI-Bill Tuition Fairness Act of 2013 – also introduced late yesterday by Senators John Boozman (R-AR) and Bill Nelson (D-FL) – which would allow all veterans to receive the in state tuition rate at public colleges, regardless of their residence.“There is no perfect law and sometimes even the ones that come close have unintentional consequences, the Post-9/11 GI-Bill is no exception,” said Durbin. “When Congress passed the Post-9/11 GI-Bill in 2008, we did not foresee how challenging it would be for some veterans to declare residency and benefit from in-state tuition. In certain states, this has meant more than $100,000 in out-of-pocket costs for some veterans. Luckily, there is an easy fix and I will be working with Congressman Butterfield and Senators Nelson and Boozman to ensure that it is made as soon as possible.”“I thank Senator Durbin for leading the efforts on the Veterans Education Equity Act in the Senate,” said Butterfield. “Resolving this inequity is necessary to the thousands of veterans who are unfairly paying higher tuition costs out-of-pocket, and to the thousands of veterans who may soon find themselves in the same position. I look forward to working with Senator Durbin and our colleagues as the Veterans Education Equity Act advances through both chambers.”Enacted in January 2011, the Post-9/11 GI-Bill caps the amount of education benefits for veterans enrolled in private colleges at $18,077.50 and limits the education benefit for veterans who attend public colleges to the amount charged for in-state tuition and fees. For more than 20,000 veterans attending public schools at out-of-state tuition rates, that means paying out-of-pocket the sometimes dramatic difference between in-state tuition and out-of-state although they were promised full funding for their education.The Veterans Education Equity Act of 2013 would resolve this inequity by allowing veterans at private schools to continue receive up to $18,077.50 in education benefits and veterans at public schools to receive tuition benefits up to $18,077.50 to help cover the cost of out of state tuition. Today’s legislation is supported by the American Council on Education, the Association of State Colleges and Universities, the Association of Public and Land-Grant Universities, the Association of American Universities and the American Association of Community Colleges. Contact: Christina Mulka (Durbin)Christina_mulka@durbin.senate.gov202-228-5643 Kezmiché Atterbury (Butterfield)Kim.Atterbury@mail.house.gov 202-225-3101-30-
02.07.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – North Carolina Representatives David Price (NC-04), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), and Mel Watt (NC-12) urged the North Carolina House of Representatives to reject Senate Bill 4, which would keep as many as 500,000 North Carolinians from gaining access to affordable, quality health care through the federally-funded expansion of Medicaid included in the Affordable Care Act. Blocking Medicaid expansion would increase costs for the State, increase premiums for those with insurance, and block the creation of thousands of new jobs.Citing the economic, fiscal, and social benefits of Medicaid expansion, the members write:“As members of North Carolina’s Congressional delegation, we do not routinely express our views on legislation before the General Assembly. But the grave threat to our state’s economy and quality of life posed by Senate Bill 4, as well as the direct conflict it creates with federal policy, compel us to do so. We urge you in the strongest possible terms to reject this costly and short-sighted measure. . .“Rejecting Medicaid expansion would strike a devastating blow to working families in our state and to the North Carolina economy as a whole. Nearly 500,000 North Carolinians who are currently uninsured could gain access to affordable, quality health care through expansion, unless their state government stands in the way.”A recent study commissioned by the N.C. Department of Health and Human Services found that the expansion of Medicaid could inject about $1.4 billion into the North Carolina economy, creating as many as 23,000 jobs. The North Carolina Institute of Medicine estimates that Medicaid expansion will save North Carolina more than $65 million over the next eight years. Republican governors in Arizona, Ohio, Michigan, New Mexico, and North Dakota have already decided to implement Medicaid expansion. The letter continues:“One need not support the other major reforms included in the Affordable Care Act to agree that expanding Medicaid to able-bodied, low-income adults is a “win-win” for both the State of North Carolina and its residents. As you are well aware, under the terms of the law the federal government will cover 100 percent of the costs of expansion for the first three years and 90 percent of the costs thereafter…At a time of pressing fiscal challenges, there is no reason for our state’s leaders to leave this money just sitting on the table.”Only about 30 percent of low-income adults are currently covered by Medicaid in North Carolina, leaving many families to rely solely on emergency care. This lack of basic preventive health care drives up health insurance costs for those covered in the private market through a “hidden tax” on premiums. The American Academy of Actuaries estimates that premiums for private insurance will be at least two percent higher in states that do not expand Medicaid, since many of those who would be eligible for the expansion will continue to rely disproportionately on emergency care instead. A copy of the letter is attached. # # #
02.06.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) has joined 164 of his congressional colleagues, collectively representing about 114 million constituents, as an original co-sponsor of H.R. 12, the Voter Empowerment Act. Introduced by Congressman John Lewis (GA-05), the Voter Empowerment Act would ensure the protection of voting rights for every eligible American through modernizing the voter registration system, reducing long wait times to vote, and prohibiting deceptive practices that may discourage people from voting – issues that arose during the 2012 election.“This legislation follows in the footsteps of the 24th Amendment and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which respectively outlawed poll taxes and banned discriminatory voting practices aimed at African-Americans,” said Butterfield. “Many Americans fought long and hard to ensure equal voting rights for all. Now that constitutional right is being threatened with suppression tactics cloaked in a need to prevent voter fraud, which is statistically rare. These new barriers were intentionally constructed to turn back progress and add unnecessary conditions to decrease the eligibility of certain voters. The Voter Empowerment Act will define the process necessary to ensure each eligible registered voter can and will vote on Election Day.”Between 2011 and 2012, several state legislatures passed bills to implement voter ID requirements, restrict early voting opportunities, and limit the number of voting machines available at certain precincts. In 2011, former North Carolina Governor Beverly Perdue vetoed the Republican-led voter ID bill that passed in the North Carolina General Assembly. However, new Governor Pat McCrory has vowed to support a bill requiring voters to show an ID to vote.“Voting is the cornerstone of our democracy. If we are stripped of that, then we have been stripped of our equality and freedom.” ###
02.05.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – In observance of Black History Month, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today became an original cosponsor of H.Res. 49, a resolution highlighting the invaluable contributions of African Americans to our nation’s history and identity.“Throughout our history, African Americans have persevered through much hardship and discrimination to enrich our nation in innumerable ways,” said Butterfield. “From political pioneers like George Henry White and Shirley Chisholm, to new leaders such as President Barack Obama, Attorney General Eric Holder and Newark Mayor Cory Booker, African Americans continue to make great strides while adding to the fabric of our nation. Black History Month encourages everyone to recognize this history and appreciate the collective strength diversity brings to the United States.”Introduced by Congressman Al Green (TX-09), the Black History Month Resolution memorializes the journey of the first Africans to the shores of colonial America in the 17thCentury, and commemorates the contributions to academia, entertainment, literature, politics and sports by countless African-Americans.Last weekend Butterfield kicked off his observance of Black History Month by serving as Grand Marshal in the 11thAnnual Durham MLK Black History Month Parade. The multicultural event featured marching bands, step & dance teams, floats and more, while also paying homage to the life of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and other notable African-Americans.https:/Butterfield.House.Gov###
02.01.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding plans by state Republican lawmakers in the North Carolina General Assembly to block implementing critical provisions of the Affordable Care Act: “It is deeply disappointing that Republican state lawmakers have taken steps to block the expansion of Medicaid coverage to 650,000 uninsured low-income residents. These are poor children, older adults, and the disabled that they seek to deny. The provisions of the Affordable Care Act these Republicans reject were carefully designed to facilitate a gradual and affordable phase-in of healthcare reform, while also allowing for state control. Taking steps to obstruct the state from creating an insurance exchange and from expanding Medicaid is not only shortsighted and ill-advised, but also shows a dearth of Republican sensibility and leadership.”###
01.31.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Tomorrow, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will spend the day visiting three important community organizations, all fulfilling a great need in Durham.In the morning, Butterfield will meet with Dr. Sharon Elliott Bynum, Executive Director and Co-Founder of Case Management of AIDS and Addiction through Resources and Education (CAARE), to tour the construction of its new 15-bed dormitory. The 5,000 square foot dorm will provide transitional housing for homeless veterans, and will include private bedrooms and bathrooms, a large common area, and two business centers.Later, the Congressman will join Durham Community Land Trustees (DCLT) Executive Director Selina Mack at the Maplewood Square Senior Housing Complex to hold a question and answer forum for its residents. Among the issues to be discussed are the Affordable Care Act, entitlement programs and the economy. DCLT provides permanently affordable housing for low to moderate income people while promoting revitalization in the neighborhoods in which it serves. In the evening, Butterfield will give brief remarks on predatory lending at the Center for Responsible Lending’s 10thAnniversary and Awards Celebration. The event will recognize those who have played a key role in the fight against predatory lending in North Carolina. The four award recipients are the NC State Conference of the NAACP, AARP NC, NC Justice Center, and the NC Institute of Minority Economic Development.The Congressman’s full public schedule follows.--WHAT: Butterfield to Visit Three Community Organizations, Friday WHEN & WHERE:Friday, February 111:00 a.m. – 12:00p.m.:Case Management of AIDS and Addiction through Resources and Education214 Broadway StreetDurham, NC 27701 1:30-3:00p.m.: Durham Community Land Trust (DCLT)Maplewood Square Senior Housing Complex1520 Chapel Hill RoadDurham, NC 27701 5:00-7:00 p.m.: Center for Responsible Lending (CRL)302 W. Main StreetDurham, NC 27701###
01.28.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today will attend a series of meetings concerning healthcare at Duke University Hospital. Among the topics to be discussed are the challenges for hospital administration in the current fiscal climate, and federal funding for medical research.Butterfield will meet with Duke University Health System President and CEO Dr. Victor Dzau; Executive Vice President Dr. William Fulkerson, Jr.; Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer Kenneth Morris; Hospital President Kevin Sowers; and School of Medicine Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Dr. Nancy Andrews. The Congressman will also meet with Dr. Robert Joseph Lefkowitz, recipient of the 2012 Nobel Prize for Chemistry and the James B. Duke Professor of Biochemistry at the university.“As Duke’s new congressional representative, and as a member of the House Health Subcommittee, I am confident that today’s meetings will better inform me of the needs of the local medical and healthcare community,” said Butterfield. “I look forward to working closely with Duke University Hospital and the Health System, particularly as we consider how to best address the challenges ahead.”Earlier this month, Congressman Butterfield was appointed to serve on the influential House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health for the 113th Congress.The Health Subcommittee has jurisdiction over a wide range of issues that are important to Duke and the state. Among those include Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurance, public health, hospital construction, health information technology, privacy, cyber security, medical malpractice, and drug abuse.The Subcommittee also has oversight of the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Health and Human Services, the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease Control, Indian Health Service, and the Department of Homeland Security.The redrawn First Congressional District now encompasses 24 counties in eastern North Carolina, including parts of Durham and Franklin Counties.###
01.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today was appointed to serve on the powerful House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health during the 113thCongress, making him the eighth most influential Democrat on the subcommittee. The Health Subcommittee has jurisdiction over a wide range of issues that are important to North Carolina and the nation. Among those include Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurance, public health, hospital construction, health information technology, privacy, cyber security, medical malpractice, and drug abuse.The Subcommittee also has oversight of the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Health and Human Services, the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease Control, Indian Health Service, and the Department of Homeland Security.The Health Subcommittee positions Butterfield to play a leading role in protecting the Affordable Care Act that has already benefited nearly all Americans. Butterfield will also advocate for the robust network of hospitals spanning the First District. “I am so pleased to be appointed to Energy and Commerce’s Health Subcommittee,” said Butterfield. “My chief responsibility as a new member of the Health Subcommittee is to protect and defend the Affordable Care Act against Republicans’ flagrant efforts to dismantle it. I played a leading role in the development of this landmark law that has given millions of uninsured and underinsured Americans access to affordable healthcare. I hope to not only play an essential role in preserving the reforms to our healthcare system, but to also expand and improve health-related policies and regulations for all Americans.”Butterfield was also newly appointed to the Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee, and will continue to serve on the Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee. Butterfield has been a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee since 110thCongress. He now begins his fourth term on the powerful committee.###
01.11.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today expressed condolences to the family of Brooklyn T. McMillon, a dedicated and long-serving employee of North Carolina Central University (NCCU). A two-time alumnus of NCCU, McMillon served the university for more than 60 years as an instructor, director, registrar, historian, and as chair of health education. Butterfield released the following statement regarding McMillon’s death:“I am saddened to learn of the passing of Mr. Brooklyn McMillon. I fondly remember him as the University Registrar when I was a student at North Carolina Central University. Mr. McMillon was a giant who dedicated his life to enriching the University and the Durham community. Even after his retirement, McMillon volunteered at NCCU as an archivist, ensuring the preservation of the school’s rich history. The NCCU community has lost a real treasure. I offer my deepest sympathies to his family during their time of grief.” ###
01.11.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today expressed condolences to the family of Brooklyn T. McMillon, a dedicated and long-serving employee of North Carolina Central University (NCCU). A two-time alumnus of NCCU, McMillon served the university for more than 60 years as an instructor, director, registrar, historian, and as chair of health education. Butterfield released the following statement regarding McMillon’s death:“I am saddened to learn of the passing of Mr. Brooklyn McMillon. I fondly remember him as the University Registrar when I was a student at North Carolina Central University. Mr. McMillon was a giant who dedicated his life to enriching the University and the Durham community. Even after his retirement, McMillon volunteered at NCCU as an archivist, ensuring the preservation of the school’s rich history. The NCCU community has lost a real treasure. I offer my deepest sympathies to his family during their time of grief.” ###
01.09.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – The Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced the launch of their new website, complete with new user-friendly tools to track Congressman Butterfield’s activities and communicate with his staff. “This new website is a vast improvement over the previous one,” said Butterfield. “The site is visually appealing and makes it easier for residents of the First District to stay up-to-date with the work I am doing both in the district and in Washington.”The redesigned website also includes an emphasis on social media platforms such as Twitter and Facebook, streamlines constituents’ ability to make scheduling and flag requests, and a new mapping feature that highlights Butterfield’s public visits throughout the district. Butterfield explained that excellent customer service is a top priority.“I am committed to removing every possible barrier that would make it difficult for my constituents to access the services provided by my office. It’s the people’s office. It belongs to them.”Last week, Congressman Butterfield was sworn into his sixth term as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives. Butterfield serves as Chief Deputy Whip to the House Democratic Caucus and Vice Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus. To check out the new website visit, https:/www.Butterfield.House.Gov/ ###
01.08.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the selection of Dr. Bobbie Richardson to replace Angela Bryant as representative of the 7thdistrict in the North Carolina House of Representatives:“Dr. Bobbie Richardson is an excellent choice to fill the state House seat representing Franklin and Nash counties. Over the years, Dr. Richardson has displayed extraordinary leadership in the field of education, and is a tireless fighter for the needs of children in our state. While the circumstances surrounding the appointment of both Bobbie and state Senator Angela Bryant are unfortunate, I have no doubt that Richardson will be exceptional in her new role.”North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory appointed then-state Representative Angela Bryant to fill the seat of state Senator Edward Jones, who died in December after a courageous fight with pancreatic cancer. Richardson was selected to serve in the seat vacated by Bryant’s appointment.###
01.03.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today took the oath of office to officially begin his sixth term as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives, serving North Carolina’s First Congressional District. Butterfield said, “I am so pleased to have another opportunity to serve my fellow North Carolinians. I have never lost sight of what it means to be a Congressional representative. For eight years, the people of eastern North Carolina have trusted me to be their advocate in Washington. And for eight years I have done just that--remaining laser-focused on job creation, affordable healthcare, and economic development. I look forward to advancing the expanding needs and interests of communities throughout the First District in the 113th Congress.”In November, Butterfield was unanimously selected by his colleagues to serve as Vice Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus. Today, he was reappointed Chief Deputy Whip of the Democratic Caucus, serving as an integral part of the Democratic leadership team. Butterfield is also expected to continue serving as a member of the powerful House Committee on Energy and Commerce where he previously served as Ranking Member of the Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade Subcommittee. In addition to the start of a new Congress, Butterfield also represents a new constituency. The redrawn First District now encompasses 24 counties in eastern North Carolina, including parts of Durham and Franklin Counties.“I welcome the City of Durham, Durham County, and Franklin County to the First Congressional District. The addition of these two counties will strengthen the First District and add to the culture and values of eastern North Carolina.”Butterfield was raised in Wilson, North Carolina and is the only child of G. K. Butterfield, Sr., a dentist and Addie Butterfield, a school teacher. A graduate of North Carolina Central University (NCCU) and NCCU School of Law, Congressman Butterfield enjoyed a distinguished 30-year legal career as a civil rights attorney, a state Superior Court Judge and as a North Carolina Supreme Court Justice before being elected to Congress in 2004. Butterfield has three adult daughters. https:/Butterfield.House.Gov###
12.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the passing of Commissioner Jasper “J.D.” Evans:“I join with so many others in grieving the loss of an exceptional educator, public servant, and friend. Commissioner J.D. Evans’ dedication to education and the people of Wayne County inspired all who serve. Not only was he devoted to his community, but also to his family and church. I am truly saddened by his passing. My thoughts and prayers will be with his wife and the entire Evans family during this difficult time.”###
12.14.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement regarding the passing of North Carolina State Senator Ed Jones: “Today North Carolina mourns the loss of Senator Ed Jones, a remarkable public servant and friend. As a tireless advocate for rural communities, his service touched us all. Senator Jones was a gentle soul devoted to his family, church, and community. I am deeply saddened by his passing and my sympathies are with his wife Mary Ann and the entire Jones family.”###
12.13.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement regarding U.N. Ambassador Susan Rice withdrawal as a candidate for Secretary of State:“I am extremely disappointed to learn U.N. Ambassador Susan Rice has withdrawn as a candidate for Secretary of State. Ambassador Rice has served our country without flaw within the global community. As a seasoned diplomat and Oxford-educated Rhodes Scholar, Ambassador Rice has effectively worked to build meaningful relationships with foreign nations. She has successfully advanced America’s interest internationally and worked to secure the human rights of all people. I am confident that Ambassador Rice would have done equally as well, if not better, as Secretary of State. It is regretful that she has withdrawn her candidacy for Secretary of State.“Equally disappointing is the speed in which Republicans politicized the Benghazi attack, which sadly resulted in the deaths of four Americans including a U.S. Ambassador to Libya. It is shameful that Republicans would play politics by unfairly slandering Rice following such a tragedy. Instead, we should evaluate and improve our security measures at our embassies and consulates around the world to prevent the likelihood of future tragedies.”
12.11.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) joined more than 40 colleagues on Friday to send letters to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) urging the protection of critical federal programs that address ethnic and racial health disparities. Such programs as the Area Health Education Centers and the Health Careers Opportunity Program remain vital to minority and underserved communities, but face significant budget cuts regardless of whether sequestration occurs.In a letter to the CDC the Representatives wrote, “As Members of Congress, it is our responsibility to ensure our constituents have access to and receive the best possible medical care, prevention, and treatment available. We strongly support the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's mission of collaborating to create the expertise, information, and tools that people and communities need to protect their health. Unfortunately, fiscal concerns require the CDC to make difficult choices. We encourage you to continue the CDC’s investment in programs to address the public health challenges facing our under-represented and under-served populations.”The full text of both letters follows.Mr. Jeffrey ZientsActing DirectorDeputy Director for Management and Chief Performance OfficerOffice of Management and Budget Dear Acting Director Zients:We appreciate your July 10, 2012 op-ed in Politico which forcefully points out that sequestration as called for in the Budget Control Act of 2011 would be “devastating” for “domestic investments.” We could not agree more, and like you, we remain hopeful that sequestration will be avoided. However, regardless of whether sequestration takes place or whether a budget agreement is struck after the election, there will be immense pressure on Congress and the Administration over the coming months to reduce spending, especially discretionary spending.As you make budgetary decisions for the remainder of the Fiscal Year and plan for the President’s budget for Fiscal Year 2014, we strongly urge you to consider the impact of discretionary spending cuts on the many critical programs that address ethnic and racial health disparities. As you surely know, the cost and impact of health disparities is already severe, even before any additional funding cuts are made. There are credible estimates that health disparities cost the country as much as $300 billion a year and there are many Americans who suffer unnecessarily because they do not have access to the care they need. For example, even though African-Americans make-up only 13.6% of the U.S. population, they account for 43% of all AIDS infections, according to the Office of Minority Health (OMH). In addition, according to OMH, African-Americans over 65 are 30% less likely to have received a flu shot in the past 12 months or to have ever received a pneumonia shot and African-American mothers are 2.3 times more likely to begin prenatal care in the third trimester, or not receive prenatal care at all. Those extremely alarming figures illustrate that much more needs to be done to address ethnic and racial health disparities, even with the passage of the Affordable Care Act. At a minimum, we strongly believe that the United States must continue to invest in the programs that are critical to addressing health disparities in our communities and across the country, including:Minority Health: The Office of Minority Health (OMH) and the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NIMHD) have been absolutely critical to identifying racial and ethnic health disparities and creating and implementing programs to address those disparities. Without OMH and NIMHD we likely would not know how serious the problem is, but with a robust and fully funded OMH and NIMHD, we can identify problems and develop cost-effective solutions.Health Careers Opportunity Program (HCOP): We were disappointed that the Fiscal Year 2013 budget zeroed out HCOP funding and we strongly urge the administration to reconsider that decision. HCOP has been instrumental in helping individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds become health professionals and we know that those health professionals often use their education to help those with similar backgrounds. With more and more Americans from racial and ethnic minorities obtaining health insurance – thanks to the Affordable Care Act – programs like HCOP will make it possible for them to visit health professionals who are available and able to care for them.Area Health Education Centers (AHEC): Congress created the AHEC program in 1971 to recruit, train and retain health professionals committed to taking care of underserved populations. In Georgia, for example, Morehouse School of Medicine has been leading an AHEC program since 1984 with significant results in terms of increasing diversity and improving distribution, retention and the quality of health care professionals in underserved areas. Like HCOP, supporting the AHEC program will help the millions of Americans who will be able to obtain health insurance through the Affordable Care Act.Prevention Research Centers (PRCs): The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) supports 37 PRC’s associated with schools of public health or medicine to conduct applied public health research. That research leads to innovative ways to address profound health care challenges, especially those challenges that confront racial and ethnic minorities. PRCs continue to be a necessary component of our efforts to address health disparities and robust funding makes it possible for PRCs to carry out their mission.Historically Black Academic Medical Centers: Historically Black Academic Medical Centers, including Morehouse School of Medicine, Meharry Medical College, and Howard University College of Medicine have long served as institutions increasing the pipeline of diverse health professionals providing culturally competent care to patients across the United States. Without these institutions, the disparities in health care and health status among racial and ethnic minorities would increase significantly.As you know perhaps better than anyone, we have many difficult decisions to make about the federal budget. But in making those decisions, we cannot lose sight of the fundamental role the government must play in helping the most vulnerable. The programs mentioned above and others are critical to addressing racial and ethnic health disparities. By investing in these programs and addressing disparities today, we can improve health outcomes and save money tomorrow. Sincerely,Representatives Johnson (GA), Christensen, Lee, Grijalva, Butterfield, Norton, Hahn, Rangel, Davis, Clarke (MI), Moore, Conyers, Hinojosa, Towns, Lofgren, Johnson (TX), Loretta Sanchez, Chu, Cohen, Rush, Bordallo, Lewis (GA), Tonko, Brown (FL), Waters, Sewell, Napolitano, Honda, Lynch, Wilson (FL), Slaughter, Fattah, Schakowsky, Bass, Bishop, Clarke (NY), Costa, Cummings, Holt, Cleaver, Roybal-Allard, Brady, Nadler, Fudge, Clay, Sires, Eshoo, Linda Sanchez, and Hanabusa. ---Thomas R. Frieden, MD, MPHDirectorU.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention1600 Clifton RoadAtlanta, GA 30333 Dear Dr. Frieden:As Members of Congress, it is our responsibility to ensure our constituents have access to and receive the best possible medical care, prevention, and treatment available. We strongly support the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) mission of collaborating to create the expertise, information, and tools that people and communities need to protect their health. Unfortunately, fiscal concerns require the CDC to make difficult choices. We encourage you to continue the CDC’s investment in programs to address the public health challenges facing our under-represented and under-served populations.As the Director of the CDC, you are well aware that racial and ethnic minorities are disproportionately affected by many social determinants of health that need immediate care and attention. Minority populations face grave disparities in health care and health status, including cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and HIV/AIDS. African Americans represent only 13.6% of the U.S. population; however, according to the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), they accounted for almost half of HIV infection cases. Additionally, while Latinos accounted for 20% of new HIV infections, they represent 16% of total US population, according to CDC statistics. The CDC also states that cardiovascular disease - primarily heart disease and stroke - causes more deaths in Americans of both sexes that comprise these racial and ethnic groups. When compounded with the approximately 83,000 racial and ethnic minorities dying each year as well as the cost of health disparities in the U.S., which equates to $300 billion per year, we cannot afford to leave this critical issue unattended. The CDC currently supports many initiatives that aim to address these health care concerns, including the Prevention Research Centers and the Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health (REACH) programs. We are aware that these programs have seen a decrease in funding and that there are efforts to terminate these and other programs that aim to improve the health and longevity of our disenfranchised citizens. Many of these programs focus specifically on education and prevention, which ultimately is one of the first lines of defense in the fight to eliminate disparities. By reducing funding to these programs, the CDC undermines years of investment in supporting these targeted population. It is, therefore imperative that the CDC continue to support these and other similar initiatives, so that we can continue to appropriately and effectively address racial and ethnic health disparities.Please let us know of a convenient time when we can discuss this matter in further detail.Sincerely,Representatives Johnson (GA), Christensen, Lee, Grijalva, Butterfield, Norton, Hahn, Rangel, Davis, Clarke (MI), Moore, Conyers, Hinojosa, Towns, Lofgren, Johnson (TX), Loretta Sanchez, Chu, Cohen, Rush, Bordallo, Lewis (GA), Tonko, Brown (FL), Waters, Sewell, Napolitano, Honda, Lynch, Wilson (FL), Slaughter, Fattah, Schakowsky, Bass, Bishop, Clarke (NY), Costa, Cummings, Holt, Cleaver, Roybal-Allard, Brady, Nadler, Fudge, Clay, Sires, Eshoo, Linda Sanchez, and Hanabusa. https:/Butterfield.House.Gov###
12.10.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded an announcement from the U.S. Department of Health Human Services that savings generated by the Affordable Care Act reached $5.1 billion. In North Carolina, Medicare beneficiaries have saved $149 million because of expanded Medicare prescription drug coverage gap known as the “donut hole.” Between January and October alone, 80,000 North Carolinians saved an average $640 on prescription drugs costs. During the same period, about 905,000 people with original Medicare in North Carolina received one or more preventive services at no cost to them, with 109,000 having received an Annual Wellness Visit.“The Affordable Care Act is saving people money and strengthening the solvency of Medicare,” said Butterfield. “We passed this law to lower the cost of Medicare and to provide affordable and comprehensive care to all Americans. I am pleased to learn that the Affordable Care Act is doing just that.”For 2013, the health care law is projected to provide Medicare beneficiaries in the donut hole with greater savings, as discounts rise to 53 percent of the cost of brand name drugs and 21 percent of the cost of generic drugs. Savings on Medicare-covered prescription drugs will gradually increase until 2020, when the donut hole is expected to close. https:/Butterfield.House.Gov###
12.05.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Late yesterday, President Obama signed into law H.R. 6131, a bill to reauthorize the U.S. Safe Web Act of 2006. Introduced by Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee Chairman Mary Bono Mack (R-CA) and Ranking Member G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), H.R. 6131 extends the Safe Web Act, a key consumer protection law, until 2020. “I am a strong supporter of granting the FTC the powers it needs to effectively protect consumers against fraud, whether originating here or abroad; so I joined Congresswoman Bono Mack in pushing the 7-year extension in this bill,” said Congressman Butterfield. The reauthorization of the SAFE WEB Act gives the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) expanded authority to combat cross-border fraud, spyware and spam attacks. It also helps to protect against phony internet rip-offs and telemarketing scams.“This is great news for every American who owns a credit card, shops online, or is online period,” Butterfield said. “The enhanced authority, given by the passage of the original SAFE WEB Act during the 109th Congress, has empowered the FTC to better protect e-commerce and consumers from fraud through cross-border information sharing and coalition building with our foreign partners. I am pleased the President signed our bill.”The House approved H.R. 6131 in September. The Senate passed the measure last month.###
11.30.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced the Kinston Community Health Center’s receipt of a $756,983 grant by the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS). The grant will assist the health center in providing primary, preventative, and dental care to target populations, which include uninsured, underinsured, low-income adults, children and families, migrant and seasonal agricultural workers, minority populations, and people who are geographically or socially isolated. Congressman Butterfield expressed joy at the news.“The Kinston Community Health Center, and others like it, provides an invaluable service to those who traditionally have trouble affording medical care,” said Butterfield. “These funds will go a long way to serve the underserved with the medical attention they need for themselves and their families. I congratulate the Kinston Community Health Center on this award and their continued commitment to our most vulnerable residents.”The service area for the Kinston Community Health Center includes Lenoir, Craven, Duplin, Greene, Jones, Onslow, Pitt, and Wayne Counties.###
11.14.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Earlier today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) was unanimously elected by his colleagues as First Vice Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC). As First Vice Chair, Butterfield will hold the number two position in the Caucus for the duration of the 113th Congress, which begins in January. Butterfield is presently Second Vice Chair of the CBC and has faithfully served the organization since 2004.“I thank my colleagues for electing me as First Vice Chair of the CBC, a position I do not take lightly” said Butterfield. “By playing a more integral role in the leadership of the CBC, I hope to expand our work on the issues that affect our constituencies and disproportionately affect people of color. I thank Representatives Emmanuel Cleaver and Donna Christensen for their invaluable leadership during the current term, and hope they will remain a valuable resource to the CBC in the next Congress.”Founded with only a handful of members in 1971, today the CBC boasts a membership of 42 and has grown into one of the most influential caucuses in the U.S. Congress.Today, the members of the CBC also unanimously elected Representatives Marcia Fudge (OH-11) as Chair, Yvette Clarke (NY-11) as Second Vice Chair, Andre Carson (IN-07) as Secretary, and Karen Bass (CA-33) as Whip.###
11.13.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the AT&T’s announcement of its new broadband investments in North Carolina:“The Digital Divide is a major issue impacting millions of Americans in rural areas like those I represent in eastern North Carolina. It is clear that access to high speed internet and superior voice services are absolutely critical to the strength and vitality of our great country. “From a very young age, children are expected to have demonstrable computer skills – including using the Internet – while attending elementary school. Access to the Internet has become all but a requirement for academic advancement. Access to powerful, high speed broadband is also a critical component of returning America to prosperity. Broadband empowers American businesses to build successful companies and create good paying jobs.“That is why I am pleased that AT&T – a telecommunications company that has a tremendous footprint in my home state of North Carolina – has committed to invest $14 billion in broadband deployment. AT&T’s commitment to help bridge the Digital Divide deserves praise and commendation. I look forward to their expanded presence in North Carolina and across the country.”###
10.23.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the Obama Administration and the U.S. Department of Treasury in announcing the approval of the second round of State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI) funding for North Carolina. The SSBCI funds are expected to help create new jobs and spur $461 million in additional small business lending in the state. “Today’s announcement is the delivery of a promise Democrats made to help restore the economy by investing in job creation,” said Butterfield. “In addition to passing tax cuts for small businesses and championing the Recovery Act, these funds, as authorized in the Small Business Jobs Act, will help eligible small businesses gain the capital they need to grow and thrive. I applaud the Treasury Department and the Obama Administration for their commitment.”Overall, the SSBCI program supports small business lending programs in 56 states, territories, and the District of Columbia. It is an essential component of the Small Business Jobs Act that President Obama signed into law in 2010.Under the Small Business Jobs Act, North Carolina can access a total of $46.1 million in SSBCI funds, which North Carolina expects will generate $461 million in additional private lending. SSBCI funds are made available to the state in three equal rounds of funding, and as such, the second tranche is $15.2 million. During the first round of funding, North Carolina’s program supported 203 loans or investments to small businesses totaling $71.7 million, equal to private financial leverage of $6 for every $1 in federal contribution to date. Each individual loan or investment averaged $353,262.66.Under the SSBCI, all states were offered the opportunity to apply for federal funds for state-run programs that partner with private lenders to increase the amount of credit available to small businesses. The Small Business Jobs Act permits the Secretary of the Treasury to grant special permission for municipalities to apply for a State’s SSBCI allocation if such state did not submit a notice of intent to apply for participation in the SSBCI by November 26, 2010. SSBCI participants must demonstrate a reasonable expectation that a minimum of $10 in new private lending will result from every $1 in federal funding. Accordingly, the $1.5 billion federal funding commitment for this program overall is expected to result in at least $15 billion in additional private lending nationwide.For more information about the SSBCI, please visit link. ###
09.28.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Mary Bono Mack (CA-45), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, and Ranking Member G. K. Butterfield (NC-1), who worked closely together to hold two nationally-televised Congressional hearings on the growing danger of prescription drug abuse, have joined forces once again to raise awareness about the Drug Enforcement Administration’s (DEA) National Prescription Drug Take-Back Day, which will be held on Saturday (Sept. 29) from 10 am to 2 pm.Bono Mack and Butterfield have teamed up in recent months on several important bipartisan initiatives, and they say the DEA’s Take-Back Day is the perfect opportunity for Americans to safely dispose of unwanted or unused prescription drugs.During the DEA’s last National Take-Back Day held in April, Americans turned in a record-breaking 552,161 pounds (276 tons) of unwanted or expired medications for safe, proper disposal at 5,659 sites across the United States. All totaled, the DEA and its state, local, and tribal law-enforcement and community partners have removed over 1.5 million pounds (774 tons) of medication from circulation during its previous four National Take-Back Days. For more information on where to find a collection site, click here.Today, prescription drug abuse is the fastest growing drug problem in America, claiming more than 20,000 lives a year, and is considered a public health epidemic by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). “It’s critically important to dispose of unwanted or expired medicines,” Congresswoman Bono Mack said. “Often there is a false sense of security: ‘If it’s approved by the FDA and prescribed by a doctor then it must be okay.’ But, tragically, that’s not always the case. Too many pills taken at once, or combining them with other drugs, and alcohol, can have serious and even deadly consequences. We must keep these potentially dangerous drugs out of the hands of our kids. I commend the DEA for taking this issue seriously, and thank my good friend and colleague, Congressman Butterfield, for his commitment to ending this terrible epidemic.”According to a recent national survey, some 7 million Americans age 12 or older regularly abuse prescription drugs, and there are approximately 7,000 new abusers every day – many of them teenagers and young adults. This alarming trend is taking a huge toll on society. One way to combat the problem is to safely dispose of unused and unwanted medicines.“Unfortunately, we are experiencing a trend where prescription drugs are easier for kids to get a hold of than illicit drugs,” said Butterfield. “Our youth most often find these drugs in their parents’ medicine cabinets. This program, which provides an opportunity to safely dispose of unused medicines, is vital to protecting our kids from the many hazards of prescription drug abuse. I applaud my colleague, Congresswoman Bono Mack, and the U.S. Department of Justice Drug Enforcement Administration for brining attention to this critically important issue.”Bono Mack and Butterfield say America is starting to see some progress in the fight against prescription drug abuse, but a lot more has to be done. By better coordinating the efforts of local, state and national agencies – and through initiatives like the DEA’s Drug Take-Back initiative – the two Congressional leaders are optimistic that “we can eventually save thousands of lives, and spare millions of American families from the devastating heartache of addiction.”https:/Butterfield.House.Gov###
09.26.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the awarding of a $1,897,500 grant to the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services (NCDHHS) from the Center of Disease Control (CDC) to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS in minority communities. The three year grant, funded by the Care and Prevention in the United States (CAPUS) program under the Secretary's Minority AIDS Initiative, will address the social, economic, clinical and cultural barriers to HIV testing and care in minority communities, which are disproportionately affected by HIV.“It is no secret that HIV/AIDS affects African Americans and Latinos in record numbers,” said Congressman Butterfield. “However, what may elude many is why. Minority communities have significant barriers to prevention, detection and treatment of HIV/AIDS due to long-held stigmas and social economic issues, such as poverty and homophobia. I applaud the CDC for continuing to tackle the roadblocks that prevent too many from accessing the testing and care they need.”African Americans and Latinos communities are infected with HIV at rates eight and three times higher than their white counterparts, respectively. Blacks and Latinos infected by the disease are less likely to be diagnosed, and if diagnosed, they are less likely to receive ongoing treatment. Studies have shown that early diagnosis and continued treatment of HIV/AIDS help to reduce the spread of the disease. North Carolina is one of eight states awarded funding due to a high burden of HIV among minority communities and increased prevalence of health disparities. The other grant recipients are Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Virginia, and Tennessee. These funds were issued to further the goal of achieving an AIDS-Free Generation.
09.21.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the U.S. Department of Transportation's announcement of $26.5 million in additional funding to the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) for high-speed passenger rail improvements on the Amtrak Carolinian Line between Rocky Mount, N.C. and Petersburg, V.A. Federal Rail Administrator Joseph C. Szabo joined state and local officials in Rocky Mount this morning to announce the funding. “I commend USDOT and NCDOT for their commitment to improving transportation in northeastern North Carolina,” Butterfield said. “Both Departments have been diligent in its efforts to bring high-speed rail to our state and move us into the modern era of transportation. Upgrading to high-speed rail across the state and country creates jobs and strengthens our economy.” The funds will be used to build new railroad track and ties, bridges, crossovers, and signals, and create more opportunities for freight and passenger trains to pass each other efficiently. The improvements will reduce delays and travel time, and improve safety for rail passengers, freight operators, and automobile traffic. Congressman Butterfield voted in support of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), which brought $545 million in 2010 to North Carolina for high-speed rail and is expected to create or maintain 4,800 private sector jobs. Butterfield also voted in support of President Obama’s request for high-speed rail funding, and helped NCDOT secure additional funding in 2011 for high-speed rail after several states declined ARRA funding.
09.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today congratulated Henderson, N.C. resident Ned Dibner for being selected as one of fifteen artists nationwide whose work will be featured in the Smithsonian Institution’s Sustaining/Creating exhibition. The annual exhibition showcases artwork by emerging artists, ages 16-25, with physical or learning disabilities. This year’s artists were asked to address the theme by creating pieces that exemplify innovative viewpoints on sustainability and creativity.“Mr. Dibner’s artistic abilities demonstrate the limitless talent of those who may have a learning or physical handicap,” said Congressman Butterfield. “I congratulate Ned on this significant achievement and his bright future as a talented artist.”A graduate of Elon University, Dibner was diagnosed with dyslexia in the fifth grade. His entry piece comprises of four wood box sculptures with text inside that are multi-layered both in their construction and symbolic meaning.The fifteen artists selected for the exhibition will share $60,000 in cash awards: a $20,000 grand prize, a $10,000 first award, a $6,000 second award, and 12 participants will receive $2,000 each.The exhibition will be held at the Smithsonian Institution’s S. Dillon Ripley Center in Washington, D.C., from September 2012 to January 2013. The exhibition may travel nationally to additional venues.
09.11.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today managed the unanimous passage of two bills in the U.S. House of Representatives, including H.R. 6131, the reauthorization of the US SAFE WEB Act, which he is an original cosponsor. Introduced by House Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade (CMT) Subcommittee Chairman Mary Bono Mack (CA-45), the reauthorization of the SAFE WEB Act extends until September 2020 the Federal Trade Commission’s (FTC) expanded and enhanced authorities to combat cross-border spyware and spam attacks against the United States. It also helps to protect against phony internet rip-offs and telemarketing scams. “The enhanced authority, given by the passage of the original SAFE WEB Act during the 109th Congress, has empowered the FTC to better protect American consumers through robust cross-border information sharing, investigative assistance, and coalition building with our foreign partners,” said Butterfield, Ranking Member of the CMT Subcommittee. “Because of this, each and every FTC commissioner, which includes commissioners of both political parties, have called for a permanent reauthorization. I am happy to see the House passage of this bill.” In addition to H.R. 6131, the House passed S. 710, the Hazardous Waste Electronic Manifest Establishment Act, which will establish a centralized, federal electronic manifest system for tracking the transport of hazardous waste for both the federal government and states. Butterfield supported both bills.
09.11.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement in recognition of the anniversary of September 11, 2001 (9/11): “Eleven years ago today, American life was transformed by the horrifying attacks on the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and in Pennsylvania. Those attacks that will remain in our minds forever took the lives of nearly 3,000 Americans. “The horrific aftermath of 9/11 bore a new America – a stronger America – where we witnessed a new level of steadfast and resolute pride. We were victimized by terrorists, but Americans are not victims. We demonstrated to the world that our way of life will not be dictated by anyone, and our love and pursuit of freedom will always trump evil. “But we will never forget. Today we honor and mourn the innocent men, women, and children whose lives were lost that day. We are forever indebted to the brave and heroic first responders who ran into burning and mangled buildings to save as many lives as they could without regard to their own safety. These selfless men and women are nothing short of heroes. “Those who seek to inflict terror on our country must know that they do so at their own peril. Although their intent was to cripple the American way of life, the terrorists succeed only in unifying Americans and demonstrating our mighty strength on the world stage.”
09.07.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) applauded Jamesville Middle School in Jamesville, North Carolina for being honored as a 2012 National Blue Ribbon School by the U.S. Department of Education. Jamesville Middle School serves approximately 115 students in grades six through eight and scored 93 percent on state assessments, ranking the institution in the top 5 of all North Carolina schools. Since 1982, the Department of Education has recognized elementary, middle, and high schools whose students excel academically or show significant academic improvement on state assessments with the National Blue Ribbon School designation. This year, Jamesville Middle School is being recognized along with 268 other schools nationwide. “I commend the students, faculty, and parents of Jamesville Middle School for their commitment to academic excellence,” Butterfield said. “Quality middle school education is critical to provide students with a solid foundation for success in high school and beyond. The National Blue Ribbon School designation is a tribute to Jamesville community’s hard work to prepare children for the future.” Principal Dennis Hart and other school representatives have been invited to a recognition ceremony in Washington, D.C. on November 13th and 14th hosted by Education Secretary Arne Duncan. Jamesville Middle School will be awarded a flag and a National Blue Ribbon Schools plaque to commemorate the school’s academic achievements.
08.24.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today sent a letter to North Carolina Department of Transportation Secretary Gene Conti urging reallocation of unspent transportation funds to the cities of Goldsboro and Havelock for transportation projects that can strengthen the economy and create jobs.In his letter, Butterfield wrote, “It is my understanding that North Carolina has $703,634 in unspent transportation funds that are eligible to be redirected toward other projects. I urge you to consider reallocating those funds to the city of Goldsboro for the ongoing Center Street Streetscape and Union Station projects, and to the city of Havelock to expedite a flyover near Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point.”The full letter follows.August 24, 2012The Honorable Gene ContiSecretaryNorth Carolina Department of Transportation1501 Mail Service CenterRaleigh, North Carolina 27699-1501Dear Secretary Conti:I write in support of President Obama’s efforts to redirect $473 million in unspent highway funds to waiting transportation projects that can strengthen the economy and create jobs. Last week, the President announced the Administration would reallocate unspent highway funds from past appropriations bills. It is my understanding that North Carolina has $703,634 in unspent transportation funds that are eligible to be redirected toward other projects. I urge you to consider reallocating those funds to the City of Goldsboro for the ongoing Center Street Streetscape and Union Station projects, and to the city of Havelock to expedite a flyover near Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) Cherry Point.Since 2006, Goldsboro has promoted a bold plan to improve safety, strengthen infrastructure, and promote commerce, while also preserving critical historic and cultural landmarks. In March, I supported Goldsboro’s request for an $11.2 million federal grant to make functional an aesthetic design improvement to the Center Street Streetscape project, and much needed upgrades to transform Goldsboro Union Station to a multimodal transit hub. Goldsboro has already invested approximately $2.5 million in the project to completely renovate downtown, expand public transportation capacity to interconnect an entire rural region, and restore historic infrastructure. A recent economic study indicates that the projects would also create or retain 691 jobs in an area facing 8.7 percent unemployment. Investing in Goldsboro will serve as a boost to the entire eastern North Carolina region during tough economic challenges.In Havelock, the intersection of U.S. Highway 70 and Slocom Road poses a serious safety hazard due to heavy traffic flow from the back gate of MCAS Cherry Point and tourist traffic from the Crystal Coast. Havelock has proposed building a flyover to provide dedicated access to the base, and MCAS has already funded a required feasibility study. The critical infrastructure improvements sought by the city of Havelock will help the local economy by revamping the flow of people and commerce and will also improve military readiness and disaster preparedness. Because of the economic advantages these projects will bring to the region, I ask for your full consideration in reallocating the unspent transportation funds to these vital projects. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Dennis Sills on my staff at 202.225.3101. Thank you very much. Very truly yours, G. K. Butterfield Member of Congress
08.22.2012	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Tom Vilsack’s announcement of a $99 million loan guarantee to Chemtex International, Inc. for the construction of a cellulosic ethanol refinery in Sampson County, North Carolina. The facility will be the first commercial-scale biorefinery in the United States and will produce an estimated 20 million gallons per year of cellulosic ethanol. “Today’s announcement is great news for eastern North Carolina and the nation as a whole,” Butterfield said. “A new refinery will not only help reduce our dependence on foreign oil, but will also create more than 300 jobs right here in the state’s eastern region. This is also particularly exciting news for farmers in Wayne County due to the economic certainty it will yield.”In June, the USDA awarded an additional $3.9 million to Chemtex under its Biomass Crop Assistance Program (BCAP) for the purpose of assisting farmers in establishing more than 4,000 acres of miscanthus and switchgrass. As a result, farmers in 11 North Carolina counties will have the opportunity to receive reimbursements of up to three-quarters of the establishment costs and five years of maintenance payments while participating in the program. These crops will add to the supply of biomass that will be needed for the new biorefinery in Sampson County. Chemtex has been working with the Biofuels Center of North Carolina to identify nearby farmland to supply cost effective biomass for the biorefinery, including land currently being used by swine producers in Wayne County. The Chemtex facility will give swine producers and small farmers economic opportunities that were not available before today’s announcement. Butterfield has long supported the expansion of the biofuel industry and opportunities for farmers. Last year, Butterfield co-authored a letter with his congressional colleagues to Secretary Vilsack in support of Chemtex’s application for a loan guarantee. Earlier this year, Butterfield hosted Secretary Vilsack on a visit to the Biofuels Center of North Carolina in Oxford where he again offered his support of the loan guarantee. Funding for Chemtex’s loan guarantee and BCAP award were authorized in the 2008 Farm Bill.
08.13.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will travel throughout North Carolina’s First Congressional District to participate in a groundbreaking, highlight healthcare initiatives, and encourage educational achievement within the region.On Tuesday, Butterfield will attend a groundbreaking ceremony for the new facility of Ahoskie Fire Department. The site’s construction was funded in part by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). The Congressman will later travel to Jackson to celebrate the expansion of the Nurse-Family Partnership into four northeastern counties. The Partnership will provide first-time, income-restricted parents with skills and resources to improve child developmental health, well-being, and self-sufficiency.On Wednesday, Butterfield will join local seniors at a roundtable discussion on the Affordable Care Act, Medicaid, and prescription drug coverage. Butterfield will use the latter portion of the day to take part in a virtual tour of the new solar panel project at Warren County High School.The Congressman’s week concludes with an open house celebration of a newly erected residential complex on the campus of Chowan University.Butterfield’s full public schedule follows.--WHAT: Butterfield to Focus Week in District on Economic Development, Healthcare, and EducationWHEN & WHERE:Tuesday, August 149:30 a.m. – 10:30 a.m.: Ahoskie Fire Department Groundbreaking Ceremony 301 Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive (formerly Rhue Street) Ahoskie, NC 27910 11:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m.: Nurse-Family Partnership Launch Northampton County Recreation Department & Cultural and Wellness Center 9536 NC 305 Highway Jackson, NC 27845 Wednesday, August 15 11:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.: Healthcare Conversation with Seniors 436 West Franklin Street Warrenton, NC 27589 12:30 p.m. – 1:30 p.m.: Warren County High School Solar Project Virtual Tour Warren County High School 149 Campus Drive Warrenton, NC 27589 Thursday, August 164:30 p.m. – 5:00 p.m.: Chowan University Residential Complex Open House 1 University Place Murfreesboro, NC 27855
08.06.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will make several stops in North Carolina’s First Congressional District this week to highlight the work of community healthcare facilities, present grants to deserving organizations, and discuss employment relations with factory workers.On Tuesday, Butterfield will visit Elizabeth City State University to meet with university officials and present a $128,000 grant awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to fund a cellular research study. Later in the day, Butterfield will speak with factory workers at the Coastal Beverage Company during a town hall on employment and the economy.On Wednesday, the Congressman will present a grant to the National Endowment of the Arts to complete construction of the African-American Music Trail currently underway. The day also includes visits to the Greene County Health Centers and the Carolina Family Health Center to commemorate 40 years of providing primary care to underserved populations in the region.The Congressman’s tour will conclude with a grants workshop hosted by the Office of G. K. Butterfield. Targeted to small business owners and non-profit organizations, the workshop offers access to grants experts and customized break-out sessions to address specific needs.The Congressman’s full public schedule follows.--WHAT: Butterfield to Promote Healthcare, Employment, and the Arts in the District WHEN & WHERE:Tuesday, August 711:45 a.m. – 1:15 p.m.: Grant Ceremony for Leydig Cell Redox Study Elizabeth City State University 1704 Weeksville Road Elizabeth City, NC 279091:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m.: Coastal Beverage Company Jobs Town Hall 888 Forest Park Road Elizabeth City, NC 27909Wednesday, August 8 9:00 a.m. – 9:30 a.m.: National Endowment of the Arts Award to African-American Music Trail Kinston City Hall 207 E. King Street Kinston, NC 2850112:00 p.m. – 1:00 p.m.: Community Health Centers 40th Anniversary Greene County Health Center 7 Professional Drive Greene County, NC 285803:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m.: Community Health Centers 40th Anniversary Carolina Family Health Center 303 East Green Street Wilson, NC 27893Thursday, August 98:15 a.m. – 1:30 p.m.: Office of G. K. Butterfield Grants Workshop East Carolina Heart Institute East Carolina University 115 Heart Drive Greenville, NC 27834
08.02.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) and Congressman G.K. Butterfield (NC-1), who serve as Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, have introduced legislation exempting U.S. Olympic medalists from paying income taxes on honorariums they receive for winning gold, bronze or silver medals. These honorariums range from $10,000 to $25,000. The Bono Mack-Butterfield legislation would amend the Internal Revenue Code and eliminate all taxes on Olympic medals and prize money won by U.S. athletes.“Taxing the Olympic medals of U.S. athletes is like Scrooge putting a tax on Christmas presents,” Bono Mack and Butterfield said in a joint statement. “It’s just wrong. Our athletes work and sacrifice for years to reach the pinnacle of their sports and to proudly represent the United States of America in the Olympic games. Only the U.S. tax code can turn the ‘thrill of victory’ into the agony of victory. We strongly urge our colleagues in Congress to join us in this effort to salute our U.S. Olympians. When they’re standing on the podium, they should be savoring the moment – not calculating their taxes. This is just one small way to say thank you to our Olympic medalists for their efforts and achievements.” The Bono Mack-Butterfield legislation stipulates that the gross income of Olympic athletes “shall not include the value of any prize or award won by the taxpayer in athletic competition in the Olympic Games.” This would apply to prizes and awards received after December 31, 2011.
07.30.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the 47th anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid:“Today we proudly celebrate the anniversary of Medicare, Medicaid, and the security these two programs have ensured for millions of American families. Forty seven years ago, this nation pursued a bold mission to provide the most vulnerable people in our communities with an affordable path to health insurance that would help extend their lives and promote economic prosperity. Before Medicare was enacted, more than half of all seniors did not have health insurance coverage. Given the price of medical care, and the many health related issues people encounter as they age, this road would have ended disastrously. The creation of Medicare and Medicaid has shielded generations from catastrophic medical bills and provided security for vulnerable and disadvantaged citizens when they become sick.“As we reflect on the success of Medicare and Medicaid, we are constantly reminded that there are forces threatening to cripple these critical programs that sustain so many Americans. This year, the House Republicans approved a Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2013 that calls for significant reductions to Medicaid funding and place at risk access to healthcare for 47 million Medicare beneficiaries. In North Carolina’s First Congressional District alone, 14,000 children rely on Medicaid and 121,000 seniors are eligible for Medicare. The so-called ‘Ryan Budget’ is an unacceptable proposal that would undermine the future of Medicare and Medicaid while drastically burdening seniors and low-income families with higher healthcare costs. Ryan’s budget proposal would place families’ health at the mercy of health insurance companies that are focused on profits and not individuals’ health. I challenge my colleagues to work together to strengthen Medicare and Medicaid so millions of American households continue to have access to lifesaving healthcare.”
07.26.2012	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, today issued the following statement on the administrative complaint filed by Consumer Product Safety Commission against Maxfield and Oberton, the manufacturer of Buckyballs:“I support the strong and rare action taken yesterday by the Consumer Product Safety Commission against the manufacturer of Buckyballs to stop sale of this dangerous product. I also want to commend the pediatric gastroenterologists that have been working tirelessly to draw attention to this emerging hazard. From 2010 to 2011, safety hazard incidents involving high-powered ball bearing magnets like those that make up Buckyballs have doubled. Since 2009, there have been 11 reported cases of children and young teens requiring surgery to remove these magnets from their stomachs or intestines. Swallowing more than one of these magnets can cause intestinal obstructions, tears in the stomach and intestines, blood poisoning, and even death. On Wednesday, the CPSC reaffirmed its mission of ensuring that products that cause serious and life threatening injuries to children won’t be tolerated.”
07.26.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will be joined by U.S. Department of Agriculture Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) Chief Dave White tomorrow to announce $1 million in available funding through an Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) pilot project. Funding for the Irrigation and Conservation Efficiency Pilot Project, which is administered by NRCS, is available to farmers through an application process, with priority given to limited resource and socially disadvantaged applicants.“Too many farmers in North Carolina’s First Congressional District have a particularly tough time growing their crop due to drought and irrigation system failures,” said Congressman Butterfield. “We saw a need amongst farmers and worked with NRCS to make this money available to disadvantaged producers. These funds will give farmers a seat at the table by helping them to make necessary improvements in their operations.”NRCS identified 23 counties in the Northern Coastal Plain region to be part of the pilot project which focuses Farm Bill assistance to address water quality and quantity, and other conservation needs on agricultural lands.The 23 counties eligible to participate in the special project are Granville, Vance, Warren, Halifax, Northampton, Hertford, Gates, Pasquotank, Perquimans, Chowan, Bertie, Washington, Martin, Edgecombe, Nash, Wilson, Pitt, Beaufort, Craven, Jones, Greene, Lenoir and Wayne. To be eligible, applicants must be actively engaged in farming and control the land enrolled in EQIP. Cropland needing conservation measures associated with irrigation must be shown to have the history of being irrigated by some means during at least two of the last five years. Approved applicants will receive conservation plans explaining how to implement conservation practices. EQIP provides conservation practice payments at pre-determined levels, based on typical cost. For more information on NRCS, EQIP, this special project or planning conservation practices on your land, please visit your nearest NRCS field office. Local contact information is available at www.nc.nrcs.usda.gov. The application process is open.WHO: Congressman G. K. Butterfield and USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service Chief Dave WhiteWHAT: A special announcement regarding a $1 million special Farm Bill project for 23 counties in North CarolinaWHEN: Friday, July 27 at 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m.WHERE: Williamston Telecenter, 415 East Boulevard, Williamston, NC 27892
07.19.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for awarding East Carolina University (ECU) with a Nurse Anesthesia Traineeship grant in the amount of $12,516. The university will use the funds to support nurses who wish to obtain advanced educational preparation at ECU’s Nurse Anesthesia Program.“There is currently a local and national shortage of nurses and Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Research shows that the quality of healthcare services improves as the number of healthcare providers increases. I commend the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for assisting East Carolina University in its efforts to properly train and produce nurse anesthetists, as well as provide essential healthcare to rural and underserved communities.”The Nurse Anesthesia Program at ECU was established in 2002 as an expansion of the university’s College of Nursing. The program addresses the local and national shortage of certified nurse anesthetists and works to relieve significant healthcare concerns of the surrounding region. Program curriculum prepares students to administer general and regional anesthesia as well as epidurals used in birthing.Every graduate of the ECU Nurse Anesthesia Program is currently employed full-time as a Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist, with the majority serving rural and underserved populations. Most enrollees are native to eastern North Carolina and reflect minority and underrepresented backgrounds.
07.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the passing of North Carolina State Representative William Wainwright: "I join with so many others who knew William in offering my deepest sympathy to his family on his passing. A devoted public servant of more than 20 years, Representative William Wainwright was an unwearied advocate of the people and communities he served. He lived a Christ filled life and possessed the extraordinary ability to make a true difference in the lives of others. I pray that his family will find peace and comfort in knowing that his loss is felt by all who knew and loved him. My thoughts will remain with them during this difficult time."
07.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC -- Calling it vitally important to efforts by the federal government to fight online fraud, Congresswoman Mary Bono Mack (CA-45), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, and Ranking Member G. K. Butterfield (NC-1) today introduced bipartisan legislation (H.R. 6131) to reauthorize the U.S. SAFE WEB Act of 2006.Passed unanimously by the House and signed into law by President Bush, the U.S. SAFE WEB Act – set to expire next year – has become an extremely effective tool used by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to combat cross-border fraud, spam and spyware. Pursuant to the Act, the FTC issued a report in 2009, “The U.S. SAFE WEB Act: The First Three Years,” detailing its use and day-to-day experience with the authority granted by the law.Over a three-year period, the FTC received more than a quarter of a million cross-border complaints by American consumers. The FTC also reported that it shared confidential information in response to 38 requests from 14 foreign agencies in six countries, resulting in numerous enforcement proceedings. “Today, with nearly 1.5 billion credit cards now in use in the United States – and e-commerce topping more than $200 billion a year – nearly everyone in America has a stake in making certain the FTC has the powers it needs to combat cross-border fraud, spam and spyware,” Congresswoman Bono Mack said. “Frankly, I’m very concerned that e-commerce will cease to grow and flourish if consumers lose faith in their ability to be protected from online predators, jeopardizing future innovation as well as our nation’s fragile economic recovery.”“The enhanced authority provided by the U.S. SAFE WEB Act has empowered the FTC to better protect American consumers through robust cross-border information sharing, investigative assistance, and coalition building with foreign consumer protection agencies,” said Congressman Butterfield. “This authority has been highly effective in protecting the American people from international frauds and should remain part of the FTC’s fraud fighting tool kit.”The U.S. SAFE WEB amends the FTC Act, authorizing the Commission to:• Pursue and combat fraud involving international activity that harms U.S. consumers;• Share information involving cross border fraud with foreign consumer protection agencies, subject to important safeguards;• Protect from public disclosure confidential information received from foreign consumer protection agencies that otherwise would not be shared;• Seek redress on behalf of foreign as well as U.S. consumers victimized by U.S.-based wrong-doers; and finally• Make referrals to the U.S. Attorney General for criminal prosecution when the FTC obtains evidence of conduct that violates U.S. criminal law.As leaders of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, Bono Mack and Butterfield have worked closely over the past year and a half on a number of initiatives to better protect American consumers. A markup on their legislation (H.R. 6131) is expected soon.
07.16.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – The Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced the Congressman’s co-sponsorship of H.R. 4313, the Farm Service Accountability Act, which would halt the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) from future closures of Farm Service Agency (FSA) offices without first assessing the workload volume of each office and the needs of the residents they serve.“The FSA offices in Chowan, Warren, and Hertford counties provide critical access to USDA services for hundreds of farmers,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Farmers in these large, rural counties whose primary economic driver is agriculture often visit these offices upwards of ten times per year. The Farm Service Accountability Act would offer some assurance that the needs of farmers will be considered before hastily stripping access to FSA locations in the future.” Butterfield cosponsored H.R. 4313 in direct response to the scheduled closures of three FSA offices in Chowan, Warren, and Hertford counties. In February, the Congressman wrote to USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack expressing his opposition to the proposed consolidation of several FSA offices in North Carolina.
07.13.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – On Wednesday, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) held a telephone town hall meeting to answer residents’ questions on how the Affordable Care Act will affect North Carolina families. The live telephone town hall began at 6:00 p.m. and lasted over an hour. More than 12,000 district residents joined the call.“There is a lot of misinformation and disinformation surrounding the costs and benefits of healthcare reform,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Because of this, I thought it was important to hold a forum to give residents direct access to the information they need by answering questions specific to them.”In June, President Obama’s signature health care reform law survived a repeal threat when the Supreme Court ruled to uphold the law and its constitutionality.In North Carolina’s First Congressional District, under the law, 94,000 seniors have received Medicare preventive services without paying anything out-of-pocket; more than 5,000 young adults have coverage through their parents’ health insurance; about 400 small businesses received tax credits to expand care to employees; and 34,000 children with preexisting health conditions are no longer denied coverage by insurers.
07.10.2012	WASHINGTON, DC — President Obama signed legislation into law yesterday that included the bipartisan Creating Hope Act, authored by Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX) and G. K. Butterfield (D-NC). The Creating Hope Act of 2011 provides market incentives to pharmaceutical companies to develop new drugs for children with rare pediatric diseases, such as childhood cancers and sickle cell. Originally H.R. 3059, The Creating Hope Act was passed as Section 908 of S. 3187 of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act. The law takes effect in 90 days. "Today is a milestone for children who suffer from cancer and other rare pediatric diseases. This law will help pharmaceutical companies overcome market failures and change the way they look at developing treatments for children who currently don’t have any, or don’t have treatment specific to their disease,” said Congressman McCaul, founder and chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Childhood Cancer Caucus. “In times of tough budgetary constraints, this legislation incentivizes pharmaceutical companies to finally start creating new cures for rare pediatric diseases with no cost to taxpayers.”“I am pleased that Congress recognized the significance of the Creating Hope Act and passed it without hesitation,” said Congressman Butterfield. “We are now one step closer to finding better treatments and cures for rare pediatric diseases. I thank President Obama for signing this bill into law.” "This is the first time the United States Congress has provided a solution to the dire lack of drug development expressly for children with rare and deadly diseases," said Nancy Goodman, Founder of Kids Versus Cancer. “Congress has taken a historical stand.” "The passage of the Creating Hope Act marks an important milestone in efforts to find new cures and better treatments for children with cancer,” said Dr. Peter Adamson, Chairman of the Children’s Oncology Group and Professor of Pediatrics and Pharmacology at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. The Creating Hope Act expands the cost-neutral Food and Drug Administration priority review voucher (PRV) program, allowing pharmaceutical companies to expedite FDA review of more profitable drugs in return for developing treatments for rare pediatric diseases. Since 1980, the FDA has approved only one new drug for treatment of childhood cancer, compared to dozens for adults. Despite this significant unmet medical need, pharmaceutical companies have been reluctant to develop drugs for rare pediatric diseases because it requires making an investment in products that are unlikely to cover the high costs associated with their research, development, marketing and distribution. Developing products for children is particularly challenging because of the difficulties associated with conducting clinical trials on this patient population.The Creating Hope Act will:• Expand the Priority Review Voucher program to include treatments for pediatric rare diseases, such as childhood cancers.• Close a loophole in current law to prevent companies from receiving a voucher for products that they already market in other countries.• Offer unlimited transferability of vouchers to create a more easily traded asset.• Provide greater certainty to sponsors that the drug, if approved, will qualify for a voucher, by permitting them to seek a designation from FDA before they submit their new drug application. “The Creating Hope Act “ fundamentally transforms the way that drug companies look at rare pediatric diseases and compensates for market failures that have prevented any new treatment for pediatric cancer from being developed in a generation,” Rep. McCaul said.
07.05.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Tomorrow July 6th, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) will join President Obama for the signing of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21 Century Act, the bill to fund long term transportation related projects and prevent the doubling of interest rates on certain student loans.“For months, Democrats have been fighting to pass this bipartisan legislation that will boost a struggling construction sector, give certainty to a range of small business owners, and pave the way for job growth across America,” said Butterfield. “When President Obama signs this bill into law tomorrow, he will reaffirm his and Democrats’ steadfast commitment to protecting the nation’s fragile economic recovery and investing in America’s future.”H.R. 4348, the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012 passed the House on April 18,2012. On April 24, the Senate agreed to amend H.R. 4348 and replaced the House-passed bill text with the language of MAP-21. The action allowed the bill to be sent to conference where it was agreed to by both chambers.https:/Butterfield.House.Gov###
07.02.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Earlier today the North Carolina General Assembly voted to override Governor Perdue’s veto of SB 416, a bill that would repeal the Racial Justice Act by no longer allowing the use of statistics to demonstrate racial bias in North Carolina's capital punishment system. Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement in response to the legislature's overhaul of the Racial Justice Act: “While I am not particularly surprised that the Republican-led General Assembly was successful in overhauling and severely weakening the effectiveness of the Racial Justice Act, I am, however, astonished by the five Democrats who voted to dismantle the law. Their votes not only clenched the override for the legislature, but also cemented their position to ignore well-documented racial bias in the judicial system. I am disappointed by this outcome and equally disappointed that Representatives Jim Crawford, William Brisson, Dewey Hill, Bill Owens, and Tim Spear call themselves Democrats while supporting the Republican agenda.”https:/Butterfield.House.Gov###
06.30.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded Judge James A. Wynn, Jr. of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, for his concurring opinion in Liberty University v. Geithner, 671 F.3d 391 (4th Cir. 2011) (Wynn, J., concurring), wherein Judge Wynn became the first federal judge to uphold the Affordable Care Act (ACA) under Congress’s taxing power, laying the groundwork for the Supreme Court’s momentous decision.“Our federal circuit courts and judges often work in obscurity,” said Congressman Butterfield.” “However, their decisions, like the decisions of our Supreme Court, have impacts far and wide on America and upon the lives of Americans. Today, I would like to recognize the great work and service of North Carolina native Judge James A. Wynn, Jr. of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.“In Judge Wynn’s concurring opinion in Liberty University v. Geithner, Judge Wynn wrote that he would ‘uphold the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act on the basis that Congress had the authority to enact the individual and employer mandates, which operate as taxes, under its taxing power.’ To my knowledge, of the more than 15 federal judges to consider ACA’s constitutionality prior to the Supreme Court, only Judge Wynn identified the argument that would ultimately secure the ACA’s future.“It is with great pride that I recognize and applaud Judge Wynn for his service to our state and our country. As a result of the Supreme Court’s decision, which was rooted in large measure on Judge Wynn’s concurring opinion in Liberty University v. Geithner, 40 million Americans can enjoy without uncertainty access to affordable healthcare, and all Americans can enjoy the protections, benefits and access provided by the ACA.”
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), Second Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, today joined his Democratic colleagues in walking off the House Floor to oppose a Republican-led vote holding Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress.“Never in our nation’s history has the U.S. House of Representatives voted to hold a sitting attorney general in contempt of Congress,” said Butterfield. “The Republican vote to hold Attorney General Holder in contempt is not about ‘gunwalking,’ the Justice Department, or Mr. Holder’s cooperation during the Oversight Committee’s so-called investigation into Operation Fast and Furious. Rather it is political gamesmanship in a Presidential election year where we continue to see the Majority’s unrelenting attempts to discredit President Obama and his Administration. The Republican leadership has yet to express a legislative purpose for taking this unprecedented course of action. Therefore, we refused to participate in a vote to hold Mr. Holder in contempt.”Over the past 15 months, Attorney General Holder and the Department of Justice have cooperated with the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform’s requests for information on "Fast and Furious,” an operation that began under the Bush Administration and was terminated by Attorney General Holder. The Justice Department has turned over approximately 8,000 documents, which included all the documents related to the Fast and Furious investigation and other flawed investigations that occurred in Arizona during the Bush Administration. Attorney General Holder also willingly participated in a bicameral meeting to satisfy the Committee’s information requests, and has advised House Republicans that he is eager to work toward an agreement. But the Republican Leadership instead insisted on a contempt vote, charging that Attorney General Holder and the Justice Department refused to fully comply with its investigation.“The integrity of the U.S. House of Representatives was severely undermined by this vote.”
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA):“Today’s Supreme Court decision upholding the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act and the individual mandate is a tremendous victory for our nation. Every modern U.S. President has acknowledged the urgency of healthcare reform, but President Obama and Congressional Democrats successfully answered the call with the passage of this law.“As a result, 40 million Americans can enjoy without uncertainty access to affordable healthcare. The law protects several underserved communities--from seniors and children to women and small business owners. But it also benefits all Americans by providing access to free preventative services, expanded prescription drug coverage, and allowing young adults to remain on their parent’s insurance until the age of 26--just to name a few guaranteed benefits under ACA.“The political theatre Republicans orchestrated around healthcare must now come to an end. Congress debated. The Court has decided. It is time to move forward. “I now call on my Republican colleagues to abandon their resolve to repeal ACA, and to work responsibly with Democrats to help implement this critically important measure.”
06.27.2012	WASHINGTON, DC — The U.S. Senate sent a bipartisan provision, authored by Congressmen G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) and Michael McCaul (R-TX), to the President for his signature into law. H.R. 3059, The Creating Hope Act of 2011, will incentivize pharmaceutical companies to develop new drugs for children with rare pediatric diseases, such as childhood cancers and sickle cell. The Creating Hope Act was passed as Section 908 of S. 3187, which reauthorizes various Food and Drug Administration (FDA) user fee programs for prescription drugs and medical devices. The U.S. House approved the measure last week.“We do a lot of things in Washington that don’t mean a whole lot,” said Congressman McCaul, founder and chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Childhood Cancer Caucus. “Every now and then we get the opportunity to really make a difference in the lives of others. The Creating Hope Act has the ability to actually save lives and hand down a better America to our children. In times of tough budgetary constraints, this legislation incentivizes pharmaceutical companies to finally start creating new cures for rare pediatric diseases with no cost to taxpayers.”“I am pleased that Congress has passed this critically important measure, the Creating Hope Act,” said Congressman Butterfield. “We are one step closer to finding better treatments and cures for rare pediatric diseases. I look forward to President Obama signing this bill into law.”"This is the first time the United States Congress has provided a solution to the dire lack of drug development expressly for children with rare and deadly diseases," said Nancy Goodman, Founder of Kids Versus Cancer. “Congress has taken a historical stand.”"The passage of the Creating Hope Act marks an important milestone in efforts to find new cures and better treatments for children with cancer,” said Dr. Peter Adamson, Chairman of the Children’s Oncology Group and Professor of Pediatrics and Pharmacology at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. The Creating Hope Act expands the cost-neutral Food and Drug Administration priority review voucher (PRV) program, allowing pharmaceutical companies to expedite FDA review of more profitable drugs in return for developing treatments for rare pediatric diseases. Since 1980, the FDA has approved only one new drug for treatment of childhood cancer, compared to dozens for adults. Despite this significant unmet medical need, pharmaceutical companies have been reluctant to develop drugs for rare pediatric diseases because it requires making an investment in products that are unlikely to cover the high costs associated with their research, development, marketing and distribution. Developing products for children is particularly challenging because of the difficulties associated with conducting clinical trials on this patient population.The Creating Hope Act will:• Expand the Priority Review Voucher program to include treatments for pediatric rare diseases, such as childhood cancers.• Close a loophole in current law to prevent companies from receiving a voucher for products that they already market in other countries.• Offer unlimited transferability of vouchers to create a more easily traded asset.• Provide greater certainty to sponsors that the drug, if approved, will qualify for a voucher, by permitting them to seek a designation from FDA before they submit their new drug application.
06.19.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for awarding two brownfield grants to the city of Havelock. The grants, valued at $200,000 each, will be used for environmental site assessments, community outreach activities, and to support cleanup planning.“The testing and cleanup of brownfield sites allow for the expansion, redevelopment, and reuse of these lands, which can potentially benefit local economies,” said Butterfield. “I thank the EPA for assisting the city of Havelock in restoring these lands for future use.”EPA's Brownfields Program empowers states, communities, and other stakeholders to work together to prevent, assess, safely clean up, and sustainably reuse brownfields.In 2002, the Small Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act was passed to help states and communities around the country cleanup and revitalize brownfields sites. Under this law, EPA provides financial assistance to eligible applicants through four competitive grant programs: assessment grants, revolving loan fund grants, cleanup grants, and job training grants. Additionally, funding support is provided to state and tribal response programs through a separate mechanism.
06.14.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield today announced that the National Association of Development Organizations (NADO) will present Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) with the 2012 Congressional Partnership Award. NADO is recognizing Butterfield’s longstanding commitment to federal programs that support investments in infrastructure, job creation, and economic development.“I am pleased to be recognized by NADO for my commitment to increase development of rural communities,” said Butterfield. “Rural communities, like those you find in North Carolina’s First Congressional District, are essential to the future success of our nation. We must continue to address the extraordinary economic challenges they face by investing in opportunities that will create sustainable jobs and a strong tax base.”NADO biennially recognizes members of Congress who have demonstrated an ongoing commitment to federal programs that strengthen the role of rural officials in transportation planning and economic development.Butterfield will receive the award on Friday, June 15 in his Wilson office.
05.31.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.— The U.S. House of Representatives approved a provision authored by Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX) and G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) last night that would incentivize pharmaceutical companies to develop new drugs for children with rare pediatric diseases, such as childhood cancers and sickle cell disease. H.R. 3059, The Creating Hope Act of 2011, was passed as part of H.R. 5651, which reauthorizes various Food and Drug Administration (FDA) user fee programs for prescription drugs and medical devices. If the Senate approves the measure, it would go to the president for his signature. “There aren’t many bills that pass the House that give instant hope to so many people in need. This one does,” said Congressman McCaul, founder and chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Childhood Cancer Caucus. Countless numbers of children and their families who are unable to treat their disease because of a lack of adequate treatments are counting on this legislation, as will many more children who may one day learn that they have a life-threatening illness. The Creating Hope Act offers the best chance of encouraging pharmaceutical companies to develop treatments for children at no cost to taxpayers.” "Children living with these life threatening conditions need access to newly developed drugs that can treat these rare diseases," said Congressman Butterfield. "The Creating Hope Act incentivizes pharmaceutical research and development, which will undoubtedly lead to countless young lives being spared from rare diseases. I thank my colleagues Congressman Michael McCaul, Chairman Fred Upton and Ranking Member Henry Waxman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee for their commitment to passing this bill.” The Creating Hope Act would expand the cost-neutral Food and Drug Administration priority review voucher (PRV) program, allowing pharmaceutical companies to expedite FDA review of more profitable drugs in return for developing treatments for rare pediatric diseases. Since 1980, the FDA has approved only one new drug for treatment of childhood cancer, compared to 50 for adults. Despite this significant unmet medical need, pharmaceutical companies have been reluctant to develop drugs for rare pediatric diseases because it requires making an investment in products that are unlikely to cover the high costs associated with their research, development, marketing and distribution. Developing products for children is particularly challenging because of the difficulties associated with conducting clinical trials on this patient population.The Creating Hope Act will:Expand the Priority Review Voucher program to include treatments for pediatric rare diseases, such as childhood cancers.Close a loophole in current law to prevent companies from receiving a voucher for products they already market in other countries.Offer unlimited transferability of vouchers to create a more easily traded asset.Provide greater certainty to sponsors that the drug, if approved, will qualify for a voucher, by permitting them to seek a designation from FDA before they submit their new drug application.Last week, the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center’s Chaplaincy Fund presented awards to Congressman McCaul and his wife Linda for their efforts to fight childhood cancer. M.D. Anderson is an advocate of The Creating Hope Act. Mrs. McCaul is a member of the Board of Visitors at M.D. Anderson, where she is Chair of the Children's Cancer Hospital Advisory Group and also leads its Federal Relations Subcommittee.
05.31.2012	Incentives for Drug Companies to Develop New Treatments for Children with Rare Pediatric Diseases Nears Reality WASHINGTON, D.C.— The U.S. House of Representatives approved a provision authored by Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX) and G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) last night that would incentivize pharmaceutical companies to develop new drugs for children withrare pediatric diseases, such as childhood cancers and sickle cell disease. H.R. 3059, The Creating Hope Act of 2011, was passed as part of H.R. 5651, which reauthorizes various Food and Drug Administration (FDA) user fee programs for prescription drugs and medical devices. If the Senate approves the measure, it would go to the president for his signature. “There aren’t many bills that pass the House that give instant hope to so many people in need. This one does,” said Congressman McCaul, founder and chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Childhood Cancer Caucus. Countless numbers of children and their families who are unable to treat their disease because of a lack of adequate treatments are counting on thislegislation, as will many more children who may one day learn that they have a life-threatening illness. The Creating Hope Act offers the best chance of encouraging pharmaceutical companies to develop treatments for children at no cost to taxpayers.” "Children living with these life threatening conditions need access to newly developed drugs that can treat these rare diseases," said Congressman Butterfield. "The Creating Hope Act incentivizes pharmaceutical research and development, which will undoubtedly lead to countless young lives being spared from rare diseases. I thank my colleagues Congressman Michael McCaul, Chairman Fred Upton and Ranking Member Henry Waxman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee for their commitment to passing this bill.” The Creating Hope Act would expand the cost-neutral Food and Drug Administration priority review voucher (PRV) program, allowing pharmaceutical companies toexpedite FDA review of more profitable drugs in return for developing treatments for rare pediatric diseases. Since 1980, the FDA has approved only one new drug for treatment of childhood cancer, compared to 50 for adults. Despite this significant unmet medical need, pharmaceutical companies have been reluctant to develop drugs for rare pediatric diseases because it requires making an investment in products that are unlikely to cover the high costs associated with their research, development, marketing and distribution. Developing products for children is particularly challenging because of the difficulties associated with conducting clinical trials on this patient population.The Creating Hope Act will:Expand the Priority Review Voucher program to include treatments for pediatric rare diseases, such as childhood cancers.Close a loophole in current law to prevent companies from receiving a voucher forproducts they already market in other countries.Offer unlimited transferability of vouchers to create a more easily traded asset.Provide greater certainty to sponsors that the drug, if approved, will qualify for a voucher, by permitting them to seek a designation from FDA before they submit their new drug application.Last week, the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center’s Chaplaincy Fund presented awards to Congressman McCaul and his wife Linda for their efforts to fight childhood cancer. M.D. Anderson is an advocate of The Creating Hope Act. Mrs. McCaul is a member of the Board of Visitors at M.D. Anderson, where she is Chair of theChildren's Cancer Hospital Advisory Group and also leads its Federal Relations Subcommittee.
05.30.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today cheered the U.S. Department of Education for granting North Carolina flexibility from key provisions of No Child Left Behind (NCLB) due to its commitment to prepare all students for college and career, and support effective teaching. “This waiver will allow North Carolina educators increased autonomy to implement a more tailored, need specific approach to education,” said Butterfield. “I commend the state for its continued dedication to academic achievement, and its valiant effort to improve the quality of education statewide.”North Carolina, along with seven additional states, will receive more flexibility with federal funds, and would no longer be confined to the one-size-fits-all federal mandate under NCLB.This brings the number of states with waivers to 19.
05.24.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today applauded the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for its recent grant of $309,232 to Elizabeth City State University (ECSU). The grant, Elizabeth City State University Minority Access to Research Careers (E-MARC), will be used to increase minority access to science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) fields.“For generations minority students have been underrepresented in the mathematics and science fields. Programs such as E-MARC address the need to balance the disproportionate rate and reflect the changing cultural fabric of our society,” said Butterfield. “I would like to commend the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for taking a vested interest in the students of ECSU as they work to bridge the gap of minorities pursuing doctoral degrees in science, technology, engineering, and math disciplines.”Program participants are undergraduate students with a 3.50 GPA or above working toward a math or science degree. The program provides support to minority students in STEM majors to prepare them as competitive applicants for entry into doctoral programs. Services include participation in academic enhancement activities and summer research internship opportunities.E-MARC programming is a subsidiary of the MARC Undergraduate Student Training in Academic Research (U-STAR) Awards. Students are selected for the E-MARC program during their final two years of undergraduate education to begin preparation for graduate level curricula.
05.22.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) delivered remarks before the Nuclear Energy Institute’s Nuclear Energy Assembly and Supplier Exposition in Charlotte. Butterfield addressed the need for Congress to develop a comprehensive long-term energy policy that would decrease American dependence on foreign oil and stimulate job growth in rural America.“The issue of energy independence is paramount to the future of America,” said Butterfield, a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “We must invest in the country’s future by investing in renewable and clean energy sources that will create a sustainable and affordable energy future.”Butterfield’s remarks reflected a vision for a new energy economy. He called for bipartisan action to revive the American economy by fostering the development of renewable and clean energies. According to Butterfield, these new energy sources will foster economic growth and provide high-paying jobs for Americans who live in rural areas.Butterfield added, “Rural communities are uniquely positioned to support new energy developments. By uniting leaders from government, the private sector, universities and community colleges, we can lead the way to a stronger economy based on the energy sources of tomorrow.”The Nuclear Energy Institute’s Nuclear Energy Assembly serves as the official gathering for energy experts and top executives to address current challenges to the nuclear industry and America’s energy outlook. A full transcript of Congressman Butterfield’s remarks can be found below: Congressman G. K. ButterfieldRemarks to the Nuclear Energy AssemblyThe Westin CharlotteTuesday, May 22, 2012Good morning. Thank you Mayor Foxx for hosting us in your great city. Thank you Jim Rogers for introducing me and for the important work you do. My message today is simple. It’s a message that we have heard over and over again, but it’s worth repeating. The Congress must get serious about implementing a long term energy policy, a solution that will diversify our energy sources and put us on a path to a new energy future. Just as we have solved great challenges in the past, we have the capacity to face this challenge and move energy policy in a new direction. I’m speaking of an energy policy that will make electricity cleaner and cheaper and protect the bottom line of energy suppliers. Any new energy policy must include nuclear energy. The consequences of inaction are enormous and unacceptable. I dare not bore you with the details for you know them all so well. But, we are running out of time, and we must act now! Where do we start? We begin by recognizing energy policy as an issue that is neither Democrat nor Republican. It’s an American issue. President Obama challenged our country to generate 80 percent of our electricity from clean energy sources by 2035. I believe this is a goal we can achieve. Thirty years ago, the United States produced more than 80 percent of the world’s wind capacity, and 90 percent of its solar capacity. China has surpassed the United States in wind capacity and Germany leads in solar capacity. Something is wrong with this picture. We have always been able to rise to the challenge of global competition by putting our best minds to work. We must have public and private partnerships engaging in research and development. We must increase the number of students receiving degrees in science, technology, engineering, and math. We must provide small businesses with access to capital to support innovation and job creation. Our economic security and our national security depend on it.I believe the United States’ commitment to nuclear energy is strong. Nuclear energy remains a key part of the energy mix in policy proposals from the White House and Congress. Personally, I will fight to protect Title XVII loan guarantees for the nuclear industry. We have also seen examples of the industry and the Administration working together to ensure better safety and security of nuclear facilities. Though we have not yet settled on how to manage used fuel, I am sure reasonable minds can come together to develop a workable solution. Investment in nuclear energy must touch all parts of our country -- rural and urban; public and private schools; research universities and community colleges. The new energy economy must benefit all Americans. It is the only way to win the future. The South is positioned to lead the way in development of nuclear energy. The two nuclear energy plants in the latest stages of development are in the South. And, North Carolina is ready, willing and able to become a hub for nuclear energy. Developing new plants in the South should also help improve the electricity infrastructure, which will provide safe and reliable power to rural communities for years to come. We see the proposed Duke & Progress Energy merger, which would create the nation’s largest utility and the third largest nuclear operator, positioned to make large scale investments in critical infrastructure, including new nuclear plants, transmission and environmental controls. I challenge all of you to invest in rural communities as the nuclear industry continues to grow. Surprisingly, for families making less than $50,000 annually, transportation is their largest expense—even larger than housing. Even a slight increase in the cost of gasoline, or the price to heat and cool their homes, can have a devastating impact on low-income and middle class families. So, our new energy future must not only provide choice, but lower costs. On the supply-side, nuclear plants are low-cost producers of energy and provide long-term price stability. We must also address the demand-side by helping people make their homes more efficient. Finally, a new energy future creates jobs. With lower energy costs, businesses have more money to invest and hire. When jobs are created, consumers have more money to spend and save. Therefore, a new energy future is about a new energy economy. This boosts our economy and everyone benefits. There are some in Washington who suggest that the federal government should only be minimally involved in developing alternative sources of energy. It would be a colossal failure of leadership for the Congress to simply sit back and allow competition and market forces to dictate energy policy. If no federal policy exists, the status quo will have a harmful impact-- on our environment, on our economy, and on our future. It doesn’t have to be this way. We can come together to meet this challenge by harnessing the American spirit that makes us great. Our moment is now! So, let’s get to work and power America with an energy that is clean, safe and reliable, and preserves God’s gift for generations to come. Thank you.
05.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced three grants to be awarded to local community health centers by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS). The grants, totaling $4,584,780, will be distributed to Carolina Family Health Centers, Inc. of Wilson, North Carolina and the Rural Health Group, Inc. of Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina.“Funding for these North Carolina centers will increase healthcare access to communities who have a difficult time accessing affordable care,” said Butterfield. “Secretary Sebelius and the Department of Health and Human Services recognize the role of community health centers in providing critical preventative care to eastern North Carolinians that will save lives and money on their doctors’ bills.”Carolina Health Centers, Inc. received the Building Capacity Program grant in the amount of $3,507,460. Carolina Health Centers serves as the umbrella organization for Freedom Hill Community Center, Harvest Family Health Center and Wilson Community Health Center. The health centers serve Edgecombe and Wilson counties in eastern North Carolina.Rural Health Group, Inc. received the remaining two grants. One of the two grants was funded under the Immediate Facility Improvement Program to rebuild their facility in Norlina, North Carolina.These grants were made possible under the Affordable Care Act which provides $9.5 billion to expand health care services along with $1.5 billion to support construction and renovation projects for community health centers nationwide.
05.15.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) reacted to today’s announcement that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) would move forward with its realignment proposal for FAA Airport District Offices, causing North Carolina airports to report to the FAA’s Memphis, Tennessee office instead of the FAA’s Atlanta, Georgia office. “I am deeply disappointed by the FAA’s decision to shift support for North Carolina’s airports from the FAA’s Atlanta regional office to the FAA’s Memphis regional office,” Butterfield said. “The North Carolina Department of Transportation and the North Carolina Airports Association are opposed to this plan and have told the FAA that this change will increase costs for the state and its airports, while decreasing their level of service.”FAA Airport District Offices provide support to states and individual airports with funding, compliance, safety, construction, environmental issues, and planning.According to the NCDOT and the North Carolina Airports Association, the FAA’s plan to realign Airport District Offices will decrease the level of service North Carolina airports receive unless the FAA hires new workers. The shift will make it more difficult and expensive for state and airport representatives to travel to the FAA regional office. Additionally, the shift eliminates the opportunity for state and airport representatives to meet simultaneously with their FAA Regional office and officials from the other federal agencies located in Atlanta.
05.14.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced that the U.S. Department of Education has granted continued funding for programs that support underserved students at three colleges in North Carolina’s First Congressional District. The grants will fund Upward Bound programs at Elizabeth City State University, Chowan University and Wilson Community College.“Upward Bound has enriched the academic development of many deserving students throughout the state of North Carolina,” said Butterfield. “I applaud the Department of Education for helping our students secure a better future.”The U.S. Department of Education will award Elizabeth City State University $327,186, Chowan University $380,058 and Wilson Community College $295,574 annually for the next five years. The three colleges collectively serve more than 200 students through their Upward Bound programs.Authorized under the Higher Education Act of 1965, Upward Bound provides high school students from underserved communities with an array of academic and counseling services designed to help participants enter and successfully complete college and graduate school. These services may include tutoring, preparation for college entrance exams and mentoring.
05.11.2012	WASHINGTON, DC, – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) has introduced H.R. 5713, the Talk Before You Toll Act of 2012, which would ensure that the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) and the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) fully consider public opposition to tolling of Interstate 95 in North Carolina. The bill would require the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) and FHWA to make public opinion the top criteria before implementing tolls. Under the bill, the FHWA would also be required to hold public meetings and collect public comments on the final tolling application submitted by the state.“I share the concerns of many people in eastern North Carolina that tolling I-95 would be too great of a burden on working families,” said Butterfield. “This legislation is a critical step toward ensuring the voices of eastern North Carolinians are heard before the state makes a unilateral decision to toll I-95.” In February, the NCDOT received conditional approval to toll I-95 from FHWA under the Interstate System Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Pilot Program (ISRRPP). To receive final approval, NCDOT must complete an Economic Impact Study and an environmental review. While the NCDOT’s plan has not been finalized, it proposed tolls of at least 6 cents per mile, which would cost $19 for people traveling I-95 through the state. The NCDOT is not required to submit a final application and may decide against tolling.Last week, Butterfield met with the “No Tolls on Interstate 95 Coalition” group about their opposition to the proposed tolling of I-95. During that meeting, Butterfield briefed attendees on his conversations in April with the NCDOT Secretary Gene Conti and with FHWA Administrator Victor Mendez. North Carolina Congressmen Melvin Watt and Larry Kissell have joined Butterfield by co-sponsoring H.R. 5713. Butterfield also announced his co-sponsorship of H.R. 4147, No Tolls in North Carolina Act of 2012, introduced by Congresswoman Renee Ellmers (NC-02).
05.03.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Tomorrow Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will travel to Roanoke Rapids to again meet with the “No Toll I-95” group about their opposition to the proposed tolling of Interstate 95 (I-95). During the meeting, Butterfield will brief attendees on his conversations last week with North Carolina Department of Transportation Secretary Gene Conti and with Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) Administrator Victor Mendez. Butterfield will also announce his plan to introduce the Talk Before You Toll Act of 2012, a bill that would make local public acceptance the top criteria the FHWA considers when reviewing applications for new tolling pilot projects. The bill would also require the FHWA to hold public meetings and collect public comments on the final tolling application submitted by a State. Friday’s meeting will be held at 10:30 a.m. at the Halifax County Visitors Center, 260 Premier Boulevard. Butterfield first met with the No Toll I-95 group at the Roanoke Valley Chamber of Commerce back in March.###
05.02.2012	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman, Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette, and Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member G. K. Butterfield sent a letter to Mary Tolan, founder and CEO of Accretive Health, Inc., regarding allegations that Accretive’s debt collection work for hospitals may involve practices that undermine important patient protections. A report from the Minnesota Attorney General raises questions about Accretive’s compliance with the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, critical laws designed to protect patients’ rights. The Committee seeks to explore the validity of the claims made in the report and understand the extent to which the alleged activities are common practice for Accretive and the industry at large.The full text of the letter is below. May 2, 2012 Mary TolanFounder and CEOAccretive Health, Inc.401 N. Michigan AveSuite 2700Chicago, IL 60611Dear Ms. Tolan:On April 24, 2012, the Minnesota Attorney General released a report that raises significant questions about whether Accretive Health’s work as a debt collector for hospitals involves practices that undermine important patients’ protections in the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act.[1] Your company has stated that the Minnesota Attorney General’s report “grossly distort[s] and mischaracterize[s]” your work, and called one of the most serious allegations “flatly untrue.” We appreciate your willingness to brief us on your practices and ask that you come to the May 4, 2012, briefing prepared to answer questions about your company’s practices and the concerns we have outlined in this letter.[2] The Minnesota Attorney General’s report focused on Accretive’s policies and procedures for debt collection – described as “revenue cycle management” by the company – at Fairview Health Services, a major health system in Minnesota. One of our most important questions is the extent to which these practices may be more widespread than this single health system.Concerns About Violations of the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor ActThe Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act(EMTALA) prohibits hospitals from delaying medical screening or treatment in order to inquire about an individual's method of payment or insurance status.[3] While hospitals may follow reasonable registration processes, including asking about an individual’s insurance coverage, the law does not allow inquiries that delay screening or treatment or unduly discourage individuals from remaining for further evaluation.[4]Among the troubling practices alleged in the Minnesota Attorney General’s report are Accretive’s aggressive efforts to collect co-payments, deductibles, residual charges, and prior balances in the emergency room, often before patients are allowed to receive treatment and at the bedsides of individuals receiving treatment. According to the Minnesota Attorney General’s report, Accretive directs hospital personnel to address patients with unpaid bills entering the emergency room in a manner that “can lead a patient or her family to believe the patient will not receive treatment until a payment is made,”[5] and the company “imposes quotas on hospital personnel to collect money before treatment is sometimes provided.”[6] An employee of Fairview Hospital reportedly described it as an environment in which “[p]atients are harassed mercilessly until their Community Care is approved, and one can easily speculate on the heartache, mental anguish, and worse that these kinds of practices cause.”[7]Medical professionals, hospital employees, and patient advocates reportedly raised concerns about these practices on numerous occasions, including when pre-service collection procedures targeted breast cancer patients, patients in the neonatal intensive care unit, spinal surgery patients, and emergency room patients.[8] When physicians and patient advocates complained about potentially illegal delays in treatment, Accretive employees reportedly dismissed the statements as “country club” talk and “a bunch of bull.”[9]These allegations raise significant concerns about the legality of Accretive’s practices under EMTALA. Concerns About Violations of the HIPAA Privacy and Security LawThe Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act Privacy and Security Law (HIPAA Privacy and Security Law)[10] requires covered entities to protect patient’s private health information. Individual employees of health providers and business associates with a need to access health information are generally required to have access only to a “limited data set” or “the minimum necessary” to perform their duties and use appropriate safeguards to limit unauthorized access.[11]According to the Minnesota Attorney General’s report, “Accretive has violated HIPAA in the use of patient health data for purposes of collection activity. These acts have resulted in multiple violations of patient privacy rights under federal and state law.”[12]The Minnesota Attorney General’s report states that Accretive’s collection agents have direct access to internal hospital patient records, which provide them with extensive information on patient’s medical history, current diagnoses, and ongoing treatments.[13] Collection agents reportedly discussed whether a patient’s cancer was “terminal or simply disabling” as they strategized about collecting an unpaid balance, and they “used protected health information to collect debts… [and] build credibility with patients.”[14]The Minnesota Attorney General reported an Accretive employee’s unencrypted laptop computer contained 15.4 gigabytes of patient health data from 23,000 patients.[15] The computer included sensitive data on more than 14,000 patients at a hospital for which this employee did not work, giving the employee an even less plausible right to access, let alone possess, this type of protected information. This calls into question whether Accretive is complying with the security or breach notification requirements under the HIPAA Privacy and Security Law.The breadth and sensitivity of the patient health information to which Accretive employees allegedly had access, and the way this information was reportedly used, raise serious HIPAA Privacy and Security Law compliance questions.Concerns About Violations of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) prohibits conduct designed to harass, oppress, abuse, or mislead in connection with the collection of a debt.[16] According to the Minnesota Attorney General’s report, Accretive’s unlicensed collectors “use deceptive and unlawful collection tactics” in the performance of their duties.[17] The practices outlined in the report include using “private medical information to deceptively gain patients’ trust and bolster their collections performance,” “giv[ing] the patient the impression that she may not receive adequate treatment unless payment is made,” and “[l]ooking for vulnerable patients” including “pregnant women in delivery [who] were most concerned with getting treatment, and therefore were most” likely to pay ahead of time.[18]Internal company emails cited by the Minnesota Attorney General suggest that some of Accretive’s employees regularly engage in abusive and harassing practices. As one wrote:I make the deadbeats feel like s…, talk nicely to women who soundeducation/have money, and am firm with dumb f…. If they say something stupid,I make sure they know they’ve said something stupid. Eventually the people whocan pay will grow tired of us continually calling and just pay to get us off theirbacks. I don’t mention that Henry Ford is a teaching hospital because a majorityof these people are plebeians who couldn’t give a flying f… one way or anotherso long as they have Medicaid. I really take the approach of being stern andcalling people out for being stupid because if they keep hearing it, they eventuallymay realize their stupidity and possibly feel just a hint of guilt for being such aschmuck.[19]The Minnesota Attorney General’s report presents numerous other examples of Accretive’s potential violations of the FDCPA. These include improperly contacting third parties regarding patient debt, failing to disclose employees’ identities as debt collectors, and continuing collection efforts despite debts being unverified.[20] The Minnesota Attorney General’s report also states that Accretive illegally threatened to report debtors to collection agencies and failed to cease collection efforts when individuals disputed their bills, in violation of signed consent agreements.[21]Each of these allegations raises significant questions about Accretive’s compliance with the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act.Concerns about Accurate Pricing and Patient Cost DisclosureAllegations of Accretive’s aggressive debt collection efforts are particularly troubling given the company’s reported failure to pay timely refunds when patients overpay bills and the company’s alleged problems with accurate billing. The Minnesota Attorney General’s report found that Accretive employees often do not know the proper diagnostic codes that are necessary to charge an appropriate estimated balance and that “neither the staff nor [Accretive’s computer] program has a clue as to the treatment to be rendered.”[22]When these errors are made, Accretive does not appear to take appropriate steps to refund patients money they are owed. An Accretive script for hospital employees instructs that if the employee observes that the client is owed a credit, they should “not … ask the patient about it.”[23] The Minnesota Attorney General also uncovered evidence that “patient refunds were improperly held, some going back … about 8 years.”[24]In one incident, a mother who brought her child to the hospital for a scheduled surgery to install tubes in the child’s ear was reportedly told that the surgery would cost $9,000 and that she was required to pay $876 before the surgery could take place. The woman paid the charge in order to get her child treated, but when she learned that the actual cost of the surgery was $4,200 and that her share was $200, she was unable to get reimbursed for her $676 overpayment.[25]These reports of failures to accurately bill patients and refund patients who are owed money outlined in the Minnesota Attorney General’s report raise further questions about the appropriateness of Accretive’s aggressive debt collection practices. Questions About Accretive Policies and PracticesWe are concerned by the allegations of Accretive’s practices in Minnesota and seek to better understand the extent to which these activities may represent common practice at your company and throughout the industry. We therefore ask that you come to the briefing prepared to answer questions about your policies and procedures. In addition, we ask that you provide the following documents no later than May 14, 2012:1. A list of the hospitals and health care facilities for which Accretive provides “revenue cycle management” services similar to those provided to Fairview Health Services in Minnesota, as discussed in the Minnesota Attorney General’s report, and the time periods for which you have provided services.2. An explanation of Accretive’s guidance to employees working in hospital settings and reported practices regarding:Registration activities, pre-service collection activities, insurance related questioning, or any other revenue collected-activity used by Accretive and imposed prior to medical treatment;The collection, review, transmission, and use for revenue-related purposes of patient’s protected health information;Debt collection practices in hospital facilities or otherwise associated with medical treatment. 3. Copies of all company policies and procedures relating to compliance with EMTALA, HIPAA, the Fair Debt Collection Act, and other relevant laws, and any emails or other documents containing discussions of compliance issues with these laws.4. Documents relating to complaints by medical professionals or patients regarding debt collection practices by Accretive and potential violations of EMTALA, HIPAA, and the Fair Debt Collection Act.5. Copies of all Accretive policies and procedures relating to proper estimation of price and cost of health care services, amounts that are to be collected from patients prior to medical treatment, and repayment for patients who have overpaid copays or other treatment-related costs.6. Any company documents discussing whether Accretive’s practices at Fairview Health Services represent standard industry practice or any information on the use of practices similar to those used by Accretive at other hospitals by other revenue collection companies. Please contact Matt Siegler with the Democratic Committee staff if you have any questions about these requests.Sincerely, Henry A. WaxmanRanking Member Diana DeGetteRanking MemberSubcommittee on Oversight and Investigations G. K. ButterfieldRanking MemberSubcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade [1] State of Minnesota Office of the Minnesota Attorney General, Compliance Review of Fairview Health Services’ Management Contracts with Accretive Health, Inc. (Apr. 2012)[2]Accretive Health, News Release: Statement from Accretive Health (Apr. 29, 2012).[3] 42 USC § 1395dd(h).[4] 42 C.F.R. § 489.24(d)(4)(iv) [5]State of Minnesota Office of the Minnesota Attorney General, Compliance Review of Fairview Health Services’ Management Contracts with Accretive Health, Inc., Volume II, at 14 (Apr. 2012).[6]Id., Volume II, at 1.[7]Id., Volume II, at 4.[8] Id. Volume II.[9] Id.[10] 42 USC § 1320D–2 and 42 USC §17931[11] 42 USC §17935(b)[12]State of Minnesota Office of the Minnesota Attorney General, Compliance Review of Fairview Health Services’ Management Contracts with Accretive Health, Inc., Volume IV, at 1 (Apr. 2012)[13]Id.,Volume IV, at 11.[14]Id. Volume IV, at 15.[15]State of Minnesota Office of the Minnesota Attorney General, Compliance Review of Fairview Health Services’ Management Contracts with Accretive Health, Inc., Volume IV, at 12-13 (Apr. 2012).[16]15 U.S.C. § 1692d-f.[17]State of Minnesota Office of the Minnesota Attorney General, Compliance Review of Fairview Health Services’ Management Contracts with Accretive Health, Inc., Volume V, at 1 (Apr. 2012).[18]Id., Volume V, at 6.[19] Id. Volume V, at 12.[20]Id. Volume V, at 14-16[21]Id.[22]Id.,Volume V, at 8.[23]Id.,Volume V, at 8.[24]Id.,Volume V, at 8.[25] Id, Volume II, at 20. ###
05.01.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will make two stops to promote the expansion of arts and science in the First Congressional District.On Wednesday, Butterfield will visit Bearfield Primary School to assist in unveiling the state’s winning entry of the “Doodle 4 Google” art competition. The nationwide competition, open to all K-12 students, is a way for students to merge art, design and technology by creating their own “Google Doodle.” A winner will be selected from each state to move forward in the competition for a chance to win the grand prize of a $30,000 college scholarship and $50,000 technology grant for the computer lab at the winner’s school. The winning doodle will be displayed on Google’s website on May 18, and also on a special edition of the Crayola 64 box.On Thursday, Butterfield will travel to Oxford, North Carolina for a public event with U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Tom Vilsack, representatives from the North Carolina Biotechnology Center and the North Carolina Biofuels Center. The event will bring together more than 100 biofuels companies, policy, state and agricultural leaders to discuss the initiation of North Carolina’s Biofuels campus and growth within the industry. The Congressman’s schedule follows.WHAT:Butterfield to Promote Arts and Sciences in the District with Google and USDA Secretary VilsackWHEN and WHERE:Wednesday, May 29:00 a.m. – 9:30 a.m.:North Carolina Doodle 4 Google CompetitionBearfield Primary School145 Hertford County High School RoadAhoskie, North Carolina Thursday, May 3 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.: Growing Renewable Biofuels: Smart Resources Support our VisionNorth Carolina Biofuels Campus901 Hillsboro StreetOxford, North Carolina###
04.24.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released the following statement today on the death of Dr. LeRoy T. Walker:“It is with deep sadness that I express my condolences to the family of my friend, Dr. LeRoy T. Walker. A transcendent leader in both athletics and academics, Dr. Walker achieved things few people would even dare to dream.“Dr. Walker rose to prominence while at North Carolina Central University (NCCU), where he founded and led the university’s winning track team. By the end of his career at NCCU in 1986, Walker coached athletes to 11 Olympic medals and sent track-and-field stars to almost every Olympic Games. However, his love for coaching was not limited to NCCU. Walker also led several international Olympic teams; rounding out his coaching career with at least eight Olympians, 30 national champions, and 100 All-Americans. Dr. Walker’s impressive leadership resulted in him becoming the first African American president of the U.S. Olympic Committee, an accomplishment that solidified his spot in the Olympic Hall of Fame and as one of America’s greatest sports figures.“Despite his iconic achievements as an Olympic coach and chancellor of NCCU, what was most remarkable about Dr. Walker was his innate ability to inspire greatness in the people he knew. I am certain that I speak for the entire NCCU family when I say there will never be another quite like him. My thoughts and prayers are with his daughter, son, and loved ones during their time of bereavement.”###
04.23.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will travel with President Obama tomorrow to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill as the President makes his push to Congress to extend current interest rates on a federal loan program for low- and middle-income undergraduate students. Without the extension more than 7 million borrowers with Stafford student loans will see their interest rates double on July 1 from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent, which could cost thousands of dollars over time.“Students and recent college graduates are already having a tough time with skyrocketing tuition and an underperforming job market,” said Butterfield, a cosponsor of H.R. 3826, a bill to extend the reduced interest rate for Federal Direct Stafford Loans. “Allowing the current interest rates to expire would burden students with additional debt, prolong their ability to kick start their careers, and send the message that it is more important to cut taxes for the wealthy than educational expenses for our young people.”In 2007, Congress passed the College Cost Reduction and Access Act which included the provision to reduce the fixed rate on subsidized Stafford student loans for undergraduate students over a four year period, lifting the weight on thousands of students and their families.A long-time advocate for educational access, Butterfield introduced H.R. 3483, the Veteran’s Education Equity Act, to reward equal educational benefits to veterans whether they choose to attend a private or public institution of higher learning. The bill would change an inequity in existing law which allots more education funds to veterans enrolled in private colleges than those in public institutions. ###
04.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced an increase in National Emergency Grant (NEG) funding to the North Carolina Department of Commerce, Division of Employment and Training in the amount of $375,200. The U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) awarded the additional grant funds to aid in continuing temporary jobs for dislocated workers assisting with clean-up and recovery efforts from Hurricane Irene.“These funds are essential not only to the rebuilding process, but also in providing jobs for those affected by the devastation caused by Hurricane Irene,” Butterfield said. “I am pleased that the Obama Administration and the Department of Labor recognizes the enormity of the recovery process and continue to supply funds to aid in our progress.”The NEG was approved September 2011 for up to $2 million with $750,000 initially being released. The funding was subsequent to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) declaring 37 North Carolina counties eligible for emergency assistance after the hurricane in August 2011. Thus far, the grant has created 200 temporary jobs for eligible dislocated workers assisting with clean-up and recovery. The increase in funding will bring total NEG funds for the project to $1,125,200.Affected counties within Butterfield’s congressional district to receive additional grant funds include: Beaufort, Bertie, Chowan, Craven, Edgecombe, Gates, Greene, Halifax, Hertford, Lenoir, Martin, Nash, Northampton, Pasquotank, Perquimans, Pitt, Washington, and Wayne.Last year, Congressman Butterfield led the House Hurricane Irene Coalition in urging House Leadership to immediately pass disaster assistance and ensure FEMA had the funds it needed to pay for recovery efforts in all thirteen states affected by Hurricane Irene. The estimated total cost of the damage caused by the storm is $1.5 billion.###
04.12.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will be joined by Edgecombe Community College President Dr. Deborah Lamm, North Carolina Community College System Executive Vice President Kennon Briggs, Turning Point Workforce Development Director Michael Williams, and special guest U.S. Department of Labor Assistant Secretary for Policy Bill Spriggs during the We Can’t Wait…for Jobs! community forum on Friday, April 13 at Edgecombe Community College in Tarboro. The forum will underscore the importance of expanding skill and job training programs to combat unemployment and meet today’s workforce needs.“I continuously learn of companies who have available jobs and are ready to hire, but they cannot find enough skilled workers to fill vacant positions,” Butterfield said. “Across the country, growing industries in science and technology have twice as many openings as we have workers who can do the job. Bold action is needed to bridge the gap between those looking for work and businesses looking for skilled workers. If we want to see significant improvements in the unemployment rate and remain competitive in our global economy, we must expand resources that will help the unemployed upgrade their skills or transition to new career fields.”The Congressman will carry a similar message to an Aviation Industry Workforce Development forum in Elizabeth City later in the day. There, Butterfield will be joined by Elizabeth City Mayor Joseph Peel, Telephonics Chief Executive Officer Joseph Battaglia, and Elizabeth City State University Chancellor Dr. Willie Gilchrist, among others. WHO: Congressman G. K. Butterfield, Joseph Battaglia, Kennon Briggs, Wade Denney, Dr. Willie Gilchrist, Wayne Harris, Dr. Deborah Lamm, Mayor Joseph Peel, Dr. Anthony Sharp, Mark Small, Bill Spriggs, Elton Stone, and Michael WilliamsWHAT, WHENand WHERE:Friday, April 139:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m.We Can’t Wait…for Jobs!Edgecombe Community CollegeTarboro, North Carolina 1:30 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.Aviation Industry Workforce Development ForumTelephonics1014 Consolidated RoadElizabeth City, North Carolina###
04.05.2012	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will continue to promote the theme of jobs, economic development, health care access, and education for First District residents throughaseries of public appearances next week. Monday, Butterfield will join a Wayne County JobLink Career Center forum to speak about the challenges of securing employment in the District. During the discussion, Butterfield will highlight new proposals to help displaced workers back to work, including funding for job training for current and prospective trade sector workers.Addressing the importance of economic development in the District, Butterfield will assist in presenting a $2.7 million check to construct two new fire stations in Kinston from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) American Recovery and Reinvestment Act fund. The new stations, which will replace a two-bay building that was built more than 30 years ago, will be centrally located and fitted with a training area, storage space, and sleeping quarters.Wednesday, Butterfield will return to the broader theme of increased job opportunities, health care, and education by engaging in a dialogue with many influential members of the First District’s Latino community at a Latino Listening Session. The meeting is intended to facilitate appreciation and understanding of North Carolina’s fastest growing demographic group and develop solutions to issues affecting the Latino community.On Thursday, Butterfield will join USDA in awarding $2.4 million to improve water access for more than 300 potential water customers in eastern Warren County. The residents across the construction area have recently been troubled with their private ground water wells going dry, and have historically been impacted by very poor water quality. With the funds, Warren County can ensure that its residents will have uninterrupted service and better water quality. In addition, a reliable water source will allow local businesses to now consider eastern Warren County as a potential site for growth.The Congressman’s full public schedule follows.WHAT: Butterfield to Emphasize the Need for Economic Development and Jobs in the First DistrictWHEN and WHERE:Monday, April 910:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m.Workforce Training in a Changing EconomyWayne County JobLink Career Center2006 Wayne Memorial DriveGoldsboro, NC Tuesday, April 1010:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.Kinston Fire Station Check PresentationFire Station #31247 Hill Farm RoadKinston, NC Wednesday, April 11 9:00 a.m. – 9:30 a.m.Latino Listening SessionWilson Public Library249 Nash St WWilson, NC Thursday, April 1210:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m.Warren County Water & Sewer Check PresentationWarren County Library Committee Room119 South Front StreetWarrenton, NC 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.Glen Raven Fabrics TourUS Highway 1 SouthNorlina, NC Friday, April 13 9:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m.We Can’t Wait…for Jobs!Edgecombe Community CollegeTarboro, NC 1:30 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.Aviation Industry Workforce Development ForumTelephonics1014 Consolidated Road,Elizabeth City, NC###
04.02.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) reacted to today’s announcement that the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) would not object to the merger of the two largest pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs), Medco and Express Scripts Incorporate (ESI).“I am deeply disappointed by the FTC’s decision to allow this $29 billion merger to proceed, creating a monolithic PBM with near monopolistic control of the prescription drug sale marketplace,” Butterfield said. “For many months I have warned the FTC to carefully consider this merger’s negative impact on the industry and consumers alike. The FTC’s decision puts community pharmacies, seniors, and sensitive populations at risk of having less access and choice for purchasing needed prescription drugs.”ESI and Medco announced a $29 billion merger agreement in July 2011. The combined company would have more than 155 million American customers—creating a virtual monopoly that could lead to fewer independent community pharmacies, reduced access to generics and specialized treatments, and fewer options for the consumer.The merger was subject to review by the FTC, which decided on a 3-1 vote not to oppose the merger. FTC Commissioner Julie Brill issued a dissenting statement opposing the decision and expressing concern that the merged company would hurt consumers and the industry. On December 19, 2011, Congressman Butterfield sent a letter to FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz expressing concern over the merger and asking the Commission to carefully review the merger’s impact on community pharmacies and sensitive communities. In January, Butterfield sent a letter to Congresswoman Mary Bono Mack (R-CA), the Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade asking that she hold an immediate hearing to review the impact of the merger.Butterfield is the Ranking Democrat on the Subcommittee.The merger has been challenged in Federal Court. It is believed that several states may bring legal action to prevent the merger.###
04.02.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will emphasize technology innovation, healthcare access, and education during several events in the District this week.On Tuesday, Butterfield will deliver remarks at the Nanotech Commercialization Conference on North Carolina’s thriving Nanotechnology cluster, which is now the third largest in the U.S. On Wednesday, the Congressman will visit DaVita Dialysis Center, a leading provider of kidney care services for patients suffering from kidney failure, to highlight the continuation of innovative programs despite federal budget cuts to health programs that allow home dialysis treatment and prescription delivery. Following his visit to DaVita, Butterfield will present a $350,000 check from the U.S. Department of Agriculture to Henderson Collegiate, a public charter school, to replicate the remarkably successful Knowledge Is Power Program (KIPP) educational model.The Congressman will complete the week on Thursday by attending a Seniors Going Strong meeting and Health Equality Can’t Wait rally. At each event, Butterfield will hear from constituents on healthcare issues affecting seniors and minorities, respectively.Congressman Butterfield’s full calendar follows. WHAT: Butterfield to Promote Technology, Healthcare and Education in the District This WeekWHEN and WHERE:Tuesday, April 36:30 p.m. – 7:30 p.m.:Nanotech Commercialization ConferenceCenter of Innovation for Nanotechnology (COIN) Headquarters303 South Roxboro St., Suite 30Durham, NC Wednesday, April 410:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m.:DaVita Dialysis CenterVance County Dialysis854 S. Beckford DriveHenderson, NC 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.:Henderson Collegiate Check Presentation906 Health Center RoadHenderson, NC Thursday, April 59:00 a.m. – 9:30 a.m.:Healthcare Leadership Council MeetingThe Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield216 NE Nash Street, Suite BWilson, NC 12:30 p.m. – 1:30 p.m.:Seniors Going Strong MeetingJ.E. Thorne Family Life Center1624 Windsor DriveRocky Mount, NC 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.:Health Equality Can’t WaitArmstrong Community Health Education Center1060 Pinehurst DriveRocky Mount, NC Saturday, April 71:00 p.m. – 1:30 p.m.:Eastern North Carolina Civic Group 36th Annual BanquetNew Hope Missionary Baptist ChurchNC Highway 37 NorthReynoldson, NC
03.29.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today issued the following statement on the passage of the Republican budget:“We are recovering from a prolonged recession that has left millions of Americans jobless, in foreclosure, and struggling to provide their families with basic needs. “Solving these problems will require a compromise between Democrats and Republicans that would make investments in areas, such as job training, and help grow the economy while maintaining efforts to reduce our budget deficit. “However, the Republican budget that passed the U.S. House of Representatives today does not represent compromise. In fact, it is the opposite of compromise. It cuts at least $3.3 trillion from low-income programs over the next ten years, increases the defense budget, and reduces taxes to a level that will starve the federal treasury. The Republican budget would end the Medicare guarantee, raise seniors’ health care costs, and ensure that traditional Medicare withers away--undermining the retirement security of millions of America’s seniors.“The Republican budget attacks our economic problems by eroding the social safety nets that sustain seniors and so many in eastern North Carolina. These programs were created so that no one would be denied care because of their age or income level. The Republican budget would break the commitment we made to seniors and low income Americans long ago.“I voted NO on the Republican budget, and YES on the Democratic alternative that protects seniors and low income people across North Carolina. The Democrats’ alternative budget reflects the values of the American people and is based on the fundamental principles of fairness, opportunity, and prosperity for all.”###
03.29.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced that three schools in the First Congressional District will receive a portion of the School Improvement Grants (SIG) awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. Coker-Wimberly Elementary School, Greene Central High School, and Warren County High School, along with other select low-achieving schools throughout the state, will receive a portion of the $14,484,742 grant to help turn them around.“I applaud the Department of Education for investing in our education system by setting aside funding to help states improve student achievement,” Butterfield said. “This money will provide school leaders and teachers throughout North Carolina and in the First District with the resources needed to accomplish the difficult work of improving public education.”SIG are grants to State educational agencies, which then awards subgrants to local educational jurisdictions that demonstrate the greatest need and the strongest commitment to use the funds to substantially raise the achievement of students in their lowest-performing schools.The funds are part of $535 million provided through the fiscal year 2011 budget and made available to all states.###
03.29.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today sent a letter to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood in support of the City of Goldsboro application for Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) IV grant. The City is requesting support for a $14 million project that would make significant functional and aesthetic improvements to the Center Street Streetscape project, and upgrades to Goldsboro Union Station.In his letter, Congressman Butterfield wrote, “TIGER IV support would enable Goldsboro to completely renovate the downtown, expand public transportation capacity to interconnect an entire rural region, and restore historic infrastructure. A recent economic study indicates that the projects would also create or retain 831 jobs in an area facing 8.7 percent unemployment. Investing in Goldsboro will boost the entire eastern North Carolina region to prominence after tough economic challenges.”The full letter of support follows.March 29, 2012 The Honorable Ray LaHoodSecretaryU.S. Department of Transportation1200 New Jersey Avenue, SEWashington, D.C. 20590 Dear Secretary LaHood, I write in support of the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) IV grant application submitted by the City of Goldsboro, North Carolina. Goldsboro recently requested support for a $14 million project that will make functional and aesthetic design improvements to the Center Street Streetscape project, and much needed upgrades to transform Goldsboro Union Station to a multimodal transit hub.The City of Goldsboro is located in eastern North Carolina with a population of 36,000 residents, many of whom belong to military families who serve at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base. Businesses and people have been leaving Goldsboro since the 1960s, causing commerce to shift to the suburbs and creating vacancies and deteriorating infrastructure downtown. Goldsboro serves as the seat of Wayne County, but the City’s downtown is not currently pedestrian- or vehicle-friendly and is hindering economic growth. Since 2006, Goldsboro has promoted a bold plan to improve safety, strengthen infrastructure, and promote commerce, while preserving critical historic and cultural landmarks. In Goldsboro’s TIGER IV application, the city’s project consists of $7 million for the Center Street Streetscape project and $7 million for modernization of Goldsboro Union Station. Goldsboro has already invested $2.5 million in the project and will provide an additional $2.8 million. Therefore, the City is requesting $11.2 million in TIGER IV grant funding. TIGER IV support would enable Goldsboro to completely renovate the downtown, expand public transportation capacity to interconnect an entire rural region, and restore historic infrastructure. A recent economic study indicates that the projects would also create or retain 831 jobs in an area facing 8.7 percent unemployment. Investing in Goldsboro will boost the entire eastern North Carolina region to prominence after tough economic challenges.Because of the economic advantages this project will bring to the region, I ask for your full consideration of Goldsboro’s application. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Dennis Sills of my staff at 202.225.3101. Thank you very much. Very truly yours, G. K. Butterfield Member of Congress###
03.22.2012	WASHINGTON, DC — Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member G. K. Butterfield sent letters to 34 sellers of social apps for Apple Inc.’s mobile devices inquiring about their information collection and use practices. Following recent reports that apps could collect address book information and photos without notice and consent from users of Apple’s mobile devices, the members are seeking to better understand what, if any, information these particular apps gather, what they do with it, and what notice they provide to app users. The members want the information to begin building a fact-based understanding of the privacy and security practices in the app marketplace. The apps were selected for the inquiry based on their inclusion in the “Social Networking” subcategory within the “iPhone Essentials” area of Apple’s App Store. The letters and the complete list of companies are available here.###
03.21.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman (CA-30) and Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today sent a letter to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood urging him to combat odometer fraud by updating the rule governing odometer disclosure requirements.The full text of the letter follows.March 21, 2012 The Honorable Ray LaHoodSecretary United States Department of TransportationU.S. Department of Transportation1200 New Jersey Ave, SEWashington, DC 20590 Dear Secretary LaHood:We are writing to request that you continue your fight to combat odometer fraud by updating the rule governing odometer disclosure requirements.Under current law, a person transferring ownership of a motor vehicle must disclose to the future owner the mileage registered on the odometer. The Secretary is permitted to exempt from that requirement certain classes or categories of vehicles he deems appropriate. Originally, this exemption was granted to vehicles over 25 years old. In 1988, under the Administration of President George H.W. Bush, the Secretary of Transportation expanded this exemption to any vehicle that is over ten years old. Odometer disclosure requirements are invaluable to consumers. These disclosures help consumers understand the condition, safety, reliability, and needed service of a used car and, in turn, help ensure the sale price reflects the true value.Recently, RL Polk, an automotive information and data collection organization, found that the average age of a used car for sale is over 11 years old. This means that used cars of average resale age are not covered by these disclosure requirements when they are sold. The number of cars exempt from the disclosure requirement is likely to expand as the average life of vehicles continues to increase.We recommend that you revise the disclosure requirements rule to remove this ten year exemption or at least consider reinstating the exemption limited to cars over 24 years old, which was in place prior to 1988. If you have any questions regarding this request, contact Michelle Ash with the Energy and Commerce Committee Staff at 202-226-3400.Sincerely, G. K. Butterfield Henry A. WaxmanRanking Member Ranking MemberSubcommittee on Commerce,Manufacturing and Trade###
03.10.2012	WASHINGTON, DC -- Next week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will make a series of stops in North Carolina’s First Congressional District, ranging from meeting with residents opposed to tolls on Interstate 95 (I-95) to a tour of Halifax Regional’s Mammography Center. On Monday, Butterfield will meet with executives from supermarket chain Food Lion to explore ways to bring smaller stores to food desert communities. Tuesday, the Congressman will meet with a group of community leaders and local business owners who are opposed to implementing tolls on I-95. In recognition of National Women’s History Month, and to mark the upcoming second anniversary of the Affordable Care Act, Butterfield will attend a Women’s Listening Session at the Wilson Public Library as well as join local leaders in a tour of the Mammography Suite at Halifax Regional’s Mammography Center. Halifax County has one of the lowest rates of African-American women undergoing routine breast cancer screening. The Congressman’s full public calendar follows. WHAT: Butterfield to Meet with Constituents on Hunger, Interstate Tolling, and Mammography AwarenessWHEN & WHERE:Monday, March 1210:00 a.m. – 10:30 a.m.: Closed Meeting with Food Lion ExecutivesThe Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield216 NE Nash Street, Suite B, Wilson, NC Tuesday, March 1311:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m.:Meeting with I-95 Tolling GroupRoanoke Valley Chamber of Commerce1640 Julian R. Allsbrook Highway, Roanoke Rapids, NC 12:00 p.m. – 1:00 p.m.:Mammography Awareness TourHalifax Regional Medical Center250 Smith Church Road, Roanoke Rapids, NC Wednesday, March 149:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.:Funeral Service for The Honorable Congressman Donald M. PayneMetropolitan Baptist Church149 Springfield Avenue, Newark, NJ Thursday, March 1510:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m.:Intuit Free File Tax PrepSTRIVE1710 West 6th Street, Greenville, NC 11:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m.:Facebook Small Business Boost WorkshopHilton Greenville207 SW Greenville Boulevard, Greenville, NC 2:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m.:Affordable Care Act and National Women’s History Month Women’s Listening SessionWilson Public Library249 Nash Street West, Wilson, NC ###
03.08.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) is urging district residents to take advantage of two free public events on Thursday, March 15 in Greenville. The first event, Intuit’s Free File Tax Service, will allow low- and moderate-income district residents with basic tax returns to receive free tax preparation services from trained tax professionals. The second event, the Facebook Small Business Boost workshop, will walk small business owners through the process of leveraging social media to promote their businesses. Among other things, small business owners will learn how to build a presence on Facebook, reach new customers, and use online tools.“Both of these events will provide district residents with services that will help them save and earn money,” Butterfield said. “It is not often that these kinds of events are offered to the public free of charge. Residents should take full advantage.”Participants interested in the free tax preparation service are asked to bring a photo ID, W-2, IRS forms 1098 and 1099, itemized deductions, tax returns, homebuyer settlement statements, and a blank check for direct deposit. Small business owners who plan to attend the Facebook workshop are asked to RSVP at: https:/on.fb.me/smbboost. WHAT: Butterfield Urges Residents and Small Business Owners to Take Advantage of Free Events, Next ThursdayWHEN and WHERE: Thursday, March 1510:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m.: Free File Tax Preparation Service sponsored by IntuitSTRIVE, 1710 West 6th Street, Greenville, NC 11:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m.:Facebook Small Business Boost Workshop sponsored by U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Federation of Independent Business, and FacebookHilton Greenville, 207 SW Greenville Boulevard, Greenville, NC###
03.07.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Tomorrow the House Veteran Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity will consider Congressman G. K. Butterfield’s (NC-01) bill, H.R. 3483, the Veterans’ Education Equity Act during a hearing. The bill would equalize education funds allotted to veterans for both public and private colleges. Currently, the law caps the education benefit amount for veterans who enroll in private schools at $17,500, but limits the education benefit for those who enroll in public schools to the amount charged for in-state tuition and fees. The Veterans’ Education Equity Act of 2011 would remedy this inequality and allow all veterans to receive up to $17,500 in education benefits.“I thank Economic Opportunity Subcommittee Chairman Marlin Stutzman (IN-03) and Ranking Member Bruce Braley (IA-01) for bringing this important bill before the committee, and for giving me the opportunity to testify,” said Butterfield. “I also thank Representatives Mike McIntyre (NC-07), Walter Jones (NC-03), and Dennis Cardoza (CA-18), the original co-sponsors of this bill, who share the belief that we owe our veterans the opportunity to attend the university of their choice. It is unfair that returning heroes who attend public colleges are forced to pay more out-of-pocket in tuition than veterans who attend private institutions. This inequity has resulted in many veterans dropping out of college or assuming significant financial burdens to attend school. The Veterans’ Education Equity Act would fix this problem by granting veterans equal benefits to attend any public or private institution. I am pleased that the committee will hear this bill.”Following the hearing, the Student Veterans Advocacy Group will hold a press conference at 1:00 p.m. on the North Lawn of the White House in support of the bill. WHAT: Committee on Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity hearing on H.R. 3483, the Veterans’ Education Equity ActWHEN: Thursday, March 8, 2012 at 10:00 a.m.WHERE: Room 334 of the Cannon House Office Building ###
03.06.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement on the passing of his friend and colleague, Congressman Donald M. Payne (NJ):“It is with deep sadness that I express my condolences to the family and staff of Congressman Donald Payne. Donald Payne was an effective leader who tirelessly served the people of New Jersey’s 10th Congressional District, and citizens of the world, for more than twenty years. Donald was known for his unwavering commitment to equal education, human rights, and improving international relations. His influence went beyond his district lines and crossed international borders. With rare courage, he often risked his life to travel to African nations to promote social justice. Above all, Don was more than an accomplished statesman, he was my friend. I pray his extraordinary legacy will give comfort to his loved ones and all of the people whose lives he touched at home and abroad.” ###
03.02.2012	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Representative Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), a military pilot in the Air National Guard, introduced the Veteran Emergency Medical Technician Support Act of 2012, H.R. 4124, legislation that would assist states in streamlining their certification requirements for veterans with military emergency medical technician (EMT) training who want to continue their career as an EMT in the civilian workforce.Currently, many veteran EMTs are required to take classes they have already completed in the military to satisfy the civilian licensure system, needlessly delaying their entry into the civilian workforce. This bipartisan legislation would make the process more efficient and provide grants to states so they can streamline requirements for veterans with military EMT training to become certified civilian EMTs. In doing so, returning veterans will not have to start over at square one in their training and can enter the civilian workforce much sooner."While our unemployment rate continues to linger around 8 percent, it remains particularly too high among our men and women who are returning from Iraq and Afghanistan," said Kinzinger. "Returning veterans deserve a smooth transition from the military into the civilian workforce. As a nation, we must recognize the experience and education that our military-trained EMTs receive. It is inefficient to force these well-trained veterans to start over with basic training in the civilian workforce after aiding wounded military men and women who were severely injured in combat. We must recognize military-trained EMTs skills and education and streamline the process so these honorable men and women can quickly return to work here at home.""Our military men and women receive some of the best technical training in emergency medicine – and they prove their skills on the battlefield every day," said U.S. Representative Lois Capps (D-CA), a co-sponsor of H.R. 4124. "However, when they return home, experienced military medics are often required to begin their training completely over at the most basic level to receive certification for civilian jobs. This keeps our veterans out of the workforce and withholds valuable medical personnel from our communities. I’m so pleased to have joined Congressman Adam Kinzinger in introducing the Veteran Emergency Medical Technician Support Act which would break down the barriers for these qualified veterans, so they can take the skills they used on the battlefield and apply them here at home. Working to improve the economic opportunities for our nation’s veterans is an important issue all sides can come together on, and I hope our legislation is moved quickly through the House.""Our military veterans are often the best trained and most qualified to assume first responder and other high-stakes civilian positions," said U.S. Representative G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), another co-sponsor of H.R. 4124. "Creating additional hurdles for military-trained EMTs to become licensed as a civilian EMT is nonsensical, particularly at a time when the veteran unemployment rate is at its highest. I look forward to working with all my colleagues to remove all obstacles that prevent our veterans from successfully transitioning back to civilian life.""This bill is another commonsense way to help our veterans as they transition from the battlefield back to civilian life," said U.S. Representative Aaron Schock (R-IL), also a co-sponsor of H.R. 4124. "The experience and expertise these medical professionals gained while serving in the Armed Forces shouldn't be discounted; it should be seen as an asset that allows them to responsibly advance through the EMT licensing process so they can move forward with the next phase of their lives without the burden of the added expense and delay that is currently taking place."
02.29.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today sent a letter to United States Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe opposing the proposed closure of the Rocky Mount, North Carolina Mail Processing facility. In his letter, Butterfield wrote that the closure would not only disrupt the livelihood of the 182 employees who work at the facility, but also create a major inconvenience since it services a heavily traveled route.“Closure of the Rocky Mount facility could lead to mail delivery delays, wasted resources, and more miles traveled by trucks that haul the mail,” Butterfield said. In addition, “The United States Postal Service Processing facility in Rocky Mount is a large and vital employer in the community. It is unconscionable that the United States Postal Service would consider eliminating this vital facility in a halfhearted attempt at shoring up their projected $14 billion budget shortfall, particularly considering the high regional unemployment.”Butterfield’s full letter follows.February 29, 2012 The Honorable Patrick DonahoePostmaster GeneralUnited States Postal Service475 L’Enfant Plaza, SWWashington, DC 20260-0010 Dear Postmaster General Donahoe:I am opposed to the proposed closure of the Rocky Mount, North Carolina Mail Processing facility and its consolidation with operations in Raleigh, North Carolina. I am very concerned about the 182 hardworking people who could lose their jobs. Rocky Mount, North Carolina is a strategic crossroads for eastern North Carolina and the Southeastern United States. It is located at the intersection of Interstate 95 and US-64 and is geographically situated to serve points along those heavily traveled routes. Closure of the Rocky Mount facility could lead to mail delivery delays, wasted resources, and more miles traveled by trucks that haul the mail. Rocky Mount’s unemployment rate was 12.9 percent as of December 2011. The United States Postal Service Processing facility is a large and vital employer in the community. It is unconscionable that the United States Postal Service would consider eliminating this vital facility in a halfhearted attempt at shoring up their projected $14 billion budget shortfall, particularly considering the high regional unemployment.While a very small number of postal employees currently employed at the Rocky Mount processing facility may be offered positions at other local post offices, the overwhelming majority of employees will be forced to make a daily round trip of over 120 miles to the Raleigh facility or lose their job. This is unacceptable. The Rocky Mount Processing facility is an institution which has served the region for nearly 42 years and the employees are deeply rooted in the community.I ask that you reconsider the planned closure of the Rocky Mount Processing facility and ask you to take my comments under consideration.Thank you very much. Very truly yours, G. K. Butterfield Member of Congress
02.28.2012	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member G. K. Butterfield sent letters to the Presidents and CEOs of online advertising companies Media Innovation Group, PointRoll, and Vibrant Media regarding a report that they bypassed the privacy settings of Apple Inc.’s Safari Web browser to track users who had intended to block such tracking. The members are asking the companies that are largely unknown to most Americans, but nonetheless reach millions of Internet users, to explain why they delivered code to users’ devices designed to dodge Safari’s default third-party cookie blocking.The full text of the letter follows. February 28, 2012Ms. Cella IrvineChief Executive OfficerVibrant Media Inc.565 5th Avenue, 15th FloorNew York, NY 10017 Dear Ms. Irvine: Earlier this month, the Wall Street Journal revealed that “Google Inc. and other advertising companies have been bypassing the privacy settings of millions of people using Apple Inc.’s [Safari] Web browser . . . tracking the Web-browsing habits of people who intended for that kind of monitoring to be blocked.”[1]Google immediately responded to the revelation, explaining that it used a widely known weakness in Safari’s third-party cookie blocking policy to enable placement of its ‘+1’ button on ads delivered to signed-in Google users who had opted into personalization features.[2] Google also agreed to brief congressional staff on the matter, and did so yesterday, providing additional details and answering questions for House Energy and Commerce Committee staff that reconfirmed this explanation. According to the Wall Street Journal, your company, Vibrant Media, also engaged in similar practices.[3] You have not, however, clearly and thoroughly explained why you delivered code to consumers’ devices to get around Safari’s default blocking of third-party tracking cookies. Unlike Google, your company is far from a household name, so its impact and reach remains invisible to most Americans. But you claim your company is a world leader in advertising that gives marketers the ability to “deliver highly targeted advertisements” that reach “over 250 million unique users per month.”[4]To help us understand your actions, we request that you respond to the following questions:(1) Please clearly and thoroughly explain why you used code designed to circumvent Safari’s blocking of third-party tracking cookies and placed such cookies on the devices of Safari users.(2) When did you start using code designed to circumvent Safari’s blocking of third-party tracking cookies and when did you end this practice.(3) Please list all categories of user and device information collected by and inferred from the tracking cookie (or cookies) you set after circumventing Safari’s third-party tracking cookie blocking and the purposes for which you used that information?(4) How long a period of time was your tracking cookie (or cookies) programmed to collect information about users’ activity before it expired?(5) How long did you or do you store information collected by your tracking cookie (or cookies)?(6) Please provide the name and title of each person involved with the decision to circumvent Safari’s blocking of third-party tracking cookies.(7) Regardless of the browser, do you use any other techniques to track user or device information – including, but not limited to, beacons, device fingerprinting, or flash cookies? If so, please identify all techniques used and for each: (a) list all categories of user and device information collected by and inferred from the technique; (b) the purposes for which you use that information; (c) provide the period of time the technique is designed or programmed to collect information about users’ activity before it expires; and (d) provide the period of time that you store the information collected.(8) Have you ever used code designed to circumvent the blocking by any other browser of third-party tracking cookies?(9) What are your policies regarding sharing of any information collected through any of the online tracking techniques you use? (10) Please describe all notices given to users about your collection and use practices and the manner in which they are delivered.(11) Please list all industry self-regulatory organizations to which you belong. Also, please explain whether you believe your actions to circumvent Safari’s third-party tracking cookie blocking are in compliance with each organization’s code of conduct. Other companies mentioned in the Wall Street Journal article as circumventing the Safari privacy protections are Media Innovation Group and PointRoll.[5] Media Innovation Group is a digital advertising strategy firm that analyzes the effectiveness of advertising campaigns “that reach hundreds of millions of unique users per month.”[6] PointRoll, a digital marketing services company, claims to power “55% of all rich media campaigns online” and serves “over 450 billion impressions for more than two-thirds of the Fortune 500 brands.”[7] We are also writing to them to request similar information. Please provide the information requested in writing no later than March 13, 2012. If you have any questions regarding this request, contact Felipe Mendoza with the Energy and Commerce Committee Staff at 202-226-3400. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Ranking Member G. K. ButterfieldRanking Member Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade cc: The Honorable Jon Leibowitz Chairman, Federal Trade Commission Marc Groman Executive Director & General Counsel, Network Advertising Initiative--------------------------------------------------------------------------------[1] Julia Angwin and Jennifer Valentino-Devries, Google’s iPhone Tracking, The Wall Street Journal (Feb. 17, 2012).[2] Google Press Statement (Feb. 17, 2012).[3] Angwin and Valentino-Devries, Google’s iPhone Tracking.[4] Vibrant Media Inc., About Vibrant (available at www.vibrantmedia.com/about/index.asp).[5] Media Innovation Group is a subsidiary of WPP PLC, the largest communications services firm in the world. WPP has 2,400 offices in 107 countries, including 154 offices in the U.S. Some of its U.S. companies include 24/7 Real Media, Hill+Knowlton Strategies, and the Ogilvy family of advertising, public relations, and public affairs firms. WPP, Who We Are (available at www.wpp.com/wpp/about/whoweare/); WPP, Agency Finder (available at www.wpp.com/wpp/companies/companyresults.htm). PointRoll is part of Gannett, a media and marketing company that “reaches millions of people every day” through its “digital, mobile broadcast and print media” properties. Gannett Co., Who We Are (available at www.gannett.com/section/WHOWEARE&template=cover). [6] Jonathan Mayer, Safari Trackers, Web Policy (Feb. 17, 2012) (available at www.webpolicy.org/2012/02/17/safari-trackers/). [7] PointRoll, About Us (available at www.pointroll.com).
02.28.2012	">WASHINGTON, DC -- Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member G. K. Butterfield sent letters to the Presidents and CEOs of online advertising companies Media Innovation Group, PointRoll, and Vibrant Media regarding a report that they bypassed the privacy settings of Apple Inc.’s Safari Web browser to track users who had intended to block such tracking. The members are asking the companies that are largely unknown to most Americans, but nonetheless reach millions of Internet users, to explain why they delivered code to users’ devices designed to dodge Safari’s default third-party cookie blocking.The full text of the letter follows. February 28, 2012 Ms. Cella IrvineChief Executive OfficerVibrant Media Inc.565 5th Avenue, 15th FloorNew York, NY 10017 Dear Ms. Irvine: Earlier this month, the Wall Street Journal revealed that “Google Inc. and other advertising companies have been bypassing the privacy settings of millions of people using Apple Inc.’s [Safari] Web browser . . . tracking the Web-browsing habits of people who intended for that kind of monitoring to be blocked.”[1]Google immediately responded to the revelation, explaining that it used a widely known weakness in Safari’s third-party cookie blocking policy to enable placement of its ‘+1’ button on ads delivered to signed-in Google users who had opted into personalization features.[2] Google also agreed to brief congressional staff on the matter, and did so yesterday, providing additional details and answering questions for House Energy and Commerce Committee staff that reconfirmed this explanation. According to the Wall Street Journal, your company, Vibrant Media, also engaged in similar practices.[3] You have not, however, clearly and thoroughly explained why you delivered code to consumers’ devices to get around Safari’s default blocking of third-party tracking cookies. Unlike Google, your company is far from a household name, so its impact and reach remains invisible to most Americans. But you claim your company is a world leader in advertising that gives marketers the ability to “deliver highly targeted advertisements” that reach “over 250 million unique users per month.”[4]To help us understand your actions, we request that you respond to the following questions:(1) Please clearly and thoroughly explain why you used code designed to circumvent Safari’s blocking of third-party tracking cookies and placed such cookies on the devices of Safari users.(2) When did you start using code designed to circumvent Safari’s blocking of third-party tracking cookies and when did you end this practice.(3) Please list all categories of user and device information collected by and inferred from the tracking cookie (or cookies) you set after circumventing Safari’s third-party tracking cookie blocking and the purposes for which you used that information?(4) How long a period of time was your tracking cookie (or cookies) programmed to collect information about users’ activity before it expired?(5) How long did you or do you store information collected by your tracking cookie (or cookies)?(6) Please provide the name and title of each person involved with the decision to circumvent Safari’s blocking of third-party tracking cookies.(7) Regardless of the browser, do you use any other techniques to track user or device information – including, but not limited to, beacons, device fingerprinting, or flash cookies? If so, please identify all techniques used and for each: (a) list all categories of user and device information collected by and inferred from the technique; (b) the purposes for which you use that information; (c) provide the period of time the technique is designed or programmed to collect information about users’ activity before it expires; and (d) provide the period of time that you store the information collected.(8) Have you ever used code designed to circumvent the blocking by any other browser of third-party tracking cookies?(9) What are your policies regarding sharing of any information collected through any of the online tracking techniques you use? (10) Please describe all notices given to users about your collection and use practices and the manner in which they are delivered.(11) Please list all industry self-regulatory organizations to which you belong. Also, please explain whether you believe your actions to circumvent Safari’s third-party tracking cookie blocking are in compliance with each organization’s code of conduct. Other companies mentioned in the Wall Street Journal article as circumventing the Safari privacy protections are Media Innovation Group and PointRoll.[5] Media Innovation Group is a digital advertising strategy firm that analyzes the effectiveness of advertising campaigns “that reach hundreds of millions of unique users per month.”[6] PointRoll, a digital marketing services company, claims to power “55% of all rich media campaigns online” and serves “over 450 billion impressions for more than two-thirds of the Fortune 500 brands.”[7] We are also writing to them to request similar information. Please provide the information requested in writing no later than March 13, 2012. If you have any questions regarding this request, contact Felipe Mendoza with the Energy and Commerce Committee Staff at 202-226-3400. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Ranking MemberG. K. ButterfieldRanking MembeSubcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade cc: The Honorable Jon Leibowitz Chairman, Federal Trade Commission Marc Groman Executive Director & General Counsel, Network Advertising Initiative[1] Julia Angwin and Jennifer Valentino-Devries, Google’s iPhone Tracking, The Wall Street Journal (Feb. 17, 2012).[2] Google Press Statement (Feb. 17, 2012).[3] Angwin and Valentino-Devries, Google’s iPhone Tracking.[4] Vibrant Media Inc., About Vibrant (available at www.vibrantmedia.com/about/index.asp).[5] Media Innovation Group is a subsidiary of WPP PLC, the largest communications services firm in the world. WPP has 2,400 offices in 107 countries, including 154 offices in the U.S. Some of its U.S. companies include 24/7 Real Media, Hill+Knowlton Strategies, and the Ogilvy family of advertising, public relations, and public affairs firms. WPP, Who We Are (available at www.wpp.com/wpp/about/whoweare/); WPP, Agency Finder (available at www.wpp.com/wpp/companies/companyresults.htm). PointRoll is part of Gannett, a media and marketing company that “reaches millions of people every day” through its “digital, mobile broadcast and print media” properties. Gannett Co., Who We Are (available at www.gannett.com/section/WHOWEARE&template=cover).[6] Jonathan Mayer, Safari Trackers, Web Policy (Feb. 17, 2012) (available at www.webpolicy.org/2012/02/17/safari-trackers/).[7] PointRoll, About Us (available at www.pointroll.com).
02.28.2012	">">WASHINGTON, DC -- Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member G. K. Butterfield sent letters to the Presidents and CEOs of online advertising companies Media Innovation Group, PointRoll, and Vibrant Media regarding a report that they bypassed the privacy settings of Apple Inc.’s Safari Web browser to track users who had intended to block such tracking. The members are asking the companies that are largely unknown to most Americans, but nonetheless reach millions of Internet users, to explain why they delivered code to users’ devices designed to dodge Safari’s default third-party cookie blocking.The full text of the letter follows. February 28, 2012 Ms. Cella IrvineChief Executive OfficerVibrant Media Inc.565 5th Avenue, 15th FloorNew York, NY 10017 Dear Ms. Irvine: Earlier this month, the Wall Street Journal revealed that “Google Inc. and other advertising companies have been bypassing the privacy settings of millions of people using Apple Inc.’s [Safari] Web browser . . . tracking the Web-browsing habits of people who intended for that kind of monitoring to be blocked.”[1]Google immediately responded to the revelation, explaining that it used a widely known weakness in Safari’s third-party cookie blocking policy to enable placement of its ‘+1’ button on ads delivered to signed-in Google users who had opted into personalization features.[2] Google also agreed to brief congressional staff on the matter, and did so yesterday, providing additional details and answering questions for House Energy and Commerce Committee staff that reconfirmed this explanation. According to the Wall Street Journal, your company, Vibrant Media, also engaged in similar practices.[3] You have not, however, clearly and thoroughly explained why you delivered code to consumers’ devices to get around Safari’s default blocking of third-party tracking cookies. Unlike Google, your company is far from a household name, so its impact and reach remains invisible to most Americans. But you claim your company is a world leader in advertising that gives marketers the ability to “deliver highly targeted advertisements” that reach “over 250 million unique users per month.”[4]To help us understand your actions, we request that you respond to the following questions:(1) Please clearly and thoroughly explain why you used code designed to circumvent Safari’s blocking of third-party tracking cookies and placed such cookies on the devices of Safari users.(2) When did you start using code designed to circumvent Safari’s blocking of third-party tracking cookies and when did you end this practice.(3) Please list all categories of user and device information collected by and inferred from the tracking cookie (or cookies) you set after circumventing Safari’s third-party tracking cookie blocking and the purposes for which you used that information?(4) How long a period of time was your tracking cookie (or cookies) programmed to collect information about users’ activity before it expired?(5) How long did you or do you store information collected by your tracking cookie (or cookies)?(6) Please provide the name and title of each person involved with the decision to circumvent Safari’s blocking of third-party tracking cookies.(7) Regardless of the browser, do you use any other techniques to track user or device information – including, but not limited to, beacons, device fingerprinting, or flash cookies? If so, please identify all techniques used and for each: (a) list all categories of user and device information collected by and inferred from the technique; (b) the purposes for which you use that information; (c) provide the period of time the technique is designed or programmed to collect information about users’ activity before it expires; and (d) provide the period of time that you store the information collected.(8) Have you ever used code designed to circumvent the blocking by any other browser of third-party tracking cookies?(9) What are your policies regarding sharing of any information collected through any of the online tracking techniques you use? (10) Please describe all notices given to users about your collection and use practices and the manner in which they are delivered.(11) Please list all industry self-regulatory organizations to which you belong. Also, please explain whether you believe your actions to circumvent Safari’s third-party tracking cookie blocking are in compliance with each organization’s code of conduct. Other companies mentioned in the Wall Street Journal article as circumventing the Safari privacy protections are Media Innovation Group and PointRoll.[5] Media Innovation Group is a digital advertising strategy firm that analyzes the effectiveness of advertising campaigns “that reach hundreds of millions of unique users per month.”[6] PointRoll, a digital marketing services company, claims to power “55% of all rich media campaigns online” and serves “over 450 billion impressions for more than two-thirds of the Fortune 500 brands.”[7] We are also writing to them to request similar information. Please provide the information requested in writing no later than March 13, 2012. If you have any questions regarding this request, contact Felipe Mendoza with the Energy and Commerce Committee Staff at 202-226-3400. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Ranking MemberG. K. ButterfieldRanking MembeSubcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade cc: The Honorable Jon Leibowitz Chairman, Federal Trade Commission Marc Groman Executive Director & General Counsel, Network Advertising Initiative[1] Julia Angwin and Jennifer Valentino-Devries, Google’s iPhone Tracking, The Wall Street Journal (Feb. 17, 2012).[2] Google Press Statement (Feb. 17, 2012).[3] Angwin and Valentino-Devries, Google’s iPhone Tracking.[4] Vibrant Media Inc., About Vibrant (available at www.vibrantmedia.com/about/index.asp).[5] Media Innovation Group is a subsidiary of WPP PLC, the largest communications services firm in the world. WPP has 2,400 offices in 107 countries, including 154 offices in the U.S. Some of its U.S. companies include 24/7 Real Media, Hill+Knowlton Strategies, and the Ogilvy family of advertising, public relations, and public affairs firms. WPP, Who We Are (available at www.wpp.com/wpp/about/whoweare/); WPP, Agency Finder (available at www.wpp.com/wpp/companies/companyresults.htm). PointRoll is part of Gannett, a media and marketing company that “reaches millions of people every day” through its “digital, mobile broadcast and print media” properties. Gannett Co., Who We Are (available at www.gannett.com/section/WHOWEARE&template=cover).[6] Jonathan Mayer, Safari Trackers, Web Policy (Feb. 17, 2012) (available at www.webpolicy.org/2012/02/17/safari-trackers/).[7] PointRoll, About Us (available at www.pointroll.com).
02.28.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) expressed disappointment with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) announcement Monday to move forward with the closures of more than 100 Farm Service Agency (FSA) offices, including three in Butterfield’s congressional district. Earlier this month, Butterfield wrote a letter to Secretary Tom Vilsack urging him to reconsider the proposal to close FSA offices in Chowan, Hertford, and Warren counties due to the high volume of farmers who rely on their services.“These offices are indispensable to thousands of farmers in my district,” said Butterfield. “While I understand the agency must find ways to reduce spending, shuttering FSA offices in eastern North Carolina will only limit access to USDA services for underserved populations. I am certain that there is a better solution.”Yesterday afternoon Secretary Vilsack informed Congress that in 90 days he will approve the closures of 259 domestic offices, facilities and labs, including 131 FSA offices, and seven foreign offices.The Congressman insists that the current timeframe is insufficient notice to close the offices and guarantee that all farmers in the FSA system are properly notified of the upcoming changes. Butterfield also said he urges Secretary Vilsack to ensure that all FSA employees affected by the announced closures will not be laid off, and instead given the option of being reassigned to a nearby office.###
02.24.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the entire delegation of North Carolina’s representatives in the United States Congress encouraged all Vietnam veterans, their families and friends, and all North Carolinians to reserve their free tickets to the “Vietnam Veterans Homecoming Celebration,” an event to honor veterans of the Vietnam War taking place at Charlotte Motor Speedway and hosted by the USO and the North Carolina Association of Broadcasters, along with Charlotte Motor Speedway. Senators Richard Burr and Kay Hagan and Congressmen G. K. Butterfield, Howard Coble, Rene Ellmers, Virginia Foxx, Walter Jones, Larry Kissell, Patrick McHenry, Mike McIntyre, Brad Miller, Sue Myrick, David Price, Heath Shuler, and Mel Watt joined together to support this important, long-overdue event honoring the brave Americans who served and sacrificed in the Vietnam War and never received the recognition and gratitude they deserved upon returning home. Information on the event and quotes from members of the delegation can be found below. WHAT: Vietnam Veterans Homecoming Celebration 2012WHEN: March 31, 2012 (Doors open at 9am, opening ceremonies begin at 11am)WHERE: Charlotte Motor SpeedwayENTERTAINMENT: The Charlie Daniels Band (Headline), George Clinton, Rockie Lynne, The 2nd Marine Aircraft Wing Band, The 82nd Airborne Division “All-American” Chorus, Master of Ceremonies - Chris NoelMILITARY EXHIBITS, DISPLAYS & DEMONSTRATIONS: U.S. Army Golden Knights parachute demonstration, U.S. Air Force Flyover, Flag Story from U.S. Army Color Guard and Flag Troops, Various military static displays from supporting NC military units and recruitersRESERVE FREE TICKETS: For more information and to reserve free tickets, visit www.CharlotteMotorSpeedway.com/WelcomeHome. Senator Richard Burr - “On March 31, our nations Vietnam veterans will gather in Charlotte for the inaugural Vietnam Veterans Homecoming Celebration. This grand tribute applauding the courageous efforts of our Vietnam veterans and acknowledging the tremendous sacrifices they made to defend the freedoms we hold so dear is long overdue. We owe it to our Vietnam veterans to thank them for their dedication, commemorate their service, and remember those who made the ultimate sacrifice. I am proud that the inaugural tribute will take place in North Carolina, and hope that this celebration will be the first of many in the years to come.”Senator Kay Hagan – “I am proud to pay tribute to the brave men and women who served in Vietnam. More than 58,000 troops never returned from Vietnam and those who came back did not receive the recognition they so deserved. My husband is a Vietnam veteran, and I'm aware of the trials that many of these men and women and their families endured on their return to the States. We all owe them a huge debt of gratitude and I'm so proud that the inaugural "Vietnam Veterans Homecoming Celebration" is taking place in Charlotte to honor these heroes."Rep. G. K. Butterfield – “As we celebrate Vietnam Veterans on this great occasion, let us not forget some 1,600 North Carolinians who lost their lives in battle. This Homecoming gives us the chance to appropriately recognize all who bravely served.”Rep. Howard Coble – “I am thrilled that North Carolina will be the site of a celebration that is long overdue and much appreciated. It is well past the time that we honor those who served our nation so admirably in Vietnam. I hope many veterans will attend so we can properly honor their service to our country.”Rep. Virginia Foxx - "It is always right to show honor and respect to those who have served in our nation's military. The Vietnam Homecoming Celebration is a great occasion to pause and remember those who served, and be thankful for their commitment to our country," Rep. Larry Kissell – "North Carolina is home to so many folks who served in Vietnam. It is so fitting that we would have this long overdue recognition here. I'm so proud it is taking place in my district at the Charlotte Motor Speedway."Rep. Patrick McHenry - "The Vietnam Veterans Homecoming promises to be a great event for our service members and their families. Our veterans deserve the best care available and this event helps deliver on that promise, with excellent entertainment thrown in to thank them for their sacrifice. There’s no better place to hold an event like this than North Carolina and Charlotte Motor Speedway."Rep. Mike McIntyre - “This Vietnam Veterans Homecoming is a chance to remember and respect the courage and character of those who served bravely in Vietnam. Let us never forget those that sacrificed so that we all may live free. God bless this special day and the men and women who served us all.”Rep. Brad Miller – “This Homecoming is a chance to pause and remember the noble service and high sacrifices of those who have worn our nation’s uniform. It is a day of remembrance, rededication and a reminder that our nation should avoid the mistake of a generation ago by confusing politics with military service.”Rep. Sue Myrick - "I'm grateful to the people who have worked so hard to honor our veterans and their families through this long overdue homecoming celebration. While we can never repay the debt of the sacrifices made by our men and women in uniform, this is a way of saying thank you to the Vietnam Veterans both in our state and across the country." # # #
02.23.2012	WASHINGTON, DC — Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member G. K. Butterfield sent a letter to Grindr and Blendr Founder and CEO Joel Simkhai regarding a recent report of a data security breach in which users’ accounts were hijacked by a hacker, putting them at risk for exposure of personal information such as chats, photos, and current location. The members wrote, “Every online service that asks its users to trust it with the transmission or collection of their information – whether it is a social network, a dating service, a retailer, or a financial institution – has an obligation to its customers to properly secure that information. Ensuring adequate security for users’ information is an essential element of protecting their privacy.” The full text of the letter is below. February 23, 2012 Joel SimkhaiFounder and CEOGrindr LLC and Blendr LLC6725 Sunset Blvd., Ste. #430Los Angeles, CA 90028 Dear Mr. Simkhai: On January 20, 2012, the Sydney Morning Herald reported that a hacker breached the accounts of Grindr users in Australia. According to the report, the hacker was able to “log in as another user, impersonate that user, chat and send photos on their behalf.”[1] In addition, a security expert who replicated the breach for the newspaper asserted that both of your mobile location-based social networking apps – Grindr and Blendr – have “‘no real security’ and were ‘poorly designed.’”[2] As the company boasts, Grindr is “the largest all male location-based mobile network tool”[3]with more than three million users in 192 countries, including more than 800,000 users in the United States.[4] Blendr, a similar social networking mobile application targeting a broader audience, was launched in September 2011.[5] Much of the debate about data security in Congress has focused on the harm of identity theft, which is generally understood to involve the unauthorized use of certain narrow types of personally identifying information – like a social security number or financial account numbers. Some members of Congress have argued that only these types of data need to be secured. However, the failure by online services to secure chats, location information, photographs, and other information people would want to keep private also could lead to economic harms as well as reputational harms, so we believe such information should also be protected. This incident raises questions about the steps your company takes to protect the privacy and security of your users’ information. The web pages containing the privacy policies for both of your mobile apps claim that they are “all about your privacy.”[6] Yet an independent security expert found there were security vulnerabilities in your apps that could have been mitigated, but were not.[7] Every online service that asks its users to trust it with the transmission or collection of their information – whether it is a social network, a dating service, a retailer, or a financial institution – has an obligation to its customers to properly secure that information. Ensuring adequate security for users’ information is an essential element of protecting their privacy. In order to more fully understand this incident, and to help inform Congress’s ongoing efforts to develop data security legislation, we request that you answer the following questions. As you develop your responses to this request, we want to be clear: Our only interest is in assessing the security measures taken by online services to guard their users’ information. We are not asking for, nor are we interested in, any personally identifiable information about your users. That information is personal and private, and our efforts are aimed at keeping it that way. 1. According to the Sydney Morning Herald report, you initially claimed that Grindr had “never experienced a ‘major breach’ in which a large portion of users were affected” and that you were not aware of the chat function vulnerability. However, in a subsequent conservation with the newspaper you said you were “aware of some vulnerabilities.”a. Have Grindr, Grindr Xtra, or Blendr experienced any other breaches of any size in which any user provided information – including, but not limited to, chats, photos, linked social network accounts, and profile information – was compromised? If so, for each breach, how many users were affected? Where were they located? What information was compromised? How and when were affected users notified of the breach?b. Did you provide any direct notice to any of your users regarding the breach reported by the Sydney Morning Herald? If so, how and when? If not, why not?c. What Grindr, Grindr Xtra, or Blendr security vulnerabilities were you or your staff aware of at the time of your interview with the Sydney Morning Herald? When and how did you or your staff become aware of each of these vulnerabilities? What steps had you taken at that time to deal with the vulnerabilities of which you and your staff were aware?d. What security features were included in the versions of Grindr, Grindr Xtra, and Blendr that preceded the latest updates? 2. According to the report, Grindr uses a personalized string of numbers known as a hash to log in users, rather than requiring a username and password. Your privacy policy states: “In order for Grindr to work with your iPhone, iPod touch, iPad, BlackBerry, or other mobile device, we must collect your Device Identification Code.” a. Do you access, transmit, or collect any other information from or about a user’s device – including, but not limited to, the user’s phone number, email account information, or address book?b. Is the hash used to log in any of your users the Unique Device Identifier (UDID); a Media Access Control (MAC) address; any other identifier unique to a specific device? If so, do you use any type of encryption or take other measures to protect against privacy and security vulnerabilities known to be associated with the use of device-specific identifiers to log in mobile app users?[8]c. Do you store UDIDs, MAC addresses, or any other identifier unique to a specific device with any other information provided by users – including, but not limited to, photos, linked social network accounts, and other user provided profile information? If so, what information?d. With the release of iOS 5.0, Apple Inc. began phasing out access by app developers to UDIDs, and some reports suggest that more recently the company has started reaching out to some developers to hasten this phase out.[9] Please explain what steps you have taken to phase out the use of UDIDs, MAC addresses, or any other identifier unique to a specific device.e. Do the latest versions of Grindr, Grindr Xtra, and Blendr continue to rely on hash to log in users? If so, please explain why you use hash to log in users rather than requiring a username and password. Also, what additional security enhancements have you implemented to protect users from vulnerabilities associated with this log in method?f. Have you at any time conducted any assessment of the security risks to your users’ accounts and information from relying on hash to log in users? Have you at any time conducted a security risk assessment regarding any features of your app? g. Have you ever conducted a privacy impact assessment concerning your information collection and use practices?3. You claimed that you would rush to release a security update for your applications in a “few days.” However, it took you up to three weeks to release those updates. a. Please explain why it took you two weeks to release the security updates for Grindr and Grindr Xtra, and three weeks for Blendr, when a security expert claimed that securing your application “wouldn’t be too hard.”b. What measures did you take to protect your users’ information from breach in the period between when the Australian breach became public on January 20 and when you released the security updates on February 3 for Grindr and Grindr Xtra and February 10 for Blendr? c. Please describe each security enhancement included in the latest versions of Grindr, Grindr Xtra, and Blendr and the vulnerabilities they are meant to address.d. Please explain why you had not included these security features in previous versions of Grindr, Grindr Xtra, and Blendr.e. Does Grindr Xtra, the paid version of your app, include any additional security features not included with the free version? Please provide the information requested in writing no later than March 8, 2012. If you have any questions regarding this request, contact Felipe Mendoza with the Energy and Commerce Committee Staff at 202-226-3400. Sincerely, Henry A. WaxmanRanking Member G.K. ButterfieldRanking MemberSubcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade [1] Ben Grubb, Love Online: 100,000 Grindr Users Exposed in Hack Attack, Sydney Morning Herald (Jan. 20, 2012) (available at www.smh.com.au/technology/security/love-online-100000-grindr-users-exposed-in--hack-attack-20120119-1q7pf.html).[2] Id. [3] Grindr , LLC, What is Grindr?, Grindr.com (accessed Feb. 22, 2012).[4] Grindr Press Release, Grindr Surpasses Three Million Users in 192 Countries (Nov. 3, 2011) .[5] Blendr Press Release, Social Networking Just Got Social with Debut of Blendr (Sept. 8, 2011).[6] Grindr Privacy Policy (available at www.grindr.com/privacy-policy); Blendr Privacy Policy (available at blendr.com/privacy-policy) (accessed Feb. 22, 2012).[7] Grubb, Love Online: 100,000 Grindr Users Exposed in Hack Attack.[8] See Jennifer Valentino-DeVries, Privacy Risk Found on Cellphone Games, Wall Street Journal (Sept. 19, 2011) (available at https:/blogs.wsj.com/digits/2011/09/19/privacy-risk-found-on-cellphone-games/).[9] Kim-Mai Cutler, Apple Steps Up Outreach to Developers Over Moving Away from UDIDs, Inside Mobile Apps (Feb. 16, 2012) (available at www.insidemobileapps.com/2012/02/16/apple-steps-up-outreach-to-developers-over-moving-away-from-udids/). ###
02.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released the following statement on the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the U.S. Capitol Police arrest of Amine el-Khalifi, who reportedly attempted to carry out a suicide attack at the U.S. Capitol: “Today’s arrest of a man who allegedly planned to carry out a suicide bombing and shooting spree at the Capitol is a chilling reminder that we are never far-removed from those who seek to cause us harm. This arrest also underscores the advancements made in intelligence since 9/11 to thwart the actions of violent extremists. I commend the FBI, the Capitol Police, and others whose lengthy investigation and responsiveness undoubtedly saved countless lives.”###
02.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Next week, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) will make several stops to promote small businesses, job growth, healthcare access, and economic development in the region. On Monday, Butterfield will begin the week by co-hosting an event with the Women’s Business Center of North Carolina, Small Business and Technology Development Center, Minority and Women Business Enterprise, and Elizabeth City University to educate minority business owners on tax policies that could help grow their businesses. Next, Butterfield will visit two small businesses in the district, Air Mania and West Fraser Sawmill. The Congressman has been working with Air Mania to obtain job training grants for veterans and ex-offenders.On Tuesday, he will meet with officials from the Duke University Health System to discuss improving healthcare access to low-income and rural communities. While at Duke, Butterfield will also tour the new Duke Cancer Center. The Congressman will end the week by delivering brief remarks on federal job creation efforts at the State of Region hosted by North Carolina’s Northeast Commission. WHAT: Butterfield to Promote Economic Development and Rural Health AccessWHEN and WHERE: Monday, February 2011:30 a.m. – 1:30 p.m.: NCIMED Small Business Tax WorkshopECU Health Science Building1001 East 5th StreetGreenville, NC 3:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m.: Air Mania878 Star RoadGreenville, NC 27834 Tuesday, February 211: 00 p.m. – 1:30 p.m.: Tour of new Duke Cancer Center20 Duke Medicine CircleDurham, NC 27710 Wednesday, February 22 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m.: West Fraser Sawmill 4400 NC Highway 186 EastSeaboard, NC 27876 Friday, February 24 9:30 a.m. -11:00 a.m.: State of Region Northeast CommissionBob Martin Center2900 NC Highway 125Williamston, NC 27892 ###
02.16.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) will make several stops next week in North Carolina’s First Congressional District to discuss diversity, highlight education efforts, and celebrate Black History Month.On Monday, Butterfield will participate in a forumsponsored by the Association of Mexicans in North Carolina (AMEXCAN), with twenty Latino leaders to discuss education, healthcare, economic development, and immigration issues affecting the state’s Latino community. On Wednesday and Thursday, Butterfield will visit several schools. While there, he will meet with Teach For America (TFA) educators and Eastern North Carolina TFA Executive Director Robyn Schryer Fehrman. The Congressman will also instruct students in a short lesson in African-American history in recognition of Black History Month.Butterfield will cap his tour with a book delivery to Greene County Middle School, whose library was destroyed by the tornados that ravaged the state last April. The books were donated through the Library of Congress Surplus Books Program. Since 2008, the program has collected thousands of books for eligible organizations and institutions.WHAT: Butterfield Highlights Education, Diversity, and Black History Month in the DistrictWHEN & WHERE: Monday, February 209:30 a.m. -10:30 a.m. Latino Listening Session East Carolina Heart Institute Conference 115 Heart Drive Greeneville, North Carolina 27834 Wednesday, February 2210:00 a.m.- 11:00 a.m. Teach for America Classroom Visit Plymouth High School 800 East Main Street Plymouth, North Carolina 11:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. Washington County Government Services Tour 9500 Highway 94 North Creswell, North Carolina 27928 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Teach For America Classroom Visit Bertie STEM High School 715 US Highway 13 North Windsor, North Carolina 27983 Thursday February 2310:00 a.m. -11:00 a.m. Teach For American Classroom Visit Northampton West STEM High School 152 Hurricane Drive Gaston, North Carolina 27832 3:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Northampton Memorial Library Visit 207 West Jefferson Street Jackson, North Carolina 27845 ###
02.15.2012	WASHINGTON, DC — Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member G. K. Butterfield sent a letter to Apple CEO Tim Cook regarding recent reports that the social networking app “Path” accessed and collected address book information from consumers without asking for consent. There have been claims that the practice of collecting consumers’ address book contacts without their permission is common and accepted among iOS app developers. This raises questions of whether Apple’s iOS app developer policies and practices adequately protect consumer privacy. The full text of the letter is below. February 15, 2012 Mr. Tim CookChief Executive Officer, Apple Inc.1 Infinite LoopCupertino, CA 95014 Dear Mr. Cook:Last week, independent iOS app developer Arun Thampi blogged about his discovery that the social networking app “Path” was accessing and collecting the contents of his iPhone address book without ever having asked for his consent.[1] The information taken without his permission – or that of the individual contacts who own that information – included full names, phone numbers, and email addresses.[2] Following media coverage of Mr. Thampi’s discovery, Path’s Co-Founder and CEO Dave Morin quickly apologized, promised to delete from Path’s servers all data it had taken from its users’ address books, and announced the release of a new version of Path that would prompt users to opt in to sharing their address book contacts.[3] This incident raises questions about whether Apple’s iOS app developer policies and practices may fall short when it comes to protecting the information of iPhone users and their contacts. The data management section of your iOS developer website states: “iOS has a comprehensive collection of tools and frameworks for storing, accessing, and sharing data. . . . iOS apps even have access to a device’s global data such as contacts in the Address Book, and photos in the Photo Library.”[4]The app store review guidelines section states: “We review every app on the App Store based on a set of technical, content, and design criteria. This review criteria is now available to you in the App Store Review Guidelines.”[5] This same section indicates that the guidelines are available only to registered members of the iOS Developer Program.[6] However, tech blogs following the Path controversy indicate that the iOS App Guidelines require apps to get a user’s permission before “transmit[ting] data about a user”.[7] In spite of this guidance, claims have been made that “there’s a quiet understanding among many iOS app developers that it is acceptable to send a user’s entire address book, without their permission, to remote servers and then store it for future reference. It’s common practice, and many companies likely have your address book stored in their database.”[8] One blogger claims to have conducted a survey of developers of popular iOS apps and found that 13 of 15 had a “contacts database with millions of records” – with one claiming to have a database containing “Mark Zuckerberg's cell phone number, Larry Ellison’s home phone number and Bill Gates’ cell phone number.”[9] The fact that the previous version of Path was able to gain approval for distribution through the Apple iTunes Store despite taking the contents of users’ address books without their permission suggests that there could be some truth to these claims. To more fully understand and assess these claims, we are requesting that you respond to the following questions: Please describe all iOS App Guidelines that concern criteria related to the privacy and security of data that will be accessed or transmitted by an app.Please describe how you determine whether an app meets those criteria.What data do you consider to be “data about a user” that is subject to the requirement that the app obtain the user’s consent before it is transmitted?To the extent not addressed in the response to question 2, please describe how you determine whether an app will transmit “data about a user” and whether the consent requirement has been met.How many iOS apps in the U.S. iTunes Store transmit “data about a user”?Do you consider the contents of the address book to be “data about a user”?Do you consider the contents of the address book to be data of the contact? If not, please explain why not. Please explain how you protect the privacy and security interests of that contact in his or her information.How many iOS apps in the U.S. iTunes Store transmit information from the address book? How many of those ask for the user’s consent before transmitting their contacts’ information?You have built into your devices the ability to turn off in one place the transmission of location information entirely or on an app-by-app basis. Please explain why you have not done the same for address book information. Please provide the information requested no later than February 29, 2012. If you have any questions regarding this request, you can contact Felipe Mendoza with the Energy and Commerce Committee Staff at 202-226-3400. Sincerely, Henry A. WaxmanRanking MemberG.K. ButterfieldRanking MemberSubcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade cc: Dave Morin Path, Co-Founder and CEO[1] Arun Thampi, Path Uploads Your Entire iPhone Address Book to Its Servers, mclov.in (Feb. 8, 2012) (available at https:/mclov.in/2012/02/08/path-uploads-your-entire-address-book-to-their-servers.html).[2] Id. [3] Dave Morin, We Are Sorry, Path Blog (Feb. 8, 2012) (available at https:/blog.path.com/post/17274932484/we-are-sorry).[4] iOS Data Management (available at https:/developer.apple.com/technologies/ios/data-management.html).[5] App Store Review Guidelines (available at https:/developer.apple.com/appstore/guidelines.html).[6] Id. [7] Andrew Couts, Path Privacy Debacle: Is Apple to Blame?, Digital Trends (Feb. 8, 2012) (available at https:/www.digitaltrends.com/mobile/path-privacy-debacle-is-apple-to-blame/). [8] Dustin Curtis, Stealing Your Address Book, dcurtis (available at https:/dcurt.is/stealing-your-address-book). See also Stuart Dredge, Path’s Privacy Problem Poses Questions for all Social Apps, The Guardian (Feb. 9, 2012) (available at https:/www.guardian.co.uk/technology/appsblog/2012/feb/09/path-privacy-apps?newsfeed=true); Maryam Nabi, Story the Week: Path’s Privacy Concerns, Financial Times (Feb. 11, 2012) (available at https:/blogs.ft.com/fttechhub/2012/02/story-the-week-paths-privacy-concerns/#axzz1mH3eQZ2U); Charlie Osborne, iOS Apps: Massive Invasion of User Privacy, ZDNet (Feb. 8, 2012) (available at https:/www.zdnet.com/blog/igeneration/ios-apps-massive-invasion-of-user-privacy/15138). [9] Id.
02.10.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder urging the Department of Justice (DOJ) to maintain its opposition to proposed changes that would make the City of Kinston’s elections nonpartisan. In 2009, Kinston, located in Lenoir County, voted to alter their election procedure by making all city council elections nonpartisan. Butterfield believes nonpartisan elections in Kinston would reduce Black voters’ ability to elect their candidate of choice. Since Lenoir County is subject to Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, any change to its election process must be precleared by the DOJ. The DOJ originally opposed changes to Kinston’s city council election procedure. However, the agency recently announced that it was reconsidering its 2009 decision. “In Assistant Attorney General Perez’s letter, in referencing the November 2011 elections, he acknowledged that ‘black voters in Kinston elected their candidates of choice to a majority of the seats on the Kinston City Council for the first time in modern times’”, wrote Butterfield. “The impact of DOJ’s reversal would destroy these modest victories, as they are fragile at best. DOJ’s decision to remove the protection of Section 5 preclearance when it is just beginning to appear to take make a difference is disappointing and shortsighted.”Butterfield’s full letter to Attorney General Holder follows.February 10, 2012 The Honorable Eric HolderAttorney General of the United StatesU.S. Department of Justice950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Holder:I urge the Department of Justice (DOJ) to maintain its original objection to the proposed change to nonpartisan elections for the City of Kinston, North Carolina. In 2009, the City of Kinston, located in Lenoir County, voted to alter their city council election procedure by making the race nonpartisan. As Lenoir County is a covered jurisdiction under Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, any change to election procedure is subject to DOJ review and preclearance. DOJ originally opposed the decision.On August 17, 2009, Loretta King, then Acting Assistant Attorney General, wrote to the City of Kinston, objecting to the proposed change for the following reasons:“…the city has not sustained its burden of showing that the proposed changes do not have a retrogressive effect,” a requirement for Section 5 preclearance. “Removing the partisan cue in municipal elections will, in all likelihood, eliminate the single factor that allows black candidates to be elected to office.” Unfortunately, DOJ recently announced that it was reconsidering the aforementioned 2009 decision in light of a request for preclearance to make Lenoir County Board of Education elections nonpartisan. According to a January 30, 2012 letter from Assistant Attorney General Thomas E. Perez, DOJ found that, “there may ‘have been a substantial change in operative fact’” sufficient to compel the DOJ to withdraw its initial objection, based on Lenoir County demographic data accompanying the Board of Education request. However, conflating the county and city electorates as equal would be a grave mistake, with dire consequences for Black voters in Kinston, as the Lenoir County data DOJ used in its decision-making process was from a dramatically different electorate and contest.In Assistant Attorney General Perez’s letter, in referencing the November 2011 elections, he acknowledged that “black voters in Kinston elected their candidates of choice to a majority of the seats on the Kinston City Council for the first time in modern times.” (emphasis added). The impact of DOJ’s reversal would destroy these modest victories, as they are fragile at best.DOJ’s decision to remove the protection of Section 5 preclearance when it is just beginning to appear to take make a difference is disappointing and shortsighted. As the elections referenced in this letter only took place last November, there is no data available to determine whether this achievement was anomalous or whether it will be repeated in subsequent electoral contests, leading me to conclude that the “change in operative fact” DOJ is relying on is far less than “substantial”.I request that the Department of Justice maintain its original position with respect to the City of Kinston’s proposed change to nonpartisan City Council elections. I firmly believe the partisan nature of these elections is instrumental to ensuring that minority voters are and will continue to be able to elect the candidate of their choice. Thank you very much.Very truly yours, G. K. ButterfieldMember of Congress
02.09.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) sent a letter to U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack opposing the proposed closures of several U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Farm Service Agency (FSA) offices in North Carolina. As part of an effort to cut its budget, the USDA released a proposal in January suggesting the closure of a number of FSA offices, including those in Chowan, Hertford and Warren counties, which provides critical access to USDA services for hundreds of farmers, many of them African-American.Mr. Butterfield wrote, “Each of these FSA offices serves counties with diverse populations. Hertford and Warren are both majority African American counties, and Chowan is a 35 percent African American county. As you know, USDA’s relationship with black farmers has been fraught as a result of historical discrimination, especially within FSA programs. I applaud this Administration’s efforts to confront these longstanding discrimination issues. However, eliminating FSA offices in these counties will severely limit access to USDA services for black farmers in eastern North Carolina, which is a step in the wrong direction.”The full text of the letter to Secretary Vilsack is below. February 9, 2012The Honorable Thomas VilsackSecretaryU.S. Department of Agriculture1400 Independence Avenue, S.W.Washington, DC 20250 Dear Secretary Vilsack:I strongly oppose the proposed consolidation of several U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Farm Service Agency (FSA) offices in North Carolina. In particular, I bring to your attention three county offices targeted for closure in the First Congressional District: Chowan, Hertford and Warren. I urge you to reconsider these proposed closures and find other options for budgetary savings. These offices provide critical access to USDA services for hundreds of farmers, many of them African-American.In the “Blueprint for Stronger Service” released January 10, 2012, USDA proposed that the Chowan County FSA would be consolidated into Perquimans County, Hertford County FSA into Gates County, and Warren County FSA into Vance County. Farmers in these targeted counties rely heavily on the services and loans provided by USDA at their local FSA office. These are large rural counties whose primary economic driver is agriculture. Combined, these offices provide services to over 2,000 farms. Moreover, the FSA offices in these counties provide a combined $22 million in annual benefits to North Carolina famers, at an annual cost of just three-quarters of a million dollars, making them three of the most efficient offices in the state. Farmers visit these offices upwards of ten times annually, and these offices are often the only way for them to navigate an otherwise unwieldy bureaucracy. Additionally, these FSAs frequently house the USDA Natural Resource Conservation Services, providing even greater access to valuable services to farmers and landowners. Closing county offices will only make accessing these services more difficult. Each of these FSA offices serves counties with diverse populations. Hertford and Warren are both majority African American counties, and Chowan is a 35 percent African American county. As you know, USDA’s relationship with black farmers has been fraught as a result of historical discrimination, especially within FSA programs. I applaud this Administration’s efforts to confront these longstanding discrimination issues. However, eliminating FSA offices in these counties will severely limit access to USDA services for black farmers in eastern North Carolina, which is a step in the wrong direction. I understand that you must streamline USDA to comply with draconian budget cuts championed by Republicans in Congress. This is neither an easy nor enviable task. However, I ask that you carefully consider the consequences of eliminating these FSA offices as a component of your cost-cutting efforts. Therefore, I urge you to reconsider your proposed closure of the FSA offices in Chowan, Hertford, and Warren counties. They are indispensable to the farmers who depend upon them. Closing the offices would only limit access for underserved populations. I am open to working with you to identify alternative cost-savings within USDA in lieu of the savings that would be achieved by closing these offices. I look forward to a response before any final decision is made.Thank you very much. Very truly yours, G. K. ButterfieldMember of Congress
02.03.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) took to the House Floor for a second time in a week to speak out against a Republican proposal in the conference committee charged with finding a way to extend the payroll tax cut through 2012. The conferees have been at odds over a proposal that would require unemployed Americans to have a high school diploma or be enrolled in an equivalent program to receive unemployment insurance benefits.“To require people, who would otherwise be eligible for unemployment benefits, to now either have a high school diploma or be enrolled in a G.E.D. program is discriminatory and despicable,” said Butterfield. “Adult education might be useful, but is largely unattainable due to significant cuts to adult education and job training programs. Creating an education mandate as a condition of eligibility to receive unemployment insurance benefits is punitive, misguided, and particularly egregious—even by current Republican standards.”Butterfield’s floor statement is below. Statement by Congressman G. K. Butterfield on Unemployment BenefitsMr. Speaker. I rise today in outrage of House and Senate Republican conferees for attempting to include an education requirement as a condition to receive unemployment insurance benefits. To require people, who would otherwise be eligible for unemployment benefits, to now either have a high school diploma or be enrolled in a G.E.D. program is discriminatory and despicable.Adding contingencies to this crucial relief does nothing to create jobs or address the real causes of unemployment. It is a difficult time to be unemployed in America, but Republicans seem particularly determined to make it even more difficult by kicking the unemployed while they are down.With less than a month to craft a long-term payroll tax measure, I urge Republican conferees to stop obstructing the process by insisting on distracting proposals that are only meant to score political points. I am strongly opposed to any education requirement to receive unemployment benefits, and I suggest my colleagues to do the same. ###
02.02.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) today called retired Judge A. Leon Stanback, Jr. to congratulate him on his recent appointment by Governor Bev Perdue to serve as interim District Attorney for Durham County. Judge Stanback was asked to serve until the controversy involving the county’s current District Attorney is resolved. “I have known Leon Stanback for more than 45 years, dating back to when we both attended North Carolina Central University,” said Butterfield. “Judge Stanback is a very capable individual who understands the totality of the criminal justice system. I have no doubt that he will be a valuable asset to the county and city of Durham. Governor Perdue could not have made a better choice.”Judge Stanback worked in several notable capacities within the criminal justice system during his long and distinguished legal career. He served as an Assistant District Attorney in Guilford County, a defense attorney, and as a member of the North Carolina Parole Commission before being elected as a Superior Court judge for Durham County. Judge Stanback served on the bench for twenty years before retiring in 2009.###
01.31.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) applauded the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for taking steps today to reform and improve the Lifeline program, which ensures the availability of affordable telephone and communication services to low-income Americans. Some of the changes the FCC announced today include making broadband services available to all low-income Americans and increasing digital literacy at libraries and schools. “In November alone, more than 500,000 North Carolinians used Lifeline’s telephone service to communicate with family, receive help during an emergency, and secure employment,” said Butterfield. “I am pleased the FCC recognizes the importance of this program, and will work to modernize and expand its services to economically disadvantaged citizens.”Last week, Butterfield sent a letter to FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski asking the Commission to preserve and strengthen the program. The letter, co-authored by Congressmen Alcee Hastings (FL-23) and Ted Deutsch (FL-19), was issued in anticipation of today’s FCC rulemaking hearing on the future of the program. In the letter, the Members urged Chairman Genachowski to curb fraud and modernize the program while keeping costs down for participants.###
01.31.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), Ranking Member of the House Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee, and his subcommittee colleagues Representatives Henry Waxman, John Dingell, Edolphus Towns, Bobby Rush, and Charles Gonzalez today sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell urging the confirmation of Marietta S. Robison. Last week, President Obama nominated Ms. Robinson to serve as Commissioner on the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC).The members wrote, “…since October 2010, the CPSC has been operating without a full complement of Commissioners. The CPSC cannot address its critical challenges with only four of the five Commissioners in place. The American people deserve strong protections for the products they use every day. The nomination of Ms. Robinson confirms President Obama’s confidence in her ability to provide valuable insights to the CPSC.”The full text of the letter follows.January 31, 2012 The Honorable Harry ReidSenate Majority Leader522 Hart Senate Office BuildingWashington, DC 20510 The Honorable Mitch McConnellSenate Minority Leader317 Russell Office BuildingWashington, DC 20510 Dear Leaders Reid and McConnell: On January 23, 2012, President Barack Obama nominated Marietta S. Robinson to serve as Commissioner on the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC). We urge you to proceed expeditiously with the nomination process of Ms. Robinson so that the CPSC can resume carrying out its very important mission of protecting consumers “against unreasonable risks of injuries associated with consumer products.” The CPSC conducts important oversight over products including household appliances, toys, furniture, fixtures, grills and pools. CPSC improved infant cribs, bath seats, and walker standards, and enhanced consumers’ ability to learn quickly about product recalls. The CPSC has a direct impact on the lives of Americans by ensuring that their everyday products are safe. However, since October 2010, the CPSC has been operating without a full complement of Commissioners. The CPSC cannot address its critical challenges with only four of the five Commissioners in place. The American people deserve strong protections for the products they use every day. The nomination of Ms. Robinson confirms President Obama’s confidence in her ability to provide valuable insights to the CPSC. We ask you to quickly confirm Marietta Robinson for Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission. We look forward to working with Ms. Robinson and stand ready to work with the full Commission on important matters involving consumer product safety. Thank you very much. Very truly yours, G. K. Butterfield Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Henry A. Waxman Ranking Member, Committee on Energy and Commerce John D. DingellChairman Emeritus, Committee on Energy and Commerce Edolphus Towns Member of Congress Bobby Rush Member of Congress Charles GonzalezMember of Congress cc: Senator John Rockefeller Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison###
01.26.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) awarding of $2.8 million in grants to seven airports throughout eastern North Carolina. The grants were awarded to make several critical upgrades to Martin County Airport, Northeastern Regional Airport, Tarboro-Edgecombe Airport, Tri-County Airport and Warren Field. In addition, the grant funds will be used to remove runway obstruction at Oxford-Henderson Airport and to expand the runway at Plymouth Municipal Airport. “This grant comes at a time when shovel-ready jobs are needed to put people back to work,” Butterfield said. “These funds will improve the accessibility, safety, and service for aviation passengers in eastern North Carolina. I congratulate the grant recipients for their vision to upgrade these airports and I am pleased that NCDOT has shown commitment to improving air travel in rural communities.” The grants are made possible by the Airport Improvement Program (AIP) administered by the FAA. AIP grants are provided directly to NCDOT by the FAA, where they are subsequently assigned to high-priority projects and matched with state and local funds. Congressman Butterfield voted for the AIP in November of 2011.Yesterday, Butterfield supported a short-term extension to authorize funding for the FAA through February 17, 2012. The extension provides time for the House and Senate to reconcile two different bills passed by each chamber last year. “Congress must not hesitate to pass a clean, fully funded, long-term extension of FAA programs, which will create jobs, increase safety, and improve infrastructure at rural airports like those in eastern North Carolina.”###
01.26.2012	WASHINGTON, DC — Today Representatives Henry A. Waxman, Cliff Stearns, Edward J. Markey, Joe Barton, Diana DeGette, Marsha Blackburn, G. K. Butterfield, and Jackie Speier sent a letter to Google CEO Larry Page to request information on Google’s new privacy policy, which allows sharing of consumer data among nearly all of Google’s products and services. This decision raises concerns about whether consumers can opt-out of this new data sharing system and whether the policy will provide adequate protections of consumers’ privacy rights. The members wrote, “We believe that consumers should have the ability to opt out of data collection when they are not comfortable with a company’s terms of service and that ability to exercise that choice should be simple and straightforward.”The full text of the letter is available online here. ###
01.25.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) will lead a discussion on race during the Search for Common Ground and The Faith & Politics Institute’s Congressional Conversation on Race forum in Rocky Mount, N.C. on Monday. The upcoming Conversation on Race is the second forum in a national series which seeks to improve race relations beyond the traditional topics of discrimination. The conversation will assemble a diverse group of key constituents to engage in a candid, solution-oriented dialogue on race relations in North Carolina’s First Congressional District. Among others, Butterfield will be joined by Rocky Mount City Manager Charles Penny, Phoenix Historical Society Vice President James Wrenn, and American Red Cross Twin Rivers Chapter Vice-Chair Mae Parker. “Issues of race still permeate almost every facet of our lives,” said Butterfield. “Taking part in an open and honest dialogue about this sensitive topic is the first step toward moving past race and building a community in which peoples’ differences are embraced and not rejected.”Since 1982, the Search for Common Ground has grown into a leading international non-profit organization that works to facilitate helpful dialogue between diverse groups of people and organizations. With programs in more than 50 countries, the mission of the organization is to transform the way the world deals with conflict, decision-making, and power.For the past 20 years The Faith & Politics Institute has worked to engage Members of Congress, congressional staff and their constituents in bipartisan, interfaith dialogues. Through a series of programs, the organization’s mission is to advance reflective leadership amongst lawmakers to bridge divides that arise in a thriving democracy.For additional information and/or to RSVP call Jeanné Isler at, (202) 777-2229 or email, nwhalen@sfcg.org. WHO: Congressman G. K. Butterfield, Search for Common Ground, The Faith & Politics Institute, and invited guests.WHAT: Congressional Conversation on RaceWHEN: Monday, January 30, 9:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m.WHERE: Booker T. Theater, 170 West Thomas Street, Rocky Mount, N.C. 27804###
01.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) is pleased that Jason Jowers, Durham Public Schools’ Teacher of the Year, has agreed to be his guest on Tuesday, January 24, at President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address. Butterfield, a longtime advocate of education, sent a formal invitation to Jowers after learning of his career accomplishments, which include recently being selected as Assistant Principal and Dean of Students at Hillside High School.“I am happy to have Mr. Jason Jowers join me for this occasion,” said Butterfield. “President Obama has made education a top priority of his administration. Mr. Jowers, and educators like him, represent an integral piece of the plan to transform America’s education system into one of the best in the world.”Jowers received both an athletic scholarship and a Teaching Fellows scholarship to attend North Carolina Central University. After graduating in 2007, he began teaching at the Southern School of Engineering in Durham. After only four years of teaching, he was named Teacher of the Year.While in Washington, Jowers and his wife, Monique, will meet with Congressman Butterfield and his staff, take a tour of the U.S. Capitol, and have dinner with the Congressman before attending the State of the Union.###
01.19.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Ranking Member of the House Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee, today sent a letter to Subcommittee Chairman Mary Bono Mack (R-CA) requesting a hearing to review the potential impact of a proposed merger between Express Scripts Inc. (ESI) and Medco Health Solutions Inc., two of the nation’s largest pharmacy benefit management (PBM) companies. In his letter Butterfield wrote, “Given the enormity of the proposed merger and its potential to threaten fair and adequate access to health care and pharmacy services for all Americans, our Subcommittee should carefully examine its true impact on consumers. For example, we should explore the claims that this merger will be able to generate savings for consumers.”In December, Butterfield wrote to Federal Trade Commission Chairman Jon Leibowitz expressing similar concerns regarding this merger, and urged Leibowitz to take careful consideration of the merger’s impacts on sensitive populations. Butterfield said, “Pharmacy Benefit Managers have long touted their ability to generate savings for consumers. However, I question the savings alleged by ESI and Medco, and have only heard anecdotal evidence of the decrease in prescriptions or health care premiums. In fact, many have expressed that the opposite is true. I fear that giving a consolidated PBM even greater market power could potentially worsen this already troublesome situation.”The full text of the letter to Bono Mack is below.--January 19, 2012The Honorable Mary Bono MackChairmanHouse Committee on Energy and CommerceSubcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade2123 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Bono Mack: In July 2011, Express Scripts Inc. and Medco Health Solutions Inc., two of the largest pharmacy benefit management (PBM) companies, announced a merger agreement. The combined company will control one-third of the total PBM market share. Because the Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade (CMT), which you chair, has jurisdiction over consumer protection and competitiveness, I urge you to hold a hearing to review the impacts of this merger.Given the enormity of the proposed merger and its potential to threaten fair and adequate access to health care and pharmacy services for all Americans, our Subcommittee should carefully examine its true impact on consumers. For example, we should explore the claims that this merger will be able to generate savings for consumers. Also, community pharmacists have stated that “this merger would further disrupt this marketplace, to the detriment of patients, true competition, and lower prices.” Local pharmacists play an integral and important role in Eastern North Carolina, where they are often intimately connected with the health care of their customers and my constituents. I would be troubled if this merger impacted the level of service or damaged the current system of pharmacy delivery of drug and drug care services.I am aware that the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is currently reviewing this proposed PBM merger. In fact, in a letter dated December 19, 2011 (attached), I wrote to FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz expressing my concerns regarding this merger, and urging him to take careful consideration of the merger’s impacts on sensitive populations. However, just as a Senate Committee was able to hold a recent hearing on this matter, it is appropriate for a House Committee to do the same even though the matter pending before the FTC.Low-income, rural, and minority populations already struggle with access to affordable much needed prescriptions medications. Given that this merger will affect the lives of millions of people and the potential for serious consequences to low-income communities, members of the CMT Subcommittee have a responsibility to thoroughly and carefully examine this proposal. I respectfully request you hold a hearing on the proposed merger of Express Scripts Inc. and Medco Health Solutions Inc. as soon as possible.Thank you for your consideration. Very truly yours, G. K. Butterfield Member of Congress
01.12.2012	Washington, DC— Today Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Rep. Diana DeGette, Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, and Rep. G. K. Butterfield Ranking Member of the Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee called for a Committee hearing on the concerns about consumer privacy raised by the recent Carrier IQ software controversy. In December 2011, a researcher reported that that Carrier IQ diagnostic cell phone software records all keystrokes entered into a mobile device using Google’s Android operating system, including the content of text messages and other sensitive data. In their letter to Chairman Fred Upton and Subcommittee Chairmen Stearns and Bono Mack, the Democratic members wrote that “[d]ata collection and transmission by Carrier IQ and similar software is widespread, and consumers appear to have little knowledge and even less control over the practice,” and that “there continue to be many unanswered questions about the handling of this data and the extent to which its collection, analysis, and transmission pose legitimate privacy concerns for the American public.” The full text of the letter is below and also available online here. January 12, 2012 The Honorable Fred UptonChairmanCommittee on Energy and CommerceU.S. House of Representatives2125 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515 The Honorable Cliff StearnsChairmanSubcommittee on Oversight and InvestigationsU.S. House of Representatives2125 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515 The Honorable Mary Bono MackChairmanSubcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and TradeCommittee on Energy and Commerce2125 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Upton, Chairman Stearns, and Chairman Bono Mack: We are writing to request a hearing on concerns about consumer privacy raised by the recent Carrier IQ controversy. Last month, an analysis of log files on an Android mobile device generated alarm about diagnostic software created by Carrier IQ and the scope of data collected, analyzed, and transmitted by that company and by mobile device manufacturers and wireless carriers.[1] There continue to be many unanswered questions about the handling of this data and the extent to which its collection, analysis, and transmission pose legitimate privacy concerns for the American public. The Committee should examine the facts and potential concerns raised by the Carrier IQ controversy. Carrier IQ software is designed to help mobile device manufacturers and wireless carriers track the performance of their phones and networks. It is present on millions of phones on Sprint, T-Mobile, AT&T, and other networks. Although consumers know little if anything about this software, it could represent a significant threat to privacy. Last month, a researcher published analysis suggesting that Carrier IQ software records all keystrokes entered into a mobile device using Google’s Android operating system, including the content of text messages and other sensitive data.[2] Carrier IQ has confirmed some important information about its software: that it can collect information such as calls made and received, a phone’s physical location, the URLs of websites searched by a device user, and in some cases, internet search queries, and that it can transmit this information back to network providers. Carrier IQ has also admitted that its software collected and transmitted the content of SMS text messages sent by some mobile device users, though the company states that this collection was unintentional and resulted from a bug that it has corrected.[3] Carrier IQ has denied the allegations that its software makes logging of keystrokes possible. Instead, the company argues that the third-party expert analysis revealed a vulnerability in Android devices that resulted in the logging of keystrokes in some phones.[4] If true, these conclusions are also troubling. The Android vulnerability could have left this keystroke information available to any third-party whose software had been installed on a user’s phone. Data collection and transmission by Carrier IQ and similar software is widespread, and consumers appear to have little knowledge and even less control over the practice. By one estimate, Carrier IQ software is present in over 30 million mobile phones in the United States.[5] Wireless carriers and device manufacturers that have not purchased Carrier IQ’s services may be collecting similar data internally, adding to the number of affected consumers. Before last month, even the most technically savvy customers may not have been aware of the presence of this software and of its capacity for transmitting sensitive information. And even if consumers know about the threat to their privacy, they have little practical recourse because most device users have no ability to delete the data collection and transmission software from their phones.[6][7] This controversy raises important questions that the Committee should address: What are the data collection, analysis, and transmission capabilities of Carrier IQ and similar software, and what privacy protections are built into the software? Were Android phones sold with security flaws that could have exacerbated privacy concerns related to Carrier IQ and other software and, if so, have these flaws been addressed? Are carriers and device manufacturers providing sufficient disclosure to consumers about this data collection, analysis, and transmission? Do these practices create privacy and security risks for consumers and, if so, how are carriers and manufacturers addressing them? How much control do mobile device users have over this data collection, analysis, and transmission and should that control be expanded? There is great bipartisan interest in consumer data privacy. This Committee has held four hearings on the issue in this Congress, members on both sides on the aisle have introduced privacy legislation, and the Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade marked up a Republican data privacy proposal, the SAFE Act, last July.[8] We urge you to hold a hearing as expeditiously as possible to explore the answers to questions raised by recent reports about Carrier IQ and data collection, analysis, and transmission in the mobile device market. Sincerely, Henry A. WaxmanRanking MemberDiana DeGetteRanking MemberSubcommittee on Oversight and InvestigationsG. K. ButterfieldRanking MemberSubcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade [1]See, e.g., Senator Franken Asks Carrier IQ for Answers, Washington Post (Dec. 1, 2011);Carrier IQ: We Don’t Record Keystrokes, But Your Phone Does, CNNMoney (Dec. 16, 2011).[2]See Senator Franken Asks Carrier IQ for Answers, Washington Post (Dec. 1, 2011).[3]See Letter from Kelly S. Sharpe, Carrier IQ CFO, to Senator Al Franken (Dec. 14, 2011).[4]See Carrier IQ, Understanding Carrier IQ Technology (Dec. 15, 2011) (available online at https:/carrieriq.com/company/PR.20111212.pdf) (visited Dec. 21, 2011).[5]See Carrier IQ: Which Wireless Carrier Is the Biggest User, Washington Post (Dec. 16, 2011).[6]See Carrier IQ, Understanding Carrier IQ Technology (Dec. 15, 2011) (available online at https:/carrieriq.com/company/PR.20111212.pdf) (visited Dec. 21, 2011).[7]See Carrier IQ, Understanding Carrier IQ Technology (Dec. 15, 2011) (available online at https:/carrieriq.com/company/PR.20111212.pdf) (visited Dec. 21, 2011).[8]See Understanding Consumer Attitudes About Privacy, Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade (112th Cong.) (Oct. 13, 2011); Protecting Children’s Privacy in an Electronic World, Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade (112th Cong.) (Oct. 5, 2011); Internet Privacy and the EU, Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade (112th Cong.) (Sept. 15, 2011); Internet Privacy: The View of the FTC, FCC, and NTIA, Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade and Subcommittee on Communications and Technology (112th Cong.) (July 14, 2011); Markup on H.R.__, the Secure and Fortify Electronic Data Act of 2011, or SAFE Data Act, Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade (112th Cong.) (July 20, 2011).
01.10.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – The Office of G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced Troy G. Clair as its new Chief of Staff. Clair succeeds Tonya Williams who accepted a position as Director of Legislative Affairs in the Office of Vice President Joe Biden.“I am pleased to add Troy as the newest member of my staff,” said Butterfield. “Troy brings a blend of government, political, and non-profit experience that will prove beneficial to seamlessly integrate and enhance my outstanding team. I am confident he will excel in helping to serve the needs of North Carolina’s First Congressional District.”A native of Brooklyn, New York, Troy has held a number of notable positions including Regional Field Organizer for John Kerry for President, Program Coordinator for the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, and Director of Training for Twenty-First Century Democrats. Troy most recently served as an Obama Administration appointee in the U.S. Department of Treasury, where he advised the Assistant Secretary for Financial Stability. Prior to joining Treasury, Troy served as Special Assistant and Deputy Director of External Relations to Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD-05).Troy is a graduate of Duke University. He begins as Chief of Staff this week.###
01.05.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today returned to Washington ready to resume work on the challenges facing the American people. Butterfield’s main concern is passing a full one-year extension of unemployment insurance benefits, Medicare payments for physicians, and the Middle Class Tax Cut, which affects 4.7 million North Carolinians.“House Democrats are here in Washington working hard to reach a bipartisan one-year extension of the payroll tax cut, unemployment benefits, and the Medicare physician fee fix,” said Butterfield. “Republicans, on the other hand, have decided to remain on vacation for a couple more weeks. I cannot remain on vacation when my constituents are depending on us to safeguard their incomes, ensure access to healthcare, and provide them with financial relief. Congress has important work to do. It is time for Republicans to come back to work.”Prior to the December recess, Congress passed a two-month extension of all three benefits, which will expire on February 29 if a full-year agreement is not reached. ###
12.29.2011	WILSON, NC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today issued the following statement on the death of civil rights attorney Romallus Murphy:“It is with deep sadness that I express my condolences to the family of my good friend, Romallus Murphy. A heralded intellectual and social justice activist, Romallus Murphy lived a purposeful and passionate life for what he loved—his community, equality, and, above all, his family.“Romallus first became a prominent figure in the civil rights movement when in 1961 he challenged the City of Wilson’s unconstitutional election procedures, which made it impossible for African Americans to get elected to the city council. Romallus litigated the case, Watkins v. City of Wilson, through state courts and before the United States Supreme Court. Although the U.S. Supreme Court struck down the case, it later became a part of the record that supported passage of the 1965 Voting Rights Act. “I am certain that one of the reasons Wilson now enjoys a fair election process is because of the trails Romallus blazed during the civil rights movement and beyond.“His distinct legacy inspires the legal community and general public alike. He will be missed.” ###
12.20.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) was joined by the entire North Carolina Democratic delegation today to introduce H.R. 3740, the Farmers Disaster Assistance Act of 2011, to provide speedier disaster assistance to farmers, who are often forced to wait several months to a year to receive relief following damages to their crops. Representatives Brad Miller (NC-13), Mel Watt (NC-12), Heath Shuler (NC-11), Larry Kissell (NC-08), Mike McIntyre (NC-07), and David Price (NC-04) are all original cosponsors of the bill.“Farmers often operate on shoestring budgets with tight margins and limited cash flow,” said Butterfield. “If farmers are unable to go to market due to crop losses, and it takes several months to receive a Supplemental Revenue Assistance payment or insurance, then they cannot pay employees, purchase new equipment, or prepare for the next growing season.”Congress has provided supplemental disaster assistance to farmers for almost every crop season between 1988 and 2007. Although the changes made in the Food, Conservation and Energy Act of 2008 were meant to eliminate this necessity, problems remain with the current disaster assistance program. As such, this bill would alleviate some of the financial strain felt by farmers who are located in federally-declared disaster counties and experienced major crop losses this year.Butterfield authored the bill in response to the devastation caused to the agriculture community by Hurricane Irene and the April 16 tornadoes. Combined, both disasters cost upwards of $350 million in crop losses for North Carolina and another $14 million in losses for agricultural facilities and equipment. In addition to direct assistance for crop losses, the bill would loosen Farm Service Agency lending restrictions in disaster counties.###
12.19.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – The Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today released a letter Congressman Butterfield wrote to Federal Trade Commission Chairman Jon Leibowitz expressing great concern over the impact of a proposed merger between two pharmacy benefit management (PBM) companies, Express Scripts, Inc. (ESI) and Medco Health Solutions. In his letter, Butterfield wrote that the merger would create market dominance and could force community pharmacies in his district, and nationwide, out of business, which would disproportionately affect elderly, poor and rural populations.Although there is little evidence supporting their claim, pharmacy benefit managers believe that the merger will result in cost savings for consumers.“Pharmacy Benefit Managers have long touted their ability to generate savings for consumers,” said Butterfield. “However, I question the savings alleged by ESI and Medco, and have only heard anecdotal evidence of the decrease in prescriptions or health care premiums. In fact, many have expressed that the opposite is true. I fear that giving a consolidated PBM even greater market power could potentially worsen this already troublesome situation.”Butterfield’s full letter follows.--December 19, 2011The Honorable Jon LeibowitzChairmanFederal Trade Commission600 Pennsylvania Avenue N.W.Washington, D.C. 20580 Dear Chairman Leibowitz: I write to express my concerns about the proposed merger between Express Scripts, Inc. (ESI) and Medco Health Solutions, Inc., two pharmacy benefit management (PBM) companies. The proposed merger could have potentially far-reaching impacts on all aspects of the delivery of drug care nationwide. As you know, ESI and Medco are two of the nation’s largest PBMs. Their merger agreement proposes to create one giant PBM with a combined market that would cover more than 200 million U.S. citizens, or close to two-thirds of our population. Indeed, the companies themselves have said that approving the merger would give the resulting company more power.I am concerned that this market dominance could force community pharmacies in my district, and across the country, out of business. In addition, because the consolidated PBM will have the largest piece of a market that is already highly concentrated, there is a possibility that prescription prices would increase. Ultimately this market consolidation and price increase will be disproportionally felt by elderly, poor and rural populations. As the representative of a rural, low-income district, I am especially sensitive to this prospect.Pharmacy Benefit Managers have long touted their ability to generate savings for consumers. However, I question the savings alleged by ESI and Medco, and have only heard anecdotal evidence of the decrease in prescriptions or health care premiums. In fact, many have expressed that the opposite is true. I fear that giving a consolidated PBM even greater market power could potentially worsen this already troublesome situation.Already, community pharmacists have little power to negotiate with their PBM and are essentially offered “take it or leave it” deals with below market reimbursement rates. A consolidated PBM would have even greater power to dictate contract terms and would likely result in small pharmacies being forced to close their doors. Local pharmacists play an integral and important role in Eastern North Carolina, where they are often intimately connected with the health care of their customers and my constituents. I would be troubled if this merger impacted the level of service or damaged the current system of pharmacy delivery of drug and drug care services.The pharmacies throughout Eastern North Carolina are not only trusted health care providers, but also generators of jobs and contributors to the community and the tax base. If they are pushed out of the health care system, my district will lose pharmacists, jobs and tax dollars. My community, and countless others across the country, cannot afford these results.Given all that is at stake, I ask you to employ all possible FTC resources to very carefully consider this proposed merger and its impact on especially sensitive consumers. Very truly yours, G. K. ButterfieldMember of Congress
12.14.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today joined President Obama and his congressional colleagues in recognizing the service of more than one million troops who served in Iraq and saluting the end of the war. Butterfield and Military Spouse Magazine’s 2011 Army Spouse of the Year Crystal Cavalier will hold a press call on Thursday, December 15, at 11:00 a.m. to describe how the end of the war in Iraq will affect African American veterans and military families. Mrs. Cavalier will provide her perspective on the end of the war, address the challenges ahead for service men and women, and share her feelings on this significant milestone. Butterfield will discuss President Obama’s leadership in bringing the war in Iraq to a close, and outline what the President and Democratic leaders are doing to ensure veterans have the jobs, health care and opportunities they deserve.“Under the leadership of President Obama, the war in Iraq has come to a close, with all U.S. troops being brought home from Iraq by the end of this year,” said Butterfield. “While the complete withdrawal from Iraq is a significant milestone for America, we must not forget the nearly 4,500 troops, 111 from North Carolina, who perished in combat and the 32,000 troops, 828 also from my home state, who are now disabled. We honor their sacrifice by caring for their comrades and ensuring they receive the opportunities they have not only earned, but deserve.”During the war in Iraq, a total 434 African American troops were killed and 2,725 African American troops were disabled. WHO: Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Military Spouse Magazine 2011 Army Spouse of the Year Crystal CavalierWHAT: Press Call and Q&A on the end of the war in Iraq, and the unique needs of African American veteransWHEN: Thursday, December 15, 2011 at 11:00 a.m. – 11:45 a.m.WHERE: By phone. Dial-in: (218) 237-0330. Access Code: 299292####
12.13.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today voted against H.R. 3630, the so-called Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act, which, among other things, would block a major cut to physicians' Medicare reimbursement rates, reduce the number of weeks laid-off workers can receive unemployment benefits, and impose new restrictions on unemployed Americans seeking unemployment benefits. Although the bill is expected to fail in the Senate, Butterfield said the bill would drop 180,505 North Carolinians from receiving long-term unemployment, and put an undue strain on state healthcare providers.“This is a misleading Republican bill that appears to extend a number of essential programs, but instead gives political freebies to conservatives,” said Butterfield. “As if attempting to cut long-term unemployment benefits by 40 weeks was not egregious enough, the financial offsets contained in this bill go too far by significantly undercutting much-needed tax and healthcare programs. While I support fixing the Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate, we should not shift the burden to hospitals, essentially robbing Peter to pay Paul.”Some of the cost offsets in H.R. 3630 include increasing Medicare premiums on higher-income beneficiaries, cutting funds for preventive health programs, extending the pay freeze for federal employees, and requiring federal workers to contribute more towards their retirement.Earlier today, the Executive Office of the President issued a Statement of Administration Policy strongly opposing the measure. The statement said, “If the President were presented with H.R. 3630, he would veto the bill.” ###
12.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today announced the awarding of a $1.3 million grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to Greene County Health Care (GCHC). The grant will be used to provide primary health care services to underserved populations in Greene and Pitt counties, as well as migrant and seasonal farm workers in five adjacent counties.“For almost 40 years Greene County Health Care has provided valuable health care services to Greene and Pitt counties most vulnerable residents,” Butterfield said. “I am pleased that they will be able to continue their tremendously important work with this grant.”In 2010, GCHC provided medical, dental, and mental health services to more than 95,000 patients, most of which were uninsured and almost all had incomes below the federal poverty threshold.###
12.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today congratulated Latoya Lucas, an Iraq war veteran and resident of Rocky Mount, North Carolina, who was recently appointed to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Advisory Committee on Women Veterans. Lucas, a Purple Heart Medal recipient, is one of six new members appointed to the committee, which advises the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on the needs of women veterans with respect to health care, rehabilitation, compensation, outreach, and other activities.“I am pleased to congratulate Latoya Lucas on her appointment to the Advisory Committee on Women Veterans,” said Butterfield. “After sustaining life-threatening injuries during her deployment in Iraq, Latoya continued to serve her fellow veterans and country through motivational speaking and public service. We are very fortunate to have her perform such an important public service to our nation. I am certain her experiences will bring a unique and valuable perspective to the committee. ”In 2003, one month after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, Latoya joined Operation Iraqi Freedom as an Army Specialist. While assigned to the 101st Airborne Division in Mosul, Latoya was severely wounded when a rocket-propelled grenade struck her supply mission squad, leaving her with a fractured pelvis, traumatic brain injury, severe burns and nerve damage. The wounds she suffered earned her the Purple Heart Medal. Since then, Latoya has received numerous awards and recognition for her outstanding achievements, including the Tony Snow Public Service award. ###
11.26.2011	WILSON, N.C. – After learning state lawmakers will return to Raleigh Sunday night for another legislative session, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) urged North Carolinians to contact their local representatives and senators to voice their opposition to a number of controversial proposals that the state legislature may consider tomorrow. According to media reports, state lawmakers plan to take up proposals to: cap the state’s gas tax; change North Carolina’s gambling laws to allow live-dealer games in state casinos; amend the Racial Justice Act; consider off-shore oil drilling and; repeal the veto on the state voter identification bill, among others.“This is a cunning move by the state GOP to surreptitiouslycall a legislative session late Sunday night in order to consider some of the most contentious proposals put forth this year,” said Butterfield. “Due to the extreme importance of these issues, it deserves to be considered in the light of the day, not in the dark of the night.”Butterfield said that he will call on his Democratic congressional colleagues to alert their constituents of the legislative session and how each of the proposed bills would affect them. Butterfield has already contacted the state’s National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) and a number of other organizations regarding the legislature’s intent to pass a voter identification law.“I am particularly appalled that state Republican lawmakers will, once again, attempt to disenfranchise thousands of voters by seeking to overturn Governor Beverly Purdue’s veto of a voter identification bill. This guileful attempt is not about safeguarding elections, it is about safeguarding their Republican majority through handicapping a half million citizens, most of which vote Democratic.”###
11.22.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today cheered the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction’s (DPI) plan to preserve all three state residential schools for blind and deaf students by consolidating administrative services and leasing its underused facilities. Butterfield said, “I am particularly pleased that after careful consideration State Superintendent June Atkinson and the DPI have not only decided to keep Eastern North Carolina School for the Deaf open, but to also save both the Governor Morehead School for the Blind in Raleigh and the North Carolina School for the Deaf in Morganton. Each of these institutions are essential to their communities and the population they serve.”The General Assembly instructed DPI to close one of the three schools during this fiscal year to save the state more than $5 million.Last month, Butterfield coauthored a letter with Congressman Walter Jones (NC-03) to State Superintendent Atkinson regarding the potential closure of the Eastern North Carolina School for the Deaf. In their letter, the congressmen expressed great concern over the school’s potential closure and urged DPI to keep the school open. ###
11.22.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Mike McIntyre (NC-07) today announced the introduction of H.R. 3483, the Veterans’ Education Equity Act of 2011, to reward equal educational benefits to veterans whether they choose to attend a private or public institution of higher learning. The bill would change an inequity in existing law which allots more education funds to veterans enrolled in private colleges than those in public institutions. Currently, the Post 9-11 Veterans’ Educational Improvements Assistance Act capped the education benefit amount for veterans who enroll in private schools at $17,500 and limited the education benefit for those who enroll in public schools to the amount charged for resident tuition and fees. The Veterans’ Education Equity Act of 2011 would remedy this inequality and allow all veterans to receive up to $17,500 in education benefits. However, if in-state tuition exceeds $17,500, the bill would cover the full cost of tuition.“The current law unintentionally burdens a significant number of American soldiers, requiring them to pay out-of-pocket thousands of dollars in nonresidential tuition rates, which could add up to more than $100,000 in North Carolina,” said Butterfield. “This legislation is an important step towards honoring those who serve and helping them prepare for civilian life.”Representative Mike McIntyre stated, “Our veterans are courageous individuals who have been on the front lines defending our freedom and values, and they should not be denied their opportunity to pursue an education. Let’s support our student veterans and make sure they do not have to worry about in-state versus out-of-state tuition. This is the right thing to do!”“It is important for those who have sacrificed so much for this country to not be discriminated against for choosing public institutions to achieve their educational goals,” said Representative Walter Jones (NC-03), an original cosponsor of the bill. “This bill is about equitable access, and I am proud to be a cosponsor.”The bill has received the support of such organizations as the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, The University of North Carolina, the North Carolina Community College System, and Student Veterans Advocacy Group of North Carolina. Representative Dennis Cardoza (CA-18) is also an original cosponsor of this bill.###
11.21.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – The Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) today confirmed that Tonya N. Williams, Chief of Staff to Congressman Butterfield, has accepted a position in the Office of Vice President Joe Biden as Director of Legislative Affairs.“For more than three years Tonya Williams has been my valued adviser and trusted friend,” said Butterfield. “As Chief of Staff, Tonya has been exemplary in her leadership of our team and tireless in her commitment to the needs of our constituency. We are losing an essential member of our staff, but I wish her well in her new position.”A native of Greenville, North Carolina, Tonya is a graduate of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and the University of North Carolina School of Law. While in law school, she developed an interest in international law and international affairs, which led to her studying International Human Rights and Comparative Law for a summer in Rome, Italy. Following graduation, she spent a year traveling the world. Upon her return, Tonya worked with NC Legal Services before accepting a judicial clerkship with the Honorable Loretta C. Biggs at the North Carolina Court of Appeals. Following her clerkship, she served as General Counsel to Senator Marc Basnight, President Pro Tempore of the North Carolina Senate. Before joining Congressman Butterfield’s staff, Tonya worked for GlaxoSmithKline as Director of IP Policy for North and South America. Ms. Williams will begin in her new position this week.###
11.21.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) expressed deep disappointment with Craven County Board of Commissioners for approving a resolution today in support of requiring a government-issued photo ID to vote. The measure, which passed five to two, asks the local delegation to the North Carolina General Assembly to introduce a local bill requiring Craven County residents to obtain an approved photo ID to vote, and to pattern the bill after state House Bill 351, which was vetoed in June by Governor Beverly Purdue.“I am disappointed that the Craven County Board of Commissioners is among the latest to join a nationwide Republican-led initiative to suppress voting rights,” said Butterfield. “Despite very few instances of voter fraud in North Carolina and in Craven County, these commissioners claim that voter IDs are needed to protect the integrity of elections. The truth is jurisdictions across the country and state are seeking tougher restrictions on voting only because it will disenfranchise young, minority, and low-income voters--all of which traditionally vote Democratic. These efforts are purely political and have nothing to do with safeguarding elections.”According to the Board of Elections, 13 percent of African-American registered voters and 11 percent of registered voters over age 65 in Craven County did not have a current N.C. government photo ID. If the measure is enacted, a total of 5,232 Craven County residents would be required to get a government-issued ID to vote. Butterfield is calling on the local General Assembly delegation in Craven County to not introduce a voter ID bill. The Congressman said that he will work vigorously to encourage the Department of Justice to refuse preclearance of the bill should it become law.###
11.18.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) will visit two food distribution centers next week as it readies for the Thanksgiving holiday rush. On Monday, the Congressman will join the Food Bank of Albemarle Executive Director Liz Reasoner and Elizabeth City Mayor Roger McLean in touring the facility’s food packing and distribution process. On Wednesday, Opportunities Industrialization Center of Wilson President and CEO Howard Jones will lead Butterfield and Wilson Mayor Bruce Rose on a tour of its food bank to meet with some of its recipients.Former Congresswoman Eva Clayton will accompany Butterfield during both visits, where he will briefly discuss the need to maintain funding for low-income food programs and the Eva Clayton Fellows Program Act, a bill named in honor of North Carolina’s first African American woman elected to Congress who worked to bolster agricultural production, reduce poverty and eliminate hunger. The Eva Clayton Fellows Program Act, introduced this week by Butterfield, would unite faculty and students of minority serving institutions and land-grant institutions with the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Peace Corps, and the United Nations to study and develop solutions to global hunger issues. In addition to visiting the two food banks, the Congressman will tour a new state-of-the-art Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic in Elizabeth City, and survey the repairs to Greene County Middle School, which suffered extensive tornado damage in April. WHAT: Butterfield to Make Four Stops in the District Next Week, Two at Holiday Food BanksWHEN: Monday, November 2110:30 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.: Food Bank of Albemarle Visit1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.: Veterans Affair Outpatient Clinic TourTuesday, November 22 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.: Greene County Middle School Tornado Recovery TourWednesday, November 237: 45 a.m. – 8:45 a.m.: Opportunities Industrialization Center of Wilson Food Distribution CenterWHERE: Food Bank of Albemarle, 109 Tidewater Way, Elizabeth City, N.C. VA Outpatient Clinic, 1845 West City Drive, Elizabeth City, N.C. Greene County Middle School, 485 Middle School Road, Snow Hill, N.C. Opportunities Industrialization Center of Wilson, 801 Reid Street, Wilson, N.C.
11.18.2011	WASHINGTON, DC -- During a House Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade hearing today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) released a letter to Chairman Mary Bono Mack (R-CA) criticizing convening a second hearing on Internet gaming that failed to include testimony from representatives of federal agencies that would potentially implement and govern online gambling. Butterfield said that while he appreciates the Chairman’s consideration of this issue, “If the Subcommittee is to proceed with the federal legalization and regulation of online gambling, it must do it right by hearing testimony from those entities that would be integral to its implementation and oversight. Thus far, the Subcommittee has heard testimony from representatives of National Indian Gaming Association, National Council on Problem Gambling, and the American Gaming Association, to name a few. However, to fully understand the legalization of Internet gaming, we must learn the concerns such agencies as the Departments of Justice, Treasury, and Commerce might have since they would be tasked with producing a national Internet gaming framework.”Last month, the Subcommittee held its first hearing on Internet gaming, which evaluated the current prohibition and possible economic benefit of online gambling.The full text of Butterfield’s letter follows.The Honorable Mary Bono MackChairmanSubcommittee on Commerce,Manufacturing, and TradeU.S. House of Representatives2125 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Bono Mack:Today, the Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade convened its second hearing this session on Internet gambling. As Ranking Member, I want to thank you for scheduling time for us to consider this complex topic and evaluate proposed legislation. However, I am concerned that the Subcommittee has not yet received testimony from federal entities that would oversee and implement key regulations governing a potential new system of legalized online gambling. These entities include, among others, the Departments of Justice, the Treasury, and Commerce, and the Federal Trade Commission.At the Subcommittee hearing on October 25, 2011, you indicated that an essential goal of the hearing was to determine the proper role for federal regulators. You asked, “Can online gambling be regulated effectively? And what role should the federal government play to protect American consumers from ‘sharks?’” I strongly agree that both questions are central to our oversight of this topic. But we cannot obtain informed answers about the effectiveness of gambling regulation or consumer protection if we fail to invite key federal government agencies to testify as witnesses.Legalizing Internet gambling nationwide would involve several federal entities, each with different roles to play. Currently, the Department of Justice enforces the Wire Act, and has used that statute to treat online gambling as illegal. The Department of Justice also enforces the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act (UIGEA), which bans gambling enterprises from accepting checks, credit card charges, electronic transfers, and other payments connected to unlawful online bets or wagers. For its part, the Department of the Treasury was required under UIGEA to prescribe regulations requiring financial transaction providers to establish policies and procedures to “identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions.” Under H.R. 1174, introduced by Representatives John Campbell and Barney Frank, Treasury would implement a licensing program for Internet gambling sites. Under H.R. 2366, introduced by Chairman Emeritus Joe Barton, the Department of Commerce would oversee the state or tribal licensure of online poker vendors. Finally, although it has been left out of current proposals, the Federal Trade Commission enforces fair business and marketing practices and possesses the appropriate e-commerce expertise to protect online gamblers’ personal data and privacy.It should be no mystery why strong oversight of online gambling would be required. In addition to monitoring industry practices, preventing fraud, and providing protections for individuals with gambling problems, regulators must ensure that children and teens are completely excluded from gambling activities.The involvement of minors in gambling is particular problematic – and already happens all too often. An October 2010 study by the Annenberg Public Policy Center found that 6.2% of boys age 14 to 17 (roughly 530,000 teenage boys) had used an Internet gambling site in the previous month – and while participation rates by girls were lower, they were increasing. Moreover, in the past month, the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review and USA Today both reported that offshore betting sites are profiting from wagers on televised high school football games. The founder of one such site was quoted as saying, “[t]he customers who bet the games don’t have a problem with morality. If the customers are happy, I am happy.” Commenting on the scope of the problem in countries where gambling is legal, he said, “Walk to any street corner in the United Kingdom. You can bet on under 16-year-old soccer events, boys or girls. Any match, just about any amount.” This practice represents the type of enforcement challenges federal regulators will face if online gambling is made legal.If the Subcommittee is to proceed with the federal legalization and regulation of Internet gambling, it must do it right. I respectfully request that our Subcommittee seek formal comments from federal entities that would be involved with any legalized gambling regime. Sincerely, G.K. ButterfieldRanking MemberSubcommittee on Commerce,Manufacturing, and Trade
11.15.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) today introduced the Eva Clayton Fellows Program Act of 2011 to create a fellowship program that would use the expertise of faculty and students from land-grant institutions and minority serving institutions in developing approaches to provide relief to global hunger. Butterfield’s bill seeks to continue the work of former Congresswoman Eva Clayton who spent much of her career eradicating hunger in rural communities in eastern North Carolina, and improving access to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program and the Women, Infants, and Children program.“My predecessor, former Congresswoman Eva Clayton, was a strong, clear voice on behalf of the hungry,” Butterfield said. “Among states, North Carolina ranks as the sixth worst for food security, with my congressional district as the second most food insecure in the nation. This bill would enable thought leaders in agriculture and economics in developing sustainable approaches to address food shortages.”Specifically, the bill would partner the fellows with the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Peace Corps, and the United Nations to travel internationally to study and develop solutions to global hunger.As the first African-American woman elected to Congress from North Carolina, former Congresswoman Clayton used her position on the Committee on Agriculture to fight hunger across the nation and worldwide. After retiring from Congress in 2003, Mrs. Clayton served as Assistant Director-General of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization where she focused on reducing hunger and poverty by increasing agricultural production and establishing alliances and partnerships in more than forty countries.Butterfield said that this bill is particularly timely with the approaching holiday season, which reminds us of the many people who will go hungry.Next week, the Congressman will visit the Food Bank of the Albemarle and the Wilson Opportunities Industrialization Center as both prepare for its annual Thanksgiving food distribution.
11.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) will hold a State of the Economy Town Hall to update constituents on congressional proposals to create jobs and improve the economy. The Town Hall will be held at the Charlotte Rhone Cultural Center, 608 West Street, New Bern, N.C., on Thursday, November 10, at 5: 30 p.m.“North Carolinians have questions about what is happening in Washington and how their Congress is working to address the pressing issues of job creation, budget cuts and income inequity,” said Butterfield. “This hour-long Town Hall meeting will give me an opportunity to talk about these issues and to hear the thoughts and concerns of my constituents.” WHAT: Congressman Butterfield to Hold Town Hall on the EconomyWHERE: Charlotte Rhone Cultural Center, 608 West Street New Bern, N.C.WHEN: Thursday, November 10, at 5:30 p.m.https:/www.Butterfield.House.Gov###
11.07.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) will join local and state elected officials at a joint Rebuild the American Dream and Chowan Democratic Party Town Hall on Wednesday, November 9, at 1:00 p.m. at the Edenton-Chowan Public Library, 106 West Water Street, Edenton, N.C. The town hall meeting will address many local, state and national issues. However, Butterfield will focus his remarks on the economy and job creation.“The middle class is shrinking and income inequality is growing,” said Butterfield. “When you couple that fact with the latest unemployment rate, which dropped to 9 percent, it underscores the need for job creation. Instead of focusing on the next election, Democrats remain committed proposing and passing measures that will get our economy back on track.” The town hall is open to the public.###
11.04.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) will make three stops in North Carolina’s First Congressional District on Tuesday, November 8.Butterfield will join local and state officials at 10:00 a.m. to present a $2,002,088.00 grant from the U.S. Economic Development Administration to Northampton Commerce Park. The funds are for the water and wastewater infrastructure improvements needed to serve the Northampton Commerce Park and the proposed Enviva wood pellet manufacturing operation. The project is expected to create 60 jobs and generate $60 million in private investment.The Congressman will then have lunch at 12:30 p.m. with local elected officials, staff and students at the Kittrell Job Corps Center. The construction trade students will showcase the newly remodeled culinary arts underground café, which the students completed themselves.Butterfield will finish his tour at a Small Business, Economy and Jobs Roundtable, where he will moderate a panel with U.S. Department of Labor officials on job creation and state employment trends. WHAT:Congressman G. K. Butterfield to Make Three Stops in the DistrictWHEN:Tuesday, November 810:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m.: U.S. Economic Development Administration Grant Check Presentation12:30 p.m. – 1:30 p.m.: Kittrell Job Corps Center Lunch and Tour2:00 p.m. – 3:30 p.m.: Vance-Granville Community College Economy and Jobs RoundtableWHERE: U.S. Economic Development Administration Check Presentation Commissioners’ Chambers, Northampton County Courthouse 108 West Jefferson Street Jackson, N.C. 27845 Kittrell Job Corps Center 1096 US Highway 1 South Kittrell, N.C. 27544 Small Business, Economy and Jobs Roundtable Farm Bureau Room, H. Leslie Perry Memorial Library 205 Breckenridge Street Henderson, N.C. 27536
11.04.2011	WASHINGTON, DC -- The Office of Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) today released a letter Representatives Butterfield and Walter Jones (R-N.C.) wrote to State Superintendent Dr. June St. Clair Atkinson regarding the potential closure of the Eastern North Carolina School for the Deaf. In their letter, the Congressmen, which together represent the entire City of Wilson, expressed great concern over the school’s closure and urged the Department of Public Instruction to keep the school open.“We are deeply concerned about the negative impacts this closure would have on North Carolina’s hearing impaired community,” said Representatives Butterfield and Jones. “Closure of the school would be a major blow to the City of Wilson, which has hosted the school for nearly 50 years. In your evaluation of the school, we ask that you take into account the unique nature of the school in its method of instruction, and the impact it has had on countless individuals in this state.”The full letter follows.--Honorable June St. Clair Atkinson, Ed. D.State SuperintendentDepartment of Public InstructionNorth Carolina Education Building 6301 Mail Service CenterRaleigh, North Carolina 27699-6301 Dear Superintendent Atkinson:We write today regarding the potential closure of the Eastern North Carolina School for the Deaf (ENCSD) located in Wilson, North Carolina. We are deeply concerned about the negative impacts this closure would have on North Carolina’s hearing impaired community. Closure of the school would be a major blow to the City of Wilson, which has hosted the school for nearly 50 years. In your evaluation of the school, we ask that you take into account the unique nature of the school in its method of instruction, and the impact it has had on countless individuals in this state.The ENCSD is a residential public school for the education of deaf or hard of hearing children. It is dually accredited by the Conference of Education Administrators Serving the Deaf and by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. The School was established in 1964 and is located in the City of Wilson, which we have the privilege of representing in Congress.The Department of Public Instruction (DPI) has recently been charged with the responsibility for the ENSCD as well as the other public residential schools. Additionally, the current budget requires DPI to recommend one of the residential schools for closure, using the following criteria:Minimization of impact on services to deaf and blind students currently served by the residential schools;Minimization of costs of modifications at the two remaining residential schools to accommodate students from the closed school;Maximization of funds generated or net savings to the state from costs avoided due to the closure of one school and the sale or transfer to other state agencies of the school campus and other physical assets;Minimization of required travel for students of the school that is closed;Historical and cultural significance of the school. Making this recommendation is certainly not an enviable task. The other residential schools certainly provide valuable instruction to children with special needs and gifts. However, we are confident that maintaining ENCSD in the coming years will best fit the criteria that DPI has been charged with applying. ENCSD serves 75 students from over half of the counties in North Carolina, and a closure would have a huge impact on the services available to these children. With respect to the facility, DPI has evaluated ENCSD to be in great physical shape, with excellent technology available to the students. ENCSD has available capacity at Eagles Hall to accommodate additional students with at minimal additional cost. ENCSD’s close proximity to Raleigh, its accessibility on both Interstate 95 and U.S. Highway 264, and its existing transportation network would make it an ideal choice to minimize travel for additional students. Lastly, ENCSD is deeply ensconced in the community. In its 50 year history, it has developed lasting ties with Barton College, local vendors, and the hundreds of deaf families that call Wilson home. It is clear to us that this school has made an invaluable impact on thousands of people throughout North Carolina, and should continue to build upon its strong foundation of education and community involvement. We respectfully urge you not to close this school. If you have further questions regarding our interest in this matter, please do not hesitate to contact our offices.Thank you very much. Very Truly Yours, _______________ _______________G. K. Butterfield Walter JonesMember of Congress Member of Congress CC: The Honorable Beverly PerdueThe Honorable Thom TillisThe Honorable Phil BergerMary WatsonTom WintonDr. Barbria BaconRachael Ragin, Ph.DJulie KagyBenjamin MatthewsSteve TayntonBecky McConkeyVanessa JeterKatie CornettDavid Mills
11.03.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) and Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.) today introduced the Federal Electronic Equipment Donation (FEED) Act of 2011, bipartisan legislation that would streamline the process for sending excess federal electronic equipment to communities and groups in underserved regions of the country. “Right now, communities that want to get federal surplus equipment face a mountain of red tape,” said Butterfield. “It can take months, if not years, to receive requested equipment. This important legislation will help underprivileged communities, like many of the communities I represent, access surplus computers, printers, audio/visual in a streamlined process.”“It is unacceptable that our most underserved communities wait up to a year for surplus equipment due to federal bureaucracy,” said McHenry. “This legislation streamlines the government’s method of donating equipment to those in need, ensuring that our students are given timely access to the same technology afforded to federal employees.”The bill directs federal agencies to transfer excess equipment to the General Services Administration for transfer to the qualifying recipient at little or no cost, giving preference to small cities, town, counties, schools, libraries and community-based educational non-profit organizations in poorer communities, which often have the greatest needs and the most difficulty in navigating the process and acquiring property. Butterfield first introduced the FEED Act in 2007 after learning of a city in his congressional district that was stymied by the arduous equipment request process. Although the bill passed the House with significant bipartisan support, it languished in the Senate.###
10.31.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) today urged his congressional colleagues to support President Barack Obama’s efforts to help further relieve student loan costs for millions of college graduates nationwide. Butterfield said that the president’s proposal, which seeks to cap student loan payments at 10 percent of discretionary income, forgive outstanding debt after 20 years of payment and offer student borrower new opportunities to consolidate their student loans, would help North Carolinians who are experiencing record increases in the cost of higher education.“In North Carolina the cost of tuition at schools in the state university system has jumped an average of 8.2 percent,” said Butterfield. “Job creation and salaries are not keeping pace with growing tuition costs, which could deter people from seeking post-secondary education and exacerbate the unemployment rate. Although Congress has passed legislation to provide relief to student loan holders, Congress should do more to ensure Americans continue to pursue careers that will make them competitive in the global workforce. ”Earlier this year, Butterfield, a consistent advocate of job creation and education, met with staff and administrators from Edgecombe, Halifax and Vance-Greenville community colleges, as well as regional employment partners to discuss the challenges in educating the region’s workforce. In April, Butterfield voted against a Republican budget resolution, which cut college aid for nearly 10 million students and slashed the maximum Pell Grant award by more than 45 percent.###
10.25.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) today applauded the House passage of H.R. 2447, a resolution to award the Montford Marines, the first African American Marines, a Congressional Gold Medal for their service during World War II.“This year we celebrated the life and contributions of several great African Americans, such as Reverend Fred Shuttlesworth, Professor Derrick Bell and, most recently, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. with a memorial on the National Mall,” said Butterfield, a co-sponsor of the bill. “It is only fitting that we also recognize the more than 19,000 African Americans that enlisted in the United States Marine Corps during a time when they themselves did not have the freedoms they fought to protect for the nation. This bill recognizes the Montford Marines’ significant sacrifices, patriotism and invaluable contribution to American history.”In 1941, President Franklin D. Roosevelt issued an Executive Order establishing the Fair Employment Practices Commission, which, for the first time, allowed African Americans to enlist in the United States Marine Corps. The first African American Marines were trained at Camp Montford Point in North Carolina and later served in World War II.###
10.25.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – During a House Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade hearing on Internet gaming today, where representatives from the National Indian Gaming Association, National Council on Problem Gambling, Poker Players Alliance and FairPlayUSA testified, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) said the hearing was not a debate on whether gambling is moral, but instead, to examine the status of Internet gaming in the United States and to consider how consumers would be affected if current legal restrictions were eased. “We must acknowledge that internet gaming is happening now all over the world, including here in the United States – where online gambling has been treated as illegal by the Justice Department,” said Butterfield, Ranking Member of the subcommittee. “Because of this, American Internet gamblers have turned to unregulated foreign, offshore entities for access to games. Considering the fragile and struggling state of our national economy, I strongly believe that we must give serious consideration to the economic boon that could result from legalizing internet gaming. Hundreds of millions of dollars in tax revenues could be realized by struggling states, and tens of thousands of jobs could be created all across the country to directly support the newly installed industry.”Understanding the enormity of internet gaming and the varied viewpoints of stakeholders, Butterfield urged careful and deliberate consideration as well as recommended additional hearings to further explore the issue. “Madam Chair, I hope that you will agree that this is an issue that warrants further review before this subcommittee – the subcommittee with jurisdiction – signs off on any online gaming plan.” Butterfield further pointed out, “California and the District of Columbia are already moving forward with INTRA-state online gaming even though its legal status is unclear given that the Justice Department considers it illegal. We need to hear from California and the District, we need to hear from the Justice Department, and we need to hear from other state and federal regulators who would be tasked with implementing and enforcing any regulatory framework regarding online gaming.”In 2006, the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act was passed to stop the flow of revenue to unlawful Internet gambling businesses. The Act prohibits gambling-related businesses from accepting checks, credit card charges, electronic transfers, and similar payments in connection with unlawful Internet gambling. The law also requires the Department of the Treasury and the Federal Reserve to prescribe regulations requiring financial transaction providers to establish policies and procedures to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions. To date, no agency has enforced those regulations. Butterfield’s full opening statement follows.--Opening Statement of Congressman G. K. ButterfieldRanking Member, Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade“Internet Gaming: Is There a Safe Bet?” Chairman Bono Mack, thank you for holding today’s hearing on the issue of Internet gaming. Congress is no stranger to this issue and has grappled with how to best address it for some time now. Part of the reason why, I think, is because Members of Congress, just like all our constituents across the country have very personal feelings about gambling. Some are vehemently opposed to all forms of gambling, while others see it merely as entertainment. However, the debate shouldn’t be over whether gambling is moral or not. Instead, we should acknowledge that Internet gaming is happening now all over the world, including here in the United States – where online gambling has been treated as illegal by the Justice Department. As a result, American Internet gamblers have turned to unregulated foreign, offshore entities for access to games. The offshore entities may not provide consumer protections for those who gamble. There is no U.S. oversight to ensure U.S. citizens are not harmed. There is often no legal recourse for consumers who have been wronged by bad offshore actors. There is also the small issue of money. Last year alone, Americans wagered 16 billion dollars just on Internet poker. While some of that money went back to players in the form of winnings, the overwhelming majority remained offshore, unregulated, and untaxed. With our significant national debt, a commonsense solution seems clear: Internet gaming should be legalized in the United States and an oversight structure put in place to ensure consumers the strongest safeguards possible. Games like poker and bingo are as ubiquitous in the United States as baseball and football and are played by young and old alike. But technology has evolved, permitting individuals to participate in games of chance and skill in real time and remotely. Instead of embracing a new twist on an old game, our inaction has led Americans to spend their money offshore and at their own peril. Permitting Internet gaming entities to operate within the United States could yield tremendous financial benefits to struggling Federal and state coffers through unrealized direct and indirect tax revenues. It would also allow for oversight of and accountability for the industry’s business practices. Most importantly, we would have the opportunity to create and implement strong consumer safeguards that each entity would have to follow. The Wild West status quo is not working for anyone. However, having anytime access to gamble real money raises significant concerns. The compulsive gambler would no longer have to expend any effort – like driving to a casino – to play. A mouse click and credit card number are all he needs to play. But with no human interaction with the House, there is no one and no way to cut someone off if they’ve played too much. Before long, that same gambler has maxed out his credit cards and faces bankruptcy. Or worse, he turns to criminal activity to finance his habit. While my example is extreme, it is very possible; and it happens daily at conventional brick and mortar gaming houses. People ultimately must have personal responsibility to know when enough is enough. But when that line blurs, safeguards must be in place to protect them. That is why any legislation that permits Internet gaming in the United States must have protections in place to mitigate compulsive gambling. Consumer protections must also be in place to ensure that the games are honest, fair, and truly randomized. The economic boon that could result from legalizing internet gaming is perhaps the most compelling reason to give it serious consideration. Hundreds of millions of dollars in tax revenues could be realized by struggling states. Tens of thousands of jobs could be created all across the country to directly support the newly installed industry. Considering the fragile and struggling state of our national economy, I strongly believe that all potential remedies should be considered to return us to greater prosperity. Thank you. I yield back the balance of my time. ###
09.12.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman GK Butterfield urges residents in the First Congressional District to visit the FEMA Disaster Recovery Centers in their respective counties.Congressman Butterfield also encourages those affected by Hurricane Irene to apply for federal assistance programs through FEMA and SBA.Residents are asked to call the following toll-free tele-registration number for disaster survivors: 1-800-621-3362, TTY 1-800-462-7585. Those who use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS) can call 1-800-621-3362.Below are Disaster Recovery locations in the First Congressional District:BeaufortMid-Atlantic Safety Council2871 Hwy. 17 SouthChocowinity, NC HalifaxAgriculture Building359 Ferrell LaneHalifax, NC WashingtonPlymouth Municipal Airport1069 Airport RoadWashington, NC GreeneGreene Co. Fire Dept.201 Carolina DriveSnow Hill, NC CravenEckerd Drug Store710 Degraffenreid AvenueNew Bern, NC PittAgricultural Extension Center403 Government CircleGreenville, NC LenoirCooperative Extension Service Center1791 Pink Hill Road (Hwy. 11/55 South)Kinston, NC Food Assistance and Nutrition ServicesThe North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services will provide food assistance in the form of Disaster Food and Nutrition Services benefits (formerly called food stamps) in the following 24 additional disaster N.C. counties:Bertie, Brunswick, Camden, Chowan, Currituck, Duplin, Edgecombe, Gates, Greene, Hertford, Johnston, Jones, Martin, Nash, New Hanover, Northampton, Onslow, Pasquotank, Perquimans, Pitt, Vance, Warren, Washington and Wilson. Gov. Perdue secured the food assistance through her request for a presidential disaster declaration that was approved last week. The program, through the U.S. Department of Agriculture, is open to individuals not normally eligible for Food and Nutrition Services benefits, who were affected by Hurricane Irene.Residents of the affected areas of these counties who are not currently receiving Food and Nutrition Services benefits may qualify for temporary assistance for a one-month period if:· Their home was damaged or destroyed· They have disaster-related expenses· They lost income· Had food loss as a result of a power loss of at least eight hours from Hurricane Irene. · Eligibility is based on available income and resources. Those applying for Disaster Food and Nutrition Services benefits will be asked to provide:· Proof of their identity along with proof of residency, such as a utility bill,· The Social Security numbers, if available, and dates of birth for all members of their household. Applicants should apply in the county where they reside. Applicants will have five consecutive days to apply for assistance beginning Saturday, Sept.10.Households living in one of these 24 counties may use their Disaster Food and Nutrition Services Benefits to purchase hot prepared meals from retailers that are located in these counties who are authorized to accept EBT Benefits through Sept. 30, 2011.Households who currently receive Food and Nutrition Services Benefits, that did not request a replacement of benefits, can apply for a supplement of benefits if the household suffered a disaster- related expense other than food loss. Households that received replacement benefits do not need to apply for the Disaster Food and Nutrition Services Program.Those needing to apply for Disaster Food and Nutrition Services may do so in person the following locations:BertieBertie County DSS110 Jasper Bazemore AvenueWindsor, NC ChowanEdenton-Chowan Recreation Department(Old D.F. Walker Elementary School)824 North Oakum Street2869 Virginia RoadEdenton, NC EdgecombeEdgecombe County DSS3003 North Main StreetTarboro, NC Edgecombe County DSS301 South Fairview RoadRocky Mount, NC GatesGates County DSS122 Main StreetGatesville, NC GreeneGreene County DSS227 Kingold Boulevard, Suite ASnow Hill, NC HertfordHertford County Commissioner’s RoomHertford County Office Building #1704 North King StreetWinton, NC JonesJones County DSS118 NC 58 NorthTrenton, NC MartinMartin County DSS305 East Main StreetWilliamston, NC NashNash County DSS120 West Washington StreetNashville, NC Spaulding Resource Center600 South Pine StreetSpring Hope, NC The Beacon Center(Formerly Edgecombe-Nash Mental Center)500 Nash Medical Arts Mall NorthamptonNorthampton County DSS9467 NC 305 NorthJackson, NC Farm AssistanceThe U.S. Department of Agriculture is providing Farm Service Agency emergency loan assistance to farmers who suffered losses during Hurricane Irene. The loans are a result of the disaster declaration requested by Gov. Perdue on Aug. 29 and approved by President Obama.The counties designated for assistance are: Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Camden, Carteret, Chowan, Columbus, Craven, Currituck, Dare, Duplin, Edgecombe, Franklin, Gates, Granville, Greene, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hyde, Johnston, Jones, Lenoir, Martin, Nash, New Hanover, Northampton, Onslow, Pasquotank, Pender, Perquimans, Pitt, Roberson, Sampson, Tyrrell, Vance, Wake, Warren, Washington, Wayne, and Wilson.State and federal assessment efforts continue and more counties could be added later. Farm Service Agency offices in the affected counties are taking applications for physical and production losses through May 1, 2012.
08.25.2011	Wilson, NC – Following a conference call today with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Congressman G. K. Butterfield again urges North Carolinians to prepare for Hurricane Irene which could make landfall in North Carolina as early as this Saturday. “Eastern North Carolinians should expect very strong winds, torrential rain, and possible flooding as a result of this storm,” said Butterfield. “I strongly encourage people to take precautions and proactively prepare for Hurricane Irene.”The following tips should help in preparations:Have emergency supplies such as water, flashlights, radios, extra batteries, medicine, cash and other critical items stashed away beforehand. Have a plan for how you and your family will stay safe, how you will evacuate if necessary and where you might go. Also consider who else you might need to check on during an emergency. Stay informed during the emergency through news reports and official information. If severe weather is expected, take these steps to prepare for possible outages:Preparing for the stormRead the hurricane evacuation guidelines available at the North Carolina Department of Transportation website: https:/www.ncdot.gov/travel/evacuationmaps/#inpagenav_1 Develop an emergency plan that addresses any special medical needs you have. Make sure you have a battery-operated radio, multiple flashlights and a battery-operated clock and fan, along with extra batteries. Have at least three gallons of fresh water per person on hand. This is especially important for those who rely on well water. Have a good supply of canned and other non-refrigerated foods available. If you have pets, make sure you have provided for them, as well.During the storm, if electricity is interruptedTurn off major appliances such as heat pumps, water heaters and stoves. Unplug other appliances such as TVs, stereos, microwaves and computers. This will prevent damage to appliances and possible overloads to the company’s system when power is restored. Post a list of contents on your freezer door to minimize the number of times you open it. Leave oe lamp or light on so you will be able to recognize when power is restored. If using portable or camp-type stoves or lanterns for cooking and lighting, ensure that the area is adequately ventilated.After the stormListen to your local radio station on your car or battery-powered radio for regular news and weather updates. Stay away from fallen wires, flooded areas and debris. Treat all fallen wires and anything touching them as though they are energized. Follow safe operating procedures for generators. Never operate one inside your home or in an enclosed space, such as a garage. Do not connect portable generators directly to the electrical system of your home. Either have a qualified electrician perform the work or plug appliances directly into the generator using the proper-sized extension cords. Exhaust fumes contain carbon monoxide and can be deadly, so run your generator outside with proper ventilation. Store the fuel for your generator safely.Some useful links for the public and media during the summer storm season:Federal Department of Homeland Security: https:/www.dhs.gov/index.shtm National Weather Service: https:/www.nws.noaa.gov/ Ready America: https:/www.ready.gov Ready NC: https:/www.ncready.org National Hurricane Center: https:/www.nhc.noaa.gov National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Hurricane Irene: https:/www.noaawatch.gov/2011/tc_at09.php
08.23.2011	Wilson, NC - Congressman G. K. Butterfield urges eastern North Carolinians to prepare for Hurricane Irene that is expected to make landfall as early as Saturday, August 27, 2011. “It is vitally important that our citizens are prepared for the arrival of Hurricane Irene. There are simple, proactive steps that can be taken to prepare residents for the storm like having an evacuation plan; purchasing food, water, and supplies; and safeguarding homes and other critical structures,” Congressman Butterfield said.Perhaps one of the easiest and most effective tools to have is an Emergency Kit that can be used, if necessary. To assemble an emergency kit, start with an easy-to-carry, water-tight container, such as a large plastic trash or sturdy cardboard box, lined with plastic trash bags. Next gather up the following items and place them in your kit:Water – one gallon per person, per dayWater purification kit or bleachFirst aid kit and first aid bookNon-perishable foods, such as canned meats, granola bars, instant soup, and cereals, etc.Non-electric can openerBaby supplies: formula, bottles, pacifiers, soap, baby powder, clothing, blankets, baby wipes, disposable diapers, canned food and juicesCash and checkbookImportant documents: insurance, birth certificates, social security cards, wills, tax and bank information, list of doctors, inventory of household goodsAnti-bacterial hand wipes or gelBlanket or sleeping bag per personPortable radio or television with extra batteriesFlashlight and extra batteriesEssential medicationsExtra pair of eyeglasses or contact lensesExtra house and car keysFire extinguisherPet food, water, leash, carrier, bedding and vaccination recordsSeasonal changes of clothing including sturdy shoesBooks, cards, toys, things to occupy you and your child’s timeSanitation SuppliesLarge plastic trash bags for waste, tarps and rain ponchosLarge trash cansBar soap and liquid detergentPersonal hygiene items such as soap, shampoo, toothpaste, toothbrush, deodorant, etc.Feminine hygiene suppliesToilet paperHousehold bleachRubber glovesStocking up now on emergency supplies can add to your family’s safety and comfort during and after a disaster. Store in one place enough supplies for at least three to seven days.For more information, please visit www.readync.org or www.fema.gov.
06.24.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman G. K. Butterfield today announced $931,500 in federal funding to help train people for “green” jobs in Wilson County.The Opportunities Industrialization Center (OIC) of Wilson has been awarded a $931,500 grant from the U.S. Department of Labor’s Green Jobs Innovation Fund – a fund established to help workers obtain relevant job training in green industry sectors. This program helps organizations with existing career training programs, like Wilson OIC, provide participants with critical industry-recognized credentials necessary to secure sustainable employment in these new and growing areas.In partnership with Wilson Community College, Wilson OIC will use the grant funds to train unemployed and dislocated workers in five industries: renewable electrical power; energy efficient building; construction and retrofit; recycling and waste reduction; and manufacturing.“OIC has effectively served unemployed and underemployed citizens for many years,” Congressman Butterfield said. “This grant will enable OIC to continue helping low-income citizens to help themselves.”The $931,500 grant is part of a total of $7,960,243 awarded to Opportunities Industrialization Centers of America, Inc. Wilson OIC is one of 16 recipients nationwide.“OIC of Wilson received great support from several of our local partners to make this grant a reality,” Jones said. “Over the three year duration of this grant, OIC of Wilson is obligated to find, train, and place over 400 individuals into the workforce.”The U.S. Department of Labor has awarded six organizations a total of $38 million in Green Jobs Innovation Fund grants to serve workers in 19 states and the District of Columbia.
05.12.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield warns that under the House Republican’s plan to cut and privatize Medicare future retirees will need to save an additional $182,000 to cover their increased health care costs.According to a detailed analysis by the Center for Economic and Policy Research (CEPR), it’s estimated that under the House Republican Medicare plan, individuals born in 1957 would need an additional $182,000 by the time they retire at 65 to pay the additional costs if they live to 84.Butterfield said that this is particularly troubling because approximately half of all workers do not have any retirement savings at all. The Employee Benefits Research Institute estimates that the average retirement savings shortfall was more than $47,000 per individual in 2010. “Unfortunately, people of modest means would have two choices when it comes to their health care: go deep in debt or go without,” Butterfield said. “Medicare is supposed to keep people from having to make those kinds of choices.”Last month, House Republicans voted to end the Medicare program, which offers guaranteed benefits, and replace it with a plan that would force seniors to find private insurance with the assistance of a voucher. Since the voucher’s value relative to health care costs would decrease over time and private insurance costs are higher than traditional Medicare, seniors retiring in 2022 under the Republican plan would be forced to pay much higher costs than under current law.An analysis by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) found that under the Republican Medicare proposal, beneficiaries would receive less care and pay more for it. Additionally, the total costs would be significantly higher using private plans than it would be using the traditional Medicare program. CBO found that Medicare provides health care for 11 percent less than the total costs through private insurers.According to the CBO, if the new system were fully implemented, a typical 65-year-old senior would see their annual out-of-pocket costs rise to $12,500 – twice what it would be under the current system.“Medicare beneficiaries with modest incomes, such as elderly widows who must live on $15,000 or $20,000 a year, would likely be hit hardest,” Butterfield said. “These Medicare vouchers would fall farther and farther behind health care costs — and purchase less and less coverage — with each passing year."Butterfield said that affluent Medicare beneficiaries would be able to respond to shrinking Medicare coverage by buying more supplemental coverage. However, seniors who could not afford to do so would simply get less health care, creating a two-tier health care system and would effectively result in more rationing on the basis of income.“We need to strengthen Medicare, not destroy it,” Butterfield said. “Instead, Congress needs to work in a bipartisan manner to find solutions that have the support of both parties and the American people.”Butterfield said the proposal would also go back on closing the Medicare Part D “donut hole.” Under the health care reforms, the donut hole would be completely closed by 2020. According to data from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, there are about 7,300 Medicare beneficiaries Butterfield’s district who would be affected. And, in all, Butterfield represents about 115,000 Medicare beneficiaries.The CEPR study can be found at: https:/www.cepr.net/documents/publications/ryan-waste-2011-04.pdfThe analysis of costs to future retirees can be found at: https:/democrats.edworkforce.house.gov/documents/112/pdf/letters/CEPRLettertoMiller.pdfThe CBO study can be found at: https:/www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/119xx/doc11966/11-17-Rivlin-Ryan_Preliminary_Analysis.pdf
05.02.2011	Congressman G. K. Butterfield released the following statement regarding Osama Bin Laden:“Nearly a decade after the shocking attacks of September 11, a measure of justice has finally been served. While America is certainly safer today, we still face the threat of Al-Qaeda and must remain alert and vigilant. I am deeply proud of the men and women in uniform responsible for planning and executing this victory, and thankful that no American lives were lost.”
04.20.2011	State of North Carolina Federal Disaster Declaration Fact SheetOn April 19, 2011, President Obama issued a major disaster declaration for the State of North Carolina, triggering the release of Federal funds to help individuals and communities recover from the severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding that occurred on April 16, 2011. Details of the disaster declaration and assistance programs are as follows:FEMA CLAIMS TOLL FREE NUMBER: 800-621-3362 (AVAILABLE FROM 7 AM - 10 PM, 7 DAYS A WEEK) Declaration Number: FEMA-1969-DR Incident: Severe Storms, Tornadoes, and Flooding Incident Period: April 16, 2011 Federal Coordinating Officer: Michael Bolch, National FCO Program Individual Assistance: Assistance to individuals and households. Designated Counties: Bertie, Bladen, Cumberland, Halifax, Harnett, Johnston, Lee, Onslow, Wake, and Wilson. Public Assistance: Assistance for emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities. Designated Counties: Bertie, Bladen, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Greene, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hoke, Johnston, Lee, Onslow, Pitt, Robeson, Sampson, Wake, and Wilson Counties for debris removal and emergency protective measures (Categories A and B), including direct Federal assistance, under the Public Assistance program. Hazard Mitigation: Assistance for actions taken to prevent or reduce long-term risk to life and property from natural hazards. Designated Counties: All counties in the State of North Carolina are eligible to apply for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. OTHER: Additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the State and warranted by the results of further damage assessments.Assistance to Individuals and HouseholdsFEMA Public Assistance
04.01.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield filed bipartisan legislation that would make deserving World War II U.S. Merchant Marines eligible for veterans’ benefits.“The Merchant Mariners have long and rightly been known as the fourth arm of defense,” Butterfield said. “We need to make that deserving World War II Merchant Marines can receive the benefit they earned through their service.” Butterfield’s World War II Merchant Marine Service Act, H.R. 1288, seeks to expand which documents can be accepted in determining Merchant Marines’ eligibility for veterans’ benefits. The bill is co-sponsored by U.S. Reps. Mike McIntyre (D-N.C.), Walter Jones (R-N.C.), Renee Elmers (R-N.C.) and Jeff Fortenberry (R-Neb.).Butterfield explained that during World War II, U.S. Merchant Marines contributed directly to the war effort. These contributions took place while their private employers were under contract or direction of the U.S. military or government, or due to their participation in military activities such as the defense of wide geographic areas, including Guam and Bataan.After several failed attempts, Congress eventually approved legislation that made U.S. Merchant Marines with active oceangoing service during World War II with eligible for veterans’ benefits. While many Merchant Marines are eligible for benefits, Butterfield said that it is often extremely difficult to meet the documentation requirements. Currently, the only documents accepted are certificate of shipping and discharge forms, continuous deck or engine logbooks, and shipping company records that indicate the vessel names and dates of voyages.“The fact is, many of these documents never existed or are all but impossible to obtain,” Butterfield said.The World War II Merchant Marine Service Act bill would allow several alternatives means of documentation, Butterfield said. Under the bill, acceptable forms of documentation would include Social Security Administration records, validated testimony by the applicant or closest living relative and other official records that provide sufficient proof of service. Today, there are fewer than 10,000 World War II Merchant Marines.“Time is running short for a lot of deserving veterans,” Butterfield said.Butterfield filed a similar bill in July last year.
03.16.2011	Greenville, N.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield will hold a forum on mortgage foreclosure prevention on Tuesday, March 22."There are tens of thousands of responsible American homeowners holding on to their homes by a thread,” Butterfield said. “And while there is some help available, many people do not know about it. This forum provides the opportunity to learn what you can do to help protect your home and family.”The forum, which will include presentations from the N. C. Housing Finance Agency, N. C. Banking Commission, N. C. Attorney General’s Office and Greenville Housing Development Corporation, will be held on Tuesday, March 22 from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. at Greenville Community Christian Church at 1104 N. Memorial Drive, Greenville.North Carolina ranked 33rd in the nation for the number of foreclosure actions in February. Nevada remained as the state with the most foreclosures. Last year, a record 2,871,891 foreclosure filings were reported in the U.S. – an increase of nearly 2 percent from 2009 and an increase of 23 percent from 2008.Butterfield explained that the national foreclosure rate began to rapidly rise in the middle of 2006, and that it continues to affect communities across the country.“Losing a home to foreclosure hurts homeowners and the community in many ways,” Butterfield said.He said that concentrated foreclosures can drag down nearby home prices, and large numbers of abandoned properties can negatively affect communities. And, the increase in foreclosures may destabilize the housing market, which could in turn negatively impact the economy as a whole, he said.There are a number of federal initiatives aimed at preventing further increases in foreclosures and helping more families preserve homeownership. These efforts currently include the Making Home Affordable program, which includes both the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) and the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP); the Hardest Hit Fund; the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) Short Refinance Program; the Emergency Homeowners Loan Program (EHLP); Hope for Homeowners (H4H); and the National Foreclosure Mitigation Counseling Program (NFMCP), which provides foreclosure mitigation counseling funding and is administered by NeighborWorks America.Several states and localities have also initiated their own foreclosure prevention efforts, as have private companies.For more information or to register for the forum call toll (888) 874-9063.
03.11.2011	#centerbox {float:left;margin:0 0 10px 22px;padding:0;width:595px !important;}Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield applauded the promotion of a Roanoke Rapids N.C., native to “full bird Colonel” at a Pentagon ceremony this week.U.S. Army Lt. Col. Warline S. Richardson, a graduate of Elizabeth City State University (ECSU), was promoted to the rank of Colonel during a ceremony with Army Lt. Gen. Robert P. Lennox.“As the representative for Col. Richardson’s hometown, I know the people Roanoke Rapids are particularly proud of her accomplishments and the patriotic contributions she is making in defense of our great country,” Butterfield said during the ceremony.Butterfield said that throughout her career, Richardson has been recognized many time for her ability to lead by example, encourage excellence in her peers and subordinates, effectively manage the Army’s resources and consistently produce outstanding results.Richardson began her active Army career with the XVIII Airborne Corp as a High Altitude Weapons Kill (HAWK) platoon leader of the Second Battalion, 52nd Air Defense Regiment, Fort Bragg, N.C. She spent the next three years serving as Assault Platoon leader while deployed o the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in support of Operation Desert Shield and Desert Storm.Upon completing the Air Defense Officers Advance course, Richardson served as the Battery Commander for the Fourth Battalion, 43rd Air Defense Artillery Unit, Fort Hood, Texas, which deployed to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.Following her deployment, she served as the Protocol Action Officer for the Headquarters, Department of the Army.Upon completion of Command General and Staff College, she served as the Executive Officer in the Fifth Battalion, 52nd Air Defense Artillery, Fort Bliss, Texas, which deployed in support of Operations Iraqi and Enduring Freedom.Richardson then served as a Special Assistant to the Army Chief of Staff before being assigned as Battalion Commander in Pohakuloa, Hawaii.Her awards include the Bronze Star Medal, Meritorious Service Medal with Silver Oak Leaf, Army Commendation Medal with Silver Oak Leaf, Army Achievement Medal with Silver Oak Leaf, National Defense Service Medal, Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, Army Service Medal, Overseas Service Ribbon and the Army Parachutist Badge.In addition to earning bachelor’s degree from ECSU, Richardson also earned a master’s degree from Webster University in St. Louis, Missouri.
03.09.2011	Washington, D.C. — Congressman G. K. Butterfield has called for a hearing on how to reduce concussions and other head injuries to football players at all levels and ages. “Unfortunately, the health and safety of millions of children, young people and professional athletes is being put at risk even as they snap on the very helmet they believe will help protect them from injury,” Butterfield said. “We have a standard that’s 30 years old, and it needs to be updated.” Butterfield, Ranking Member of the Commerce, Trade and Manufacturing Subcommittee and U.S. Rep. Henry Waxman (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, sent a letter requesting a hearing on how football helmets might be improved to reduce concussions and other head injuries. The letter, sent to Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.) and Commerce, Trade and Manufacturing Subcommittee Chair Mary Bono Mack (R-Calif.) highlights recent media reports on the health and safety risks associated with the football helmets used by millions of children, young people, and professional athletes. Butterfield said that it is estimated that about 4.4 million children play tackle football each season. He said that figures from the National Children’s Hospital indicate that about 100,000 concussions are reported each season among high school football players, and that many more are believed to go unreported or unrecognized. “Research shows that children are particularly susceptible to the problems associated with concussions, including problems with memory and depression,” Butterfield said. “While parents and others involved with youth football programs believe helmets keep kids safe from concussions and other head injuries, this is simply not the case.” Butterfield said that helmets for all players – from the youngest peewee league players to the most seasoned professionals – are tested to the same standard that requires only that they withstand extremely high-level forces that would cause a skull fracture. And, this standard has not been significantly revised since it was first adopted by the National Operating Committee on Standards for Athletic Equipment (NOCSAE) in 1973. Additionally, Butterfield said, the existing standard does not take into account physical differences between children and adults such as head mass, neck length, and muscular strength.Butterfield also explained that helmets that are battered season after season may not provide the level of protection required by this standard – even after undergoing an industry “reconditioning” process. Further, he said, some programs and school districts, particularly those in poorer communities that can’t afford the expense of reconditioning, continue to reuse helmets unlikely to meet the standard if they were put through that process. Data from the National Athletic Equipment Reconditioners Association indicates that last fall 500,000 young players wore helmets that had not undergone basic reconditioning. Currently, some organizations that oversee football programs for children and high school students don’t require that helmets continue to meet the existing standard from season to season. They only require that helmets meet the standard at the time of manufacture.
02.16.2011	Washington, DC— As the Energy and Commerce Committee begins consideration of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act (CPSIA) and the role of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), Congressmen Henry A. Waxman and G. K. Butterfield circulated to committee members the results of a new national telephone poll conducted by Consumers Union. “This poll underscores the tremendous support in the public for protecting our children from dangerous products,” said Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Waxman. “As our Committee begins to hold hearings on the work of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, I hope that we will keep these important findings in mind and place our priorities on putting safety first.”The survey found very strong consumer support for a strong federal role in requiring the testing of children’s products, in providing public access to consumer safety complaint information, and in keeping unsafe products out of the marketplace. The Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade will hold a hearing on Thursday, February 17 to review CPSIA and CPSC’s resources. Witnesses will include CPSC Chairman Inez Tenenbaum and CPSC Commissioner Anne Northup.Specifically, the survey found:95% of those surveyed agree that the federal government should require testing by manufacturers of children’s products like jewelry, pacifiers, and toys to ensure they do not contain any harmful substances.94% of those surveyed agree that the federal government should require testing by manufacturers of products like baby carriers or slings, cribs, and strollers to ensure their safety.87%of those surveyed were interested in the ability to find out if another consumer experienced a safety hazard with a consumer product.82% of those surveyed were interested in the ability to access a database maintained by the government where they can report and search safety problems with consumer products.91% of those surveyed agree that the federal government should set safety standards for all children’s products.Rep. Butterfield, Ranking Member of the Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee, said despite strong public support, the hearing comes amid efforts to limit CPSC’s ability to protect consumers. As part of the debate over the FY2011 budget, Rep. Mike Pompeo has offered three amendments aimed at limiting the power of CPSC to protect consumers.Rep. Pompeo would bar CPSC from moving forward with creating a public, searchable database of consumer complaints. Rep. Pompeo is also seeking to eliminate provisions that require manufacturers to have their products tested at accredited, independent third-party facilities to ensure toys are designed safely and without harmful chemicals. The third amendment would eliminate the requirement for testing to ensure ongoing compliance with product safety standards.“We cannot go back on our promise to Americans that children will not be the front line for testing the safety of toys and consumer products,” Rep. Butterfield said.The complete survey results can be accessed here.
02.09.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield today urged his colleagues to extend a federal program that helps workers displaced by changes in the global economy.“Without question, the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) for Workers program has been effective and is greatly benefiting workers and the struggling economy in North Carolina,” Butterfield said. “Given the need and history of success, we must make every effort to preserve this valuable program.”Today, Butterfield spoke in support of a long-term extension of TAA on the House Floor, and sent a letter urging action to House Speaker John Boehner, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, House Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp and House Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin.Butterfield explained that TAA was created to provide benefits and support to workers who become unemployed due to the impact of international trade. The program seeks to provide American workers who are adversely affected by trade with the opportunity to obtain the skills, resources and support they need to become reemployed, he said.In 2009, the Recovery Act included provisions to enhance the benefits and services available to workers adversely affected by trade and expanded the coverage of the program to include more workers. The enhanced benefits were set to expire on December 22, 2010 but Congress agreed to extend the program for six weeks with strong bipartisan support.Unless Congress acts, the enhanced benefits will expire on February 12, 2011. Butterfield said he strongly supports an 18-month extension, and believes there is sufficient support to approve an extension.Over the past two years, more than 360,000 Americans have been certified for TAA assistance, and more than 40 percent of those workers were certified because of the TAA enacted in 2009.Butterfield said that North Carolina is among the states hardest hit by changes in the global economy, and has been among the greatest beneficiaries of TAA. During fiscal year 2010, North Carolina ranked third among states benefiting from the TAA program. According to the U.S. Department of Labor, 14,658 displaced workers participated in the program in fiscal year 2010.
01.20.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman G. K. Butterfield has been named the top ranking Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce’s Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade Subcommittee.“Given the extraordinary manufacturing jobs loss in eastern North Carolina over the past decade, this is an important place to be able to strongly influence national policy,” Butterfield said.The subcommittee’s jurisdiction includes interstate and foreign commerce, including all trade matters within the jurisdiction of the full committee; regulation of commercial practices, including sports-related matters; consumer affairs, consumer protection, consumer product safety and product liability; motor vehicle safety; regulation of travel and tourism; and, toxic substances and noise pollution.Butterfield was named ranking today during a Democratic organizational meeting of member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. As ranking member, Butterfield will serve as head of the nine Democrats serving on the subcommittee. Republicans will have 14 members serving on the subcommittee, which will be chaired by U.S. Rep. Mary Bono Mack (R-Calif.). Butterfield served as a member of the subcommittee in the 111th Congress.The House Committee on Energy and Commerce was established in 1795, and is among the oldest standing legislative committees in the U.S. House of Representatives.The committee has the broadest jurisdiction of any authorizing committee in Congress, and oversees a range of cabinet-level departments and independent agencies, including the Department of Energy, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Transportation, the Department of Commerce, the Federal Trade Commission, The Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the Federal Communications Commission. In addition, the committee is responsible for dealing with matters related to telecommunications, consumer protection, food and drug safety, public health, energy policy, the environment, interstate commerce and technology.Butterfield, who served as the vice chairman of the Energy Subcommittee in the 111th Congress, will also serve as a member of the Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy.At the start of the 112th Congress, Butterfield was also reappointed to serve within the Democratic leadership as a chief deputy whip under House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.).The chief deputy whips help formulate policy and are responsible for working to unify the party’s positions. The whips are also responsible for mobilizing the party vote on important legislation.
01.19.2011	Last year’s passage of the Affordable Care Act was truly historic with roots tracing back almost 100 years. This full repeal would force that process to start all over, and take away many of the new health care protections and freedoms people are only just beginning to enjoy.From discrimination based on pre-existing conditions to lifetime limits on coverage, repeal would put insurance companies back in charge of health care. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, repeal would also increase the deficit by $230 billion over the next 10 years, and by over $1 trillion in the second 20 years.And, according to the Medicare Actuaries, the Affordable Care Act extended the solvency of Medicare by 12 years. Repeal would accelerate the insolvency of Medicare – as well as increase drug costs for seniors in the donut hole and increase deductibles and co-pays for preventive services.
01.18.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield says the devastating impacts of repealing the historic health care reform have been detailed in a new district-specific report.“People may be very surprised by just how big the impacts of repeal would be for people in eastern North Carolina,” Butterfield said. “Insurers have stopped discriminating against sick children; seniors are saving money on prescription drugs; small businesses are receiving tax credits to provide health insurance; and, people with insurance are enjoying new rights and protections against insurance industry abuses. Unfortunately, this would all be rolled back.”This week, Butterfield said, the House is scheduled to consider legislation to repeal the historic patients’ rights, protections, and benefits already in effect as a result of the historic health care law.Butterfield expressed disappointment that here have been no hearings on the implications of repeal.“Sadly, the public may not have an opportunity to fully understand what’s at stake until after a vote has already been taken,” Butterfield said.The minority staff of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce has completed an analysis on the impacts of repeal in every congressional district across the country. The analysis is based upon data from the U.S. Census, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Department of Health and Human Services and the Congressional Budget Office.Under the health reform law, insurance companies can no longer deny coverage to children with pre-existing conditions and will be banned from discriminating against adults with pre-existing conditions in 2014. According to the analysis, as many as 261,000 people in the district have pre-existing conditions like diabetes, heart disease or cancer.Repeal would allow insurance companies to refuse to insure these individuals if they seek coverage in the individual or small-group markets. The consequences would be particularly acute for the 19,000 to 50,000 individuals in the district who currently lack insurance coverage and who would be unable to purchase individual policies if the law is repealed.Starting this year, the health reform law provides a 50% discount for prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries who enter the Medicare Part D “donut hole” and lose coverage for their drug expenses. The law then increases the discount to Medicare beneficiaries each year until 2020, when the donut hole is finally eliminated.According to the report, there are 7,300 Medicare beneficiaries in Butterfield’s district who are expected to benefit from these provisions. Repeal would increase the average cost of prescription drugs for these Medicare beneficiaries by over $500 in 2011 and by over $3,000 in 2020.The health reform law provides tax credits to small businesses worth up to 35% of the cost of providing health insurance. There are up to 11,600 small businesses in Butterfield’s district that are eligible for this tax credit. He explained that repeal would force these small businesses to drop coverage or bear the full costs of coverage.The health reform law also allows young adults to remain on their parents’ insurance policies up to age 26. In Butterfield’s district, 2,600 young adults have or are expected to take advantage of this benefit. Repeal would force these young adults to find other coverage or return to the ranks of the uninsured.According to the report, repeal would increase retiree health care costs for employers. The health reform law provides funding to encourage employers to continue to provide health insurance for their retirees. As many as 8,400 district residents who have retired but are not yet eligible for Medicare could ultimately benefit from this early retiree assistance. Repeal would increase costs for employers and jeopardize the coverage their retirees are receiving.Repeal would also increase the cost of uncompensated care born by hospitals. The health reform law benefits hospitals by covering more Americans and thereby reducing the cost of providing care to the uninsured. Repeal would undo this benefit, increasing the cost of uncompensated care by $65 million annually for hospitals in the district.The full report on the impacts on North Carolina’s First District can be found online at: https:/docs.house.gov/energycommerce/health_2011/NC1.Butterfield.pdfReports on every district and metro areas can be found at: https:/democrats.energycommerce.house.gov/index.php?q=news/impact-of-repealing-health-care-reform
12.15.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield is applauding two new U.S. Small Business Administration initiatives aimed at helping underserved communities face the challenges of accessing capital.“We have a great number of entrepreneurs and small business owners in eastern North Carolina with the potential to drive economic growth and create good-paying jobs in their local communities, but there often to many barriers to achieving success,” Butterfield said. “This gives me great hope because access to capital is often the greatest obstacle.”Today, the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) announced two new initiatives aimed at increasing SBA-backed loans to small businesses in traditionally underserved markets.“Without question, small businesses drives the success of our economy, creating nearly two-thirds of the new jobs over the last 15 years,” Butterfield said. “Our economic recovery depends on the strength and growth of small businesses.”Butterfield said the recession has hit small businesses particularly hard, in part, because it has been very difficult for businesses to access capital. Last month, with that in mind, he sponsored a well attended event in Elizabeth City, N.C. aimed at connecting local lenders, SBA and other federal agencies with small business owners in need of capital.SBA and U.S. Department of Commerce studies have shown the importance of lower-dollar loans to small business formation and growth in underserved communities.Butterfield said the programs are especially important to the largely rural district he represents where 14 of the 23 counties are designated as Tier 1, or most distressed, in the N.C. Department of Commerce annually ranking of the state's 100 counties based on economic well-being.Butterfield said the two new loan initiatives – Small Loan Advantage and Community Advantage – are aimed at increasing the number of lower-dollar SBA 7(a) loans going to small businesses and entrepreneurs in underserved communities.SBA’s most popular loan product, 7(a) government-guaranteed loans, can be used for variety of general business purposes, including working capital and purchases of equipment and real estate.“Lending to all small businesses continues to be tight, and it has been even tougher in traditionally underserved communities, including among minorities, women and in rural areas,” Butterfield said. “These initiatives are aimed directly at getting more loans into these markets so these small business owners can get the capital they need to start or grow their business and create good paying jobs in local communities across the country.”The Small Loan Advantage and Community Advantage will both offer a streamlined application process for SBA-guaranteed 7(a) loans up to $250,000. These loans will come with the regular 7(a) government guarantee, 85 percent for loans up to $150,000 and 75 percent for those greater than $150,000.Small Loan Advantage will be available to the 630 financial institutions across the country in the SBA’s Preferred Lender Program (PLP). Under PLP, which includes most of the agency’s highest volume lenders, SBA delegates the final credit decisions to lenders.With Community Advantage, SBA will expand the points of access small business owners have for getting loans by opening SBA’s 7(a) loan program to “mission-focused” financial institutions, including Community Development Financial Institutions, Certified Development Companies and non-profit micro lending intermediaries.Butterfield explained that Community Advantage will leverage the experience these institutions already have in lending to minority, women-owned and start-up companies in economically challenged markets, along with their management and technical assistance expertise, to help make their borrowers successful.Over the next few weeks, SBA will also be filling seats on its new Advisory Council on Underserved Communities (CUC), which will consist of 20 members from across the country. Members will provide a critical link between SBA and small businesses in traditionally underserved communities. It is anticipated that members will reflect a variety of key sectors, including business owners, banking and finance, community development, nonprofit and academia.
12.06.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield has been reappointed to a key House Democratic leadership post for the upcoming 112th Congress. House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D-Md.) has announced that Butterfield will continue as a member of the Democratic Whip team during the 112th Congress. Butterfield will serve as a chief deputy whip alongside U.S. Reps. John Lewis (D-Ga.), Joe Crowley (D-N.Y.), Diana DeGette (D-Colo.), Jim Matheson (D-Utah), Ed Pastor (D-Ariz.), Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.), and Maxine Waters (D-Calif.). Hoyer has been elected to serve as the Minority Whip in the upcoming session of Congress. The chief deputy whips help formulate policy and are responsible for working to unify the party’s positions. The whips are also responsible for mobilizing the party vote on important legislation before they come to the floor to be voted on. “It’s always important to have a seat at the leadership table,” Butterfield said. “It ensures a voice for the challenges facing people in eastern North Carolina.” Butterfield explained that the term “whip” is derived from “whipper in,” a British term for the person who was responsible for keeping the foxhounds from leaving the pack during the hunt. The Republican Party first used the position in 1897 when Speaker Thomas Reed appointed U.S. Rep. James A. Tawney (R-Minn.) as whip to help keep track of party members. The first Democratic Whip was appointed in 1901, and an official whip organization was first extensively used in the 1930s. Butterfield was first appointed as a chief deputy whip in January 2007 at the start of 110th Congress. He was the first Democrat from North Carolina to hold the post. Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield has been reappointed to a key House Democratic leadership post for the upcoming 112th Congress. House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D-Md.) has announced that Butterfield will continue as a member of the Democratic Whip team during the 112th Congress. Butterfield will serve as a chief deputy whip alongside U.S. Reps. John Lewis (D-Ga.), Joe Crowley (D-N.Y.), Diana DeGette (D-Colo.), Jim Matheson (D-Utah), Ed Pastor (D-Ariz.), Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.), and Maxine Waters (D-Calif.). Hoyer has been elected to serve as the Minority Whip in the upcoming session of Congress. The chief deputy whips help formulate policy and are responsible for working to unify the party’s positions. The whips are also responsible for mobilizing the party vote on important legislation before they come to the floor to be voted on. “It’s always important to have a seat at the leadership table,” Butterfield said. “It ensures a voice for the challenges facing people in eastern North Carolina.” Butterfield explained that the term “whip” is derived from “whipper in,” a British term for the person who was responsible for keeping the foxhounds from leaving the pack during the hunt. The Republican Party first used the position in 1897 when Speaker Thomas Reed appointed U.S. Rep. James A. Tawney (R-Minn.) as whip to help keep track of party members. The first Democratic Whip was appointed in 1901, and an official whip organization was first extensively used in the 1930s. Butterfield was first appointed as a chief deputy whip in January 2007 at the start of 110th Congress. He was the first Democrat from North Carolina to hold the post.
07.23.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield has offered legislation to help World War II U.S. Merchant Marines receive earned veterans benefits. “With fewer than 10,000 World War II Merchant Mariners still alive today, it is important to ensure they have the full opportunity to apply for benefits earned through service to our country,” Butterfield said. With bipartisan support from 17 fellow House members, including House Budget Chairman John Spratt (D-S.C.), Butterfield is sponsoring the World War II Merchant Marine Service Act, which seeks to expand which documents are accepted by the U.S. Secretary of Defense in determining Merchant Marines’ eligibility for veterans benefits. Butterfield explained that during World War II, U.S. Merchant Marines contributed directly to the war effort. These contributions took place while their private employers were under contract or direction of the U.S. military or government, or due to their participation in military activities such as the defense of wide geographic areas, including Guam and Bataan. “The Merchant Mariners have long and rightly been known as the fourth arm of defense,” Butterfield said. In the years after the war, Congress held hearings on legislation introduced that would have either expanded benefits then currently available to merchant seamen, or provide benefits comparable to those provided in the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944. Unfortunately, Butterfield said, Congress failed to pass any of the legislation. Decades later, Congress did eventually approve legislation that provided U.S. Merchant Marines with active oceangoing service during World War II with eligibility for veterans benefits. While many Merchant Marines gained eligibility, Butterfield said that it is often difficult to meet the current documentation requirements. Currently, the only documents accepted are certificate of shipping and discharge forms, continuous deck or engine logbooks, and shipping company records that indicate the vessel names and dates of voyages. Butterfield said that many of these documents never existed or are “all but impossible” to obtain, and that the bill would allow several alternatives. Under the bill, acceptable forms of documentation would include Social Security Administration records, validated testimony by the applicant or closest living relative and other official records that provide sufficient proof of service. The other co-sponsors are U.S. Reps. Mike McIntyre (D-N.C.), Walter Jones (R-N.C.), Howard Coble (R-N.C.), Larry Kissell (D-N.C.), Virginia Foxx (R-N.C.), Bob Etheridge (D-N.C.), Sue Myrick (R-N.C.), Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.), Bob Brady (D-Pa.), Madeline Bordallo (D-Guam), Donna Christensen (D-V.I.), Carol Shea-Porter (D-N.H.), Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), Sanford Bishop (D-Ga.), Bill Delahunt (D-Mass.) and Gene Taylor (D-Miss.).
07.19.2010	Congressman G. K. Butterfield today urged U.S. Sen. Richard Burr to stop blocking important legislation that would propel America’s economic recovery and put North Carolina back to work.“At a time when so many North Carolinians are out of work, it is troubling that the Senate Republicans are unwilling to do more to help families who are suffering during these tough economic times,” Butterfield said. “People in North Carolina need to let their senator know that working families, teachers and small businesses desperately need relief.”Over the past several months, the U.S. House has passed a host of bills that would create jobs and stimulate the economy but bill have been stymied in the U.S. Senate by a slate of senators including Burr.While the national economy has shown signs of improvement recently, the current pace of job creation is evidence that government action is needed to further stimulate our economy. While the national unemployment rate currently stands at 9.5 percent, the latest unemployment numbers show North Carolina is suffering with an unemployment employment rate of 10 percent.Butterfield said that Burr has blocked legislation that would extend unemployment benefits for 2.5 million Americans, provide $1 billion for 350,000 youth employment jobs program and $2.5 billion in emergency assistance for needy families working in public and private sector jobs.Additionally, Burr is impeding the funding of $1 billion for the National Housing Trust Fund, which will provide communities with funds to build, preserve and rehabilitate rental homes that are affordable for low-income families.Other provisions being blocked by Burr would:• Provide important tax cuts to put money back in the pockets of working families;• Help restore the flow of credit to enable small businesses to expand and hire new workers by extending small business loan programs;• Expand career training programs for Americans who are looking for work;• Extend eligibility for unemployment insurance benefits for workers who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own;• Ensure that seniors, military service members and Americans with disabilities continue to have access to doctors they know and trust; and• Close tax loopholes for wealthy investment fund managers and foreign operations of multi-national companies.
07.12.2010	Jacksonville, N.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield has urged the Marine Corps to place up to 11 Joint Strike Fighter squadrons at MCAS Cherry Point.As part of the process for basing 11 squadrons of the F-35B – a short take-off, vertical landing version of the Joint Strike Fighter – the Marine Corps sought public comment and Butterfield has responded with a letter.“Given the location, support of the community and ready access to world-class maintenance, MCAS Cherry Point provides an unparalleled fit,” Butterfield said.The U.S. Marine Corps plans to base and operate 11 F-35B Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter (F-35B) squadrons and the F-35B Pilot Training Center (PTC), which will be composed of two Fleet Replacement Squadrons (FRS), at East Coast air stations and within existing regional training airspace and ranges.The F-35B would replace the Second Marine Air Wing’s F/A-18 Hornet and AV-8B Harrier aircraft currently based at Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) Beaufort, S.C. and MCAS Cherry Point, N.C., respectively.Butterfield said that squadron basing would provide enormous economic benefits to the community, and would include new construction, additional aircraft maintenance and airfield operation.Specifically, the proposal would base and operate 11 F-35B operational squadrons (which includes one Reserve squadron) with up to 16 aircraft per squadron and the PTC (composed of two FRSs) with 20 aircraft per FRS.To date, the Marine Corps has identified four alternatives as well as a “take no action alternative” for evaluation.Butterfield said that he supports either of the first two options, which would provide eight or 11 operational squadrons at MCAS Cherry Point, respectively.Below is the text of Butterfield’s letter sent as part of the Environmental Impact Statement process:I write to commend the United States Marine Corps for its preparation of the F-35B East Coast Basing Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS). As the Marine Corps completes its study of East Coast basing options for 13 squadrons of the F-35B, I strongly support the preferred alternative listed in the DEIS, “Alternative One,” which places eight Operational Squadrons at Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) Cherry Point. I also support “Alternative Two” which would place 11 Operational Squadrons at MCAS Cherry Point. I am confident that MCAS Cherry Point has unsurpassed capability to house these squadrons.MCAS Cherry Point is home to the 2nd Marine Aircraft Wing. It is located in Havelock, North Carolina, in my Congressional district. Its geographical location provides a tremendous benefit to the Marine Corps and the entire military. As a multi-role fighter, the F-35B will need to train for a variety of functions including air-to-air, air-to-ground, and close air support. MCAS Cherry Point’s access to training airspace and ranges is compatible with the stated mission of the Marine Corps.The City of Havelock is also home to Fleet Readiness Center (FRC) East. For more than 60 years, FRC East has played an important part in national defense. FRC East has earned a reputation of excellence in providing world-class maintenance, engineering and logistics support for Navy and Marine Corps aviation, as well as other armed services, federal agencies and foreign governments. Their skilled workforce uses state-of-the-art technology to ensure that FRC East provides unsurpassed quality, cost-effective support.In addition to its strategic military location, the City of Havelock and its residents welcome the F-35B as well as the manpower needed to support its mission. Havelock’s City administration, led by Mayor Jimmy Sanders and a very capable Board of Commissioners, are continuously involved with Colonel Douglas Denn, MCAS Cherry Point Commanding Officer, as well as the entire leadership at MCAS Cherry Point. This proactive outreach helps the City meet the needs of Marines and their families both on and off the base.I hope you will continue to give serious consideration to “Alternative One” or “Alternative Two” when completing the Final Environmental Impact Statement for F-35B East Coast basing. The DEIS correctly states with regard to “Alternative One,” “this basing option best meets the purpose and need and balances environmental impacts with mission requirements.” I strongly support the Draft EIS and look forward to the benefits the F-35B will bring to Cherry Point, the City of Havelock, and Craven County.
06.08.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield reminds seniors who fall into the Medicare Part D “donut hole” that the one-time, tax-free $250 rebate checks start going out to this week. “This is an important first step toward closing the Medicare donut hole,” Butterfield said. Under the Affordable Care Act passed by Congress and signed by President Obama, Medicare will automatically send a $250 check to seniors who reach the coverage gap in 2010. Checks will be mailed monthly staring June 10th throughout the year as beneficiaries enter the coverage gap. Butterfield said that once a Medicare beneficiary reaches the donut hole, they should expect to automatically receive a check within 45 days. Individuals receiving Medicare Extra Help will not receive a rebate check. Butterfield warned seniors to be aware of scams seeking personal information. “Medicare sends check automatically and there are no forms to fill out,” Butterfield said. “Don’t give any personal information – Medicare, Social Security or bank account numbers – to anyone who calls about the rebate check.” Anyone who does receive calls seeking personal information is encouraged to call 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227). TTY users should call 1-877-486-2048. Butterfield explained that most Medicare prescription drug plans have a coverage gap, which means that once beneficiaries have spent a certain amount, all drug costs must be paid for out of pocket up to a limit. Medicare drug coverage resumes once the limit is exceeded. Butterfield said that under the health insurance reforms, the donut hole will eventually be closed completely. Beginning in 2011, beneficiaries in the donut hole will receive a 50 percent discount on brand-name drugs. Additional discounts for brand-name and generic drugs will be phased in to close the donut hole completely by 2020. A typical senior who hits the donut hole is expected to save over $700 in 2011, and over $3,000 annually by 2020. Butterfield said that the health insurance reform provided a number of additional improvements to make health care more affordable for seniors. In addition to closing the donut hole, out-of-pocket expenses for preventive services in Medicare have been eliminated, and cost sharing for many individuals dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid will also be eliminated.
05.04.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield applauded the promotion of a Wilson, N.C. native to “full bird Colonel” at a Pentagon ceremony today. Army Lt. Col. Mechelle B. Hale, a 1988 graduate of Elizabeth City State University (ECSU), was promoted to the rank of Colonel during a ceremony with Joint Chief of Staff Director Lt. Gen. Lloyd Austin. Hale currently serves as the Chief of the Installation Plans Branch for the Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff Installation Management Command in Washington, D.C. Her awards include the Defense Meritorious Service Medal, Meritorious Service Medal with Silver Oak Leaf, Army Commendation Medal with Silver Oak Leaf, Army Achievement Medal with Silver Oak Leaf, National Defense Service Medal, Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, Army Service Ribbon, Overseas Service Ribbon, Army Parachutist Badge, and British Airborne Wings. Her special awards include the 2009 Department of Defense Military Meritorious Service Award for Blacks in Government and the 2008 Phi Delta Kappa (Germany Chapter) Philanthropian Award. “The Wilson community is immensely proud of Col. Hale’s accomplishments and the patriotic contributions she is making in defending our great country,” Butterfield said as a speaker at the ceremony. Butterfield noted that he has long known the Hale family – Col. Hale’s mother was a first grade classmate and the family lived just 14 houses away. He said that she serves as an example to the community, and was especially proud that the Darden Alumni Scholarship enabled her to successfully pursue her college degree. “I’m proud to have been part of the effort to create the scholarship and its shows how much can be accomplished when a community comes together to help it students pursue their goals,” Butterfield said. Butterfield said he recently talked with Hale at ECSU’s Founder’s Day where she was being honored with a Chancellor’s Legacy Award, and he agreed to attend the promotion ceremony. While attending ECSU, Hale was commissioned an Ordnance Officer in the Army Reserve Officer Training Corps Program, receiving Distinguished Military Graduate honors. From 1988-1991, she was assigned to the 184th Ordnance Company, Darmstadt, Germany; first as a Platoon Leader, and later, as an Operations Officer. From 1991-1996, she was assigned to Fort Bragg, N.C. where she served in the 264th Corps Support Battalion; first as a Company Commander, and later as the Battalion S3. As Company Commander, she deployed her unit to Haiti in support of Operation Uphold Democracy. From 1996-1998, Hale was assigned as Chief of the Ammunition Branch in the 19th Theater Army Area Command, Taegu, South Korea. She departed South Korea to complete a second consecutive overseas assignment in Hawaii. From 1998-2001, she served in the 45th Corps Support Group, first as the Group Supply Officer and later as the Battalion Executive Officer for the 524th Corps Support Battalion. From 2002-2004, Hale served as Special Assistant to the Commanding General of Forces Command in Atlanta, Ga. She was then assigned to a joint position in the United States Central Command, Tampa, Fla. From 2006-2009, Hale served as the first garrison commander at the U.S. Army Garrison Kaiserslautern. Hale earned masters’ degrees from Troy State University and the Naval War College. She and her husband, Ricky, have two sons, Ricky and Rashaad.
03.18.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield today announced nearly $23 million in federal funding for water system improvements in eastern North Carolina. Butterfield announced that six projects in Pitt, Wayne and Vance counties were among the 60 announced nationwide today by U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack. The projects are being funded through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), and are expected to provide construction jobs and create infrastructure needed to support community growth. “Water and wastewater projects are moving forward in rural communities across the country and thanks to the Recovery Act, investments in water and wastewater infrastructure will help deliver safe drinking water and protect the environment throughout rural America,” Vilsack said. Vilsack said the projects are designed to protect public health by improving water quality and public sanitation services. “Strong and modern infrastructure is a critical component of future success in eastern North Carolina,” Butterfield said.The loan and grant funding announced today supports 60 projects and totals $159 million nationwide. To date, USDA has announced $2.3 billion in Recovery Act funds for water and environmental projects. Funding of individual recipients is contingent upon meeting the terms of the loan or grant agreement. Below is a complete list of award recipients in counties represented by Butterfield:Town of Bethel: $256,000 loan and $2,426,000 grant; the funding will be used for water system improvements.Bethel will replace an aging water system that is constructed of iron, galvanized steel and asbestos-laden cement pipes. The tap water has a high iron level and is discolored. The project will improve water quality and boost water pressure. Eastern Wayne Sanitary District: $2,164,000 loan and $1,811,000 grant; the funding will be used for water system improvements.Eastern Wayne Sanitary District (EWSD) is part of the North Carolina 13 county capacity use area that is required to reduce its ground water withdrawals significantly between 2008 and 2018. In order to accomplish this requirement the EWSD has had to find an alternate source of water. EWSD plans to purchase water from Southeastern Wayne Sanitary District and Goldsboro. Relative to the purchase agreements for water they will then begin mixing water from a surface water treatment facility with the water they produce from wells. Likewise, the proposed funding from USDA will cover the ammonia feeds system needed at eight existing wells, one booster pump station, a SCADA system and an automatic meter reading system.Southeastern Wayne Sanitary District: $3,529,000 loan and $2,971,000 grant; the funding will be used for water system improvements.The existing portion of the Southeastern Wayne Sanitary District (SEWSD) was constructed in the early 1990’s. The upgrade that is proposed for the water treatment plant will allow SEWSD to sell water to two water districts that are mandated by State law to reduce their groundwater withdrawals. The SEWSD will upgrade their water system through the installation of ammonia feed equipment on three existing wells, installation of SCADA electrical control equipment at existing wells, elevated tanks, booster pump stations and water treatment plant, installation of automatic meter read water meters, the installation of a booster pump station to allow SEWSD to transport water to adjacent Eastern Wayne Sanitary District and Belfast-Patetown Sanitary Districts, and expansion of its existing iron removal water treatment plant to increase its capacity to produce water. The booster pump station will be built on an existing site presently containing an elevated storage tank. All other planned improvements will be on existing sites.Vance County Water District Phase 2A: $2,196,000 loan and $1,622,800 grant; the funding will be used for water system improvements.Currently, Vance County does not provide public water service to its rural residents. The county created the Vance County Water District in order to provide water service to the county’s rural areas. The Phase 2A service area includes all of Dabney and half of Williamsboro. The residents in this area depend on private wells as a source of drinking water. Many of these wells suffer contamination from runoff from individual septic tanks and/or underground fuel storage tanks. The District will purchase potable water from the City of Henderson, which purchases water from the Kerr Lake Regional Water System. This project will provide a safe and dependable water supply to 565 residential users.Vance County Water District Phase 2B: $3,937,000 loan and $1,987,450 grant; the funding will be used for water system improvements.Currently, Vance County does not provide public water service to its rural residents. The county created the Vance County Water District in order to provide water service to the county’s rural areas. The Phase 2B service area includes all of Townsville and half of Williamsboro. Residents in this area depend on private wells as a source of drinking water. Many of these wells suffer contamination from runoff from individual septic tanks and/or underground fuel storage tanks. The district will purchase potable water from the Henderson that purchases water from the Kerr Lake Regional Water System. This project will provide a safe and dependable water supply to 883 residential users. The funding will be administered by USDA Rural Development’s Water and Environmental Program which provides loans and grants to ensure that the necessary investments are made in water and wastewater infrastructure to deliver safe drinking water and protect the environment in rural areas. President Obama signed ARRA into law on Feb. 17, 2009. It is designed to jumpstart the nation’s economy, create or save millions of jobs and put a down payment on addressing long-neglected challenges so our country can thrive in the 21st century. The Act includes measures to modernize our nation’s infrastructure, enhance energy independence, expand educational opportunities, preserve and improve affordable health care, provide tax relief, and protect those in greatest need.
03.18.2010	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman G. K. Butterfield announced that the compromise health insurance reform bill would provide enormous benefits to the people eastern North Carolina. “These reforms will put Americans and small businesses back in charge of their health care choices,” Butterfield said. “They make coverage more affordable for everyone and hold insurance companies accountable, stopping the worst practices like denying you coverage because of a pre-existing condition, dropping coverage when you get sick or arbitrarily hiking up your premiums.” The House today released a compromise bill aimed at reforming the health insurance market. The 153-page Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 contains elements of both the previous House and Senate, and is expected to be voted on as soon as this weekend. “When it comes to health care, decisions should never be made by the government or insurance companies – they must be made by patients and their doctors,” Butterfield said. “And that’s exactly what this bill does – it puts people back in charge of their own personal health care decisions.” Among the specific benefits for North Carolina’s First Congressional District: 295,000 residents with health insurance will see improvements with their current coverage. 11,600 residents who can’t buy health insurance now because of pre-existing condition will be able to obtain coverage. Up to 193,000 families would get tax cuts aimed at helping to make health insurance more affordable. Up to 11,600 small businesses would get tax credits to help make health insurance more affordable. 115,000 Medicare beneficiaries will see better care and will pay less for prescription drugs because the Medicare Part D donut hole will be closed. 51,000 young people will be able to say on their parents’ health insurance policies until their 26th birthday. 60,500 uninsured will have access to health care coverage. 900 families won’t have to file for bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs. 42 community health centers will receive millions of dollars in new funding to see thousands of new patients.Butterfield said he expects the bill to win approval and end to a long, deliberative and purposeful process. He pointed out that over the past several years, the House has held about 100 hearings on the issue; House members have met with constituents at more than 3,000 health care events across the country; and, three House committees spent more than 160 hours on hearings and markups of the legislation. In approving these reforms, Butterfield said Congress would be “supporting the millions of Americans who quietly struggle every day with a system that works better for the health insurance companies than it does for them.” “The American people cannot afford to wait any longer,” Butterfield said. “Rising health care costs are crushing families and businesses, forcing small business owners to choose between health care and jobs.” Butterfield also noted that the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office determined that the bill would the federal deficit by $138 billion in the first ten years – 2010 to 2019 – and that cuts the deficit by $1.2 trillion in the second ten years. The figures cites were based on an analysis by the House Committee on Energy and Commerce using information and data from the U.S. Census, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services, Health Resources and Services Administration and the Congressional Budget Office. More information about the benefits for North Carolina’s First Congressional District are available at www.butterfield.house.gov. The full text of the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act can be found at https:/docs.house.gov/rules/hr4872/111_hr4872_amndsub.pdf.
03.17.2010	Congressman G. K. Butterfield released the following statement in support of achieving immediate health insurance reforms: While there has been immense debate over health insurance reform, there is general agreement that there is a great and immediate need for change. People need to understand that as important as this is to people without coverage, this is every bit as important for people who already have health insurance. The legislation being discussed will make health care affordable for the middle class, provide security for seniors and guarantee access to health insurance for the uninsured – while reducing the federal deficit by over $100 billion over the next decade. There are four central ways in which these reforms will provide more stability and security for every American. First, the reforms will reduce the federal deficits and finally bring skyrocketing health care costs under control. This means real savings for families, businesses and our government. Without cutting services, they eliminate billions of dollars in waste and inefficiency in Medicare and Medicaid and in unwarranted insurance company subsidies. Second, making Medicare more efficient ensures that more tax dollars go directly to caring for seniors instead of lining pockets at insurance companies. These reforms will provide today’s seniors with the benefits they’ve been promised and ensure the long-term health and stability of Medicare for tomorrow’s seniors. And, the reforms will also reduce seniors’ prescription drug costs. Third, the reforms provide every American with basic consumer protections that finally hold insurance companies accountable. Under the current system, millions of Americans with coverage struggle against insurance companies that refuse to pay because of pre-existing illnesses or conditions. Finally, all Americans will have the peace of mind knowing that they have a choice and access to high-quality, affordable health care. Voting to approve these reforms will bring a needed end to a long, deliberative and purposeful process. Over the past several years, the House has held about 100 hearings on the issue; House members have met with constituents at more than 3,000 health care events across the country; and, three House committees spent more than 160 hours on hearings and markups of the legislation. If people take the time to read and understand this legislation, it will be clear that there is no government takeover of health care. Every American would continue to choose their own doctor and health insurance plan— and make health care decisions with that doctor. In fact, the legislation builds on the current system of private health insurance. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), private insurance coverage would expand by 16 million under the House reform bill. In approving these reforms, Congress will be supporting the millions of Americans who quietly struggle every day with a system that works better for the health insurance companies than it does for them. The American people cannot afford to wait any longer. Rising health care costs are crushing families and businesses, forcing small business owners to choose between health care and jobs. If we fail to control health care costs, families will continue to be increasingly burdened with higher premiums; businesses will be forced to drop coverage or lay off workers; and, our national and state budgets will be fiscally unsustainable.
01.13.2010	Roper, N.C. – The U.S. House today approved legislation naming Roper's Post Office in honor of former mayor and State Board of Education member E.V. Wilkins.“E.V. Wilkins provided an indelible legacy in his community,” Congressman G. K. Butterfield said. “This fitting honor recognizes his deep dedication to the community and his tireless work to increase tolerance, civic responsibility and academic achievement. He was an important and well-known political voice for eastern North Carolina.”The House approved Butterfield’s bill after a 356 to 1 roll call vote. The legislation would name Roper’s Post Office at 101 West Highway 64 Bypass as the “E.V. Wilkins Post Office.” Currently, the Post Office does not have a name. The legislation is co-sponsored by North Carolina’s entire House delegation, and now moves on to the Senate where it is expected to win approval.After graduating from North Carolina Central University in the 1930s, Elmer Vanray (“E.V.”) Wilkins returned to Roper to teach math at J.J. Clemmons High School. Butterfield said he soon became principal and led the school, its students and community to aspire to greatness. Butterfield said Wilkins started that effort with by seeking a school bus in 1946. While the white children had a bus, the black students did not. After soliciting small donations from whites and blacks, and even accepting bushels of potatoes that could be sold as part of the growing fund, Wilkins spearheaded the successful effort to provide the needed bus.In the mid-1950s, Wilkins took up the fight against white county leaders refusal to allow blacks to vote. Butterfield explained that Wilkins insisted that everyone must enjoy the same right to vote and led a lawsuit with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People on behalf of the county’s black residents. They won a court order enforcing their right to vote, and Wilkins’ father was able to vote for the first time in his life in 1956.“He committed his life to the powerful idea that all people deserve equal rights,” Butterfield said.Wilkins was elected as Roper’s first black mayor in 1975 – a position held for 20 years until his retirement – and he was previously the first black to be elected to the Roper Town Council since Reconstruction in 1967.A lifelong resident of Roper, Wilkins was born on July 4, 1911 and died on June 2, 2002 at the age of 90. His daughters, Bunny Sanders and Joy Price, son-in-law, Ralph Price, and two grandchildren, survive him. Sanders currently serves as Roper’s mayor. Wilkins served as a member of numerous boards, including the State Board of Education, State Economic Development Commission, North Carolina Secondary Road Council, North Carolina Railroad Board of Directors and the North Carolina State Ports Authority. He also served as a member of the Board of Trustees of the North Carolina School of Science and Mathematics, the Advisory Board for the Rural Education Institution at East Carolina University, and of the Elizabeth City State University Board of Trustees.During his life, Wilkins received numerous honors and awards, including the North Carolina Distinguished Citizen Award, the Order of the Long Leaf Pine Award, the Service Award by the North Carolina Leadership Caucus, the North Carolina Distinguished Service Award, and the North Carolina Human Relations Commission's Libby D. Koontz Award in recognition of his dedication and leadership in the areas of education, civil rights, and human rights.He was also was honored by Elizabeth City State University when the University's computer center was renamed the E.V. Wilkins Academic Computing Center in 1992; and, honored by the establishment of the E.V. Wilkins Endowed Chair in the Elizabeth City State University School of Education and Psychology in 1996.
12.11.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield applauded passage of Wall Street financial reforms in the House today, saying many provisions will help and protect people affected by the economic crisis. “This will finally bring an end to the unchecked, risky and irresponsible gambles on the part of America’s financial institutions,” Butterfield said. Butterfield said the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, approved by a 223 to 202 vote, will end taxpayer-funded bailouts, protect consumers from predatory lending, safeguard retirement and college savings from unnecessary risks and require much greater transparency and accountability for financial institutions. He also said that several other key provisions would provide resources and relief to communities hit hard by the economic decline. Specifically, the bill includes $1 billion for Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP). Under the program, local government can use the funds to purchase, rehabilitate and redevelop foreclosed, abandoned housing, and to alleviate blight properties. He said that the bill also includes $3 billion in low-interest loans for unemployed or underemployed homeowners who are struggling to pay their mortgages. Under the bill, homeowners must be at least three months behind on their mortgage payments and must have a reasonable prospect of being able to resume making full mortgage payments. The legislation would also create a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency to protect families and small businesses by ensuring bank loans, mortgages and credit cards are fair, affordable, and understandable. Butterfield explained that the new agency would streamline the role of protecting ordinary Americans’ financial security. “The economic crisis has revealed the vital need for a stand-alone agency with the singular mission of protecting the rights of consumers,” Butterfield said.Additionally, Butterfield said, the bill gives the Securities and Exchange Commission new enforcement powers and requires hedge funds and private equity funds to register. He said it also enhances oversight and transparency of the credit rating agencies; addresses egregious executive compensation by allowing shareholders to have “say on pay;” and, limits the risky pay practices of bank executives who jeopardized banks’ soundness.
12.11.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield is asking USDA to reestablish a Rural Development office in Edgecombe County, N.C. “Without question, North Carolina’s rural communities are struggling against rising unemployment and poverty, limited access to credit, and falling local tax revenues as a result of this recession,” Butterfield said. “These struggling communities need Rural Development’s assistance in building infrastructure and creating jobs.” Butterfield said that reestablishing a local Rural Development office in Edgecombe County would better allow the agency to work closely with the community to identify needs and develop solutions. Rural Development’s Edgecombe County Area Office was closed nearly two years ago, and the responsibility for Edgecombe County was transferred to the Smithfield, N.C. Butterfield has sent a written request to reopen an Edgecombe County office to newly appointed state director for Rural Development Randall Gore. Edgecombe County unemployment rate was 17 percent for October, ranking second worst in the state. Twenty-two percent of the population lives below the poverty line – more than 50 percent higher than the state level. And, as a Tier I County, it is designated as one of the 40 most economically distressed counties in North Carolina. “It’s a set of circumstances that requires and deserves close attention,” Butterfield said. Rural Development administers and manages more than 40 programs. These include Rural Utilities Service (RUS), which addresses rural needs for clean running water, sewers and waste disposal, electricity, and telecommunications; Rural Housing Services (RHS), which addresses rural needs for housing, health facilities, fire and police stations and other community facilities; Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBS), which helps to create new rural job opportunities; and, through its community development programs, which address unique and pressing economic development issues. USDA's Rural Development mission is to enhance rural communities by targeting financial and technical resources to areas of greatest need. Rural Development has about $24.4 billion available in financial and technical resources to help rural communities across the country this year. Rural Development often works in partnership with other entities – such as state, local, and tribal governments, private and non-profit organizations, and member-owned cooperatives – to revitalize rural areas. Its 6,100 employees provide services through 500 national, state and local offices.
12.07.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield supports enacting legislation aimed at jobs creation that includes workforce-training funding for rural communities. “All communities are suffering in the face of this extraordinarily difficult economy,” Butterfield said. “But this steep economic decline has hit poor, rural communities particularly hard.” According to the North Carolina Department of Commerce, North Carolina’s First Congressional District includes 17 of the state’s 40 most economically distressed counties. Nine of the 23 counties Butterfield represents have poverty rates above 22 percent – more than 50 percent above the statewide poverty rate of 14.6 percent. And, in October, the counties he represents collectively had an unemployment rate of 11.1 percent, and one of the counties suffered with an unemployment rate of 17 percent. “After years of neglect, the federal government must seize the opportunity to address the need for worker retraining and workforce development – especially in struggling rural areas like eastern North Carolina,” Butterfield said. Butterfield has written to House Committee on Education and Labor Chair George Miller urging jobs legislation that includes robust funding for rural communities through the workforce development programs administered by the U.S. Department of Labor. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) provided $4.8 billion such programs, but the House version of the legislation had included an additional $194 million needed to enhance workforce development. “As we move forward, the changing economy will increasingly depend on knowledge and training,” Butterfield said. “Rural communities must have the opportunity to move forward or risk falling increasingly behind. Adequate workforce development in our rural communities is the best way to ensure there is a ready, trained and qualified workforce needed to help reverse the economic decline.” Butterfield said that while unemployment and job losses are still far too high, there are some positive indicators that the economy is growing. He pointed to the growth in the Gross Domestic Product, and said he expect job growth to follow in the coming months. “As President Obama has said, unfortunately hiring often takes time to catch up to economic growth,” Butterfield said. Butterfield said he expects any jobs creating bill enacted by Congress would likely also include some of the ideas discussed by leading voices in the public and private sector at the White House’s Forum for Jobs and Economic Growth last week. Some ideas included incentives to encourage energy efficient home improvements, targeted to small business hiring and investment in infrastructure.
12.03.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield has introduced bipartisan legislation aimed at curbing excessive medication costs for patients. “As medications make their way down the supply chain to the people who depend on them we need to ensure no one is lining their pockets with unnecessary and excessive profits along the way,” Butterfield said. With bipartisan support, Butterfield has introduced the Patient Health and Real Medication Access Cost Savings Act of 2009. Specifically, the bill seeks to reduce consumers’ dependence on pharmacy benefit management (PBM) companies for medications. Butterfield explained that the bill seeks to reduce drug costs by preventing secret “spread pricing,” where PBMs purchase drugs and pay pharmacies at one price, and then charge the government and insurers a higher price without disclosing the difference. He said the bill also aims to prevent patient “steering,” where PBMs force patients to obtain medications through mail-only systems or pharmacies owned by the PBMs. Under the bill, pharmacies will also help government and insurers increase the use of lower-cost generic pharmaceuticals. “The only way to ensure that consumer costs are fair and being contained is to hold PBMs to the same high standards of transparency and accountability that every other provider faces,” Butterfield said. Butterfield said that because of growing costs, nearly 60 large employers across the country that collectively spend $4.9 billion for prescription drugs have recently dropped or forced PBMs to disclose drug acquisition costs. He also pointed to the University of Michigan, which found an annual savings of $2.5 million after dropping its PBM in favor of direct purchases. The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform’s Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, Postal Service, and the District of Columbia held a hearing on June 24, 2009 to assess the value PBMs are providing to the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP). At that hearing, Subcommittee Chairman Stephen Lynch (D-Mass.) noted, “federal employee plans pay substantially more for drugs than other agency programs, including those run by the departments of Veterans Affairs and Defense, and Medicare, Medicaid and the Public Health Service.” The Pharmaceutical Care Management Association (PCMA) successfully lobbied Congress to allow PBMs to manage the massive new Medicare Part D drug delivery program enacted in 2003 and implemented in 2006. Butterfield said that as a result of the industry’s expanded market power, PBMs are now using new tactics to divert patients into higher-cost services, and to divert taxpayer savings into higher PBM profits. “These practices represent a significant abuse of taxpayers and patients in the health care system, and PBMs must be held accountable to taxpayers,” Butterfield said. “Unfortunately the current law leaves consumers, taxpayers and Congress in the dark. This bill requires transparency and ensures that lower-cost generic medications are prescribed when appropriate whenever taxpayers are paying the bill.” The bill is cosponsored by Reps. Walter Jones (R-N.C.), Howard Coble (R-N.C.), Rodney Alexander (R-La.), Larry Kissell (D-N.C.), Mike McIntyre (D-N.C.), Brad Miller (D-N.C.) and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.).
11.18.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressmen G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) and Mike Rogers (R-Mich.) have introduced a resolution honoring the 40th Anniversary of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association’s (ASHA) Office of Multicultural Affairs. “The Office of Multicultural Affairs has been instrumental in bringing attention to the health disparities associated with communication disorders and in addressing minority educational disparities,” Butterfield said. “They are deserving of recognition.”The ASHA represents over 135,000 Audiologists, Speech-Language Pathologists (SLPs), and Speech Language and Hearing Scientists in Health Care and Education. Seeking to help address the cultural and linguistic diversity issues among speech-language pathologists and audiologists, ASHA established its Office of Multicultural Affairs (OMA) in 1969. Butterfield and Rogers have introduced a bipartisan House resolution recognizing and commending the ASHA staff and members for the success in advancing greater inclusion and diversity. OMA sought to achieve its goals by developing opportunities for communications sciences and disorders students. ASHA also encouraged members to keep pace with the knowledge, skills and technologies required for multicultural literacy in communication disorders and differences; promote quality service provision in our increasingly multicultural society; ensure full participation of all professionals and students in association life; and serve as a catalyst for infusing multicultural issues throughout the operations of the association.For its efforts, OMA received the first Minority Health Leadership Award from the Department of Health and Human Services in 2006. This award recognized ASHA’s vision, innovation, and leadership in addressing health care disparities, increasing access to services, recruiting and retaining professionals from underrepresented backgrounds and improving service delivery to minority populations with communications disorders. The resolution also recognizes OMA for establishing the Minority Student Leadership Program in 1999 to create a pipeline for talented Audiology and SLP graduate students from underrepresented groups into leadership positions within their professions. The program has produced over 350 graduates who now assume leadership roles in their communities, local and national associations.
11.04.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield and Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack today announced $3.9 million for several local projects being funded through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “Eastern North Carolina has been hit particularly hard by this recession,” Butterfield said. “These funds are sorely needed and will certainly be put to good use.” USDA announced $2.1 million loans and $200,000 in grant to Williamston, N.C. for renovation of the public safety center that houses the police department, fire department and emergency operations; $1.4 million in loans for an addition to the Harvest Family Health Center in Elm City, N.C.; and, $114,290 in grant and $93,510 in loans to Littleton, N.C. for renovation of the town hall. The funding is being provided through USDA Rural Development’s Community Facilities program, which helps finance essential community facilities for public use in rural areas. These facilities include childcare centers, hospitals, medical clinics, assisted living facilities, fire and rescue stations, police stations, community centers, public buildings and transportation. Through this program, USDA ensures that such facilities are available to all rural residents. These funds are available to public bodies, non-profit organizations and federally recognized Indian tribes. “The Obama Administration is committed to revitalizing rural communities and bringing quality facilities such as hospitals, public buildings and community centers to small towns and cities that can benefit from new construction or upgrades to existing ones,” Vilsack said. President Obama signed The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 into law on Feb. 17, 2009. It is designed to jumpstart the nation’s economy, create or save millions of jobs and put a down payment on addressing long-neglected challenges so our country can thrive in the 21st century. The Act includes measures to modernize our nation’s infrastructure, enhance energy independence, expand educational opportunities, preserve and improve affordable health care, provide tax relief, and protect those in greatest need. The Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board recently announced that Recovery Act funds expended so far have directly created and saved more than 640,000 jobs. This matches estimates by Moody’s, the Congressional Budget Office and the Council of Economic Advisors that the Recovery Act has saved or created 1 million direct and indirect jobs. “There has been some encouraging economic news, but Congress must remain focused on doing everything possible to keep creating jobs,” Butterfield said. “We need to ensure a strong and solid economic recovery for all families.” More information about USDA’s Recovery Act efforts is available at www.usda.gov/recovery. Information specific to North Carolina can be found at www.ncrecovery.gov/.
11.04.2009	Washington, D.C.- Congressman G.K. Butterfield applauded President Obama’s nomination of Judge James Wynn to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. “As the North Carolina Court of Appeals’ longest serving member, Judge Wynn would bring a great deal of appellate and military experience to the federal bench,” Butterfield said. “He has a remarkable legal mind, and I know that he will continue to make the people of eastern North Carolina proud.” Under the nomination process, Wynn’s nomination to the Richmond, Va.-based U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit is sent to the U.S. Senate in writing. The nomination is read on the floor and referred to committee. If the committee votes to report the nomination, it is filed and may then be considered for a vote by the full Senate. The U.S Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit hears appeals from nine federal district courts in North Carolina, Virginia, South Carolina, Maryland and West Virginia as well as appeals from decisions of federal administrative agencies. Wynn currently sits on the North Carolina Court of Appeals, the state’s intermediate appellate court; he sat on the Supreme Court of North Carolina in 1998. Prior to taking the bench in 1990, he served on active duty in the Judge Advocate General's Corps of the Navy and worked in private practice with Butterfield at the firm of Fitch, Butterfield and Wynn in Wilson and Greenville. Butterfield noted that Wynn served on active and reserve duty in the U.S. Navy Reserves for 30 years. He retired in August 2009 as a Navy Captain and was a certified Military Trial Judge. During his military career, he commanded three different reserve units including most recently serving as Commanding Officer of the Navy Reserve Trial Judiciary Unit. He was awarded the Meritorious Service Medal three times, the Navy Commendation Medal twice, the Naval Reserve Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, and the Global War on Terrorism Medal. Wynn serves as Chair of the American Bar Association’s Judges Advisory Committee on Ethics and formerly served as the Chair of the American Bar Association Judicial Division; Chair of the Association’s Appellate Judges Conference, and was one of the Drafters of the ABA’s 2007 Revised Model Code of Judicial Conduct. “Judge Wynn has earned a strong reputation through his leadership, and he has been recognized nationally for his scholarly work on judicial independence,” Butterfield said. Wynn, 55, was born in Robersonville, N.C. to Naomi and James Wynn Sr., a carpenter and nurse’s aide, respectively. He graduated from Robersonville High School; received a bachelor of arts in journalism from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; a law degree from Marquette University Law School; and, a master’s degree in judicial process from the University of Virginia School of Law. He has received a rating of unanimous “well-qualified” from the American Bar Association.
11.02.2009	Washington, D.C. – A report by the House Committee on Energy and Commerce found that families, small business and seniors in Congressman G. K. Butterfield’s district would benefit greatly from health insurance reform. Using data from the U.S. Census, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the House Committee on Ways and Means, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce staff analyzed the how the provisions of the Affordable Health Care for Americans Act would affect the people in each legislative district across the country. The committee provided a two-page report of its findings for each congressional district. The reports were release today and the full report on Butterfield’s district can be found at: https:/butterfield.house.gov “Our health care market is in crisis – crippling costs, rising uncertainty and a lack of access for far too many Americans,” Butterfield said. “We need immediate reforms that provide a more secure and affordable health care system that focus on patients and their doctors.” The Affordable Health Care for America Act, unveiled last week, blends and updates the three versions of previous bills passed by House committees in July. It embodies President Obama’s key goals for health reform – it would slow the growth in out-of-control costs, introduce competition into the health care marketplace to keep coverage affordable and insurers honest, protect people’s choices of doctors and health plans, and assure Americans access to quality, stable, and affordable health care. The legislation will ensure that 96 percent of Americans will be covered by a quality, affordable health plan. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates the cost of expanding coverage at $894 billion, consistent with the $900 billion coverage mark laid out by President Obama. According to the CBO estimates, the bill reduces the federal deficit by at least $30 billion over the next 10 years. Butterfield said the bill could come to a vote in the House as soon as Friday after a long and deliberative process. To date, the House has held about 100 hearings on health care since 2007, and House members have held nearly 3,000 health care events across the country, including Butterfield’s health care town hall meeting held this past August in Rocky Mount, N.C. Additionally, three House committees have spent 160 hours on hearings and markups of health care legislation. According to the report, about 49% of the district’s population – 295,000 residents – have health care coverage from their employer. Under the legislation, individuals and families with employer-based coverage can keep the health insurance coverage they have now, and enjoy improvements. Butterfield explained that as a result of the insurance reforms in the bill, there will be no co-pays or deductibles for preventive care; no more rate increases or coverage denials for pre-existing conditions, gender, or occupation; and guaranteed oral, vision, and hearing benefits for children. The analysis found there are 11,600 individuals in the district who have pre-existing medical conditions that could prevent them from buying insurance. The analysis found there were 900 health care-related bankruptcies in the district in 2008, caused primarily by the health care costs not covered by insurance. The bill caps annual out-of-pocket costs at $5,000 for singles and $10,000 for families and eliminates lifetime limits on insurance coverage, ensuring that no citizen will have to face financial ruin because of high health care costs. The report also found that there are 115,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the district. The health care reform legislation improves Medicare by providing free preventive and wellness care, improving primary and coordinated care, improving nursing home quality, and strengthening the Medicare Trust Fund. Additionally, each year, 7,300 seniors in the district hit the donut hole and are forced to pay their full drug costs, despite having Part D drug coverage. Butterfield pointed out that the legislation will provide these seniors with immediate relief, covering the first $500 of donut hole costs in 2010, cutting brand-name drug costs in the donut hole by 50%, and completely eliminating the donut hole by 2019. Under the legislation, businesses with up to 100 employees will be able to join the health insurance exchange, benefitting from group rates and a greater choice of insurers. The report found there are 13,000 small businesses in the district that will be able to join the health insurance exchange. Small businesses with 25 employees or less and average wages of less than $40,000 will qualify for tax credits of up to 50% of the costs of providing health insurance. The report found there are about 11,600 small businesses in the district that could qualify for credits. The report found there are 96,000 uninsured individuals in the district – 19% of the district residents under age 65. The CBO estimates that nationwide, 96% of all Americans will have insurance coverage when the bill takes effect. If this benchmark is reached in the district, 65,000 people who currently do not have health insurance will receive coverage. Under the legislation, those who do not receive health care coverage through their employer will be able to purchase coverage at group rates through a health insurance exchange. Individuals and families with an income of up to four times the federal poverty level — an income of up to $88,000 for a family of four — will receive affordability credits to help cover the cost of coverage. According to the report, there are 193,000 households in the district that could qualify for these affordability credits if they need to purchase their own coverage. The cost of health care reform under the legislation would be paid for through eliminating waste, fraud, abuse and excessive profits for private insurers in Medicare and Medicaid and through a surcharge on the income of the top 0.3% wealthiest individuals. According to the report, this surcharge will affect only 240 households in the district. The surcharge will not affect 99.91% of taxpayers in the district.
10.29.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman G. K. Butterfield applauded the revised health insurance reform legislation put forward by the House today. “The health insurance market is broken and in immediate need of reform,” Butterfield said. “Under the current system, private health insurance companies are increasingly consolidating, finding more ways to stand between patients and their doctors, and focused on boosting profits instead of affordable, quality, patient-focused health care. As a result the number of uninsured Americans has grown to 47 million and premiums have risen over 120 percent in the past decade for those who do have coverage.” The Affordable Health Care for America Act, released today, blends and updates the three versions of previous bills passed by House committees in July. It embodies President Obama’s key goals for health reform – it will slow the growth in out-of-control costs, introduce competition into the health care marketplace to keep coverage affordable and insurers honest, protect people’s choices of doctors and health plans, and assure all Americans access to quality, stable, and affordable health care. The legislation will ensure that 96 percent of Americans will be covered by a quality, affordable health plan. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates the cost of expanding coverage at $894 billion, consistent with the $900 billion coverage mark laid out by President Obama. And, according to the CBO estimates, the bill reduces the deficit by at least $30 billion over the next 10 years. Butterfield said the legislation includes critical reforms to the insurance industry, “so that Americans will never again worry about being denied coverage, or that their coverage will be dropped or watered down when they need it most.” Butterfield also said that he is pleased that the bill includes a public option. The public exchange would also be open to small businesses staring in 2013, when firms with up to 25 employees could enter the exchange; in 2014, firms with up to 50 employees; in 2015, firms with up to 100 employees; in 2015 and beyond, the Commissioner could allow larger employers as appropriate. Butterfield said there has been a long and purposeful process in developing the legislation. The House has held about 100 hearings on health care since 2007, and House members have held nearly 3,000 health care events across the country, including Butterfield’s health care town hall meeting held this past August in Rocky Mount, N.C. Additionally, three House committees have spent 160 hours on hearings and markups of health care legislation. Butterfield also said the bulk of today’s proposal has been available for review and comment for more than three months. “This has been a deliberative process on an enormous issue in need of immediate action,” Butterfield said. Butterfield also said that many of the concerns people had about the original House proposal have been addressed in the revised health insurance reform bill. Among the notable changes: Reduces the deficit by $30 billion over the next ten years, and continues to reduce the deficit of the second ten years. Provides a mechanism for addressing the Medicare payment system that takes geographic differences into account.Begins to address the issue of medical malpractice by establishing a state incentive grant program to encourage states to implement alternatives to traditional medical malpractice litigation. Allows for the creation of State Health Insurance Compacts by permitting states to enter into agreements to allow for the sale of insurance across state lines when the state legislatures agree. Limits any surcharges to millionaires – only the wealthiest 0.3% of Americans would pay a surcharge in order to make health insurance affordable to middle class families. Exempts small businesses with payrolls below $500,000 – or 86% of all America’s businesses - from the mandate to provide health insurance. Immediately begins to close the Medicare Part D donut hole. Requires the HHS Secretary to negotiate drug prices on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries in order to save money
10.23.2009	Washington, D.C. – As part of the annual Coast Guard legislation, Congressman G. K. Butterfield today succeeded in adding language aimed at expanding the use of facial and iris scan identification technology. “The Coast Guard needs to rapidly and accurately identify people in fulfilling its mission of protecting and supporting national security in ports, waterways and international waters,” Butterfield said. “This technology can provide another valuable tool needed protect our shores from potential dangers.” Butterfield’s amendment to the FY 2010 Coast Guard Authorization, expands the definition of biometric identification beyond fingerprints and digital images to include facial and iris scan technology. The amendment further requires the Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano to study and report on the costs and benefits of the Coast Guard’s use of facial and iris recognition technology as part of the effort to quickly and accurately identify suspected terrorists and other criminals. He explained that conventional identification technologies such as fingerprints and digital photos coupled with emerging technology like facial and iris scans will enable the Coast Guard to more accurately identify individuals who have been apprehended to ensure rapid and positive identification. “These technologies make it very difficult to conceal an identity,” Butterfield said. “Unlike fingerprints, names and dates of birth, our irises are unique and virtually impossible to duplicate.” Butterfield also said that he hoped expanded use would boost companies like the Kinston, N.C.-based Spatial Integrated Systems, Inc., which are already developing this technology. The House approved the bipartisan bill by a 385 to 11 vote, and the Senate is expected to take up and approve the legislation by year’s end. The bill provides resources to strengthen the Coast Guard – authorizing $10 billion in funding for FY 2010 and increasing its authorized end-strength by 1,500 members to 47,000. Butterfield said the legislation includes key provisions to enhance the Coast Guard’s ability to carry out its homeland security missions, including authorizing additional maritime security response teams, giving the Coast Guard a rapid force capability and authorizing additional canine detection teams to assist in detecting explosives and interdicting drugs. The bill incorporates the Alien Smuggling and Terrorism Prevention Act, which aims at combating alien smuggling and raises the federal penalties for alien smuggling from a misdemeanor to a felony. Additionally, the bill establishes marine safety as a core mission of the Coast Guard in statute and establishes minimum qualifications for training and experience for all marine safety personnel. The bill also incorporates numerous “mini-authorizations,” which have been passed by the House and/or reported from committee earlier this year – including the Coast Guard Acquisition Reform Act, the Maritime Workforce Development Act, and the Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act. In June, Butterfield successfully offered a similar amendment to the Transportation Security Administration Authorization Act that requires the study of the benefits of combing face and iris recognition technologies in order to rapidly and accurately identify airline passengers. Under that amendment, the Transportation Security Administration was directed to identify any environmental or operational factors that might limit the technologies and to set devise procedures for obtaining biometric information.
10.21.2009	Roper, N.C. – With the support of the entire North Carolina House delegation, Congressman G. K. Butterfield has introduced legislation naming Roper’s Post Office in honor of former mayor and State Board of Education member E.V. Wilkins. “Even today, E.V. Wilkins’ former students continue to carry and pass on his philosophy on the importance of tolerance, civic responsibility and academic achievement,” Butterfield said. “This is a fitting honor to a great public servant who was deeply dedicated to his students and his community.” After graduating from North Carolina Central University in the 1930s, Elmer Vanray (“E.V.”) Wilkins returned to Roper to teach math at J.J. Clemmons High School. Butterfield said he soon became principal and led the school, its students and community to aspire to greatness. Butterfield said Wilkins started that effort with a school bus in 1946. While the white children had a bus, the black students did not. After soliciting small donations from whites and blacks, and even taking bushels of potatoes that could be sold as part of the growing fund, Wilkins spearheaded the successful effort to provide the needed bus. In the mid-1950s, Wilkins took up the fight against white town leaders refusal to allow blacks to vote. Butterfield explained that Wilkins insisted that everyone must enjoy the same right to vote and led a lawsuit with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People on behalf of the town’s black residents. They won a court order enforcing their right to vote, and Wilkins’ father was able to vote for the first time in his life in 1956. “He committed his life to the powerful idea that all people deserve equal rights,” Butterfield said. Wilkins was elected as Roper’s first black mayor in 1975 – a position held for 20 years until his retirement – and he was the first black to be elected to the Roper Town Council since Reconstruction in 1967. Butterfield said the legislation, which was offered today, would name Roper’s Post Office at 101 West Highway 64 Bypass as the “E.V. Wilkins Post Office.” Currently, the Post Office does not have a name. Butterfield said that he was a well-known Democratic voice in eastern North Carolina, and he served as a delegate to the Democratic National Democratic Convention in 1972, 1980 and 1984. A lifelong resident of Roper, Wilkins was born on July 4, 1911 and died on June 2, 2002 at the age of 90. His daughters, Bunny Sanders and Joy Price, son-in-law, Ralph Price, and two grandchildren, survive him. Sanders currently serves as Roper’s mayor. Wilkins served as a member of numerous boards, including the State Board of Education, State Economic Development Commission, North Carolina Secondary Road Council, North Carolina Railroad Board of Directors, North Carolina State Ports Authority, Advisory Board for the Rural Education Institution at East Carolina University and Elizabeth City State University Board of Trustees.During his life, Wilkins received numerous honors and awards, including the North Carolina Distinguished Citizen Award, the Order of the Long Leaf Pine Award, the Service Award by the North Carolina Leadership Caucus, the North Carolina Distinguished Service Award, and the North Carolina Human Relations Commission's Libby D. Koontz Award in recognition of his dedication and leadership in the areas of education, civil rights, and human rights. He was also was honored by Elizabeth City State University when the University's computer center was renamed the E.V. Wilkins Academic Computing Center in 1992; and, honored by the establishment of the E.V. Wilkins Endowed Chair in the Elizabeth City State University School of Education and Psychology in 1996.
10.21.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield applauded today’s passage of a bipartisan bill aimed at combating HIV/AIDS. “This will help provide medical care, treatment and other critical services that people living with HIV/AIDS in North Carolina so desperately need,” Butterfield said. “Unfortunately, eastern North Carolina continues to be particularly hard hit by HIV/AIDS.” The House approved the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Extension Act by a vote of 408 to 9. The bill would reauthorize the Ryan White program for four years. Responding to growing needs, the bill increases funding by 5 percent annually authorizing a total of $2.55 billion in FY 2010; $2.68 billion in FY 2011; $2.81 billion in FY 2012; and $2.95 billion in FY 2013. Ryan White programs received $2.213 billion in FY2009. The Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program makes federal funds available to metropolitan areas and states to assist in health care costs and support services for individuals and families affected by HIV/AIDS. “The programs have proven successful in treating those infected with HIV/AIDS and in stemming the spread of the disease,” Butterfield said. “Thankfully the stigma of AIDS has been dramatically reduced, and an HIV diagnosis is no longer a death sentence.” The Ryan White program currently serves more than half a million low-income people with HIV/AIDS in the United States; 33% of those served are uninsured, and an additional 56% are underinsured. In FY 2009, North Carolina received more than $29.5 million through the program. Additionally, HIV/AIDS programs in Wilson ($590,000), Henderson ($341,000) and at East Carolina University ($839,000) were also funded in FY 2009. Butterfield said that the figures compiled by the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services indicate the enormous impact the infection continues to have on in eastern North Carolina. In eastern North Carolina, the HIV/AIDS rate is highest in Edgecombe County with 252 cases among 54,129 residents (465.6 cases for every 100,000 people). And, between 2005 and 2007 the average rate of diagnosed HIV disease across the state was 20.1 per 100,000 people. During that time, the counties with the highest average of HIV cases diagnosed in North Carolina were: Mecklenburg (41.8 per 100,000), Edgecombe (40.2 per 100,000), Durham (34.7 per 100,000), Washington (33.3 per 100,000) and Lenoir County (33.3 per 100,000). Butterfield represents Edgecombe, Washington and Lenoir counties. Among the HIV disease cases diagnosed in 2007, African Americans represented 62% of all cases with a rate of 79.5 per 100,000 people. And, the highest rate (113.6 per 100,000) was among African American males. The legislation was originally approved by Congress and signed into law by President George H. W. Bush in 1990. The legislation is named in honor of Ryan White, an Indiana teenager who contracted AIDS through a tainted hemophilia treatment in 1984, and was expelled from school because of the disease. White became a well-known advocate for AIDS research and awareness, until his death on April 8, 1990. The bill was approved by the Senate on October 19, 2009 and will now be sent to President Obama to be signed into law.
10.06.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield today applauded President Obama’s appointment of Randall Gore as North Carolina state director of USDA Rural Development. “This is a key federal appointment for North Carolina’s rural communities,” Butterfield said. “Randy Gore is a friend with great experience and knowledge in rural issues. I know that he will help put rural resources where they are needed most.” Gore, a Brunswick County native, previously served as Area Director of Rural Development in Asheboro for 11 years. He served as Multi-family Housing Specialist of USDA’s Greensboro Farmers Home Administration for four years. He replaces John J. Cooper. Butterfield explained that USDA administers the greatest number of number of rural development programs and provides the greatest amount of assistance directly to rural counties. Much of that funding, he said, comes through Rural Development. Rural Development administers and manages more than 40 programs. Theses are delivered through its Utilities Programs, which address rural needs for clean running water, sewers and waste disposal, electricity, and telecommunications; Housing Programs, which address rural need for housing, health facilities, fire and police stations, and other community facilities; Business Programs, which help to create new rural job opportunities; and, Community Development Programs, which addresses unique and pressing economic development issues. Butterfield said that in addition to helping to address rural water and sewer needs, Rural Development will play a particularly important role in developing broadband service in rural areas. Rural Development often works in partnership with other entities – such as state, local, and tribal governments, private and non-profit organizations, and member-owned cooperatives – to revitalize rural areas. Its 6,100 employees provide services through 500 national, state and local offices.
09.30.2009	Washington, D.C. – As part of a bill aimed at better protecting personal electronic private data, Congressman G. K. Butterfield successfully added a provision providing free credit monitoring for victims of data privacy breaches. “While privacy breaches can’t be undone,” Butterfield said. “Consumers can get some peace of mind with free credit monitoring services.” Butterfield added a provision to the Data Accountability and Trust Act that requires companies to provide victims of data privacy breaches with two years of free credit monitoring services. He explained that credit monitoring services provide consumers with daily or weekly alerts regarding personal credit changes to help combat identity theft. The provision was added today during the House Committee on Energy and Commerce’s mark-up session on the bill. Generally, the bill would require that companies possessing personal electronic data such as names, birth dates, credit card numbers and Social Security numbers have security plans in place as well as consumer notification procedures when data breaches occur. The bill would also direct the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to establish a standard method for destroying obsolete non-electronic data, and would also require credit-reporting agencies to submit their security policies and security breach notification procedures to the FTC. “The bill ensures that consumers have timely notification so they can to take steps to protect themselves,” Butterfield said. “As more and more of this very sensitive and personal data is electronically stored, we must ensure there are stronger consumer protections.” During the mark-up, House Committee on Energy and Commerce Chairman Henry Waxman praised Butterfield for adding the credit monitoring benefit for consumers. “I would like to thank Mr. Butterfield for proposing this important provision and for his leadership on behalf of American consumers,” Waxman said. “This change will encourage innovation and competition, and will ultimately provide better services for consumers whose information was compromised.” Since 2005, the non-profit Privacy Rights Clearinghouse estimates that more than 263 million personal electronic records have been breached. Recently, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill began notifying about 163,000 women who participated in a mammography project about the potential compromise of Social Security numbers and other personal information after a hacker breached a system containing the data. Butterfield said the bill was important because it provides uniform protection for all consumers. Currently, 44 states have enacted unique data breach notification laws. As a result, he explained, the requirement, forms of notification and time frames vary from state to state. The committee approved the bipartisan bill unanimously by voice vote. Butterfield said he expects a vote by the full House before the end of the year.
09.25.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield today announced a $2.3 million federal grant that Elizabeth City State University will use to help improve nine area schools. “This is an enormous opportunity to make a lasting difference,” Butterfield said. Under this program, Elizabeth City State University (ECSU) will partner with schools in Bertie, Chowan, Edgecombe, Halifax-Weldon City, Northampton, Pasquotank, Perquimans, Warren and Washington counties in an effort to improve the schools through professional development and by working to increase the number of certified principals and assistant principals. ECSU will use the funds from the U.S. Department of Education’s School Leadership Program over five years to implement the North Carolina School Leadership Program (NNCSLP). The School Leadership Program provides competitive grants to assist high-need local educational agencies (LEAs) with recruiting, training, and retaining principals and assistant principals. To qualify as a high-need LEA it must either serve at least 10,000 children from low-income families or serve a community in which at least 20 percent of children are from low-income families; and, must have a high percentage of teachers teaching either outside of their certification or with emergency, provisional or temporary certification. Under the program, 244 principals, assistant principals and school improvement plan members will undertake professional development activities focused on enhancing student achievement. Additionally, the program aims at ensuring that at least 54 principals and assistant principals complete their Master’s in School Administration. Butterfield said this funding is particularly import for these schools to help meet the standards set by the state’s ABCs accountability program. Under that program, individual schools are held accountable for student performance. He said this program targets the School Improvement Teams, which are responsible for developing the School Improvement Plans and Framework Action Plans.
09.11.2009	Elizabeth City, N.C. – Congressman G. K. Butterfield today announced an $800,000 federal grant that will be used to help address area housing issues.The U.S. Department Housing and Urban Development (HUD) awarded $800,000 to the Community Development Program (CDP) at Elizabeth City State University (ECSU). The Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) grant will be used to rehabilitate 30 owner-occupied homes; provide housing counseling and financial literacy for 300 area residents; assist 50 first-time homebuyers with up to $3,000 to help with down payments and closing costs; and, provide funding for the computer learning center at Harrington Village that serves about 120 adults and 300 children.Butterfield explained substandard homes occupied by elderly, disabled and low-income residents will have priority for home rehabilitation, and that the primary emphasis will be on bringing those homes up to code and to make them more energy efficient. He also said the computer learning center was particularly important because it provides a needed opportunity for adults to improve computer literacy and job readiness skill, and for students to achieve greater academic success.“All of these important projects are directly aimed at ensuring that low- and moderate-income families have access to decent, safe and affordable housing,” Butterfield said. CDP counsels homeowners facing mortgage delinquency and default as well as provides referrals and information on various housing resources in Pasquotank, Perquimans, Chowan, Camden, Currituck and Gates counties. As a HUD-approved housing counseling agency, the CDP also helps low-and moderate-income renters obtain adequate rental housing and qualify for homeownership. CDP also offers community outreach services aimed at increasing awareness of and compliance with fair housing laws. The HBCU grant program is designed to assist HBCUs expand their role and effectiveness in addressing community development needs in their localities. These needs include neighborhood revitalization, housing, and economic development, principally for persons of low- and moderate-incomes.
