12.19.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released a video shot by one of his Chicago staffers of a security incident that took place today in the office of the retiring Congressman in Chicago’s Logan Square neighborhood. A man entered the office today at about 2:00 pm CT, passed through the office lobby and into the first individual office of the Congressman’s Chicago Congressional Office. The man identified himself as a precinct captain for Chicago City Councilman Ariel Reboyas (30th Ward). As two videos shot by the Congressman’s staff and posted to Facebook show, the man proceeded to yell, curse, and insult the Congressman’s staff, even going as far as to throw items around the office and at the Congressman’s staff. The man left the office, but then came back to threaten the staff some more, as the second video shows. First Video: https://www.facebook.com/RepGutierrez/videos/298397997536116/ Second Video: https://www.facebook.com/RepGutierrez/videos/316024378998865/ In posting the videos on his Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/RepGutierrez/), Rep. Gutiérrez said: This is battery, as the police report I filed with the Chicago Police Department indicates…Please help us identify the individual who came into my office, assaulted my colleagues, cursed them and threatened us. The Congressman added later on Facebook that he had talked to the Chicago Police Department who assured him that detectives were already on the case to determine who the man is. The Congressman wrote on Facebook: This is outrageous. To assault federal workers in my office who are serving the constituents of the Fourth District is uncalled for. It is emblematic of the fact that some people feel it is OK to behave this way in politics these days. I am grateful to the Chicago Police Department for investigating this incident and bringing this thug to face charges. The Congressman is asking anyone who knows the identity of the individual to please comment on the Congressman’s Facebook page, call the Congressman’s Chicago office or call the Chicago Police. # # #
11.29.2018	Washington, DC – Today, in a speech on the House floor, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) discussed his legacy as Representative from Illinois’ 4th Congressional District for the past 26 years and thanked his colleagues past and present with whom he has served. He also took time to thank those – especially those who sacrificed and died in the American civil rights movement – who opened the door for a Puerto Rican Congressman, born in Chicago in in a racially and culturally segregated America in 1953, to be able to have the opportunity to serve in the House. Over the years, he said, his office had helped the 4th District make significant gains in the citizenship of immigrants and keeping immigrant families together. Rep. Gutiérrez was born in Chicago when “separate but equal was the law of the land” and “people sacrificed and died so that I could speak here.” To be blunt, were it not for the sacrifice of black people and their allies – who literally had their homes and churches bombed fighting to make this country live up to its own creed – I would not be here speaking to you and that has always and will always guide me. Rep. Gutiérrez said he always remembered that the 4th District was created in order to give Latinos in Chicago a chance to elect a Representative to Congress – a direct result of the Voting Rights Act. The Voting Rights Act and other civil rights legislation passed in my lifetime – on this floor –were soaked in the blood of martyrs old and young who kept moving forward until everyone had the right to vote and every vote counted. Even as the President and his party challenge the principles of the Voting Rights Act today, I have always tried to honor those who gave their lives to make America freer and stronger. When he first ran for the seat in 1992, the majority of the District’s population was Latino – about 65% -- but the majority of its registered voters were not Latino. Today, the majority of registered voters in the 4th District are Latino, a change partly attributable to the work of his Congressional office. Early on, I realized that constituent services in my District were not restricted to veterans’ benefits or Social Security, although we worked hard on those issues. In my District, helping people navigate the complex and expensive process of citizenship was a top need and became a top priority of my office. We have helped more than 55,000 immigrants become citizens, sponsoring workshops, helping people resolve issues, and setting a standard that I feel is unmatched by any Congressional office. He concluded by saying: It is the legacy of helping families and individuals and making this country a more welcoming place for people – people a lot like my parents from rural Puerto Rico – that is what I carry with me as I leave. My work for America, her immigrants, and the character of our great nation is not done, it is simply switching to private life. “We who believe in freedom cannot rest.” The last line, a quote from “Ella’s Song,” a tribute to civil rights leaders, by Sweet Honey In The Rock. A video of the Congressman’s floor speech, delivered shortly after 10 am ET is here: https://youtu.be/DmpMdGaj_Uk Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He did not run for reelection in 2018. Floor Remarks November 29, 2018 Mr. Speaker: When I was born, separate but equal was the law of the land. Even in a Northern city like Chicago, a young Puerto Rican kid knew where he could and could not go, which beaches and pools were open to him and which were off-limits. Segregation and discrimination, by race, gender, religion and sexual orientation were deeply embedded in the customs and culture of our society and upheld by the state and federal government. So as I prepare to leave office after 26 years representing the people of the 4th District of Illinois, I think it is important to reflect on how far we have come and how far we still have to go before this country lives up to the lofty ideals enshrined in our most sacred documents and origin mythology. That a Puerto Rican born in Chicago in 1953 – the son of Spanish-speaking migrants with little education who were driven by poverty from the mountains of Puerto Rico – would be able to speak into this microphone at all is perhaps a ringing endorsement of what this nation stands for. But let us be clear: people sacrificed and died so that I could speak here. People I never met like Medgar Evers, Emmitt Till and countless others died in the struggle against discrimination and American Apartheid and opened the path for me to be here today. The Voting Rights Act and other civil rights legislation passed in my lifetime – on this floor –were soaked in the blood of martyrs old and young who kept moving forward until everyone had the right to vote and every vote counted. Even as the President and his party challenge the principles of the Voting Rights Act today, I have always tried to honor those who gave their lives to make America freer and stronger. To be blunt, were it not for the sacrifice of black people and their allies – who literally had their homes and churches bombed fighting to make this country live up to its own creed – I would not be here speaking to you and that has always and will always guide me. When the 4th District was created to give Latinos in Chicago an opportunity to have a voice in Congress, I was the first to win the seat. And while the majority of my constituents then– about 65% -- were Latino, but on Election Day, the majority of voters were white. In 26 years and thirteen elections, that has changed. Today, voters on Election Day in the majority Latino 4th District are in fact majority Latino. Early on, I realized that constituent services in my District were not restricted to veterans’ benefits or Social Security, although we worked hard on those issues. In my District, helping people navigate the complex and expensive process of citizenship was a top need and became a top priority of my office. We have helped more than 55,000 immigrants become citizens, sponsoring workshops, helping people resolve issues, and setting a standard that I feel is unmatched by any Congressional office. Just last month I spoke with a woman who told me a remarkable story. Her daughter had assembled all her documents and was prepared to apply for citizenship and then she left the file on the Chicago subway system. A few days later, this woman told me, a knock came at her door. Someone had found her daughter’s folder, and – they didn’t give it to CTA’s lost and found but rather made sure it got to my office on Fullerton Avenue. My office and staff were so associated with citizenship and helping the immigrant community that this Good Samaritan felt there was only one logical place to return the precious documents and indeed – we worked with her daughter and made sure all her documents and fees were filed. When I walk through my District and talk with moms and dads, they tell me how my office touched their families. Whether it was for citizenship or fighting someone’s wrongful deportation, my office has done more than just help constituents, we have literally helped them preserve their families. It is the legacy of helping families and individuals and making this country a more welcoming place for people – people a lot like my parents from rural Puerto Rico – that is what I carry with me as I leave. My work for America, her immigrants, and the character of our great nation is not done, it is simply switching to private life. “We who believe in freedom cannot rest.” But to all of my colleagues past and present, thank you for walking with me on this journey these many years. # # #
10.30.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) said he is planning a Wednesday press conference in Chicago to denounce the President’s plan to amend the U.S. Constitution by executive order to address the President’s long-standing desire to deny citizenship to people born in the United States. Reacting to news reports that the President wants to end “birthright citizenship” via an executive order, the Illinois Congressman said he is calling together community leaders in Chicago to calm fears in the immigrant and Latino communities and forcefully condemn the President’s attempt to inject additional division and hatred into the last week of the midterm campaign. The following is a statement from Rep. Gutiérrez, the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Trump is showing his desperation headed into next week. It is incredible how far he is willing to go to protect himself from Speaker Pelosi and the subpoenas he knows are coming next year. He must be making a lot more money from his time in office than we even imagined. Republicans can’t run on the colossal tax-cuts for billionaires and they can’t run on taking health care from middle-class families; so the Trump approach is to ratchet up the division, fear and hate. Even as we cope with bombers and mass murderers triggered by lies about refugees and immigrants, Trump keeps going back to his comfort zone, the foundation of his presidency: hating on brown people. Trump’s loyalists have already guzzled about as much Kool-Aid as they can drink; so with every new crazy idea, the consensus that this President is going too far gets stronger and stronger. # # #
10.26.2018	Washington, DC – The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), reacting to news stories that he was threatened on Twitter by the suspect arrested today in Florida. Screen shots today of a social media account attributed to the suspect indicate that the Congressman was the target of several tweets on September 14, 2018 and some were quite threatening to the Congressman and his family. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. I am thankful for the brave men and women of the FBI, the US Postal Service and all of the national and local law enforcement that played a role in making an arrest in this case. This underscores why it is so important to support law enforcement who protect us and protect our democratic system. I am used to death threats and they are not going to stop me or slow me down in anyway. When my home was firebombed in 1984, I rushed my wife out and carried my daughter out of our home before it burned to the ground. My wife and I were scared but never deterred. That crime was never solved, so I am pleased that the current string of mail bombs appear to be moving towards a resolution. Because we are not sure that all of the devices have been identified and neutralized, my staff and my family are continuing to take every possible precaution to protect ourselves. # # # The account has apparently been suspended, but these screenshots were taken earlier today from https://twitter.com/hardrockintlent/status/1040517360275345409 and https://twitter.com/hardrockintlent/status/1040517703084204033
10.05.2018	Washington, DC – The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) reacting to 2nd degree murder conviction in the trial of Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke in the killing of Chicago teenager Laquan McDonald. The murder of Laquan McDonald is one of the ugliest chapters in Chicago history, both in the action itself and in the effort to delay justice or sweep the whole deadly matter under the rug. I am glad the jury came to the conclusion that Officer Van Dyke is guilty of 1st degree murder, even though he was convicted of 2nd degree murder. The facts were clear and despite the efforts of the Emanuel Administration to keep the truth from the public, the truth has come to light. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON—U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), and the entire Illinois House delegation introduced a bipartisan resolution in the House and Senate celebrating the 200th anniversary of the founding of the State of Illinois. The resolution honors and celebrates the State of Illinois and the Illinoisans who have participated in cultivating the rich history of the State. December 3, 2018, will mark the 200th anniversary of the State of Illinois’ admittance as the 21st State to the Union. “Illinois has played a central role in our country, and I’m not just talking about geography. It’s been the birthplace and home to four Presidents, World Fairs, and robust economic activity that has spanned the Midwest. At every turn, Illinoisans have shown resilience. This is the legacy of our State and the people who call it home, and I’m proud to recognize it by introducing a resolution commemorating our bicentennial year. I’m glad that the entire Illinois Congressional Delegation could join in this effort,” said Durbin. "Illinois’ Bicentennial is a wonderful opportunity to lift up our great state's history and celebrate its strengths, such as our world-class universities, vital agricultural producers, and rich outdoor activities," said Duckworth. "I'm so proud to call Illinois home and help introduce this resolution with the entire Illinois Congressional delegation." “Illinois is rich with history, having played significant roles in shaping our great nation and moving the country forward. Commemorating our exceptional state on this momentous anniversary will give Illinoisans another opportunity to reflect on the legacy of the �?Prairie State’ that expanded the heartland and provided the moral foundation for Lincoln’s leadership that freed more than three million slaves and maintained our union,” said Rush. “Illinois has led by example in fighting for equality and justice. Illinois has produced visionary officials and innovative residents. We are a state that comes together for the common good and welcomes visitors from far and wide. I look forward to celebrating the 200th anniversary of the founding of the great State of Illinois and honoring the achievements of our past and eagerly look forward to the ones that await us in the future.” “I’m proud and honored to join my Illinois delegation colleagues in introducing this resolution to celebrate Illinois’ bicentennial. For two hundred years, our great state has been an integral part of building the America of today – the world’s richest, most innovative and powerful country. I couldn’t be prouder or more humbled to represent the great people of Illinois’ Second Congressional District in Congress and I’m honored to serve this great state,” said Kelly. “In its two hundred year history, covering everything from culture to our economy, Illinois has and continues to play an important role in our country. From sprawling cornfields to tall skyscrapers, our diversity is what makes us great. I’m proud call the �?Land of Lincoln’ home,” said Lipinski. “The Land of Lincoln and the land of my birth will proudly mark 200 years in the union. Our ancestors have come from all over the world to build and sustain our state and our sons and daughters have fought to keep us free and have led our nation with distinction in innumerable ways. I am proud to join with all of my colleagues in this effort,” said Gutiérrez. “I’m proud to join my colleagues in celebrating the 200th anniversary of our great state and the diverse, talented, and innovative people who call it home,” said Quigley. “It is a privilege to represent Illinois and the City of Chicago in Congress, and I am convinced that there is no greater place to start a family, build a business, or simply visit just for fun. As we commemorate our bicentennial and all that Illinoisans have achieved over the last 200 years, I look forward to the next 200 years in anticipation of our state’s continued strength and success, which not only benefits our communities but our country as a whole.” “The upcoming Illinois Bicentennial is a celebration of what makes Illinois special and serves as a reminder of why we are proud to be from this great state. From the Lincoln Library to discovering America’s past at the ancient Native American city at Cahokia Mounds, to the historical sites of Illinois’ Sixth District, every day we celebrate Illinois’ great history, stories and unique communities. The Sixth District is home to many historic sites such as the Naper Settlement, the Little Popcorn Store in Wheaton, the Mayslake Peabody Estate in Oak Brook and the British House Museum in St. Charles, and I am looking forward to celebrating the plentiful history of Illinois with the great constituents of the Sixth District,” said Roskam. “I join my colleagues in recalling and reflecting on the 200 years of Illinois history. We have much to be proud of in that history, but recognizing that we still confront many challenges. We are determined to build our own successes and learn from where we have fallen short as we advance confidently into the future,” said Danny Davis. “Illinois’ bicentennial is the perfect time to reflect on the great history of the Land of Lincoln and all the ways our state continues to lead the way today,” said Krishnamoorthi. “As the Representative for the west and northwest Chicago suburbs which constitute the 8th District, I’m proud to join my colleagues in honoring our Illinois’ legacy while working together to build and even brighter future.” “Happy 200th birthday Illinois!” said Schakowsky. “It is a joy and a privilege to represent Illinois in Congress. This state welcomed my immigrant parents and grandparents and gave them the opportunity to work towards the American dream. Our great state has given countless of immigrants from every corner of the globe the same opportunity to work for a better future. In Illinois and in Chicago we pride ourselves on our strength and our work – that’s why Chicago is and will always be a labor town. There are more �?local 1s’ in Chicago than any other city. My birthday wish for Illinois is for the next 200 years to bring more opportunity, equality, and prosperity for all Illinoisans.” “The bicentennial of our great state is an opportunity for all of us to celebrate what makes Illinois such a special place to call home and highlight its contributions to our country,” said Foster. “I am proud to represent the 11th Congressional District of Illinois and vibrant, diverse communities like Aurora, Naperville, Bolingbrook, and Joliet, made up of hardworking people who represent what makes America great. From Abraham Lincoln to Jane Addams, from Enrico Fermi to Barack Obama, the impact of Illinoisans on the great story of America is undeniable. I’m honored to join the entire Illinois congressional delegation in the celebration of 200 years of our history as a state.” “As we celebrate Illinois’ Bicentennial, we are reminded of Illinois’ long, proud history,” said Bost. “I am particularly honored to represent the 12th Congressional District, a region that was home to two Lincoln-Douglas debates, the cradle of the ancient Mississippian Culture at Cahokia Mounds, and a land with rivers so vast and agriculture fields so rich that it earned the nickname �?Little Egypt.’ As we celebrate 200 years of contributions to the American Dream, as Illinoisans we can look back to its past with pride and forward with hope to all we have to offer in the future.” “As the representative of our state’s capital and part of the district that Abraham Lincoln represented in Congress, I am honored to introduce this resolution with my Illinois colleagues to commemorate Illinois’ bicentennial,” said Rodney Davis. “Illinois has been my home for over 40 years and I look forward to celebrating 200 years of rich history this December.” “As we approach the bicentennial of Illinois, we look to highlight what makes our state great. I am so proud to represent the 14th District, which includes The Fox River Valley, the Chain of Lakes, rolling farmland that makes Illinois the bread basket that feeds the nation, and so many dozens and dozens of towns that are the heartbeat of our state. However, a celebration of Illinois is not complete without also honoring a special giant who hovers over our state, Honest Abe himself. I cannot emphasize enough the impact Abraham Lincoln had on our state and also on our nation. No doubt our state shaped his vision of what America was meant to be. His moral leadership, his persistent fight against the evils of slavery, his ability to bring diverse coalitions of people together to unify the country, all this and more is why we are proud to call Illinois the Land of Lincoln. I am so grateful for the opportunity to celebrate our state that we are so proud of. Happy Birthday Illinois!” said Hultgren. “It remains the honor of a lifetime to represent 33 of Illinois’ 102 counties,” said Shimkus. “As we celebrate the 200th anniversary of our great state, I’m reminded of the natural beauty that surrounds us from the Shawnee National Forest and its Garden of the Gods to the miles and miles of corn and bean fields that feed and fuel our nation. Illinois is truly a special place, and I thank Governor Rauner for his leadership in organizing this year’s bicentennial celebrations. ” “I’m proud to call Illinois home, and humbled to represent the great people of the 16th District, where the First Lincoln-Douglas Debate took place and where President Reagan lived as a child. Illinois leads the country in agriculture, manufacturing, specialized license plates – and our great Prairie State has a lot to celebrate in its 200th year. Here’s to our state sovereignty and national union,” said Kinzinger. “I am proud to join my colleagues in celebrating 200 years of rich history in the state that I am fortunate enough to call home,” said Bustos. “From Abraham Lincoln’s first days in the state house to Ulysses S. Grant’s campaign headquarters, Illinois has played a pivotal role in our nation’s history. I hope this resolution serves as an opportunity to come together and reflect on our accomplishments while looking forward to all the great things ahead.” “As a proud Illinoisan and co-chair of the Illinois State Society, I am pleased to support this bipartisan resolution to commemorate our great state’s bicentennial. The Land of Lincoln has an incredibly rich history and I applaud the continued efforts to recognize our State’s accomplishments. This resolution is another appropriate measure to honor its 200th anniversary," said LaHood. Along with Durbin and Duckworth in the Senate, the House resolution was introduced by all 18 members of the Illinois House delegation: U.S. Representatives Bobby Rush (D-IL-01), Robin Kelly (D-IL-02), Dan Lipinski (D-IL-03), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL-04), Mike Quigley (D-IL-05), Peter Roskam (R-IL-06), Danny Davis (D-IL-07), Raja Krishnamorthi (D-IL-08), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL-09), Brad Schneider (D-IL-10), Bill Foster (D-IL-11), Michael Bost (R-IL-12), Rodney Davis (R-IL-13), Randy Hultgren (R-IL-14), John Shimkus (R-IL-15), Adam Kinzinger (R-IL-16), Cheri Bustos (D-IL-17), and Darin LaHood (R-IL-18). Full text of the resolution is available here and below: -30-
09.26.2018	Washington, DC – Today in a speech on the House floor, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) called on Senators to “listen to the women” in the confirmation process for Judge Brett Kavanaugh, jeopardized as it is by multiple allegations of sexual assault and misconduct, because “this is an important moment for young men and young women in this country.” How the Senate handles these allegations – or dismisses them to steamroll opposition and speed the nominee to a confirmation vote – is vitally important because “we should be leading by example and allowing victims to come forward, be respected and be heard.” “Women in this country should know that if you come forward to make credible allegations against anyone – anyone – you will be respected and you will be heard,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. The Congressman noted at the outset that he and his House colleagues play no role in the confirmation of Supreme Court Justices, but Rep. Gutiérrez said, “I feel a sacred responsibility to raise my voice.” He continued to outline the consequences for the country and young men and women should the Senate fail to take the accusations seriously: Do I want my grandson to learn a lesson that sexual assault while he is in high school could follow him for the rest of his life? You’re damn right I do. Do I want young men to learn that behavior that hurts other people – no matter how drunk or high you are – is unacceptable? You’re damn right I do. Do I want young women to not be afraid to come forward, no matter when they are ready to? You’re damn right I do. Rep. Gutierrez made it clear that he would oppose the Kavanaugh nomination regardless of the accusations because “I believe in a woman’s right to control her own reproductive system regardless of what men think” and because “I believe people should marry who they want to marry; who they love” and because “I believe freedom of religion should extend to all including those of the Muslim faith…” He added that Judge Kavanaugh’s appointment at this particular moment is troubling because he is “a Judge who thinks a sitting President is above the law right now when we as a nation need an independent judiciary to hold politicians – even the President – accountable.” But the bulk of his 5-minute floor speech during “Morning Business” was about sending a signal to the country that victims of sexual assault and other crimes can and should come forward. What is important is that we lead by example. We need to be clear that the days of “boys will be boys” or “it was just locker room talk” are over. And the Senate should take as much time as is needed to take that very, very seriously. They should take it seriously, for our daughters, for our sons, for you and for me too. A video of the Congressman’s floor speech, delivered shortly after 10 am ET is here: https://youtu.be/cOJjaouy4ws Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks September 26, 2018 Mr. Speaker, I am a Member of the Judiciary Committee in this body and unfortunately, the framers of the Constitution did not give my Committee or this Chamber a role in vetting and confirming the President’s nominees to the Supreme Court. But in the House we pride ourselves on being the People’s House because we are in constant contact with our constituents and we are accountable to them every two years. So while I do not have a vote in the process, I do have a voice. And as an elected representative I feel a sacred responsibility to raise my voice. First of all, I don’t care when allegations of sexual assault come forward. I don’t care about whatever schedule Senator Chuck Grassley thinks is more important. I don’t care about the impending fall term of the Court, the coming midterms, or the timing of Robert Mueller’s next indictments in his investigation of the Trump White House and campaign. In the case of Judge Brett Kavanaugh, we should listen to the women. We should always listen to the women, but in this case, multiple women have come forward to risk their lives and reputations because they believe the truth about Judge Kavanaugh must come out before he is confirmed or rejected by the Senate. Women in this country should know that if you come forward to make credible allegations against anyone – anyone – you will be respected and you will be heard. You want to know why so few sexual assaults are reported in this country? Well, it is unfolding on the national stage. Why didn’t she report it? Why didn’t she do something? Why didn’t she say something? It is always she, she, she, when we know that sexual assault is not her fault and fear of coming forward is not her fault either. They didn’t believe Bill Cosby’s accusers until they did. Or Harvey Weinstein’s or Speaker Hastert’s or a hundred other people I could name. Until we did believe them. When the stakes are this high, we shouldn’t be imposing deadlines or ultimatums or requiring victims to conform to our timetables, as Republican Senators have done. And by high stakes, I don’t just mean the lifetime appointment of a judge, but this is an important moment for young men and young women in this country. We should be leading by example and allowing victims to come forward, be respected and be heard. Do I want my grandson to learn a lesson that sexual assault while he is in high school could follow him for the rest of his life? You’re damn right I do. Do I want young men to learn that behavior that hurts other people – no matter how drunk or high you are – is unacceptable? You’re damn right I do. Do I want young women to not be afraid to come forward, no matter when they are ready to? You’re damn right I do. Look, I’m not saying you need to believe Judge Kavanaugh’s accusers, but as a Congress and as a country, we need to listen to the women. Now, I’ll admit that I would not vote for Judge Kavanaugh whether or not the current allegations are true or Republicans steamroll the victims to fast-track his appointment. I believe in a woman’s right to control her own reproductive system regardless of what men think, so yeah, you can bet I’d vote against Kavanaugh. I believe freedom of religion should extend to all including those of the Muslim faith who should be free to worship and move around just like everyone else, so, yeah, you can bet I’d vote against Kavanaugh. I believe people should marry who they want to marry; who they love. I oppose a Judge who thinks a sitting President is above the law right now when we as a nation need an independent judiciary to hold politicians – even the President – accountable, which is another reason why I would be a vote against Kavanaugh. But what is important right now is not how I feel about Judge Kavanaugh. What is important is that we lead by example. We need to be clear that the days of “boys will be boys” or “it was just locker room talk” are over. And the Senate should take as much time as is needed to take that very, very seriously. They should take it seriously, for our daughters, for our sons, for you and for me too. # # #
09.22.2018	Washington, DC – The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) reacting to news that the Trump Administration is severely restricting the ability of legal immigrants to fully integrate into our society and apply for citizenship. I see the Trump Administration’s hostility towards immigrants as part of a strategy of mass distraction to keep the focus on fomenting outrage directed at Latinos while keeping the focus off of the corruption and graft that are gripping the White House and the GOP. From the first day of the Trump campaign, the message has been that immigrants are a danger and a drain. Trump wants you to think Latinos and immigrants are rapists and murderers, they vote illegally against him, they are lazy and at the same time are stealing American jobs. Today he’s selling the lie that immigrants weaken the U.S. economy when exactly the opposite is true. Hey, if I were Donald Trump I would want to talk about anything other than the indictments and Russian collusion, the tax-cuts to billionaires, and his taking health care away from American families. The fact is that the Donald Trump-led Republican Party is now the party opposed to legal immigration and allowing those here legally to ever fully integrate and apply for citizenship. Stephen Miller’s target has always been legal immigration, cutting refugee admissions, ending TPS, ending DACA, and restricting the ability of legal immigrants to fully assimilate and apply for citizenship. President Trump would obviously rather follow Miller’s agenda than confront the reality of Mueller’s investigation. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
09.20.2018	Washington, DC – The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) on the one-year anniversary of the day Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico. For me, the response to Hurricane Maria speaks volumes about Puerto Rico’s relationship with the United States. The greatest and most powerful nation on earth was unable to prevent 3,000 deaths on its colonial Caribbean possession and the failure to adequately respond stretches to the highest levels of the U.S. government. But the emergency and the response to that emergency grew out of decades of neglect and disregard for Puerto Rico and her people by Washington and the U.S. Congress. The U.S. has systematically stripped power from Puerto Rico to determine its own economic and political destiny and this contributed to the magnitude of the disaster as it unfolded last year. Now the United States has an opportunity to work with Puerto Ricans to rebuild the Island as a self-sustaining, modern, self-governing nation where jobs and opportunities allow Puerto Rican families to grow and thrive in their homeland. I am dedicating the next chapter in my life to the recovery and improvement of the Island. We need to link the industrious creativity of Puerto Ricans with the power of the Puerto Rican diaspora in the States to focus the resources and energy needed to remake the Island better than ever. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago to parents who had migrated from Puerto Rico and spent part of his childhood in Puerto Rico. He has announced that after his retirement from Congress at the end of this term, he and his wife will move to Puerto Rico to assist in the recovery effort. # # #
09.13.2018	Washington, DC – Today in a speech on the House floor, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) reacted to President Trump’s Tweets today denying that 3,000 people died in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria hit the Island and the President’s claim earlier this week that the response to Maria was “one of the best jobs that’s ever been done.” The Congressman said the response to Hurricane Maria was “disaster mismanagement…that lies at the feet of the President and his Administration.” He said: “With 3,000 people dead, for the President to say that Puerto Rico was a success – a triumph of the Trump presidency – is simply delusional.” He also said, “More people died in Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico than died in Hurricane Katrina, and than died in the attacks of 9-11. That is not fake news, Mr. President.” Rep, Gutiérrez went on to say: “What is offensive to many of us is that even though the President dropped the ball, he is now doing a victory dance in the end zone. Or should we call it the dead zone?” The Congressman, who has traveled several times to the Island to provide relief and who plans to retire to Puerto Rico when he leaves Congress next year, said: Disasters require preparedness and rapid response. But FEMA was not fully prepared and they were not fully supported in the rapid response by the Trump Administration which was then – and is now – a disorganized mess. Which we didn’t need Bob Woodward to tell us. He concluded his remarks by saying: I pray that his [Trump’s] response to the current disaster unfolding along the East Coast will be better and more empathetic. He has a golf club in North Carolina and a winery in Virginia, so maybe the American people in those states will get more of the President’s help than my fellow Puerto Ricans did. And I pray it is more successful. A video of the Congressman’s floor speech, delivered shortly after 10 am ET is here: https://youtu.be/zvKBkmkxl_k Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks September 13, 2018 Mr. Speaker: Before I respond to President Trump’s claim that the rescue and recovery effort in Puerto Rico a year ago after Hurricane Maria was quote “one of the best jobs that’s ever been done,” I want to make a few things clear. First of all, everyone is praying for our friends and neighbors along the Eastern Seaboard who will be facing the wind and rain of Hurricane Florence today. I support them and the first responders who are helping and the people running shelters and delivering medicine to the sick and injured. And I fully support FEMA, Homeland Security and state and local governments for what they are doing, especially the brave men and women on the front lines in harm’s way. Secondly, in the last few weeks, the official death toll of Hurricane Maria was raised to 3,000 based on the meticulous study of the George Washington’s Milken Institute of Public Health and the number is based on facts and the truth. More people died in Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico than died in Hurricane Katrina, and than died in the attacks of 9-11. That is not fake news, Mr. President. The temptation is to fault FEMA and the job they did in Puerto Rico, but I want to be clear. Individuals at FEMA and FEMA as an agency did heroic work in Puerto Rico – and FEMA is continuing to do heroic work in Puerto Rico. I flew with FEMA pilots ten days after the storm hit and I saw their work up close. It is clear FEMA saved lives. But let me also be very, very clear. With 3,000 people dead, for the President to say that Puerto Rico was a success – a triumph of the Trump presidency – is simply delusional. Only in the President’s mind could he give himself an A-plus. Only in the President’s mind could we go a year without an apology to the American people for his incompetence in managing a crisis where 3,000 people died. And now he denies that they are dead. It takes a man of humility, honor, and compassion to admit when they have made a tremendous and deadly mistake in caring for the American people and we know we do not have a man in the White House who is capable of such emotions, empathy, or basic human decency. And this Congress has failed to provide any meaningful oversight for fear that they might embarrass the President with the facts. Thursday will mark one year since the storm hit and think back a year ago. The popular and charismatic Mayor of San Juan, Carmen Yulin Cruz, called for help on national TV saying that people were dying in Puerto Rico. The President had a meltdown because he doesn’t like being criticized by women or by people of color, so the Mayor’s words were more than the President could take. Most of us knew at the time – and all of us know now a year after the storm – the Mayor was right and the President was wrong. Dead wrong. Disasters require preparedness and rapid response. But FEMA was not fully prepared and they were not fully supported in the rapid response by the Trump Administration which was then – and is now – a disorganized mess. Which we didn’t need Bob Woodward to tell us. Yes, the massive power of the storm was compounded by decades of neglect from Washington, which contributed to the debt crisis and infrastructure collapse. And to be clear, Puerto Rico’s problems didn’t happen overnight and didn’t happen on President Trump’s watch. But let’s also be clear; it is his watch now. As President of the United States, he is responsible for Puerto Rico – a U.S. Territory that belongs to and is the responsibility of the United States. Yes, islands are surrounded by water -- deep water -- but FEMA and Homeland Security never called in the U.S. military, which has capabilities FEMA doesn’t have and there were many other problems, delays and missteps. From the beginning, the President’s focus was on damage control from a political standpoint – not damage control from a human life standpoint. The sad truth is that in trying so hard to make sure that the hurricane did not become “Trump’s Katrina,” we lost far more lives. This was disaster mismanagement and that lies at the feet of the President and his Administration. What is offensive to many of us is that even though the President dropped the ball, he is now doing a victory dance in the end zone. Or should we call it the dead zone? I pray that his response to the current disaster unfolding along the East Coast will be better and more empathetic. He has a golf club in North Carolina and a winery in Virginia, so maybe the American people in those states will get more of the President’s help than my fellow Puerto Ricans did. And I pray it is more successful. # # #
09.06.2018	Washington, DC – A day after he called for the President’s resignation in a floor speech, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) was back on the floor this morning to compare the main protagonists in the legal drama unfolding between President Trump and Special Counsel Robert Mueller. The Illinois Congressman asked “So, in this battle of he-said/he-said, who would the odds makers pick? If you were a betting man or woman, a Vegas odds maker, or just an arm chair quarterback, who would you go with?” With a picture of Mueller and Trump side by side, Rep. Gutiérrez went over their records. He noted that while the President has been talking and tweeting incessantly offering his side of the story, Former FBI Director Mueller “lets his indictments do the talking.” The long serving, former FBI Director volunteered for the Marines at the height of the Vietnam War and served with distinction because he had a sense of “obligation to put one’s self behind one’s country as a matter of honor.” President Trump, on the other hand, got out of the draft claiming he had bone spurs, “despite ample evidence that that was a lie, a complete fiction, made up – to serve his own personal interests above the interests of his country in a time of war.” In Rep. Gutiérrez’s estimation, Mueller is a “law enforcement veteran” with ample court room experience – and the President’s court room experience is limited to giving depositions in numerous criminal and civil disputes or serving as a defendant. Comparing their academic achievements and career achievements – and their track-records on marriage fidelity – the Congressman made a strong case that Former FBI Director Mueller was the right horse to bet on in this encounter. He concluded by saying to his House Republican colleagues who have played an active role in shielding the President from prosecution and preventing evidence from coming to light: There are a lot of people in this body who are staking their careers on the President and his influence over the voters in their states and districts. OK, you are betting on the guy who is up tweeting at 3 o’clock in the morning. I look at the main protagonists in this legal drama and will put my money on the law enforcement veteran who at 3 o’clock most mornings is probably up working on who he is going to indict next. A video of the Congressman’s floor speech, delivered shortly after 10 am ET is here: https://youtu.be/gTbCvBXiUVs Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is the dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks September 6, 2018 Mr. Speaker, I have been thinking about all of the criminal investigations pointing directly at the President and his associates and the fact that for many Americans, this has become a he-said/he-said debate. On the one hand, you have the President saying that this is all a witch hunt. Yes, I fired Comey in order to derail the investigation; Yes, I knew about and helped conceal the Russia meeting; and Yes, I knew about the payments to keep people quiet… Then there is Robert Mueller, the former FBI Director who really hasn’t said a word this whole time, but his efficient, productive, and successful investigation keeps rolling right along. He lets his indictments do the talking. So in this battle of he-said/he-said, who would the odds makers pick? If you were a betting man or woman, a Vegas odds maker, or just an arm chair quarterback, who would you go with? On the one hand we have a conservative Republican who was the second longest-serving FBI Director, behind only G. Edgar Hoover. On the other hand, we have the host of a reality TV show with no political or government or military or law-enforcement experience. Hmmm, let’s continue… On the one hand, we have a Vietnam War veteran with a Purple Heart and a Bronze Star. Director Mueller joined the Marines as a volunteer at the height of the Vietnam War after his high school teammate was killed in action. Mueller enlisted to honor his friend and out of a sense of duty, honor, and obligation to put one’s self behind one’s country as a matter of honor. On the other hand we have the President who avoided military service by claiming he had bone spurs in his foot, despite ample evidence that that was a lie, a complete fiction, made up – to serve his own personal interests above the interests of his country in a time of war. According to what I have read, Director Mueller was a good student at Princeton and after earning his Bachelor’s and Master’s, and after serving in Vietnam, he studied law at the University of Virginia, where he served on the Law Review, a prestigious accomplishment at any law school, let alone one of the best. The President went to business school and inherited a million or more dollars from his father to get his real estate business off the ground. Director Mueller is a courtroom expert and a veteran law enforcement leader. He was a private litigator, a prosecutor in the U.S. Attorney’s office and started serving at the Justice Department under Attorney General Dick Thornburgh, Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush’s Attorney General. To be sure, the President has a great deal of courtroom experience, too, but mostly related to depositions in civil lawsuits and criminal cases, or when he sues people or threatens to sue people. On a more personal note, Director Mueller’s service as FBI Director, you may remember, was delayed at one point because he was fighting prostate cancer, which he beat. He is a man of integrity who married his high school sweetheart in 1966 and to the best of everyone’s knowledge, it is the only marriage for either one of them. The President, well…I am running out of time so I will not discuss his list of marriages and affairs, which have all been quite public. Finally, while the President characterizes the Mueller investigation as the most expensive witch hunt in history, I bet the odds makers would give a lot of weight to the following facts: The President’s campaign chairman has been convicted, his National Security Advisor resigned and pleaded guilty, his personal attorney and long-time fixer pleaded guilty on multiple counts, and people from inside the Trump organization and inside the campaign and White House are cooperating with prosecutors, despite the President’s efforts, with the full cooperation of Republicans in Congress, to prevent the truth from coming out. There are a lot of people in this body who are staking their careers on the President and his influence over the voters in their states and districts. OK, you are betting on the guy who is up tweeting at 3 o’clock in the morning. I look at the main protagonists in this legal drama and will put my money on the law enforcement veteran who at 3 o’clock most mornings is probably up working on who he is going to indict next. # # #
09.05.2018	Washington, DC – Today in a speech on the House floor, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) said he has sent a letter to the President asking him to resign “for the good of the United States and her people.” Holding a copy of the letter, sent today, the Illinois Congressman and Member of the Judiciary Committee said, “It has become clear… that for decades, the President led a vast criminal enterprise that went on to engage in criminal activity during the 2016 campaign for the White House and has engaged in criminal activity since the President took office.” Rep. Gutierrez in his letter to the President asks him to spare the nation from the “national spectacle of impeachment, which would wound our nation.” He wrote: “Your personal disgrace will be temporary. The lasting damage to the United States of bringing us all down with you will last decades, if not longer.” The Congressman concluded his floor speech by echoing this theme, saying, “Please resign and spare the nation from this ongoing nightmare. Don’t do this to us. Don’t make us go down with you. Step aside, sir, for the good of your country and the world.” A video of the Congressman’s floor speech, delivered shortly after 10 am ET is here: https://youtu.be/_KYTWbpJdCs A copy of the Congressman’s letter to President Trump is here: Rep. Gutiérrez Letter to President Trump Sept 09 2018.pdf Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks (As Prepared for Delivery) September 5, 2018 Mr. Speaker, I have written a letter to the President of the United States, which I am sending today that carries a simple message on behalf of the American people Mr. President, it is time for you to resign the Office of the Presidency for the good of the United States and her people. It has become clear to Congress and the American people, especially those of us who do not exclusively watch sanitized versions of the news on the President’s most supportive media outlets, that for decades, the President led a vast criminal enterprise that went on to engage in criminal activity during the 2016 campaign for the White House and has engaged in criminal activity since the President took office. The fact is clear: The President is the target of multiple criminal investigations on several fronts: Number 1, the violation of federal election laws, including the failure to report payments and contributions as required under campaign finance law; Number 2, the violation of tax, banking, and fraud laws related to the Trump Organization and immediate business associates and family members of the President; Number 3; apparent involvement and encouragement of the illegal hacking of political opponents during the 2016 campaign and efforts to derail investigations and inquiries since taking office; And number 4, working with, encouraging, and collaborating with a foreign government, Russia, to interfere in the 2016 election in order to help the President’s campaign – combined with efforts while in office to obstruct justice in the investigation of the campaign. Those are just four of the criminal conspiracies that point directly at the President of the United States and compromise his ability to continue leading the nation. I only have 5 minutes to speak, so I do not have time to enumerate the convictions in federal court of close associates of the President’s business interests and campaign, nor the guilty pleas, the plea bargains or the immunity granted to the President’s employees, friends and business associates, including those directly managing his political operations and serving in his White House. And, yes, the investigations are still on going, as are the prosecutions, guilty pleas and sentencing of the President’s co-conspirators in each of these four criminal matters. And we don’t know--there may be more shoes to drop from local, state and federal prosecutors because when you start looking under the rocks piled around this President, you find ample evidence of systematic fraud, criminal activity, and cover-up. For me, this has nothing to do with the President’s racism, his misogyny, his homophobia and Islamaphobia. It is different than his ties to and support for white supremacy or the voice he lends to the wildest and most discredited conspiracy theories the dark-right-web and talk radio can come up with. And as ugly as it was to hear, even his stark admission of sexual assault against women is separate from the systematic criminal activity he has clearly engaged in – much of it he himself has admitted unwittingly in television interviews. His policies are clearly damaging to the moral fabric of the American people, but this goes beyond the President’s attacks on law enforcement, his giveaways to big polluters and corporations, his defense of the super-rich, his assault on federal workers, the plundering of the economy or the lasting damage he is doing on a daily basis to our most-important international relationships with allies and foes alike. Vice President Mike Pence, with whom I served in this body, is someone I disagree with on almost every issue of importance, especially his offensive views on homosexuality, women’s rights, abortion, race relations, immigration and almost everything else. But, by comparison, he is an honorable man. Even if he is wrong on many, many policy issues, he has a basic sense of right and wrong that is lacking in the current occupant of the office. Therefore, while I do not relish a Pence presidency, at this point I feel it is an absolute necessity for the good of the country, for the good of our people and for the good of the world and America’s place in it. Mr. Speaker, in my letter, I humbly ask – as a proud American, a patriot and public servant, a dad, granddad and a fellow human being – I ask the President to resign immediately. Please resign and spare the nation from this ongoing nightmare. Don’t do this to us. Don’t make us go down with you. Step aside, sir, for the good of your country and the world. # # #
08.28.2018	Washington, DC -- Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) and more than 170 House Democrats sent a letter today to Education Secretary Betsy DeVos calling on the Department to issue formal guidance prohibiting the use of federal education funding to buy guns for teachers and school staff. The letter comes in the wake of a New York Times report revealing the administration’s consideration of a proposal that would allow schools to redirect federal K-12 education funding, for services like mental health counseling, for the purchase of firearms or firearms training. “Students and school staff deserve a learning environment that is safe, welcoming, and conducive to quality instruction and student learning,” the Members wrote. “Arming teachers would not only jeopardize student and staff health and safety, but also run counter to Congressional intent, precedent, and common sense.” According to press reports, the proposal under review would allow Student Support and Academic Enrichment Grants authorized under Title IV-A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) to be used to arm teachers and other school staff. Title IV-A is a program with bipartisan support that is intended to improve school climate in high-needs schools through a wide range of approaches. Grants can be used for efforts such as expanding students’ access to mental health services, supporting drug prevention and anti-bullying campaigns, improving access to arts and STEM curriculum, and increasing the availability of cutting edge technology to support student learning. “Title IV-A affords local leaders the flexibility to tailor investments to meet local needs; however, in writing and enacting ESSA, Congress never contemplated, and thus never intended, that such flexibility would allow for the procurement of firearms,” the Members wrote. “Any use of funds to purchase weapons not only violates intent, but it also clearly contradicts the plain reading of the statute.” The text of Title IV-A of ESSA, which was signed into law in 2015, specifically promotes activities that support “a school environment free of weapons.” As recently as this year, Congress reiterated its opposition to spending federal funds to put guns in schools. In authorizing the STOP School Violence Act in the aftermath of the Parkland, Florida school shooting, Congress acted to prohibit program funds from being used for the purchase of firearms or firearms training. The letter makes clear that, even without further action by Congress, Secretary DeVos must adhere to federal law and honor the intent of Congress. The Members are asking Secretary DeVos for written confirmation, by the end of this week, of the Department’s intent to issue formal guidance prohibiting the use of federal education funding for the purchase of guns. Such guidance would uphold current policy which was recently reaffirmed by the Trump administration, as evidenced through Department of Homeland Security Grant program guidance, to prohibit the purchase of firearms using federal funds. The full text of the letter is available here. The letter is signed by: Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce Representative Adam B. Schiff Representative Adam Smith Representative Adriano Espaillat Representative Al Green Representative Al Lawson Jr. Representative Alan S. Lowenthal Representative Albio Sires Representative Alcee L. Hastings Representative Alma S. Adams Ph.D. Representative Andre Carson Representative Anna G. Eshoo Representative Anthony G. Brown Representative Barbara Lee Representative Ben Ray Lujan Representative Bennie G. Thompson Representative Betty McCollum Representative Bill Foster Representative Bill Pascrell Jr. Representative Bobby L. Rush Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman Representative Brad Schneider Representative Brad Sherman Representative Brenda L. Lawrence Representative Brian Higgins Representative Carol Shea-Porter Representative Carolyn B. Maloney Representative Cedric L. Richmond Representative Charlie Christ Representative Chellie Pingree Representative Cheri Bustos Representative Colleen Hanabusa Representative Conor Lamb Representative Daniel T. Kildee Representative Daniel W. Lipinski Representative Danny K. Davis Representative Darren Soto Representative David E. Price Representative David Loebsack Representative David N. Cicilline Representative David Scott Representative Debbie Dingell Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz Representative Denny Heck Representative Derek Kilmer Representative Diana DeGette Representative Dina Titus Representative Donald M. Payne Jr. Representative Donald McEachin Representative Donald Norcross Representative Donald S. Beyer Jr. Representative Doris Matsui Representative Dutch Ruppersberger Representative Dwight Evans Representative Earl Blumenauer Representative Ed Perlmutter Representative Eddie Bernice Representative Eleanor Holmes Norton Representative Elijah E. Cummings Representative Eliot L. Engel Representative Elizabeth H. Esty Representative Emanuel Cleaver II Representative Eric Swalwell Representative Frank Pallone, Jr. Representative Frederica S. Wilson Representative G.K. Butterfield Representative Gene Green Representative Gerald E. Connolly Representative Grace F. Napolitano Representative Grace Meng Representative Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan Representative Gregory W. Meeks Representative Gwen S. Moore Representative Hakeem S. Jeffries Representative Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. Representative J. Luis Correa Representative Jackie Speier Representative Jacky Rosen Representative James A. Himes Representative James P. McGovern Representative James R. Langevin Representative Jamie Raskin Representative Janice D. Schakowsky Representative Jared Huffman Representative Jared Polis Representative Jerrold Nadler Representative Jerry McNerney Representative Jim Cooper Representative Jimmy Gomez Representative Jimmy Panetta Representative Joaquin Castro Representative Joe Courtney Representative John A. Yarmuth Representative John B. Larson Representative John Garamendi Representative John K. Delaney Representative John Lewis Representative John P. Sarbanes Representative Jose E. Serrano Representative Joseph Crowley Representative Joseph P. Kennedy, III Representative Josh Gottheimer Representative Joyce Beatty Representative Judy Chu Representative Julia Brownley Representative Karen Bass Representative Katherine M. Clark Representative Kathleen M. Rice Representative Keith Ellison Representative Kurt Schrader Representative Lacy Clay Representative Linda T. Sanchez Representative Lisa Blunt Rochester Representative Lloyd Doggett Representative Lois Frankel Representative Lucille Roybal-Allard Representative Luis V. Guitierrez Representative Marc A. Veasey Representative Marcia L. Fudge Representative Marcy Kaptur Representative Mark DeSaulnier Representative Mark Pocan Representative Mark Takano Representative Maxine Waters Representative Michael E. Capuano Representative Michael F. Doyle Representative Michelle Lujan Grisham Representative Mike Quigley Representative Mike Thompson Representative Nanette Diaz Barragan Representative Niki Tsongas Representative Nita M. Lowey Representative Norma J. Torres Representative Nydia M. Velazquez Representative Paul D. Tonko Representative Pete Aguilar Representative Peter A. DeFazio Representative Peter Welch Representative Pramila Jayapal Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi Representative Raul M. Grijalva Representative Richard E. Neal Representative Richard M. Nolan Representative Rick Larsen Representative Ro Khanna Representative Robin L. Kelly Representative Rosa L. DeLauro Representative Ruben J. Kihuen Representative Salud O. Carbajal Representative Sander M. Levin Representative Scott H. Peters Representative Sean Patrick Maloney Representative Seth Moulton Representative Sheila Jackson Lee Representative Stacey E. Plaskett Representative Stephanie Murphy Representative Stephen F. Lynch Representative Steve Cohen Representative Susan A. Davis Representative Suzan K. DelBene Representative Suzanne Bonamici Representative Ted W. Lieu Representative Terri A. Sewell Representative Theodore E. Deutch Representative Thomas R. Suozzi Representative Tim Ryan Representative Timothy J. Walz Representative Tony Cardenas Representative Tulsi Gabbard Representative Val Butler Demings Representative William R. Keating Representative Yvette D. Clarke Representative Zoe Lofgren ###
08.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, in the wake of continuing fallout from the guilty plea of President Donald Trump's longtime personal lawyer, Michael Cohen; the conviction of his former campaign manager, Paul Manafort; grants of immunity for David Pecker, Chairman of American Media and the Trump Organization’s chief financial officer, Allen Weisselberg; and President Trump’s reactions to these events, Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) led a letter signed by every Democratic member of the House Judiciary Committee to Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA). The letter asks that Chairman Goodlatte call the House Judiciary Committee back into session immediately to allow members to meet with the Department of Justice (DOJ) regarding the implications of the Cohen investigation; to respond to possible abuse of the pardon power by the President and his continuing attacks on the DOJ; and to take up bipartisan legislation to protect the Special Counsel. In their letter, the Members wrote, “We believe the Committee needs to take several actions within our jurisdictional responsibility, including meeting with Department of Justice leadership concerning recent charges implicating President Trump in campaign finance violations, taking actions to help prevent presidential pardon authority from being used to interfere with ongoing criminal investigations, protecting the Special Counsel from wrongful termination, and responding to the growing culture of corruption and the President’s ongoing venomous attacks against the Department of Justice and FBI.” Democratic Members urged Goodlatte to stand on the right side of history, noting, “Our Nation and our Committee stand at a crossroads, and the House Judiciary Committee has the expertise and authority necessary to take action to protect the rule of law and trust in our governmental institutions. We are ready, willing, and able to work with you in placing country above party in pursuing these matters and protecting our Nation from crossing a constitutional precipice.” Today’s letter was signed by every Democratic member of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee: Representatives Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Karen Bass (D-CA), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), David Cicilline (D-RI), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Brad Schneider (D-IL) and Val Demings (D-FL). On March 9, 2018, Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler, Congressional Democratic Women’s Working Group Chair Lois Frankel (D-FL) and Vice Chair Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), and Judiciary Committee members sent a letter to President Donald Trump’s lawyers, Michael Cohen and Marc Kasowitz, as well as David Pecker, the Chairman of American Media, Inc., raising legal concerns about payoffs to adult-film actress Stormy Daniels and others. On May 14, 2018, House Democrats released “Complicit: House GOP’s Reckless Campaign to Cover-up for President Trump,” which outlines the GOP’s efforts to undermine the Special Counsel’s investigation, shield the American people from the truth, and place the President’s political interests ahead of our national security interest. Full text of today’s letter is available here and below. August 24, 2018 The Honorable Robert W. Goodlatte Chairman Committee on the Judiciary U.S. House of Representatives 2138 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Goodlatte: The accumulating instances of criminal misconduct and corruption involving individuals associated with the Trump Campaign and Trump Administration – highlighted most recently by this week’s felony convictions of President Donald Trump's former campaign manager and his longtime personal lawyer – along with statements reacting to these events by the President demands action by our Committee to protect the rule of law. We therefore urge you to immediately call the Committee to order so that we may work together to honor our oath to defend the Constitution. We believe the Committee needs to take several actions within our jurisdictional responsibility, including meeting with Department of Justice leadership concerning recent charges implicating President Trump in campaign finance violations, taking actions to help prevent presidential pardon authority from being used to interfere with ongoing criminal investigations, protecting the Special Counsel from wrongful termination, and responding to the growing culture of corruption and the President’s ongoing venomous attacks against the Department of Justice and FBI. First, as a result of Michael Cohen’s guilty plea in the Southern District of New York, President Trump has for the first time been directly and publicly implicated in a criminal conspiracy under oath and in federal court. Although the President responded by asserting that Mr. Cohen’s actions “weren’t crimes”, the law is clearly to the contrary.[1] Given the seriousness and credibility of these charges – which we now understand to be corroborated by the CEO of American Media (the owner of the National Enquirer)[2] – we would ask that you join us in reaching out to leaders at the Justice Department and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York so that we may understand the nature and process by which this investigation is proceeding. (This is similar to and in accord with the series of private meetings you and the Ranking Member have conducted this Congress with representatives of the Department, the FBI, and the Special Counsel’s Office regarding their investigations of Russian interference in the 2016 election and related matters.) Second, we would again ask that our Committee hold hearings on the abuse of presidential pardon authority, and that you join us in drafting and introducing a resolution designed to place Congress formally on record opposing pardons by any president that would serve to insulate him or her from legal exposure.[3] As you know during the President’s interview with Fox News which aired yesterday -- after praising Mr. Manafort, now a convicted felon, as being “brave,” and declaring that testifying against an associate “almost ought to be illegal”—President Trump publicly and shockingly stated that “he would consider” pardoning Mr. Manafort.[4] This would mean that an individual who managed President Trump’s campaign, participated in the now infamous Trump Tower-Russia meeting, and may have knowledge about changes made to the Republican platform concerning Russia intervention in Ukraine would be discharged from legal responsibility in an attempt to prevent him from implicating President Trump and his closest advisors. Third, we also again call on you to take up H.R. 5476, the bipartisan “Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act.” Even before this week’s events, President Trump has previously sought to fire Attorney General Jeff Sessions, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, and Special Counsel Robert Mueller because of their roles in pending legal investigations[5] and issued literally hundreds of disparaging and false tweets against his own Justice Department.[6] On August 1, President Trump went so far as to publicly call on the Attorney General to end the Russia investigation, tweeting, “Attorney General Jeff Sessions should stop this Rigged Witch Hunt right now, before it continues to stain our country any further.” And on August 20, President Trump further stated, “I don't have to stay out [of the Russia investigation]. . . . I could run it if I want.”[7] As you know, a counterpart of H.R. 5476 has already been approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee, and Ranking Member Nadler and Representatives Sheila Jackson Lee and Steve Cohen have sought to invoke their rights under House Rule XI, Clause 2(c)(2) to consider legislation designed to protect Special Counsels from improper political interference by any Administration. Finally, we urge you to hold immediate hearings on President Trump’s dangerous attacks on the Department of Justice and the FBI. As recently as yesterday during his Fox News interview, President Trump again went after Attorney General Sessions, asserting “we have somebody who they seem to go after a lot of Republicans” – an apparent reference to not only his own Administration’s legal struggles but also recent criminal charges brought against Representatives Chris Collins (R-NY) and Duncan Hunter (R-CA). Yesterday, the President’s close friend, Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) also reported his understanding that it is “very likely” President Trump will replace the Attorney General, presumably because of these very same inappropriate concerns.[8] At a time when no less than five Cabinet officers have been forced to resign due to scandal, several more are facing ongoing investigations, and numerous individuals have been forced to resign from the White House itself, it is more important than ever that we be led by a Department of Justice able to enforce the laws free of partisan pressure.[9] Our Nation and our Committee stand at a crossroads, and the House Judiciary Committee has the expertise and authority necessary to take action to protect the rule of law and trust in our governmental institutions. We are ready, willing, and able to work with you in placing country above party in pursuing these matters and protecting our Nation from crossing a constitutional precipice. ### [1] Kevin Liptak & Jeremy Diamond, Trump falsely says Michael Cohen's actions 'weren't crimes', CNN, Aug. 23, 2018; see also Letter from Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler & Reps. Lois Frankel, Brenda Lawrence, Zoe Lofgren, Sheila Jackson Lee, Steve Cohen, Hank Johnson, David Cicilline, & Jamie Raskin to Michael Cohen, Marc Kasowitz, & David Pecker, (Mar. 9, 2018); see also Letter from Reps. Ted Lieu & Kathleen Rice to Christopher Wray, Dir., Federal Bureau of Investigation(Feb. 27, 2018). [2] Nicole Hong & Lukas I. Alpert, David Pecker, CEO of National Enquirer Publisher, Granted Immunity in Michael Cohen Case, Wall St. J., Aug. 23, 2018. [3] See Letter from Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler & 16 Democratic Members of the H. Comm. on the Judiciary to Chairman Bob Goodlatte (Apr. 17, 2018) (requesting a hearing on the President’s potential use of pardon power to discourage cooperation with the Mueller investigation following President Donald Trump’s pardon of I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby); Letter from Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler & all Democratic Members of the H. Comm. on the Judiciary to Chairman Bob Goodlatte (Dec. 18, 2017) (urging him to hold hearings on President Trump’s threat to abuse his pardon power following reports that President Trump was considering pardoning Michael Flynn); Letter from Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler & all Democratic Members of the H. Comm. on the Judiciary to Chairman Bob Goodlatte (Aug. 30, 2017) (urging that he schedule a hearing on President Trump’s pardon of Sheriff Joe Arpaio); see also Letter from Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler & all Democratic Members of the H. Comm. on the Judiciary to White House Counsel Donald McGahn (June 6, 2018) (asking for information and guidance about the Trump Administration’s view of pardon power, as President Trump continues to wildly and widely wield and speak presumptively about his pardon authority, both with regard to himself and others, often without real precedent); see also Presidential Pardon Power: Hearing Before the Subcomm. On the Constitution of the H. Comm. on the Judiciary, 107th Cong. ( 2001) (statement of Rep. Bob Goodlatte expressing the view that President Clinton “has abused [the pardon] power” and seeking views on law enforcement and other potential responses “if the power was abused in a criminal fashion.”). [4] Reuters Staff, Trump says he's considering pardon for Manafort: Fox News reporter, Reuters, Aug. 22, 2018. [5] Maggie Haberman & Michael S. Schmidt, Trump Sought to Fire Mueller in December, N.Y. Times, Apr. 10, 2018; Michael S. Schmidt & Maggie Haberman, Trump Ordered Mueller Fired, But Backed Off When White House Counsel Threatened to Quit, N.Y. Times, Jan. 25, 2018; Pamela Brown et al., Trump Considering Firing Rosenstein to Check Mueller, CNN, Apr. 10, 2018. [6] Jasmine C. Lee & Kevin Quealy, The 487 People, Places and Things Donald Trump Has Insulted on Twitter: A Complete List, N.Y. Times, Jul. 10, 2018. [7] Steve Holland, Jeff Mason, & James Oliphant, Exclusive: Trump worries that Mueller interview could be a 'perjury trap', Reuters, Aug. 20, 2018. [8] Michael Burke, Graham: Trump will 'very likely' fire Sessions after midterms, The Hill, Aug. 23, 2018. [9] Denise Lu & Karen Yourish, Pruitt is Trump’s Fifth Cabinet Official To Be Forced Out, N.Y. Times, Jul. 5, 2018.
07.26.2018	Washington (July 26, 2018) – Senators Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), and Representatives Luis Gutiérrez (IL-04) and Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) today questioned Amazon about the sale of its facial recognition technology, “Rekognition,” to law enforcement. In their letter, the lawmakers noted a study that found more than 117 million American adults are in facial recognition databases that can be searched in criminal investigations. This figure reveals just how broadly American privacy and civil rights are implicated by the proliferation of facial recognition technology. Senator Markey and Representatives Gutiérrez and DeSaulnier sent their letter after the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) released a report showing that Amazon Rekognition had misidentified 28 members of Congress in a set of public arrest photos, including the lawmakers. Amazon employees, Amazon shareholders, and a coalition of nearly seventy civil rights organizations had all recently called on Amazon to halt the sale of its facial recognition technology to law enforcement. “While facial recognition services might provide a valuable law enforcement tool, the efficacy and impact of the technology are not yet fully understood,” write the lawmakers in their letter to Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos. “In particular, serious concerns have been raised about the dangers facial recognition can pose to privacy and civil rights, especially when it is used as a tool of government surveillance, as well as the accuracy of the technology and its disproportionate impact on communities of color.” A copy of the letter to Amazon can be found HERE. In their letter, the lawmakers ask Amazon to respond to questions that include: Have any internal accuracy or bias assessments been performed on Rekognition, and what are the results for race, gender, skin pigmentation, and age? What law enforcement or intelligence agencies has Amazon contacted or communicated with regarding acquisition of Rekognition? Have any law enforcement agencies that use or are using Rekognition been investigated, sued, or otherwise reprimanded for engaging in unlawful or discriminatory policing practices? Does Amazon build protections into the Rekognition system to protect the privacy rights of innocent Americans? Are there any protections to ensure the privacy of children and how does Amazon follow the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act? Does Amazon conduct any audits of Rekognition use by law enforcement to ensure that the software is not being abused for secretive government surveillance? Is Amazon Rekognition currently integrated with any police body-camera technology or existing public-facing camera networks? Are any government customers using Rekognition for continual, real-time facial recognition of the public? ###
07.23.2018	Washington: Rep. Jared Polis, D-Colo., Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., and Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., rallied 143 other members of Congress to demand immigration detention facilities immediately end their practice of charging migrant parents as much as $8 per minute to speak with their children by telephone. More than 2,400 migrant parents have been separated from their children under the Trump administration’s “zero-tolerance” policy. In a letter to the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency (ICE), the members wrote: “We write to urge you to implement immediate, nationwide changes that will permit individuals who have been separated from their children to make phone calls regularly and at no expense to them. […] No one–not private detention facilities, nor the federal government–should be in any way enriched by detained parents trying to speak with their children.” Read the entire letter here. ICE detention standards state that immigration detention facilities shall permit detainees to make direct or free calls to “immediate family or others for detainees in personal or family emergencies [....]” “Nobody should profit off of the suffering of separated migrant children and parents. The callousness of President Trump’s family separation policy knows no bounds. These mothers, fathers, babies, and young children came here with nothing to their names, seeking refugee. We shouldn’t allow them to be exploited by private corporations in order to simply locate and speak with their children by phone. ICE should follow its own stated policy, and allow migrant parents to call their children freely,” said Polis. “As if the Trump administration’s decision to separate families wasn’t cruel enough, the idea there would be any barriers to basic communication is outrageous, and must be corrected immediately. And in the meantime, I am going to be doing everything in my power to hold President Trump’s feet to the fire until every family is back together and he drops this heartless effort to harm children and their parents,” said Sen. Murray. “Parents fleeing violence to save their children’s lives should be treated like refugees and protected, but instead we treat them like profit centers to be nickled and dimed. As a country we can do better and we must,” said Rep. Gutierrez. The letter was backed by the American Civil Liberties Union, National Immigrant Justice Center, National Council of Jewish Women, Human Rights First, NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Justice, Anti-Defamation League, Friends Committee on National Legislation, MomsRising, Franciscan Action Network, Young Center for Immigrant Children’s Rights, National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health, and Center for Law and Social Policy. Joining Rep. Polis, Sen. Murray, and Rep. Gutierrez were 35 Senators and 108 Representatives, including Sens. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Michael F. Bennet (D-CO), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Cory A. Booker (D-NJ), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Thomas R. Carper (D-DE), Robert P. Casey, Jr. (D-PA), Christopher A. Coons (D-DE), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Richard J. Durbin (D-IL), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Kamala D. Harris (D-CA), Margaret Wood Hassan (D-NH), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Mazie K. Hirono (D-HI), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Jeffrey A. Merkley (D-OR), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Gary C. Peters (D-MI), Jack Reed (D-RI), Bernard Sanders (D-VT), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Tina Smith (D-MN), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Tom Udall (D-NM), Elizabeth Warren D-MA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Ron Wyden (D-OR), and Reps. Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), John Yarmuth (D-KY), Donald M. Payne (D-NJ), Salud O. Carbajal (D-CA), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Elizabeth H. Esty (D-CT), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), Mike Doyle (D-PA), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), A. Donald McEachin (D-VA), Pramila Jayapal (D-TX), John Lewis (D-GA), Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Joseph P. Kennedy, III (D-MA), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), J. Luis Correa (D-CA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D-VA), Scott Peters (D-CA), Pete Aguilar (D-CA), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Bill Foster (D-IL), Jimmy Gomez (D-CA), Sander Levin (D-MI), Grace Meng (D-NY), Nanette Diaz Barragán (D-CA), Beto O'Rourke (D-TX), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Michael E. Capuano (D-MA), Katherine Clark (D-NY), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Darren Soto (D-FL), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Anthony G. Brown (D-MD), Kathleen M. Rice (D-NY), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Marc Veasey (D-TX), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), John Delaney (D-MD), Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), James R. Langevin (D-RI), G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), André Carson (D-IN), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Danny K. Davis (D-IL), Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), Karen Bass (D-CA), David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Adam Smith (D-WA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Peter Welch (D-VT), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), José E. Serrano (D-NY), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Adam B. Schiff (D-CA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT), Judy Chu (D-CA), William Lacy Clay (D-MO), Suzan K. DelBene (D-WA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Dina Titus (D-NV), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX). ###
07.18.2018	Washington, DC – Today on the House floor, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) renewed his call for President Trump’s impeachment saying that the President’s decision to take Russian President Vladimir Putin’s side at the Helsinki summit was “nothing short of treasonous.” In a scathing speech, the 13-term Illinois Congressman, who was among the first to sign on to Articles of Impeachment introduced in November 2017, said, “The President has proven himself unable to separate his own personal interests from his current job as leader of the free world...” and went on to say to his House colleagues, “As a body, we must take action to relieve the President of his duties.” Rep. Gutiérrez said that in the press conference after the Helsinki summit, “the world witnessed the single worst performance by an American President on the world stage in world history.” Continuing, he said: Given evidence, indictments, and facts, the President was given the choice of taking America’s side or taking President Putin’s side and the President chose Putin. I believe the American people, our armed forces, our allies, our lawmakers and the President’s own Cabinet deserve an immediate apology from the President for his actions. He added: Russia is not a government to be condoned, it is a government to be contained and yet, our President was unable to be critical of the dictator of our greatest rival in public… and God knows what he did in private. The Congressman reiterated a statement he made earlier in the week on Twitter that he was consulting with his colleagues about updating Articles of Impeachment introduced last year. He added: And while it is already a full-time job, I will redouble my efforts to prevent the House of Representatives from taking actions to actively obstruct justice and undermine law enforcement and the FBI, while seeking to give the President cover and relief from a genuine, thorough investigation into the attack on our country by the Russians in 2016 and the attacks that are continuing to this day. Rep. Gutiérrez concluded with a plea to his colleagues on both sides of the aisle: This body, the House, the institution that I love so much and have served for more than 25 years cannot be sullied or diminished by this President and his inability to see the facts about the attack on the United States. As a body, we must take action to relieve the President of his duties. […] If you still believe in truth, if you believe in Democracy, if you believe in the rule of law and our Constitution, you will join me in holding this President accountable for his actions, in holding Russia accountable for the attacks on the United States and her people, and will stand up to defend your country and not just your party or your own income and career. This is a moment of destiny when the House as an institution must rise to the occasion and Mr. Speaker, the whole world is watching. A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://youtu.be/f-9toSTZHxo Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks July 18, 2018 Mr. Speaker: On Monday, the world witnessed the single worst performance by an American President on the world stage in world history. It was the culmination of the worst week an American President has ever had and as an American and a patriot, I am shocked and embarrassed for our nation. Given evidence, indictments, and facts, the President was given the choice of taking America’s side or taking President Putin’s side and the President chose Putin. I believe the American people, our armed forces, our allies, our lawmakers and the President’s own Cabinet deserve an immediate apology from the President for his actions. Having insulted and demeaned our closest military allies and trading partners, the President doubled-down by insulting world leaders individually and in public, especially those who are most friendly to the United States. It was disgraceful. The President even went as far as to say that Germany is totally controlled by Russia, a comment that makes the President quite literally the laughing stock of the world. To then go on and take President Putin’s side in defending the Kremlin’s attack on the United States – an attack which this Congress, our intelligence and law enforcement agencies, our allies and the American people know in fact took place – was nothing short of treasonous. The President has proven himself unable to separate his own personal interests from his current job as leader of the free world and has consistently, repeatedly, and now – in full view of the world – definitively put his own interests above those of the United States and the free world by siding with the petty, anti-Democratic dictator of our international rival. The campaign of repression and the straight-up murder of political and business rivals by President Putin is established. It is not something any American leader can or should debate. Using foreign agents to murder people overseas is the Kremlin’s MO, and our President seems to feel that is OK. Let us not forget that Russia, on more than one occasion, has allowed paranoia, fear, and impunity to escalate to such a level that they have literally shot passenger airliners out of the sky killing all on board. Invading other countries and using the pretext of national security to expand the Russian empire is not only condoned by this President apparently, in some ways he is seeking to emulate Putin’s behavior by using national security as a pretext for trade wars with our closest allies and for policies to take babies, toddlers and other children from people lawfully seeking asylum in the United States. Russia is not a government to be condoned, it is a government to be contained and yet, our President was unable to be critical of the dictator of our greatest rival in public… and God knows what he did in private. Mr. Speaker, it is well-established that I believe our current President is a threat to American Democracy, which is why I was one of the first Members of Congress to sign on to Articles of Impeachment last year. I have already begun consulting with my colleagues about whether those Articles of Impeachment can be expanded and updated to include the betrayal witnessed by the American people and the world this week. And while it is already a full-time job, I will redouble my efforts to prevent the House of Representatives from taking actions to actively obstruct justice and undermine law enforcement and the FBI, while seeking to give the President cover and relief from a genuine, thorough investigation into the attack on our country by the Russians in 2016 and the attacks that are continuing to this day. This body, the House, the institution that I love so much and have served for more than 25 years cannot be sullied or diminished by this President and his inability to see the facts about the attack on the United States. As a body, we must take action to relieve the President of his duties. Most Americans probably doubt that the House of Representatives is even up to the task of being fair, being honest, and being impartial enough to call a spade a spade when it comes to Russian aggression. But I call on my fellow Democrats and on my fellow Members from the other side of the aisle: If you still believe in truth, if you believe in Democracy, if you believe in the rule of law and our Constitution, you will join me in holding this President accountable for his actions, in holding Russia accountable for the attacks on the United States and her people, and will stand up to defend your country and not just your party or your own income and career. This is a moment of destiny when the House as an institution must rise to the occasion and Mr. Speaker, the whole world is watching. # # #
07.12.2018	Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) gave a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives this morning during the 10 am ET hour about the incident in Cook County, Illinois, captured on video, where a woman was harassed for wearing a Puerto Rican flag shirt. [For more information, see the Congressman’s press release from Tuesday, July 10, 2018: Gutiérrez Asks DOJ Civil Rights Division To Investigate Anti-Puerto Rican Incident In Cook County Park | http://bit.ly/2umBaj5] A video of the Congressman’s speech today is here: https://youtu.be/2oL86uIs2-A His remarks, as prepared for delivery: Mr. Speaker Earlier this week, I sent a bouquet of flowers and a great big Puerto Rican flag to Mia Irizarry, a young Puerto Rican women who lives in Chicago who celebrated her 24th birthday last month. My wife and I wanted to let her know that we support her and we admire her. You see, her birthday party at a park in Cook County, Illinois didn’t turn out the way she expected. By now most of us have seen the video of that incident. A 62 year old man who police have identified as Timothy Tybus verbally abused and harassed Ms. Irizarry as she was wearing a shirt that depicts the flag of our U.S. colony of Puerto Rico. What unfolds over the 30-minutes is a man physically and verbally intimidating a very polite and poised 24 year old American woman, while a uniformed police officer stands by and does nothing to intervene or help. The officer has been identified as Patrick Conner of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Police Department. So an older racist yells at a young Latina because he doesn’t like what she and other Puerto Ricans living in “his” community he says represent. Is that news? No. Sadly no. And, while most police officers would have done the right thing in that incident, this guy was caught on tape doing the wrong thing, or more accurately, doing nothing, at all. For me, this was very personal because something similar happened to me, something similar has happened to most Puerto Ricans, most Latinos, and most people of color, and most people who are somehow “different” in this country at one point or another in their lives. 22 years ago when I was a sophomore in Congress, I was entering one of the Capitol office buildings and my daughter Omaira and my niece Maritza. I was new and I was dressed somewhat casually because we were just returning from a Puerto Rican celebration and my daughter was carrying a Puerto Rican flag. The flag became unfurled as it went through the X-ray machine and one of the officers wanted to stop us from coming in. I showed my official ID as a Member of Congress, to which the officer said, “I don’t think so,” indicating that she thought my ID was a fake and that I couldn’t possibly be a Member of Congress. She stated my ID was fake in fact There was also a comment at the end “Why don’t you and your people go back where you came from.” 22 years after that incident, we are still seeing the same kind of bigotry, the same kind of misunderstanding about Latinos and who Puerto Ricans are, and the same fear that we are outsiders who don’t belong here. And sadly, the same fear and “otherness” is extended to other people, the handicapped, gay and lesbian and transgender Americans, immigrants, Muslims, people of color the list just goes on. This is certainly not the first time, but right now we are in a moment of history when Americans are being told to fear other Americans and one of the reasons I think the video went viral is because it is emblematic of our times. Bullies who do not understand the first thing about their fellow human beings, Latinos, people of color, immigrants or Muslims are being taught to fear that something they have is being taken away from them. And some now feel it is their right – their privilege – and maybe even their duty to go-off in public and take action. I wonder where they get such an idea? When our President calls Puerto Ricans lazy and expensive to help, it hurts our nation. When he calls Mexicans rapists and murderers or calls refugees fleeing violence with their children “illegal immigrants,” or calls transgender soldiers a threat to our country, and says that good people on both sides of a racist rally where a woman was killed are the same, it filters down. Maybe the President is just reflecting back the fear, anger, and misunderstandings of the voters he wants to mobilize. But all of the lying, the hostility, and the racism is clearly taking a toll on our country. I just hope that we all are as poised as Ms. Irizarry was if and when someone gets in our face; whether for wearing a pussy hat, or a hijab, a rainbow flag or a black lives matter t-shirt. I hope we are all more willing than Officer Conner to take action when someone is trying to bully someone else, and I hope most Americans and I know most Americans are not like Mr. Tybus who is afflicted with both fear and ignorance and probably a substance abuse problem. But the video makes clear that we all have to step up to defend the United States from this tide of bullying, misogyny, homophobia, and xenophobia, and stand up for what America is really all about. Please let’s just do this all together, if you see hate, stand up and speak. # # #
07.10.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) wrote to the Acting Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Rights Division at the Department of Justice demanding DOJ investigate an incident that took place last month in a Cook County, IL park, which was captured on a video that has gone viral. The incident concerns a man who verbally and physically intimidates a woman, identified as Mia Irizzary, who is wearing a t-shirt with the Puerto Rican flag, while an officer with the Forest Preserve of Cook County looks on, avoiding responding to the man and offering no help to the woman who was being harassed. The text of the Congressman’s letter is here: 7.10.18 Letter to DOJ Civil Rights Division.pdf You can watch the video here (among other places): https://www.facebook.com/NowThisPolitics/videos/2152660761432069/ In his letter, Rep. Gutiérrez recalls a similar incident that happened to him when he was a freshman in the U.S. Congress. I understand this incident on a gut level because almost exactly the same thing happened to me when I was a freshman in Congress. I was denied entry into the Capitol complex by U.S. Capitol Police despite being a Congressman with identification, because my daughter was carrying a Puerto Rican flag and the officer doubted that I could possibly be a Member of Congress. So this kind of incident is unfortunately not unusual and though we did not have viral videos 25 years ago, I wish I had done more then to stop the kind of behavior on display in Ms. Irizarry’s video, so that we can prevent the cycles of hatred and bigotry that often repeat themselves today. He also writes of the current incident: Because of the seriousness of the encounter, the fact that it targeted the Puerto Rican community in and around my District, and growing number of anti-Latino and anti-immigrant hate crimes being reported, I demand the Civil Rights Division investigate to see if federal civil rights charges are warranted. I would like to remind you of your division’s responsibilities which are to enforce federal statutes prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, disability, religion, familial status and national origin. Earlier today, Rep. Gutierrez commented on commented on the incident on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RepGutierrez/ I can't tell what upsets me more about this clip: 1) The racist drunk who thinks Latinos – including Puerto Ricans – are a threat to the United States. 2) The officer who does ABSOLUTELY NOTHING to protect the safety of the woman being harassed by the man; OR 3) The fact that this took place in Cook County, Illinois, right in our back-yard. There is a culture of bigotry and hate that has been condoned in this country since forever, which now feels unleashed to express itself in the most ugly and aggressive ways. In this case, an American citizen questions the citizenship of another American citizen in an ugly and aggressive way and American law-enforcement just sits back and watches. I don’t care that she is Puerto Rican or wearing a Puerto Rican flag t-shirt just because I am Puerto Rican. We all should care because we are decent human beings and we need to stand up to bigotry and bullies. Whether they are old racists at a park, Cook County employees who do nothing, or Presidents who toss paper towels at people in need and denigrate Latinos with every Tweet, this is not the America we want to become, it is not the Illinois we want to become and standing up to hate and bigotry must start at home in Cook County. The Congressman repeated this message in a series of Tweets: https://twitter.com/RepGutierrez/status/1016695958846009346 Rep. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
07.09.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement reacting to the news that Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner profits from the detention of immigrants, including from facilities that hold immigrant families and children. Rep. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. It says a lot about the Republican Party when profits from jailing immigrant children and families are going straight to the Governor’s mansion. Something is very, very wrong. This should be about human beings and managing our immigration system, but families are being split apart to sell off the pieces to the lowest bidder on government contracts. The Governor ought to be ashamed of himself if he has any involvement with this ugly business that makes money from human misery and profits from laws designed to fill the beds of for-profit prisons. I have visited with families, moms, and kids in for-profit and public detention centers and it is not pleasant or humane. On top of losing their freedom, detainees are nickel and dimed for food, phone calls, and anything else the companies can charge them for. Last month I sat with mothers at a Colorado detention facility who were charged $20 to make phone calls to their elementary-school aged sons who were being held in different states. Now we find out that part of the $20 is probably going right into the Governor’s pocket. # # #
06.26.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement reacting to the Supreme Court’s ruling today that President Trump’s revised, rewritten and re-revised Muslim Ban is legal. Rep. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. This is a sad day for the rule of law and the country. It has been clear from the beginning that President Trump wants fewer legal immigrants – especially people of color – and to many Americans like me, the racism that is driving this policy is self-evident. The victory of the Administration’s policy to keep out legal immigrants is further proof that elections have consequences and that the Senate Republican strategy of denying a Democratic President appointments to the Supreme Court in order to allow court vacancies to be filled by a Republican President has worked. The Republican Party has turned a corner and now proudly demands that legal immigrants be denied entry to the United States. Today’s Supreme Court decision puts an exclamation point on Republican opposition to people coming with visas and vetting, through our legal system, who have applied and been approved. The soundbite that Republicans oppose illegal immigration but support legal immigration is a complete and utter lie at this point. What used to be a fringe policy position is now a mainstream GOP position and is out-of-step with the American people. Last week for example, more than 80% of House Republicans voted to cut legal immigration by at least 40% and deny visas to 3 million individuals who have applied and are waiting in line, based on analysis of HR 4760. This puts Republicans seriously out-of-step with the American people, yet Republicans feel they must adopt such indefensible and unpopular positions because of the demands of vocal elements within their base. # # #
06.21.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke during the debate of Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte’s harsh anti-immigration bill, H.R. 4760 today on the floor of the House of Representatives. The following are his remarks as prepared for delivery. A video of his remarks is here: https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4736768/gutirrez-goodlatte-immigration-bill Floor Remarks June 21, 2018 The reelection strategy for every single Republican Member of the House is to stand strong with a President willing to take children from their parents in order to look mean and nasty when children are fleeing for their lives. You own that. That is your campaign strategy. As of today, Republicans want to put the children in the same jails as the parents, and fight to hold them indefinitely and demand we charge asylum seekers with a crime and get rid of them. The more than 2,300 children who have been taken from their parents and put in a vast system spread over thousands of miles – we just don’t know if those children will ever see their families again. You own that too. That is what you are campaigning on to save your jobs. Taking DACA away from Dreamers, that is your policy too and then putting bills on the floor to cut legal immigration and build a wall are your strategies to blame Democrats for what you are doing. Republicans want to be both the arsonists and the firefighters and you can’t be both. Speaker Ryan and Chairman Goodlatte are not bad people. They are both decent men of faith who have been put in the position of defending policies that are cruel, inhumane, and run deeply contrary to the will of the American people and the values of their faith and country. This must be morally wrenching for them, but honestly, I have little sympathy. Each has made a devil’s bargain to trade their reputations for Stephen Miller’s agenda and Donald Trump’s name. Legal immigration? No. An asylum policy that protects human lives? No. DACA to protect Dreamers? No. Policies that treat wife-beating and rape as matters that require us to protect women? No. A nation of immigrants? No, they want a wall. Even though both are leaving office because the Republican Party is no longer a home for decent men and women of values, faith and conscience – both are leaving us with one last commitment to put the needs of this erratic President above the will of the people and above the good of the nation. At some point someone needs to stop complimenting the emperor on his new suit of clothes and start telling the President that he is naked. Covering Trump’s rear-end from all the lies, the deceit and the soullessness is no longer sustainable. # # #
06.21.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement reacting to President Trump’s weeks of lying about his family separation policy and the President’s decision to hold migrant children and their parents indefinitely in the same jails after issuing an executive order on Wednesday. The President continues to use children as political hostages for his Election Day 2018 campaign strategy to motivate his most passionately anti-immigrant supporters. Being as mean and heartless to Central Americans fleeing for their lives is not an immigration control or border security strategy, but purely a political strategy to get Trump’s voters to the polls. Our government, which has taken thousands of children from their parents has no real plan to reunite them with their families and the Congress continues to demand answers about where the children are, where the parents are, and how they will be brought back together. The policy of charging asylum seekers with a crime and challenging a court’s ruling so that the Administration can hold them indefinitely is hardly an improvement. It guarantees a profit to private prison companies who support the President, but is just as cruel and damaging to children as his previous policy. I am so proud of the American people for standing up to this brutal policy and the brutes who are carrying it out. As a country, we are finding ways to protect the United States from this President and in this case, he has had to make a tactical retreat. But today’s partisan votes in the House show that Republicans seeking reelection are doubling-down on their opposition to immigration. We fought President Obama when he attempted to jail children with their families indefinitely and we will do the same for this President. The difference is that President Obama had a conscience and a moral compass and was willing to follow the law. President Oabam did not charge asylum seekers as criminals. This President is willing to do whatever Stephen Miller tells him to do, regardless of the stain it puts on his presidency and the nation or the cost to innocent children. # # # Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
06.20.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, House Democrats joined immigration advocates and children to demand that the Trump administration immediately end their inhumane policy of separate families separating families at the border. Moments before the press conference, House Democrats took over the House of Representatives floor to condemn this cruel policy. “The Trump administration’s inhumane policy of separating children from their mothers and fathers is a blemish on our government and the values Americans hold dear. President Trump can and must end this horrific policy,” said Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY). “America must be on the side of children and families. American must remain a safe haven for those seeking safety and refuge. I’m proud to join my colleagues in defense of our country’s values and call for this sickening practice is put to an end.” “Taking children from their parents has touched a cord and is pulling on the hearts of the American people in a way I have not seen previously on immigration matters in the past,” said Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL).“Americans rightly see in the children the faces of their own children and have the natural instinct to want to protect them. I am proud that so many of my Democratic colleagues and fellow countrymen are answering the call by standing up to President Trump on this great injustice.” Cross Posted at: https://crowley.house.gov/media/press-releases/house-democrats-immigration-advocates-demand-trump-administration-end-family “It is clear that this administration has no compassion or capacity to respect the dignity and worth of every human being,” said Rep. John Lewis (D-GA). “Time and time again, this administration fails to show true leadership by creating unnecessary, preventable crises. The entire world is watching and disgusted by these actions. To separate parents from children, to have no plan for reunification, to hold innocent little babies in cages, tent cities, and private prisons is a shame, a disgrace, and an outrage.” “What’s happening at our border is tantamount to child abuse – child abuse that I saw with my own eyes just two days ago when I visited the border,” said Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA), Chair of the Asian Pacific American Caucus. “There, I saw the detention facilities and spoke with the young boys held there. And I spoke with the mental health counselors who reported the children feeling lost and abandoned. But they weren’t abandoned. Their parents were taken away by Donald Trump. And it could all end in a minute with one phone call from the president. But instead, he is using these children to extort his own xenophobic demands.” “As a mom and basically as a human being with compassion, my heart aches to hear the sounds of children in detention centers crying for their parents,” saidVice Chair Linda Sánchez (D-CA). “I don’t know anybody who has a heart or any compassion who cannot be moved by the trauma these children are experiencing. President Trump could end this today with one phone call to the attorney general. The president has the power to stop it and he refuses to because quite frankly he just doesn’t care about helping people fleeing threats of murder and violence. House Democrats will continue to stand up and fight against this atrocious policy that has no place in a country as great as the United States of America. “It is our responsibility as legislators and voters and people of conscious to speak out,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA). “The Trump Administration’s so-called “Zero Tolerance” policy of separating children from their parents is immoral, cruel, and abusive to children. We not only as Americans, but as human beings, need to rally together and apply pressure on President Trump to change this policy without delay.” “Immigrants contribute to our country in ways large and small, seen and unseen. Today’s migrants follow in the footsteps of centuries of individuals coming to our land to contribute to the vibrancy of our society and in the process, improve the lives and outlook of those who follow,” said Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX). “We should welcome them and ensure that they too can achieve their American Dream. When I visited the border this past weekend, what I witnessed was horrific. This is not the America I know and love and the Trump Administration must cease and desist this inhumane and cruel policy.” “The enforcement of the so-called "zero-tolerance" family separation policy is inhumane to all, but especially those seeking asylum from persecution in their homelands,” said Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO). “It's scarring thousands of people for life and permanently altering the emotional -- and possibly intellectual -- futures of the very young. We must reunite these children with their parents and end this horrendous policy.” “What do you call a country that institutionalizes child abuse? Tragically today you call that country the United States of America,” said Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL). “I have heard the screams of babies calling out for their parents, I have heard the accounts of children being ripped from their nursing mothers’ breasts and I cannot stand it. This is not our America. For the sake of our children and for the sake of our country’s soul, President Trump must end this cruelty immediately.” “The Trump Administration’s reprehensible actions of ‘zero-tolerance’ and family separation at the border will go down in history as one of the cruelest actions undertaken by our government in recent memory,” said Rep. Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ). “Policies that terrorize children and punish vulnerable asylum seekers fleeing unimaginable violence have no place in our immigration policy. I demand that Trump end this reprehensible policy and begin the process of reuniting the families that he unnecessarily destroyed.” “The Trump Administration’s family separation policy is antithetical to our values and betrays the lessons taught by our history,” said Rep. Al Green (D-TX).“Furthermore, the use of this reprehensible strategy as a bargaining chip to build a wall along the border hearkens back to the darkest parts of America’s past. If the President truly did not want to separate innocent children from their parents at the border as Attorney General Jeff Sessions has indicated, he wouldn’t. Family separation should not be used as a scare tactic into building this wall and pushing Trump’s true immigration agenda.” “The Trump Administration and Republicans have continued to perpetrate their evil act against immigrants in America, attacking our families, separating our children, and detaining our mothers and fathers,” said Rep. Adriano Espaillat (D-NY). “We must be strong and continue to stand united as an affront to such injustice and inhumanity. Family separation is not the law, and the Trump Administration could easily reverse this policy today. No matter your political affiliation or opinion about immigration policy, we can all agree that families must remain intact and our efforts should protect children, and not purposely harm them. This isn’t about politics, it’s about decency and humanity.” “These are days of shame for our country, as the zero-tolerance policy of separating children from their parents turns America into a rogue state and an international pariah,” said Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD). “It is a policy that is characteristic of authoritarianism, not the greatest liberal democracy in the world. President Trump created this dreadful policy out of thin air. He made it appear. He can make it disappear today with the stroke of a pen and a phone call. That’s what he needs to do.” “For weeks, the Trump administration has misled the American people and failed to explain the reasoning behind their cruel practice of separating immigrant children from their parents,” said Rep. Jimmy Gomez (D-CA). “A recent visit to immigration detention facilities in San Diego reaffirmed my belief that this abhorrent policy is nothing more than a means to punish families who had the audacity to seek a better life — and deter those who still dream of doing so. I proudly stand with my constituents and my Democratic colleagues in demanding the administration end this government sanctioned child abuse immediately.” “Trump’s “zero-tolerance” policy of separating children and families means zero humanity and compassion,” said Toni Van Pelt, President of the National Organization for Women. “NOW calls on Congress to exercise its moral and civic duty to defend, protect and humanize immigrant families, especially women and children. Trump’s policy is racist, unlawful and cruel.” “The Trump administration keeps calling their atrocious family separation policy a ‘zero tolerance’ policy. But, let’s be clear about something: this is not a zero-tolerance policy. This is a zero-humanity policy. It needs to stop now,” said Kica Matos, Director of Immigrant Rights and Racial Justice at the Center for Community Change Action. “FIRM Action and the Center for Community Change Action are ramping up our efforts to mobilize the millions of immigrant families whose lives we touch. Legislator who have lacked the decency and the humanity to stop the atrocities at the border and worked to advance inhumane immigration laws will be voted out of office. Let me close by saying that history will not look kindly on this disgraceful chapter in our nation’s history. It is up to us to go beyond our comfort zones and fight with everything we can to stop this madness. We must do so before this nation loses its soul—and our precious democracy is torn apart.” Additionally, the children and immigration advocates were joined by the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Rep. Nydia Velázquez (D-NY), Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA), Rep. David Cicilline (D-RI), Rep. Robin Kelly (D-IL), Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Rep. Alma Adams (D-NC), Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Rep. Nanette Barragan (D-CA), and Rep. Ruben Kihuen (D-NV). The Trump administration cruel practice of separating families at the border has led to thousands of minor children being taken from their mothers and father and housed in military warehouses. In only one recent example, ICE agents ripped an 18-month-old toddler away from his mother who fled to the United States seeking asylum. In response to this cruel policy and lack of transparency by the Trump administration, Democrats have demanded that the Trump Administration cease its practice of separating families and provide the Members with a detailed accounting of where the children are and how the agencies planned to reunite them with their families.
06.14.2018	Washington, DC – Fresh off of yesterday’s demonstration at Customs and Border Patrol headquarters in Washington, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) was back on the floor of the House of Representatives speaking about the Trump Administration’s policy to separate children from their parents at the border. He described yesterday’s action and went on to denounce Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ new policy of denying claims of asylum related to domestic violence or being targeted by organized crime. He said that when Sessions announced the new policy on Monday, he “had one of the most stunning ‘new-speak’ 1984, mind-control moments we have ever heard” when the Attorney General said that violence by a man against a woman was a “private matter.” Rape and abuse, that’s just a private matter between a man and a woman according to the chief law enforcement officer of our country. That’s just a private matter between a man and a woman; between the family and the gang of terrorists they are facing. Only in a Trump Administration could someone say something so thoroughly and utterly wrong, dangerous and ridiculous. Rep. Gutiérrez noted that practically every jurisdiction in America has a unit that prosecutes domestic violence cases, so spousal abuse is clearly a public matter in the United States. He noted that Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-SC), who has a reputation for using his experience as a South Carolina prosecutor, lists the creation of a Violence Against Women Task Force as one of his most important accomplishments in his official biography. Rep. Gutiérrez said: So wife-beating isn’t a private matter in South Carolina. If you are being beaten, raped or tortured by your domestic partner, the police, the prosecutors and the judges will get involved because it isn’t a private matter…. But according to the Attorney General, it is a private matter between a man and a woman. He expects every domestic violence victim to hire a lawyer and sue their spouse, just get a court order. Rep. Gutiérrez ended his speech with a stunning rebuke for the President and Attorney General: Sleeping with an adult film star and then paying thousands of dollars to keep it quiet, that is a private matter to be worked out between attorneys. Fleeing death and violence, rape and torture, that’s a public matter. And our leaders should know better. A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://youtu.be/dTtpIPJH_BY Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks June 14, 2018 Yesterday, a group of about 30 of us, including 10 Members of Congress, decided we have had enough of this Administration’s policy to scar children for life by taking them away from their parents when they turn themselves in to American authorities and ask for asylum. We went down to the Ronald Reagan federal building on 14th Street because we had not heard from the three cabinet officials we had written last week to give us answers about where the children at the border have been taken and how our government plans to reunite them with their parents. So, John Lewis, Joe Crowley, Jan Schakowsky, Pramila Jayapal, Judy Chu, Jimmy Gomez, Al Greene, Raul Grijalva and Adriano Espaillat and I, joined by hundreds of allies, went down to CBP headquarters to protest their actions and their secrecy. And when we blocked the entrance to the building – ironically a building named for the man who gave the famous “Shining City on a Hill” speech, who spoke so eloquently about immigrants and was no fan of walls – yes, we blocked the entrance to the Ronald Reagan Building, but the Border Patrol did not arrest us. No, they feel comfortable arresting 10 year olds and taking 10-month old babies from their moms and dads, but when 10 Members of Congress show up to demand answers, then they get camera shy. But we will be back and we will do it again and again if we have to. Right now – today – there are people who lawfully enter the United States and ask for asylum under our laws and international law, and then are taken straight to jail to await federal prosecution. And if they have children, the officers think of some pretext – maybe telling the parents that they are taking the child for food or for a bath – and then the kids are not returned. And many are taken to facilities that are hundreds or thousands of miles away. And the parent is given a mass trial – so their individual case may never be heard or evaluated – and most are deported back to the country they fled to face violence and rape again. And are their children given back to them? We don’t know and can’t get answers, which is why we went to CBP. Then, on Monday, Attorney General Sessions had one of the most stunning “new-speak” 1984, mind-control moments we have ever heard. He said that if a man beats a woman or if a family is systematically extorted, threatened or targeted by a gang, that is a private matter and can’t be the basis of an asylum claim. Rape and abuse, that’s just a private matter between a man and a woman according to the chief law enforcement officer of our country. That’s just a private matter between a man and a woman; between the family and the gang of terrorists they are facing. Only in a Trump Administration could someone say something so thoroughly and utterly wrong, dangerous and ridiculous. My friend, Trey Gowdy, is a Republican who is known around here and on the Oversight and Judiciary Committees as a pretty no-nonsense prosecutor. Go to his website and look at his biography. You can Google it right now. It says: “As 7th Circuit Solicitor, Trey led an office of 25 attorneys and 65 total employees. During his tenure, he started a Violence Against Women Task Force.” Right there in his official bio. So wife-beating isn’t a private matter in South Carolina. If you are being beaten, raped or tortured by your domestic partner, the police, the prosecutors and the judges will get involved because it isn’t a private matter. Go listen to his speeches on his YouTube channel and his Facebook. Watch the video of his speech on the House floor in support of the Violence Against Women Act, it will move you to tears, no matter what your political party is. But according to the Attorney General, it is a private matter between a man and a woman. He expects every domestic violence victim to hire a lawyer and sue their spouse, just get a court order. We have a prosecutor for domestic violence in Cook County and probably in every county. This is a matter of public health, law enforcement and -- come on!! – this is a matter of good men and women living by a moral code that says we should help those in danger when the weak are being preyed upon by the strong. But apparently not to our Attorney General or our President. To them, those are private matters. That is just wrong. Sleeping with an adult film star and then paying thousands of dollars to keep it quiet, that is a ‘private matter’ to be worked out between attorneys. Fleeing death and violence, rape and torture, that’s a public matter. And our leaders should know better. # # #
06.13.2018	Washington, DC – Today on the House floor, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), speaking about the Trump Administration policy to separate children from their parents at the border, told House Republicans that “There is a certain devious and genuinely cruel kind of evil that’s responsible for a policy that takes children from their parents.” He said he would join advocates and other Members of Congress, including the Chairman of the Democratic Caucus Joe Crowley of New York, at a rally to protest the policy today at 1:30 pm ET at the headquarters of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) at the Reagan Building in Washington. The rally kicks off with a gathering at Freedom Plaza, across the street. In his speech this morning, Rep. Gutiérrez said he and about a dozen colleagues wrote to the heads of Homeland Security, Health and Human Services and the Attorney General last week demanding that the government stop the policy and demanding answers to questions about how many children have been taken, where they are being held, and how the government intends on reuniting them with their families. A deadline to respond to the letter has passed and none of the three Trump Cabinet Secretaries have responded. Hence the need for the protest today, which is being organized by CPD Action, affiliated with the Center for Responsive Democracy. A copy of the letter signed by 11 Members of Congress was submitted by Rep. Gutierrez to the Congressional Record and can be viewed here: Member of Congress Letter on Family Separation 6-8-18 FINAL.pdf The Congressman said on the floor of the House: The President and the Attorney General and others have said this is a national security strategy and that our national security depends on taking toddlers, infants and children—most of whom are under age 12 – from their parents. But come on, really? How does jailing a scared 8 year old who barely escaped with her life from Central America make me safer? Well, it doesn’t. The only person who might be safer because that 8 year old is in jail is a Member of the House running for reelection on a get-tough-on-immigrants platform. Parents who have had their children taken have committed suicide while in government custody. And their children are sometimes taken to facilities on the opposite end of the country from the parents are held. He said: Imagine how you would feel if you had to walk from El Salvador to Texas to save the life of your son or daughter, only to wind up in detention. Now imagine that a man in a uniform comes up to you and says, “Hey, we are going to take your child for a bath” and then hours go by and you realize, they are gone? Can you imagine? Can you sit quietly and do nothing when that how your tax dollars are being spent? We are scarring these children for the rest of their lives. We know this. Taking children from their families and institutionalizing them at a young age will have consequences for that child and for this country and our tax-payers for the rest of their lives. And while the Trump Administration is not providing details, the Congressman has heard reports that mass trials are taking place where the asylum claims of the parents are not heard, but are denied, and the parents are promptly deported. He said: Does the government then find the child in Chicago, or Detroit and send them back to their parents? Who knows? But probably not. There is a certain devious and genuinely cruel kind of evil that’s responsible for a policy that takes children from their parents. And they don’t expect anyone on the Republican side of the aisle to say anything because it is part of the plan to help you keep your job. In inviting the public to today’s rally, the Congressman concluded by saying: We cannot sit back and let our government systematically ruin the lives of families and scar children for life. When we said “Never Again” we meant it. Never again and that means here too. A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://youtu.be/u52cGMDozpw or https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4735279/gutierrez-children-border-parents Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks June 13, 2018 Mr. Speaker, last week, a group of about a dozen of us wrote a letter to the head of the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Health and Human Services and the Attorney General. We demanded that the Trump Administration cease its practice of prosecuting asylum seekers, to reunite the children they separated from their families and to allow Members of Congress to visit the facilities where the children are being held. We gave these three Trump Administration Cabinet Secretaries a deadline to get back to us and so far we have heard nothing. Not a peep. So now we are trying to figure out how to make it clear to the Trump Administration and his agencies that taking children from the arms of moms and dads is absolutely, 100% unacceptable to us and a large percentage of the American people. Let’s look at what is going on here. In order to get more of you elected and reelected [pointing towards the Republicans], the President and his henchmen have devised an election-year strategy to be as mean and nasty as possible to asylum seekers, immigrants, refugees, Latinos and other people and the beneficiaries of that strategy, if there are any, are the people in this room on that side of the aisle. The President and the Attorney General and others have said this is a national security strategy and that our national security depends on taking toddlers, infants and children—most of whom are under age 12 – from their parents. But come on, really? How does jailing a scared 8 year old who barely escaped with her life from Central America make me safer? Well, it doesn’t. The only person who might be safer because that 8 year old is in jail is a Member of the House running for reelection on a get-tough-on-immigrants platform. And it isn’t like they are taking these children from their parents and putting them on the other side of the jail – or the other side of the for-profit detention facility. No. They are taking that toddler, infant, or middle-school kid and taking them to a government facility somewhere else, maybe New York or Chicago or Seattle, thousands of miles away. And we are hearing the most horrific stories. Parents who have had their children taken from them have committed suicide. Imagine how you would feel if you had to walk from El Salvador to Texas to save the life of your son or daughter, only to wind up in detention. Now imagine that a man in a uniform comes up to you and says, “Hey, we are going to take your child for a bath” and then hours go by and you realize, they are gone? Can you imagine? Can you sit quietly and do nothing when that how your tax dollars are being spent? We are scarring these children for the rest of their lives. We know this. Taking children from their families and institutionalizing them at a young age will have consequences for that child and for this country and our tax-payers for the rest of their lives. And we don’t know for sure, because none of the agencies have responded, but we hear that parents are going to court in mass trials and having their asylum claims denied – not heard, but denied…and then the parents are deported. Does the government then find the child in Chicago, or Detroit and send them back to their parents? Who knows? But probably not. There is a certain devious and genuinely cruel kind of evil that’s responsible for a policy that takes children from their parents. And they don’t expect anyone on the Republican side of the aisle to say anything because it is part of the plan to help you keep your job. And they don’t expect my party or the American people to do anything, because these are just throwaway kids, as far as the White House is concerned. They come from “s-hole” countries and will grow up to be animals or whatever after growing up in foster care or whatever. Well, today, I am joining with a group of hundreds of advocates from a diverse array of organizations, issues and areas of the country and we are going to demand answers. And it isn’t just Luis Gutierrez. I will be joined by Rep. Joe Crowley and others at a rally today in Freedom Plaza at 1:30 here in Washington by other Members of Congress, including some of those who signed the letter that got the ball rolling. We cannot sit back and let our government systematically ruin the lives of families and scar children for life. When we said “Never Again” we meant it. Never again and that means here too. # # # I ask unanimous consent that the letter to the cabinet secretaries signed by 11 Democrats demanding answers be placed in the record.
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC— Congresswomen Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01) and Barbara Lee (CA-13), Chair of the Congressional Social Work Caucus, Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04), and Congresswoman Karen Bass (CA-37) today released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s “zero tolerance” policy, which is currently separating children from their parents at the border: The Trump Administration’s policy of separating children from their parents is terrifying and frankly, abhorrent. Reports indicate that very young children– who are already fleeing dangerous conditions at home including domestic violence – are being taken from their parents. Families are often separated by hundreds of miles, and children are being housed in inadequate facilities. As social workers, we understand the profound impact that family separation has on a child’s developmental growth and on our society. These heartless policies instill a sense of helplessness and despair in children and could result in long-term trauma and health repercussions. The American Academy of Pediatrics has stated that the separation of children from parents, and detention in DHS facilities that do not meet the basic standard of care for children, pose a significant threat to their long-term health and well-being. Their findings have led them to recommend that children in the custody of their parents should never be detained or separated from a parent unless a competent family court makes that determination. Every passing day of separation has grave consequences for these children’s well-being. These are innocent children who have done nothing wrong. Forcing them to suffer at the hands of the US government is inhumane and un-American. We are taking all actions possible to end this brutal policy and reunite children with their families. BACKGROUND: Between May 6 and May 19, 658 children were separated from their parents. No law currently requires the separation of families. Under the Trump Administration’s “zero tolerance” policy, adults are separated from their children and prosecuted while their children are detained before being placed into shelters, the custody of a sponsor, or a foster home. ### Before running for Congress in 2006, Shea-Porter founded and led a social services agency. She has a bachelor’s degree in Social Services from UNH and a master’s degree in Public Administration. Among other things, she taught parenting classes for at-risk children and saw the damage done when children do not have a nurturing environment and parent with them. Congresswoman Barbara Lee represents California’s 13th Congressional District. She has a Master of Social Work from the University of California – Berkeley, specializing in psychiatric social work. During her graduate work, Lee founded the Community Health Alliance for Neighborhood Growth and Education (CHANGE, Inc.) which provided mental health services to many of the East Bay’s most vulnerable individuals. Congresswoman Susan Davis represents California’s 53rd Congressional District. She earned a BA in Sociology at the University of California, Berkeley and a Masters in Social Work from the University of North Carolina. She practiced in medical and psychiatric settings, particularly focusing on children and families. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Congressmember Karen Bass represents California’s 37th Congressional District. She earned her Masters in Social Work from the University of Southern California and is co-chair and co-founder of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth, which focuses on improving this country’s child welfare system.
06.07.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) was joined by 41 of his colleagues in the House in demanding answers from the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Acting Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about an immigration raid at a meat processing plant in Bean Station, Tennessee, the largest workplace raid in the U.S. in a decade. The letter includes 10 questions about how the raid was conducted because of the size and scope of the enforcement action and because it is unusual for immigration enforcement agencies and state and local police to assist the IRS on gathering records from a business, and in this case, using the warrant of the IRS investigation to enter the premises and round-up employees. 06052018 Letter to DHS re TN raid FINAL.pdf Tennessee Representative Steve Cohen (D-TN), Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chair Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM) and Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus Chair Judy Chu (D-CA) were among the total of 42 signatories. The letter also urges DHS to take steps to ensure the due process rights of individuals caught up in the enforcement action. We urge you to exercise prosecutorial discretion and immediately release those individuals who are still detained, so that they may pursue their options for immigration relief near their legal representatives, families, and local resources; We urge you to provide detained individuals with meaningful access to the courts and legal counsel, including timely and confidential meetings with legal representatives and regular access to a legal library with updated legal materials; We urge you to forego the removal of any individuals who have not had the opportunity to consult with an attorney and/or exhaust all potential legal claims relevant to the raid and their employer; and We urge you to exercise prosecutorial discretion, by granting relief such as parole, continued presence, or deferred action, to those individuals whose rights were violated during their arrests, pursuant to the 2011 ICE Victim’s Memo. There is growing frustration among Democrats in Congress because of the general lack of transparency from the Trump Administration about how they are conducting business, especially when it comes to immigration. The DHS Secretary was scheduled to appear before the full Judiciary Committee today for an oversight hearing, which was abruptly cancelled. The letter was signed by the following Members of Congress: Luis V. Gutiérrez; Steve Cohen; Jerrold Nadler; Michelle Lujan Grisham; Judy Chu; José E. Serrano; Jan Schakowsky; Nydia M. Velázquez; Ted Deutch; Mike Quigley; Gene Green; Paul D. Tonko; Albio Sires; Barbara Lee; Peter Welch; Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr.; Gwen Moore ; Eleanor Holmes Norton; Danny K. Davis; Yvette D. Clarke; Hakeem S. Jeffries; Jim Costa; Jared Polis; Grace F. Napolitano; Juan Vargas ; Adriano Espaillat ; Mark Pocan; Raúl M. Grijalva; Mark Takano; Nanette Diaz Barragán; Darren Soto; Grace Meng; Dwight Evans; Bill Foster; J. Luis Correa; Ruben Gallego; James P. McGovern; Pramila Jayapal; Ted W. Lieu; Jamie Raskin; Alma S. Adams, Ph.D.; and Donald M. Payne, Jr. # # #
06.07.2018	Washington, DC – Today on the House floor, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) told House Republicans that “tearing apart Latinos families is an election year strategy from this White House designed to energize Republican voters for primaries and midterms” and that House Republicans, as the beneficiaries of this strategy, have given up their right to invoke family values ever again. In a fiery speech that touched on the new policy to take children from their parents along the border, the recent series of immigration workplace raids, and the deaths of more than 4,500 Puerto Ricans after Hurricane Maria, the Illinois Congressman said “please don’t ever come to the well of this House and tell the country that you support family values. Don’t you dare.” Hundreds of children have been taken from their parents in a new Trump Administration policy to deter asylum-seekers coming legally from Central America, and hundreds of children, most under age 12, are languishing in Border Patrol stations for longer than the law requires. And more than 11,000 children are said to be in the system designed to accommodate unaccompanied minors, but an oversight hearing with the Secretary of Homeland Security scheduled for the Judiciary Committee today was abruptly cancelled. Rep. Gutiérrez observed: The White House thinks Latinos are not really human beings so we can treat them however we want and it doesn’t matter, after all, it’s not like they are coming from Norway. The President and Attorney General say they are “illegals,” which is…a lie and they know it. People fleeing violence and systematic rape and murder can come to the U.S. and ask us for political asylum and it is 100% legal under the laws of the United States. The Congressman continued: Every one of us knows that taking a child from a mother is morally wrong except in the most extreme cases. In this country’s history, we sold millions of black children because they were considered property during slavery and we stole Native American children from their families to strip them of their culture because we labeled them as savages. Most people think these are among the most shameful chapters in American history. Rep. Gutierrez repeated the phase “most people,” before going on to say: But we all know how the President feels about Latino children. He says they are “not so innocent,” so I guess he thinks they are programmed to turn into the people he calls animals and rapists because of where they were born. He noted recent immigration raids in Illinois, Ohio, Tennessee and Iowa, and he is scheduled to meet with people impacted by the raids in Tennessee and Iowa later today (see separate media advisory). The Illinois Congressman who has made at least nine trips to Puerto Rico since the hurricanes hit in September, continued: Let’s not forget that while almost 5,000 Puerto Ricans were dying – and still are dying – your President was giving himself an A-plus and saying there had been no real catastrophe, all while families were telling us of the loved ones they were losing because they didn’t have electricity or medicine. He summed up his message by saying: So to my Republican colleagues, some of whom I love dearly, please don’t you ever come to the well of this House and tell the country that you support family values. Don’t you dare. Your time talking about family values is over. A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://youtu.be/h--VDRyPG0I Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is the Dean of the Illinois delegation and a thirteen-term Member of Congress from Chicago. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks June 7, 2018 Mr. Speaker… I do not want to hear another Republican Member of Congress come to this microphone to speak about family values ever again. I don’t want to hear about protecting families or honoring families or putting families first because each and every time a Republican invokes family values on this floor, it will be a lie. And a cruel lie at that. If you want to run on the President’s record to keep your job so you can feed your family, part of the price is that you have zero credibility when it comes to family values from now until forever. Along the Southern border, hundreds of children have been taken from their parents and hundreds have been held in border stations without sleeping rooms or adequate bedding for several days in violation of federal laws to safeguard children. We are told the number of children in the care of the agency we put in charge is now above 11,000, but we do not know for sure because the government, our government, your government, is not telling us what is really going on and an oversight hearing with the Secretary of Homeland Security scheduled for today in the Judiciary Committee was cancelled. Hundreds of children in the care of border patrol, most of them under the age of 12, and 11,000 total in the system. The White House thinks Latinos are not really human beings so we can treat them however we want and it doesn’t matter, after all, it’s not like they are coming from Norway. The President and Attorney General say they are “illegals,” which is also a lie and they know it. People fleeing violence and systematic rape and murder can come to the U.S. and ask us for political asylum and it is 100% legal under the laws of the United States. Every one of us knows that taking a child from a mother is morally wrong except in the most extreme cases. In this country’s history, we sold millions of black children because they were considered property during slavery and we stole Native American children from their families to strip them of their culture because we labeled them as savages. Most people think these are among the most shameful chapters in American history. Most people. But we all know how the President feels about Latino children. He says they are “not so innocent,” so I guess he thinks they are programmed to turn into the people he calls animals and rapists because of where they were born. According to the White House Chief of Staff, the children at the border will “be put in foster care or whatever.” And the Attorney General says he believes the children will be well taken care of “for the most part.” Forgive me if I do not put much stock in national leaders whose concern for children includes the terms “or whatever” and “for the most part.” So, Republicans, please do not ever come to this floor and claim that your party supports families and defends children. You have lost all of your family values privileges. This afternoon, I will meet families that were broken up because the meatpacking plant where the parents work was raided in April by ICE and Tennessee State Troopers. Please tell them about your family values. We don’t provide legal ways for their parents to come here because Republicans oppose legal immigration, but employers need workers and those parents are under constant threat of arrest, deportation, and never seeing their children again. The owners of the plant that employed them? As far as we know, nothing has happened to them and they are probably going to enjoy dinner with their families tonight. Last week in Chicago and this week in Ohio, a few hundred more working people were rounded up and their children, most of whom are U.S. citizens, are left without their parents. In Pennsylvania, it was restaurant workers; in Iowa it was a concrete plant. Tearing apart Latino families is an election year strategy of this White House designed to energize Republican voters for primaries and midterms this year to reelect Republican Members of the House and Senate. And let’s not forget that while almost 5,000 Puerto Ricans were dying – and still are dying – your President was giving himself an A-plus and saying there had been no real catastrophe, all while families were telling us of the loved ones they were losing because they didn’t have electricity or medicine. So to my Republican colleagues, some of whom I love dearly, please don’t you ever come to the well of this House and tell the country that you support family values. Don’t you dare. Your time talking about family values is over. # # #
05.29.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released the following statement in response to a study in the New England Journal of Medicine by Harvard University researchers that estimates the death toll in Puerto Rico from Hurricane Maria was at least 4,645, making it one of the deadliest natural disasters in American history. Rep. Gutiérrez said (traducción a español abajo/Spanish translation below): Hurricane Maria hit with brutal force for a full day in September 2017, but the subsequent disaster was the federal government’s response to the damage Maria caused. The Harvard study confirms our worst nightmares, predictions and warnings at the time. I was not the only one who knew from the beginning that there was much greater loss of life than the President, the Governor or official sources were claiming. I heard from Puerto Rican constituents about family members who had perished and were buried or cremated before the family could make arrangements. In the days and weeks after the storm, I met elderly, sick and disabled people who were unable to access medical care, electricity or fresh water, which put their lives in jeopardy long after the storm. This is an American tragedy. The response received in Puerto Rico does not compare to our response in other disaster-hit areas like Texas and Florida, thank goodness, because many lives were saved in those other places. But the need was much, much greater in Puerto Rico and the response was completely inadequate to the disaster at hand. Yes, the hurricane caused deaths. That was Mother Nature, but this tragedy was multiplied by the nature of the response from the President of the United States and our government. Throwing a few paper towels or enlightening people to the fact that Puerto Rico is an island surrounded by water was no substitute for treating millions of people in need with urgency, compassion, and honesty – all of which are human traits that are beyond this President’s capacity. Traducción a español/Spanish translation El huracán María impactó a Puerto Rico con una fuerza inmensa durante un día entero en septiembre de 2017. Pero la respuesta del gobierno federal al daño que causó María fue el verdadero desastre. El estudio de la Universidad de Harvard confirma nuestras peores pesadillas, predicciones y preocupaciones. No fui el único quien, desde el principio, supo que hubo más muertes que aquellas indicadas por el Presidente, por el Gobernador o por las fuentes oficiales. Muchos constituyentes puertorriqueños me contaron que tenían familiares que habían muerto y habían sido cremados y enterrados antes de que la familia pudiera llevar acabo los arreglos pertinentes. Conocí a personas de edad avanzada, personas enfermas y a personas incapacitadas en los días y semanas después de la tormenta, quienes no tenían acceso a servicios médicos, electricidad o agua potable, lo cual ponía sus vidas en riesgo después de la tormenta. Esta es una verdadera tragedia estadounidense. La respuesta que recibió Puerto Rico no se compara a la que recibieron otras zonas afectadas por desastres como Texas y la Florida. En estos lugares donde hubo una respuesta adecuada, se salvaron muchas vidas, gracias a Dios. Sinceramente, la necesidad en Puerto Rico era más urgente y la respuesta fue completamente insuficiente para la magnitud del desastre que se encontraba la isla. Si, el huracán causó muertes. Eso fue debido a la madre naturaleza, pero esta tragedia se multiplicó debido a la índole de la respuesta del Presidente de los Estados Unidos y nuestro gobierno. Tirar algunos rollos de papel toalla e informar a la gente que Puerto Rico es una isla rodeada de agua no fue la manera en las que millones de personas con necesidades debieron haber sido tratadas. Ellos merecían ser tratados con urgencia, con compasión y con honestidad— cualidades del ser humano que sobre pasan la capacidad de este presidente. Rep. Gutiérrez has spearheaded relief efforts coming from the people of Chicago to the island and has helped the Mayor and others coordinate the response from the City of Chicago. The Congressman, whose parents migrated to the United States from Puerto Rico in the 1950s, was born in Chicago and has lived in Puerto Rico at various times in his life and is currently on the island. This is at least his ninth trip to the island since the hurricane hit on Sept. 20, 2017. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and is a Member of the Puerto Rico Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # # ICYMI: Rep. Gutiérrez spoke with MSNBC anchor Craig Melvin via telephone today: MSNBC (05/29/2016): 4,645 people died in Puerto Rico as a result of Hurricane Maria, study finds According to a study out today from Harvard at least 4,645 people died in Puerto Rico as a result of Hurricane Maria. Illinois Congressman Luis Gutierrez joins Craig Melvin to talk about why this number may not be as surprising to those who were on the ground. https://www.msnbc.com/craig-melvin/watch/4-645-people-died-in-puerto-rico-as-a-result-of-hurricane-maria-study-finds-1243940419924
05.22.2018	Washington, DC – In an impassioned plea today for action rather than silence, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) read the names of the ten people shot and killed on Friday at a high school in Santa Fe, Texas and told his colleagues in a floor speech that “we have established a school to coroner pipeline in this country that will persist until the American people arm their politicians to do something about it…” He noted that there have been 46 moments of silence in the House related to gun-violence since the Newtown, Connecticut mass shooting in 2012, but precious little has been done to prevent gun deaths in schools or anywhere else since then. He said, “We all know by now that more is needed than a moment of silence, because the silence of lawmakers kills.” The 13-term Illinois Congressman said: We have established a school to coroner pipeline in this country that will persist until the American people arm their politicians to do something about it, but I fear the profit motive of the gun makers and the politicians they own is greater than the will of the American people to take on and tame our runaway love affair with bullets. Rep. Gutiérrez said that he came to Congress in 1993 with “hope and optimism that we could cut crime and reduce the number of guns on our streets.” Yet, despite cutting crime significantly, gun ownership has grown. The assault weapons ban he supported worked and legislation he authored to restrict the sale and manufacture of cheap handguns that he authored would work to reduce gun violence, but such measures will never get a vote in the House. He said: [I]t takes good people without guns working with good people who own guns to keep guns out of the hands of people who will use them to kill other people. It is not that we do not know what works, because we do. Waiting periods, background checks, trigger and gun locks, restrictions on sales of guns can all be effective in reducing suicide, murder, and accidental death by firearms. We are not lacking the way; we are only lacking the will to overcome a deeply entrenched, highly profitable industry that thrives on fear, mistrust, inequality, racism, misogyny and tribalism. Rep. Gutiérrez recounted mass shootings from Las Vegas to Orlando to Charleston, and noted that Chicago, his hometown, was likely to have another deadly three-day weekend ahead: [T]his coming weekend, just like clockwork, as America honors fallen service members on Memorial Day, Chicago will see a deadly toll…There will probably be no national special reports or wall-to-wall news coverage because when 50 or 75 people of color are shot in an American city over the weekend, it barely makes the news. Unless, the NRA or Fox News use my beloved Chicago and her tough gun laws as a way of giving political cover to politicians while failing to point out that loopholes and weak gun laws in Indiana, Virginia, and other states feed illegal guns into my city. The Congressman concluded, saying: We cannot afford another moment of silence because silence kills. What we need is a moment of action to save the American people from killing themselves with American guns and American bullets. A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://youtu.be/5-Z-hhUiM7g The Congressman submitted this list to the Congressional Record: Moments of Silence Observed on House Floor as of 05 21 2018 Gun Violence Prevention Task Force.pdf Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks May 22, 2018 Glenda Perkins; Cynthia Tisdale; Kimberly Vaughan; Shana Fisher; Angelique Ramirez; Christian Riley Garcia; Jared Black; Sabika Sheikh; Christopher Jake Stone; and Aaron Kyle McLeod Mr. Speaker, those are the ten names of the people killed at Santa Fe High School in Texas on Friday. Two were teachers. Eight were students. All were violently torn away from their loved ones and their pathways to bright futures way too soon. As usual, our elected leaders have expressed that their thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families, but we all know by now that more is needed than a moment of silence, because the silence of lawmakers kills. 58 killed in Las Vegas. 27 killed in Newtown, Connecticut. 14 killed in San Bernardino, California. 17 at school in Parkland, Florida. 4 at a Waffle House in Tennessee. 26 at church in Texas. 49 at a nightclub in Florida. 6 at a Cracker Barrel in Michigan. 9 at Mother Emanuel Church in South Carolina. The gunmen – and they were almost all men or boys – had different motives or motivations including crime, racism, terrorism, revenge, and seeking notoriety – which they got. And they all had access to weapons and bullets that could kill scores of humans in just moments. For the most part, the only thing the victims had in common was that they were killed by bullets. The Washington Post reported that the number of people killed in schools in 2018 is almost double the number of servicemen and women killed in our military in both combat and non-combat fatalities. And this coming weekend, just like clockwork, as America honors fallen service members on Memorial Day, Chicago will see a deadly toll. 52 people were shot over the Memorial Day weekend last year and that was actually down from previous years like 2016 when 71 were shot. There will probably be no national special reports or wall-to-wall news coverage because when 50 or 75 people of color are shot in an American city over the weekend, it barely makes the news. Unless the NRA or Fox News use my beloved Chicago and her tough gun laws as a way of giving political cover to politicians – while failing to point out that loopholes and weak gun-laws in Indiana, Virginia, and other states feed illegal guns into my city. And we should note that the new head of the NRA is someone whose claim to fame is that he lied to Congress about weapon sales to our enemies. And they claim to be the side that is for ‘law and order’? So, the result of all this is political paralysis, societal paralysis and actual, permanent paralysis as the butcher’s bill of dead and wounded grows and grows. When I came here in 1993, we had hope and optimism that we could cut crime and reduce the number of guns on our streets. And across the board, we have seen a dramatic decrease in crime in this country. But despite the drop in crime, all of our efforts to reduce the number of guns on our streets, in our homes, and in our schools and churches have been thwarted by the gun manufacturers. The assault weapons ban I voted for worked, until it was killed by politics. The crime-gun bill I wrote would work by reducing the availability and manufacture of the cheap, concealable handguns most-often used in gun crimes. But it will never get a vote in this House. We have established a school to coroner pipeline in this country that will persist until the American people arm their politicians to do something about it, but I fear the profit motive of the gun makers and the politicians they own is greater than the will of the American people to take on and tame our runaway love affair with bullets. Mr. Speaker, it takes good people without guns working with good people who own guns to keep guns out of the hands of people who will use them to kill other people. It is not that we do not know what works, because we do. Waiting periods, background checks, trigger and gun locks, restrictions on sales of guns can all be effective in reducing suicide, murder, and accidental death by firearms. We are not lacking the way; we are only lacking the will to overcome a deeply entrenched, highly profitable industry that thrives on fear, mistrust, inequality, racism, misogyny and tribalism. We cannot afford another moment of silence because silence kills. What we need is a moment of action to save the American people from killing themselves with American guns and American bullets. # # #
05.16.2018	Washington, DC – All the speculation this week about whether the President and the White House would apologize for comments made about American war hero Sen. John McCain was wasted breath, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) said in a scathing floor speech in the House this morning. “In our President we have someone who does not ever apologize or regret something he or his staff has done, no matter how egregious,” the Illinois Congressman said. Whether it is tweeting racist videos, booting transgender soldiers from the military, or bragging about sexually assaulting women, the President sees apologizing as a sign of weakness, “And revealing his weakness in public is clearly among the President’s greatest fears,” said the 13-term Congressman on the floor. But covering up his weaknesses is only one reason the President has shown a complete reluctance to apologize when other leaders would show contrition. In addition, Rep. Gutiérrez said: He often doesn’t apologize because he thinks he was right in the first place. Like when he said there were good people on both sides of the Nazi rally in Charlottesville where a woman was murdered by racists. The President is not going to apologize – and not because it would make him look weak – but because he believes what he said was true. He will never apologize for his founding campaign sin: calling immigrants rapists and criminals. In fact, he is basing a broad anti-immigration and anti-immigrant policy agenda on the bedrock belief that crime and skin color are synonymous. In the McCain case, the White House has showed more anger and regret about the news getting out, not the news itself. Rep. Gutiérrez said: The White House is not alarmed that a senior staffer made light of Senator McCain’s illness and life-expectancy, but rather that the comment about the former Prisoner of War was made public. Clearly someone on the White House staff who heard the comment knew it was wrong, just wrong. Moreover, they recognized the comment was emblematic of the attitude at the White House from the President on down and thought the nation and the world should know about it. But it was the leak of accurate information from inside the White House that raised the ire of the President, not the fact that something really awful was said about an American hero. The Congressman allowed that the American people knew what they were getting in President Trump, yet a minority of voters elected him anyway. But the American people are learning important lessons about the President’s enablers at the three most important branches of the Republican Party: the White House, Congress, and Fox News. We know the President doesn’t lose sleep wrestling with the moral implications of his behavior, but all of us had higher hopes for the professionals around the President. Expectations which were apparently too high, indeed. A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://youtu.be/27X-58PVMVs Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks May 16, 2018 We can only imagine what the President and Sean Hannity talk about every night on the phone. The two TV hosts have a lot to discuss, I am sure. Maybe they talk about their mutual lawyer, Michael Cohen, and what he might or might not have had in his files that could incriminate either or both of them. Or maybe they just discuss their mutual admiration for Russian dictator Vladimir Putin. We can be reasonably sure that neither of them spends too much time discussing things they have done for which they are ashamed or things they have done or said for which they should apologize. All of the blathering this past week about whether the White House or the President would apologize for comments by a White House staffer about gravely ill American war hero Senator John McCain was just wasted breath, if you ask me. In our President we have someone who does not ever apologize or regret something he or his staff has done, no matter how egregious. This week, the White House is not alarmed that a senior staffer made light of Senator McCain’s illness and life-expectancy, but rather that the comment about the former Prisoner of War was made public. Clearly someone on the White House staff who heard the comment knew it was wrong, just wrong. Moreover, they recognized the comment was emblematic of the attitude at the White House from the President on down and thought the nation and the world should know about it. But it was the leak of accurate information from inside the White House that raised the ire of the President, not the fact that something really awful was said about an American hero. But we should know by now that this President and his henchmen do not apologize. Tweeting racist videos from right-wing British groups? Nah. Booting able-bodied Americans who want to serve their country out of the military because they are transgender? Not even. Bragging about sexually assaulting women by grabbing their private parts? Well, he came close to apologizing, but not really. Some speculate that being unapologetic is just the President’s brand. He is brash and he says mean things and doesn’t back down because doing so would make him look weak. And revealing his weakness in public is clearly among the President’s greatest fears. The President and his late night phone-buddy Sean Hannity, remember? They complained about the last President being too apologetic. But looking tough to cover up a fear of inferiority is only one explanation for why this President does not apologize. He often doesn’t apologize because he thinks he was right in the first place. Like when he said there were good people on both sides of the Nazi rally in Charlottesville where a woman was murdered by racists. The President is not going to apologize – and not because it would make him look weak – but because he believes what he said was true. He will never apologize for his founding campaign sin: calling immigrants rapists and criminals. In fact, he is basing a broad anti-immigration and anti-immigrant policy agenda on the bedrock belief that crime and skin color are synonymous. This puts everyone around the President in a difficult position. Do they point out the emperor’s nudity or do they praise his new suit? His Chief of Staff was dispatched to tell a Black Member of Congress that she was lying about how the President treated a soldier killed in action, until the Chief of Staff was shown to be lying about what the Congresswoman said. In the end the American people knew what they were getting with this President and a minority of voters still elected him to the White House anyway. But the American people are learning important lessons about the President’s enablers at the three most important branches of the Republican Party: the White House, Congress, and Fox News. We know the President doesn’t lose sleep wrestling with the moral implications of his behavior, but all of us had higher hopes for the professionals around the President. Expectations which were apparently too high, indeed. One thing is sure, this country owes a great debt to Senator John McCain and our thoughts and prayers are with him, even if the President’s thoughts are someplace else. # # #
04.26.2018	Washington, DC – Bipartisanship is more than Republicans and Democrats signing on to the same bill, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) said in a floor speech in the House this morning. “Where the rubber meets the road,” he said, “is when you take on the leaders of your own party in order to achieve a bipartisan goal.” He said that the Republican Members who have signed on to H. Res 774 – Rep. Jeff Denham’s (R-CA) “Queen of the Hill” rule to bring about votes on a series of immigration bills, cannot declare “Mission Accomplished” just by signing on. The next step is to put “skin in the game” by demanding a vote from Republican Leadership through a discharge petition which would force Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) to bring about an immigration vote. He said to his Republican colleagues: Your country needs you. Right now, today. We need your courage in addition to your signature. Sign a discharge petition to bring about a vote on immigration solutions for Dreamers. Rep. Gutiérrez is a veteran of 25 years in Congress, much of that time working towards bipartisan immigration reform. He worked with Sens. John McCain (R-AZ), Ted Kennedy (D-MA), and (then-Rep.) Jeff Flake (R-AZ) for years to pass comprehensive immigration reform and in the 113th Congress was part of the bipartisan “Gang of 8” that worked for months to craft bipartisan legislation. He continues to work with Republicans today, having released a letter he co-signed with Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO) earlier this week. Yet, Rep. Gutiérrez says, “Bipartisanship is often applauded in Congress, but seldom rewarded” and working with Republicans is not always popular among his Democratic colleagues. Working with Republicans doesn’t win me many friends among Democrats, who spend their days trying to defeat people like Mr. Coffman. They would probably prefer I stop working with him. Yet, he has persevered in his bipartisan efforts despite this. Saying: When I got arrested protesting President Obama’s treatment of Dreamers and migrants, I didn’t win any popularity contests with my own Caucus. My colleagues were quick to defend the President and the Democratic Speaker at the time. I was shunned and passed over by my own team. And in the end, Republicans backed down and walked away from immigration reform when the internal politics of the Republican Conference got too difficult. They were unwilling to take on their own party in the end. Speaker Boehner backed away when the chips were down. Speaker Ryan came to my District [in April 2013] and talked about moving forward on immigration, but we are still waiting for him to put skin in the game. Rep. Gutiérrez went on to implore his Republican colleagues to take concrete actions, forcing Speaker Ryan to bring legislation to the floor, because only House Republicans can successfully force their own leadership to act. [Y]our country needs you. A discharge petition says you are willing to expend your personal reputation and political capital to do what is right and what is necessary in this time of great hatred and divisiveness at the highest levels over immigrants, refugees, and asylum seekers. Will you be praised for your bipartisan courage? I hope so. Will you be rewarded by other politicians or activists in your party – or voters in mine? Probably not… It is hard. It’s thankless. But your country needs help that only Republicans in Congress can provide – to put pressure on your own leadership. A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://youtu.be/fUbj_Rr5ZOs Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks April 26, 2018 Bipartisanship is often applauded in Congress, but seldom rewarded. Let me repeat that: Bipartisanship is often applauded but seldom rewarded. Which is an important part of why we have been unable to pass any meaningful immigration reform in this body for years. I have worked with good men and women on the other side of the aisle on many occasions to advance immigration reform, but none of those efforts forced the Speaker of the House, whoever he or she was at the time, to allow a vote – except for the time the House passed the Dream Act in 2010. I continue to work with partners on the other side, because I know if a vote is allowed, those who see immigrants and immigration as important assets to this country will prevail. And it will be Democrats and Republicans working together to enact common sense immigration reform. Just this week, the gentleman from Colorado, Republican Mike Coffman, and I worked together to demand statistics from the Department of Homeland Security and USCIS, to determine if the Trump Administration is complying with federal court orders on the renewal of DACA applications and to get more information on DACA processing backlogs. Working with Republicans doesn’t win me many friends among Democrats, who spend their days trying to defeat people like Mr. Coffman. They would probably prefer I stop working with him. As I said, bipartisanship is often praised but seldom rewarded. And, secondly, bipartisanship is more than just signing your name. Jeff Denham of California and some other Republicans are promoting an idea that has a great deal of merit: the so-called Queen of the Hill rule, which has almost 50 Republican co-sponsors and almost 200 Democratic ones, myself included. This rule calls for a debate and votes in the House on a series of immigration reform bills, some which would address the vulnerability of Dreamers and their families to deportation. It is an unprecedented bipartisan action to demand an immigration vote. But so far, all the Republican co-sponsors have had to do is sign their name. The next step should be that we demand that Speaker Ryan bring the Rule and related bills to the floor for a vote through a discharge petition. You see, working with people from the other side of the aisle is just one aspect of bipartisanship. Where the rubber meets the road is when you take on the leaders of your own party in order to achieve a bipartisan goal. When I got arrested protesting President Obama’s treatment of Dreamers and migrants, I didn’t win any popularity contests with my own Caucus. My colleagues were quick to defend the President and the Democratic Speaker at the time. I was shunned and passed over by my own team. And later when I and other Democrats worked with Judge Carter, Sam Johnson, Raul Labrador and Mario Diaz-Balart to find bipartisan immigration solutions in the 113th Congress, Members of my party told me to stay away. Right here on this floor they told me ‘don’t help the Republicans solve their immigration problem.’ But I didn’t stay away and I kept working with the Republicans – until they walked away. They were unwilling to take on their own party in the end. Speaker Boehner backed away when the chips were down. Speaker Ryan came to my District and talked about moving forward on immigration, but we are still waiting for him to put skin in the game. And that is what it will take – taking a courageous position even in the face of opposition from your own party. So the 48 Republicans who joined Denham’s Queen of the Hill rule calling for immigration votes should not declare ‘Mission Accomplished’ just yet. Your country needs you. Right now, today. We need your courage in addition to your signature. Sign a discharge petition to bring about a vote on immigration solutions for Dreamers. That puts your skin in the game. You may not get invited to the next state dinner or to fly on Air Force One. But your country needs you. A discharge petition says you are willing to expend your personal reputation and political capital to do what is right and what is necessary in this time of great hatred and divisiveness at the highest levels over immigrants, refugees, and asylum seekers. Will you be praised for your bipartisan courage? I hope so. Will you be rewarded by other politicians or activists in your party -- or voters in mine? Probably not. Which is exactly my point. It is hard. It’s thankless. But your country needs help that only Republicans in Congress can provide – to put pressure on your own leadership. I and a lot of my colleagues will work with you, but we need you to lead the way. # # #
04.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Mike Coffman (R-CO) and U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) sent a letter to the heads of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) requesting detailed data related to the DACA program. The data was requested by the two Members of Congress to confirm that USCIS is complying with court orders and to update the Members on processing backlogs, procedural details, and other statistics about DACA. “As Congress debates a permanent solution for DACA, it’s critical to do so with the most up-to-date information. I thank my colleague U.S. Representative Gutierrez for working together in requesting this information from the Trump administration,” said Coffman. “There have been a lot of changes to the DACA program over the last seven months which have resulted in a lot of confusion for policymakers and DACA recipients alike, and we have been receiving frequent reports about delays and backlogs, said Rep. Gutiérrez. “So Rep. Coffman and I want updated, reliable data on where things stand straight from the source as Congress continues to look for permanent solutions.” U.S. Representatives Coffman and Gutiérrez have been vocal supporters of the DACA program and have worked, in a bipartisan way, on numerous occasions on immigration-related matters. Both want to make certain that the DACA program is functioning the way it should be and that those who are eligible are being processed in a timely manner. They also said that accurate data is needed to address public concerns about immigrants and DACA that have been raised in the news media and by elected officials. In September 2017, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, on behalf of the Administration, announced that the Trump Administration was unilaterally ending the DACA program, which began in 2012 under President Obama. A series of court decisions and injunctions since then (detailed in their letter) have forced the federal government to accept renewals and some initial applications. You can read the letter here: 04232018 Letter to DHS & USCIS on DACA Oversight FINAL.pdf # # #
04.19.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) signed a ‘subpoena’ calling on House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) to come before the Committee and explain why there have been no hearings and no investigations into “the President’s alleged collusion with Russia or efforts by the President and other Republicans…to derail or obstruct said investigation.” The Congressman held a signing ceremony with his staff for the subpoena yesterday (video: https://youtu.be/JYJlTVZLfJQ) and it was delivered to the Judiciary Committee’s offices this morning (photo of 'subpoena' and delivery below). Yesterday, Rep. Goodlatte announced the Committee would issue a subpoena to the Justice Department requiring them to produce the “Comey Memos” – which are evidence in an ongoing criminal investigation into the President’s electoral campaign and his business associates. Of course, the Justice Department cannot turn over evidence in an ongoing investigation – and Rep. Goodlatte and other Republicans on the Committee know this. Therefore, Rep. Gutiérrez and others on the Judiciary Committee assert that the subpoena is a pretext. Issue a subpoena to senior Department of Justice officials including Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein that the Republicans know the DOJ cannot honor, then hold DOJ, and especially Rosenstein, in contempt of Congress. This would give the President an excuse to fire Rosenstein and install a different Deputy AG who will do the President’s bidding and quash the investigation spearheaded by Special Counsel Robert Mueller. “My ‘subpoena’ is just as valid as the one that Bob Goodlatte and the Republicans are sending to Rosenstein and the DOJ,” said Rep. Gutiérrez. “The little skit we taped in my office matches the seriousness and gravitas that should be afforded to the Chairman and his team for this transparent action to derail a federal investigation into serious wrongdoing.” The ‘Subpoena’ issued by Rep. Gutiérrez reads: I hereby command House Judiciary Chairman Robert Goodlatte to appear before the House Judiciary Committee to explain why there have been no hearings or investigations conducted in the House Judiciary Committee related to the ongoing investigation of the President’s alleged collusion with Russia or efforts by the President and other Republicans – including the aforementioned Chairman Goodlatte – to derail or obstruct said investigation. “In all seriousness,” continued the Illinois Congressman, “Republicans in the House ought to be ashamed of themselves for trying to pull this stunt. We understand they don’t want anyone investigating the President and we understand they don’t want to hold hearings or dig into the facts. But this little subpoena stunt by the Chairman is designed to help the President of the United States further obstruct justice and derail an investigation in which he is implicated.” “In my mind, this amounts to collusion on the part of House Republicans and Bob Goodlatte with the President’s intention to evade justice and avoid consequences for his actions.” “The people of the United States should prepare to come to Washington to protest in great numbers if the President uses this stunt or other excuses to fire senior DOJ officials and derail the Mueller investigation,” the Congressman said. “This is going to take the people being united and demanding justice even as our elected officials at the highest level are taking actions to thwart justice.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON (TUESDAY, April 17, 2018) -- U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), U.S. Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), and U.S. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) have led all Senate and House Judiciary Democrats in a letter condemning recent actions by the Justice Department undermining basic due process protections for immigrants. As Members of the committees of jurisdiction over the Justice Department, immigration law, and constitutional law, they raised concerns that the Justice Department’s actions flout Supreme Court precedent and abandon the most basic notions of fairness within the American justice system. They wrote: “We write to express our profound objection to actions taken by the Department of Justice to undermine central elements of due process and fairness in our immigration system. By imposing numeric quotas upon immigration judges and now attempting to terminate the longstanding Legal Orientation Program (LOP), the Department is systematically deconstructing basic due process protections for immigrants. These measures raise constitutional concerns and stand in stark contrast to the American vision of a justice system for all.�? They continued: “We strongly condemn these recent decisions to undermine the integrity of our immigration system. The Department of Justice exists as a guardian of the rule of law. That necessarily entails protecting the due process rights of citizens and non-citizens alike. We believe the measures described above undermine the most basic notions of fairness in the American justice system, and thus the rule of law itself. We urge you to reject these ill-advised policy changes.�? The letter was sent to U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions and signed by all Democratic members of the Senate and House Judiciary Committees. Their letter was sent to the Attorney General ahead of the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Immigration Subcommittee hearing titled “Strengthening and Reforming America’s Immigration Court System�? to be held at 2:30 p.m. on Wednesday, April 18th, in the Senate Dirksen Office Building (SD-226). The full text of the letter to Attorney General Sessions is available here and copied below. April 17, 2018 The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Sessions: We write to express our profound objection to actions taken by the Department of Justice to undermine central elements of due process and fairness in our immigration system. By imposing numeric quotas upon immigration judges and now attempting to terminate the longstanding Legal Orientation Program (LOP), the Department is systematically deconstructing basic due process protections for immigrants. These measures raise constitutional concerns and stand in stark contrast to the American vision of a justice system for all. As members of the Committees of jurisdiction over the Justice Department and both immigration and constitutional law, we remind you that the U.S. Supreme Court has firmly established that the Constitution guarantees basic due process for immigrants. The Court has ruled that the “Due Process Clause applies to all ‘persons’ within the United States, including aliens,�? and that it is “not confined to the protection of citizens.�?[1] The Court has further observed that “aliens who have once passed through our gates . . . may be expelled only after proceedings conforming to traditional standards of fairness encompassed in due process of law.�?[2] Despite these constitutional protections, immigrants often face a starkly different reality than citizens.[3] Children, some as young as three years old, have been compelled to represent themselves before immigration judges because there is no government appointed counsel.[4] Immigrants who do not speak English are often forced to navigate the complexities of immigration law without the aid of a competent interpreter.[5] It is difficult to reconcile these unjust realities with the “traditional standards of fairness encompassed in due process�? required by the Supreme Court. And now, the Department seeks to further erode what little due process exists in our immigration courts. On January 17, 2018, the Department announced new “performance metrics�? imposing numeric quotas upon immigration judges. Immigration judges will now be expected to complete 700 cases a year with a less than 15 percent remand rate in order to receive a “satisfactory�? performance rating from the Department.[6] But immigration judges – like their peers in other court systems – must not be asked to sacrifice thoroughness and reasoned judgment in favor of speed. Immigration judges must possess sufficient discretion, independence, and information to fairly rule on each legal and factual question before them. This is particularly true because immigration judges are often presiding over cases that have life-and-death consequences. Assembly line justice is no justice at all. Forcing judges to choose between job security and thoroughness is a direct threat to due process. It is bad policy, and it is not a choice that any judge should have to make. Inevitably, immigrants appearing in court will legitimately question whether the immigration judge’s decisions are driven by the merits of their arguments or the need to quickly process cases. This will only lead to more appeals, clogged circuit courts, longer detention stays, and more backlogs – undermining the purported efficiency-based rationale for implementing these quotas in the first place. To make matters worse, reports indicate that the Department intends to pause and possibly terminate the LOP and the Immigration Court Helpdesk (ICH) program.[7] These programs connect immigrants with legal services organizations that provide them with basic information about their legal rights and the court process. In 2016 alone, LOP attorneys and paralegals assisted more than 60,000 detained individuals in 38 detention facilities across the country. While the Department claims that the LOP must be paused to assess the cost-effectiveness of the program, its own study in 2012 found that the LOP saved the government nearly $18 million over a three year period.[8] This Department study demonstrates that our immigration system operates more efficiently when immigrants, who have no government appointed counsel, are provided with basic information about the court process and their rights. The Trump administration’s Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agrees. An internal ICE memo from November 2017 regarding the LOP states, “[e]xperience has shown that LOP attendees are positioned to . . . complete their cases faster than detainees who have not received LOP.�?[9] Thus, the Department’s claim that the LOP must be paused to assess its cost effectiveness appears merely to be a smokescreen masking an attempt to strip immigrants of access to information about their rights. The Department’s decision to pause the LOP contradicts clear and unambiguous Congressional intent. The FY 2018 Omnibus – which Congress passed and the President signed into law – contains language explicitly instructing the Department to provide funds to “sustai[n] the current legal orientation program.�?[10] The legislation also contains language noting the need for expanded LOP services in remote areas.[11] By deciding instead to temporarily halt the program, the Department is ignoring the will of Congress. We strongly condemn these recent decisions to undermine the integrity of our immigration system. The Department of Justice exists as a guardian of the rule of law. That necessarily entails protecting the due process rights of citizens and non-citizens alike. We believe the measures described above undermine the most basic notions of fairness in the American justice system, and thus the rule of law itself. We urge you to reject these ill-advised policy changes. Sincerely, Patrick Leahy Jerrold Nadler Richard J. Durbin Zoe Lofgren Dianne Feinstein Christopher Coons Richard Blumenthal Mazie K. Hirono Cory A. Booker Kamala D. Harris Sheila Jackson Lee Steve Cohen Henry C. “Hank�? Johnson, Jr. Theodore E. Deutch Luis V. Gutiérrez Karen Bass Cedric L. Richmond Hakeem Jeffries David N. Cicilline Eric Swalwell Ted W. Lieu Jamie Raskin Pramila Jayapal Bradley S. Schneider Val Butler Demings
04.17.2018	Washington, DC – On the House Floor this morning, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) discussed a scathing exposé on discount airline Allegiant Air that was broadcast on CBS News’ “60-Minutes” this past Sunday. The Congressman called on relevant committees on Capitol Hill and agencies who oversee airline safety to address the egregious safety record of the airline, which has 3.5 times as many serious safety incidents as any other airline. Rep. Gutiérrez pointed out that Allegiant Air is run by one of the founders of ValuJet, a discount airline that closed only after its Flight 592 crashed in the Florida Everglades in 1996 killing all 110 passengers on board. He said with regard to Allegiant Air’s safety record, “We ought to demand that experts inside and outside of Congress get the facts and hold people accountable. The Congressman acknowledged that the Congress is slashing oversight budgets and cutting regulations and red tape for airlines and other corporations. “But hey,” he said, “apparently in corporate America, profits are more important than people if, even if carrying people safely is supposed to be your business.” We need to be very careful when Congress cuts regulations and budgets for oversight and enforcement: I understand that the dirtiest word in the conservative dictionary is ‘regulation’…But I think it is clear that following rules, being transparent and being accountable in American industry—especially the airline industry where millions of lives are at stake—ought to be a top priority. He continued: When I sit down to dinner with my family, I want to know that the chicken and vegetables on our plates are safe to eat. My car, my gadgets, and my flight home all deserve rigorous scrutiny. I want to know that the water my grandson drinks is clean and the American people are losing confidence that the people who are supposed to be watching out for us are really watching out for us when we eat, drink, breath, travel or spend money. There is a big drive in the Congress to cut government budgets, cut red tape, and crusade against regulation. The other side demonizes regulations almost as much as the President demonizes immigrants. Rep. Gutiérrez concluded: I just want to make sure that when the federal government and this Congress are cutting budgets, we are not cutting corners that allow airplanes to fall out of the sky. A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://youtu.be/MmK23dXuJnU Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks April 17, 2018 Mr. Speaker, the CBS News program “60 Minutes” devoted more than half of their show on Sunday to a seven month investigation into Allegiant Air, a low-budget airline based in Las Vegas. The segment was called “Allegiant Air, The Budget Airline Flying Under the Radar.” According to CBS, Allegiant is one of the most profitable airlines in the U.S. and made a healthy profit for 60 straight quarters. And up until word came out about the exposé on CBS News, its stock was doing pretty well too. In order to reward investors while still selling seats at rock-bottom ticket prices, however, Allegiant pushes their aging, second-hand fleet of 99 outdated aircraft beyond their limits. But hey, apparently in corporate America, profits are more important than people if, even if carrying people safely is supposed to be your business. So far, the only thing to crash with this airline is its high flying stock price, which went down 11 percent since word of the CBS story first got out. Because 60 Minutes documented incident after incident – more than 100 in less than 2 years – of aborted takeoffs, unscheduled landings, smoke-filled cabins, cabin-pressure loss, and other emergency situations . A former prosecutor at the FAA with 30 years of experience says towards the end of the show that: “You know, if, God forbid, there is an accident, I think there will be a lot of people saying, ‘Well, we knew. We knew and we did nothing.’” Mr. Speaker, Allegiant Air is tragedy waiting to happen. And they really should know better and we as a country should know better. Because the CEO of Allegiant was one of the founders of ValuJet. You remember, they were another cut-rate airline that was apparently cutting corners on safety to boost their position with stockholders. But they aren’t flying anymore because ValuJet Flight 592, with 110 people on board, plunged into the Everglades after taking off from Miami International Airport, May 11, 1996, a little less than 22 years ago. What we learned after the fact was that the airline drove up profits, pushed its fleet to the edge, took freight in cargo holds to make extra money, and cut corners on the safety of their passengers. And you know what happened? People died. We have seen this movie before and it doesn’t end well. Which leads to the very important question for Congress: Why isn’t anyone doing anything about it? Where is the FAA? The DOT? The Committees of jurisdiction right here in the House of Representatives? Why have there been no hearings and so little response from the federal government? 60 Minutes made a compelling case that the regulators are not doing their jobs. Host Steve Kroft said: “Over the last three years, the FAA has switched its priorities from actively enforcing safety rules with fines, warning letters and sanctions - which become part of the public record - to working quietly with the airlines behind the scenes to fix the problems.” This airline – Allegiant -- with 3.5 times as many serious emergency incidents as other airlines might be a special case or it might be typical, but we just don’t know and the American people just don’t know. If the FAA isn’t doing a good job of making sure Allegiant Air is safe, what else are they missing at other airlines? We ought to demand that experts inside and outside of Congress get the facts and hold people accountable. Now I understand that the dirtiest word in the conservative dictionary is regulation, and frankly, it is not clear that the downslide in regulatory oversight happened exclusively or even more rapidly since our current businessman and TV host President took office. But I think it is clear that following rules, being transparent and being accountable in American industry—especially the airline industry where millions of lives are at stake—ought to be a top priority. When I sit down to dinner with my family, I want to know that the chicken and vegetables on our plates are safe to eat. My car, my gadgets, and my flight home all deserve rigorous scrutiny. I want to know that the water my grandson drinks is clean and the American people are losing confidence that the people who are supposed to be watching out for us are really watching out for us when we eat, drink, breath, travel or spend money. There is a big drive in the Congress to cut government budgets, cut red tape, and crusade against regulation. The other side demonizes regulations almost as much as the President demonizes immigrants. But I just want to make sure that when the federal government and this Congress are cutting budgets, we are not cutting corners that allow airplanes to fall out of the sky. # # #
04.11.2018	Washington, DC – On the House Floor this morning, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) addressed his colleagues about the President’s “disgraceful” reaction to developments in the investigation led by Special Counsel Robert Mueller, including “lawful warrants legally executed against the homes, offices, and hotel rooms of the President’s chief fixer and fellow grifter” Michael Cohen this week. Rep. Gutiérrez said that if the President follows through on threats to further obstruct justice or derail the investigation, Americans must be prepared to come to Washington to defend our Democracy and system of government. We have to be ready to come to Washington, quickly, massively, energetically, in huge numbers when the shoe drops. We have to answer the call to defend the country we all love and we must be united. The Illinois Congressman pointed to examples of when the power of people helped change the course of history – from Selma to the Prague Spring to Tiananmen Square – and recent American examples of calls to action by students from Parkland, Florida, the Women’s March, and protests at airports against the President’s first religious ban. My fellow Americans, we must be ready to stand up again and again and answer the call when our nation is under attack and threatened by a tyrant. Together, the American people can fight petty disregard for law and order, the data-driven divisiveness and the media manipulation to defend the country we love. To do so, we must be ready and we must be together. He noted that Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee pledged before the Easter recess to return to Washington at a moment’s notice if the President fired Mueller or the Attorney General or Deputy Attorney General, which the President has again threatened to do this week. The President reiterated his threats to subvert justice by firing key Justice officials this week, so I feel obligated to reiterate my commitment to defend the Constitution and the rule of law as a citizen. Rep. Gutiérrez also chided the Republicans’ idleness for failing to hold hearings, or start investigations into the President’s actions before and after taking office, “no matter how far this President goes.” When athletes kneel during the national anthem or the former President wears a tan suit or salutes a Marine while holding a coffee cup, that is a crisis, but when this President threatens to fire the Special Counsel, well…you get the idea. We cannot rely on Republicans to defend Democracy and our system of government as long as they find political and personal advantage in walking lock-step with the President or they tremble in fear of what he would tweet if they stepped out-of-line. Rep. Gutiérrez concluded: Together, the American people can fight petty disregard for law and order, the data-driven divisiveness and the media manipulation to defend the country we love. To do so, we must be ready and we must be together. A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://youtu.be/l2bD0Pb_FZw Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks April 11, 2018 The President said to reporters at the White House on Monday that [quote] "It's a disgrace, it's, frankly, a real disgrace, it's an attack on our country in a true sense. It's an attack on all we stand for." While I agree that there has been a disgraceful attack on our country, I do not think it is the investigation that is closing in on the President, but rather his disgraceful reaction to it. We now know, without any doubt, that Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation is closing in on the President and those very, very close to him. I don’t think lawful warrants legally executed against the homes, offices and hotel rooms of the President’s chief fixer and fellow grifter are the problem, rather it is the constant threats to further obstruct justice by a sitting President -- to thwart those lawful investigations from reaching their logical conclusions – that is what I and a lot of patriotic Americans are worried about. What we find disgraceful is the President’s attitude towards law enforcement and the circumstances that have led us to this moment, including the apparent dealings with the Kremlin, the campaign finance violations, the hush-money payoffs to silence witnesses and using one’s elected office to influence an investigation in which you are the target. But when you are targeted, it is quote, “disgraceful.” Before we left for the Easter break, Democrats on the Judiciary Committee made a commitment that we would be on the first plane back to Washington to initiate hearings if the President took action to further obstruct justice, including firing the Attorney General for recusing himself or the Deputy Attorney General or the Special Counsel. The President reiterated his threats to subvert justice by firing key Justice officials this week, so I feel obligated to reiterate my commitment to defend the Constitution and the rule of law as a citizen. Let’s be clear: Republicans have no intention of investigating, holding hearings, or taking seriously their constitutional mandate, no matter how far this President goes. When athletes kneel during the national anthem or the former President wears a tan suit or salutes a Marine while holding a coffee cup, that is a crisis, but when this President threatens to fire the Special Counsel, well…you get the idea. We cannot rely on Republicans to defend Democracy and our system of government as long as they find political and personal advantage in walking lock-step with the President or they tremble in fear of what he would tweet if they stepped out-of-line. And we as Democrats are in the minority so we are almost powerless, unless some of our Republican colleagues put country ahead of party. But human beings are very resourceful and fight fiercely for their own freedom. When we are united in great numbers, we can accomplish any goal. In Selma and elsewhere, Dr. King, and others showed us that beatings, lynching, and state-sanctioned discrimination could not withstand the power of the people fighting for justice and equality. In turn, they inspired, in part, the resistance known as the Prague Spring in Central Europe, when people stood up to tanks and repression…And eventually the wall came down. In Africa, the Americas, Asia, and across the Arab world, people are still fighting to secure their freedom, and in China, the image of a lone man standing up to tanks to defend his country moved the world. One man standing up will not be enough but many American men and women are already heeding the call. Young people from Parkland, Florida called us to Washington by the millions, despite vicious attacks. Women led the way by the millions in Washington and around the world. And when our Muslim brothers and sisters called us to the airports to oppose Trump’s religious ban, we came in numbers. We have to be ready to come to Washington, quickly, massively, energetically, in huge numbers when the shoe drops. We have to answer the call to defend the country we all love and we must be united. My fellow Americans, we must be ready to stand up again and again and answer the call when our nation is under attack and threatened by a tyrant. Together, the American people can fight petty disregard for law and order, the data-driven divisiveness and the media manipulation to defend the country we love. To do so, we must be ready and we must be together. # # #
03.22.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released a statement today reacting to the final report from the House Committee on Ethics “In the Matter of Allegations Relating to Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez.” The report concludes that: [N]one of the findings in this case should be read to indicate any knowing or willful intent by Representative Gutierrez or his staff to misuse MRA [Member’s Representational Allowance] or otherwise violate House Rules or CHA [Committee on House Administration] regulations governing the work contractors may perform for a congressional office. The following is a statement from Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez: The Ethics Committee concluded, as I did, that any misuse of funds was “inadvertent” and done with the approval of Committee on House Administration and the Office of House Finance. I am glad this review is resolved and that the Ethics Committee exonerated me of any willful or intentional wrongdoing. After five years the Ethics Committee came to the same conclusion I reached in 2013 when this was first brought to my attention. Both the Office of Congressional Ethics and the House Committee on Ethics have examined all of the allegations and concluded that there was no intention on my part to misuse congressional funds or violate House rules and, in fact, that I took immediate action when questions about the contract were raised and brought to my personal attention. I was 100% transparent with the Committee on House Administration and House Finance to which the contract was submitted for review and approved each Congress. The Committee feels that work under the contract included “legislative work” as opposed to the other work in a congressional office, which is a parsing of terms I dispute. But in general, I am pleased this is behind us. # # #
03.21.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released a statement today reacting to news that the Omnibus spending measure will not include any additional help for Puerto Rico, will not include the Dream Act or other relief for Dreamers and those with DACA, and will include more than a billion dollars for border walls and fencing and does nothing to curtail Trump’s deportation force. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and a former Member and Subcommittee Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. I’m voting against the Omnibus because I’m against the continued deportation of hard-working immigrants and families in communities like mine in Chicago. It would be like me voting against the Iraq war and then turning around and voting for military spending to execute that war. I will not vote for funding that continues Trump’s war on immigrants with deep roots who are assets to their community. Anyone who votes for the Omnibus is voting for the deportation of Dreamers and other immigrants. You will be voting to take money from law-abiding taxpayers – some of whom are immigrants – and give that money to privately-run prisons that will make a profit off of each and every human being our government hands over to them for detention and then deportation. Anyone who votes for the Omnibus will be voting for more doors broken down by Border Patrol and other deportation officers in working class neighborhoods and families removed and turned over to for-profit prisons. Why? Because we are adding more border security funding at a time when unauthorized immigration is at its lowest point in decades and deportation agents have nothing better to do than raid homes, deport hard-working families, and harass those who look like immigrants. For all of the talk from Republicans and Democrats since September about rescuing the Dreamers and preventing their deportation, the final Omnibus budget gives Trump money for his wall and we get nothing for it. Immigrants and Latinos got run over by the Omnibus and we have nothing in return. # # #
03.15.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) said on the House floor this morning that billionaire investor and Trump friend Carl Icahn should be the target of an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) because of his extremely beneficial and well-timed stock dealings just before President Trump announced steel and aluminum tariffs. Just a week before the President made public his intention to raise tariffs on steel, Icahn sold millions of dollars of stock in a manufacturing company dependent on steel, whose share price plummeted after President Trump made his announcement. Coincidence? Rep. Gutiérrez is not buying it. He wrote to SEC Chairman Jay Clayton last week calling for the investigation (see press release: http://bit.ly/2DcEH5N and letter: http://bit.ly/2DbwCOM), and today brought an enlarged poster of Icahn to the House floor to make sure Chairman Clayton – and Mr. Icahn – get the message. Mr. Icahn is chalking it all up to good fortune, but Rep. Gutiérrez said: I guess you could say that Carl Icahn was lucky to unload his shares – valued at at least $31 million dollars – just before the President made his announcement. But I suspect that luck had nothing to do with it. Here is a Trump insider making a gigantic decision with tens of millions of dollars and we are just supposed to believe it is a coincidence? Sorry, I’m not buying it. And according to the Congressman, this fits a pattern of behavior by the President and those close to him: The President, who many of us think is profiting illegally from the office – and we have filed impeachment articles because of it – seems to attract a lot of people with deep pockets and shallow reserves of judgement to his side. The Congressman says this is all about transparency with the least transparent President in recent memory, and that the American people need reassurance that they are not ruled by “a kleptocracy like we see in Russia:” Let’s demand that the friends who circle the White House and the Trump businesses provide the American people with answers and transparency. That is all we ask, so that we can have greater confidence in our President and his family that they are not running a kleptocracy like we see in Russia where those who govern are simply governing to make money. Rep. Gutiérrez concluded: Mr. Speaker, no tax-returns, very little in the way of disclosure, recusals that do not seem to actually be recusals, hotel and business conflicts of interest, and the strong odor of something fishy, those close to the President who are making millions – apparently because of their proximity to the President – those people demand scrutiny from our watchdog agencies and in this case, it requires an investigation of Carl Icahn by the SEC. As usual, Rep. Gutiérrez was admonished by the Speaker Pro Temp for engaging in, in the Chair’s opinion, “personalities of the President,” as you can see on the video. This has become a regular feature of Rep. Gutiérrez’s floor speeches. A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://youtu.be/ki0tvrkLAaI Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks March 15, 2018 Last week, I wrote a letter to Jay Clayton, Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, asking him to look into this guy… That is Carl Icahn, the billionaire, financier, and buddy of our President Donald Trump. It seems that he had a massive amount of stock in a company that sells cranes and equipment – which, in case you didn’t know – are made with a lot of steel. Then, all of a sudden, Mr. Icahn sold his position in the crane and equipment maker and one week later, his friend, buddy, pal, and fellow billionaire Donald Trump announced he was proposing import tariffs on steel and aluminum. Now we all know what happens to the stock of companies heavily dependent on steel and aluminum when the President announces he will impose new tariffs…their stock price goes down…a lot. So, I guess you could say that Carl Icahn was lucky to unload his shares – valued at at least $31 million dollars – just before the President made his announcement. But I suspect that luck had nothing to do with it. Here is a Trump insider making a gigantic decision with tens of millions of dollars and we are just supposed to believe it is a coincidence? Sorry, I’m not buying it. So I wrote the Chairman of the SEC to request that he investigate and I have not heard back from him. But I hope he hears this speech. In the letter, I said: The announcement of tariffs on the heels of Mr. Icahn’s stock sale is highly suspicious. The close relationship between the President and Mr. Icahn adds to the appearance of wrongdoing. So I think the SEC has an obligation to investigate just because it looks bad and we are talking about the President of the United States and the people have the right to know that things are on the up and up. Let’s remember that Icahn left as an advisor to Trump at the White House because, we are told, it would raise difficult conflicts of interest and presumably – just like the President – Icahn was not interested in selling off part of his empire just so that he could appear impartial and demonstrate core integrity to the American people. The President, who many of us think is profiting illegally from the office – and we have filed impeachment articles because of it – seems to attract a lot of people with deep pockets and shallow reserves of judgement to his side. Icahn, who was a notorious corporate raider and vulture capitalist during the Clinton boom years of the 1990s, appears to me and a lot of other people to fit this mold. If there is nothing to hide in this deal, then the SEC investigation will be quick and that will be that. But simply saying this multi-million dollar stroke of luck was just a coincidence is not flying. Not with me, anyway. Do you know the rigorous reporting of assets we as House members have to do to fully disclose our debts and investments? And those disclosures are all available to the public and the press goes over them with a fine tooth comb. Every time we buy or sell a security over $1000, we have to file a form that then gets shared with the public. And if we’re late with filing the paperwork, we have to pay a fine. This may seem burdensome, but the important goal here is transparency and to ensure that Members are not using insider information they have access to to personally enrich themselves. If I was as “lucky” as Carl Icahn to make a stock trade that my friend had the power to tell me the inside information on and it resulted in me making millions of dollars or avoiding losing millions of dollars…well, let’s see, there would be investigative reporters, hearings, an Ethics Committee report and maybe criminal charges. But for Mr. Icahn and his buddy President Trump, nothing. At least not yet. Let’s demand that the friends who circle the White House and the Trump businesses provide the American people with answers and transparency. That is all we ask, so that we can have greater confidence in our President and his family that they are not running a kleptocracy like we see in Russia where those who govern are simply governing to make money. Mr. Speaker, no tax-returns, very little in the way of disclosure, recusals that do not seem to actually be recusals, hotel and business conflicts of interest, and the strong odor of something fishy, those close to the President who are making millions – apparently because of their proximity to the President – those people demand scrutiny from our watchdog agencies and in this case, it requires an investigation of Carl Icahn by the SEC. [I ask Unanimous Consent that a copy of my letter to SEC Chairman Jay Clayton be placed in the record.] # # #
03.14.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) addressed the House this morning during morning business on the floor and discussed a letter signed by 83 House Democrats urging House Leadership and Appropriators to attach the Dream Act to the Omnibus spending bill that will be voted on this week or next week. The letter, which was formally released at an afternoon press conference (see: http://bit.ly/2tN3gH9) can be viewed here (pdf): http://bit.ly/2GrxpOZ. Rep. Gutiérrez began his remarks on the floor with a scathing assessment of Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte’s proposal to reduce legal immigration and give Dreamers with DACA three additional years of DACA-like status, which was discussed at a Capitol press conference yesterday. Gutiérrez said: What the Chairman [Goodlatte] did not mention is that his bill is actually about something else. It is about changing the racial make-up of America’s immigrants so that more of them are white and fewer of them come from countries in Africa, Asia, the Caribbean, and Latin America. The Congressman asked how a bill primarily designed to reduce legal immigration and drive immigrants into the black market would actually help protect Dreamers. It doesn’t. And we are once again chasing bad policies down a rabbit hole because the real agenda on the other side of the aisle is to leverage the national concern over the plight of the Dreamers into a radical re-ordering of legal immigration to make it whiter. Rep. Gutiérrez went on to contrast the Republican approach with the approach adopted by the 83 Democrats on the letter released today. Democrats are clear: our country, our Congress, and our leaders need to figure out how Dreamers get to live in the country they grew up in, the country they love, and the country that has invested so much in them and received so much from them. And he really focused in on the deportation, detention and border militarization money that will also be contained in the Omnibus spending bill. [A]lso in that spending bill we will be asked to consider, there are likely to be billions of dollars for deportation, detention, breaking up families and breaking down doors in neighborhoods across the country. That is why our letter says we not only want the Dream Act included in the Omnibus, but we want to reduce funding appropriated to DHS’s detention and deportation machine, specifically funding for detention beds, deportation agents operating under ICE and CBP, and border militarization. And we oppose any funding that expands the construction of walls or fencing at the southern border. We should instead allocate border security resources to modernize the infrastructure and technology at our ports of entry, which would actually benefit our country and our economy. He concluded by saying: Do not be distracted by the President’s nativist agenda or the bills in Congress that seek to implement his nationalist views. Do not give up on taking action that is serious and will actually protect Dreamers and the communities they live in; and do not allow the deportation and family destruction machine to thrive and grow on our watch. A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://youtu.be/TpBSUOW-xAE Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks March 14, 2018 On September 5th of last year, the day after Labor Day, the temperature was 86 degrees in Washington. So that was a long time ago. On that day, President Trump and his henchmen announced they were killing the DACA program. The next day, meeting with my Democratic colleagues, I said I would not support any spending or budget bills that failed to include the Dream Act or some other serious attempt to put Dreamers with DACA in a safe place. That was six months ago and we are right back where we started. The Republicans have a bill to cut legal immigration and abandon the Dreamers in semi-legal limbo, and the Chairman of the Judiciary Committee had a press conference about it yesterday and is touting his bill as the last chance to get something done about DACA. What the Chairman did not mention is that his bill is actually about something else. It is about changing the racial make-up of America’s immigrants so that more of them are white and fewer of them come from countries in Africa, Asia, the Caribbean, and Latin America. Analysis by the Center for Global Development of Goodlatte’s proposal states the following: Hispanic and black immigrants would be roughly twice as likely to be barred by the immigration cuts as white immigrants; The legal immigration cuts would bar the majority of Muslim and Catholic immigrants from coming legally; While the President keeps saying he wants a better class of immigrants coming to America, the cuts would actually substantially reduce the number of university-graduate immigrants. The Goodlatte bill would expand some work visas, but we would only add one university graduate for every other immigrant removed by eliminating the family visas and Diversity Visas. Now, tell me, how does cutting out hardworking immigrants and guaranteeing that the only available avenue to come and work in America is an illegal one – how does that protect Dreamers? It doesn’t. And we are once again chasing bad policies down a rabbit hole because the real agenda on the other side of the aisle is to leverage the national concern over the plight of the Dreamers into a radical re-ordering of legal immigration to make it whiter. Sorry. That is not the agenda of my party and frankly, it is not the agenda of my fellow Americans. So with more than 80 of my colleagues (the final count was 83 Members of the House), we will release a letter today at a press conference we wrote to the leaders in both parties in the House and to the House Appropriators. It echoes what I started saying six months ago: we need a budget or spending measure that includes the Dream Act. Punto. This week or next, we all know we need to pass a budget to keep the government open and it will either be another short-term CR or it will be an Omnibus spending bill. And Democrats are clear: our country, our Congress, and our leaders need to figure out how Dreamers get to live in the country they grew up in, the country they love, and the country that has invested so much in them and received so much from them. Don’t be lulled into a false sense of security. The federal courts didn’t settle this or give us a permanent solution; they just gave a lot of lawmakers a convenient excuse for inaction. And I’m not buying it and neither should you. Because also in that spending bill we will be asked to consider, there are likely to be billions of dollars for deportation, detention, breaking up families and breaking down doors in neighborhoods across the country. That is why our letter says we not only want the Dream Act included in the Omnibus, but we want to reduce funding appropriated to DHS’s detention and deportation machine, specifically funding for detention beds, deportation agents operating under ICE and CBP, and border militarization. And we oppose any funding that expands the construction of walls or fencing at the southern border. We should instead allocate border security resources to modernize the infrastructure and technology at our ports of entry, which would actually benefit our country and our economy. So, Mr. Speaker, six months after Donald Trump and Jeff Sessions instigated this crisis by proclaiming their desire to deport Dreamers and kicking their safety and security in our nation to this do-nothing Congress, we now have what could be the last opportunity to actually take permanent legislative action. Do not be distracted by the President’s nativist agenda or the bills in Congress that seek to implement his nationalist views. Do not give up on taking action that is serious and will actually protect Dreamers and the communities they live in; and do not allow the deportation and family destruction machine to thrive and grow on our watch. We must take a stand, right here, right now, and stand up for what is right and what is beneficial to our country. I am proud to stand with the majority of Americans and the 83 (final count) colleagues who joined me on this letter. The time is now. # # #
03.14.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) was among a small number of lawmakers invited to speak at today’s rally on the U.S. Capitol grounds in conjunction with the national student walkout to prevent gun violence. The event was organized by Montgomery County (MD) Students for Gun Control and the Congressman was introduced by Emily Dohler Rodas a senior at Albert Einstein High School in Montgomery County, Maryland. The Congressman has a long history of working on gun violence prevention issues going back to his first days in Congress 25 years ago, as his remarks indicate. But he urged the students to “accomplish what I and others have failed to do” with regards to gun control and banning assault weapons. Rep. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. A video of the Congressman’s remarks (via C-SPAN) is here: https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4718820/rep-gutierrez-addresses-student-walkout-rally-gun-violence-prevention Remarks (Transcribed from C-SPAN by Office of Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez) I want to start with a quote: “We are not talking about weapons designed for hunting or sport. We are talking about those designed to kill human beings, and it is about time we stand up and say we will not allow them in our communities.” That was from the Chicago Tribune in February 1993 – 25 years ago almost to the day. The article has the headline “New Congressmen take aim at guns.” One of the new Congressmen was me and I was saying it was about time for a permanent assault weapons ban. And if it was “about time” 25 years ago, it is now at least 25 years overdue. We need action, not talk. We need laws, not thoughts and prayers. We need safety and security, not safe talking points that secure reelection in safe Districts. 25 years! Before many of you were born. Yet we are still here, after the decade’s long assault weapons ban expired, still asking the people in that building to adopt common sense policies to keep Americans from shooting and killing other Americans. • 17 killed in Parkland in just a few minutes. • More than 400 people shot in Chicago just this year…and it is only March. • And over 600 murdered in Chicago last year. It’s a national tragedy so even with tough laws locally, nothing seems to change. But let me tell you what has changed. You. I look at this crowd and I see the future – I see you. And I came here to say thank you. Because I know, you will accomplish what I and others have failed to do. And I thank you on behalf of my own grandson, Luis Andres, who today is taking his 17 minutes outside of his school. I thank you because you are guaranteeing his future and the future of all Americans. [Si Se Puede Chant.] Y quiero decirle a todo ustedes, I want to tell all of you, because I know that there are Dreamers who walk among you and are your classmates. March for them. March for safety. Do you know why I am before this microphone? Because Black Lives Matter…and black people gave up their live. Because in the 60s, when I was in High School, there were black Americans who marched and defied the system and said we needed voting rights and we needed equal rights, and that’s why I have this microphone. Asi que, para todos, entendamos algo: el futuro es nuestro porque los jóvenes van a dictar este futuro. You know, in 1972, I got my first chance to vote. They reduced the voting age from 21 to 18. I think that was a smart decision. I think a smart decision is rethinking once again lowering the voting age, so that young people can change this country. Thank you y Si Se Puede. # # #
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Wednesday, 83 House Democrats released a letter they signed to House Leadership in both parties and to Appropriators calling for the Dream Act to be attached to the Omnibus spending bill the House will vote on this week or next. The lawmakers also asked that the government funding bill be free from increased spending on immigrant deportation and detention and free from further border militarization. Link to letter: 031318 Letter to Leadership re OMNI_FINAL (with signatures).pdf The letter states: Congress is long overdue in acting on this issue, and the failure to pass the Dream Act has resulted in countless lives put in peril. Meanwhile the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) tears families apart by targeting Dreamers, long-term residents, asylum-seekers, families and children for detention and deportation. It goes on to enumerate the demands of the group of Members: As the negotiations for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Omnibus Appropriations bill are ongoing, we urge you to: (1) include the bipartisan Dream Act; (2) reduce funding appropriated to DHS’s detention and deportation machine, specifically funding for detention beds, deportation agents operating under Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Customs and Border Protection (CBP), and border militarization; and (3) oppose any funding that expands the construction of walls or fencing at the southern border, and to instead allocate border security resources to modernize the infrastructure and technology at our ports of entry. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez led the effort along with his colleagues Reps. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ) and Adriano Espaillat (D-NY). A press conference to release the letter was held today with Members and advocates. The press conference was webcasted via Facebook Live: https://www.facebook.com/RepGutierrez/videos/10156229061633205/ Reps. Michelle Lujan-Grisham (D-NM), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Judy Chu (D-CA), Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, Raul Grijalva, Chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, Adriano Espaillat, Norma Torres (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT), and Grace Napolitano (D-CA) also spoke at the press conference along with representatives of Church World Service, Detention Watch Network, United We Dream, and UnidosUS. The letter from the Members of Congress concludes: As Congressional leaders, we must exercise our powers responsibly to protect the Dreamers through legislative action and to wield our power of the purse to ensure that the Department of Homeland Security does not make immigrant families and communities casualties of a reckless, indiscriminate detention and deportation machine. The letter was signed by: Luis V. Gutiérrez, Adriano Espaillat, Raúl M. Grijalva, Jerrold Nadler, Zoe Lofgren, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Judy Chu, Joe Crowley, Gene Green, Dina Titus, Paul D. Tonko, Eliot L. Engel, Ted Deutch, Steve Cohen, Jan Schakowsky, José E. Serrano, Alcee L. Hastings, Al Green, Albio Sires, Linda T. Sánchez, Carolyn B. Maloney, Lloyd Doggett, Peter Welch, Nydia M. Velázquez, Barbara Lee, Adam Smith, Keith Ellison, Gwen Moore, Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr., Ben Ray Luján, Maxine Waters, Bobby L. Rush, Elijah Cummings, Danny K. Davis, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Yvette D. Clarke, Robert A. Brady, Jared Polis, Norma J. Torres, Grace F. Napolitano, Hakeem Jeffries, Juan Vargas, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Donald Norcross, Tony Cárdenas, Kathleen M. Rice, Mark Takano, Darren Soto, Mark Pocan, Michael E. Capuano, Ed Perlmutter, Nanette Diaz Barragán, Grace Meng, Robin L. Kelly, Jimmy Gomez, Bill Foster, Joaquin Castro, Ruben Gallego, Brenda L. Lawrence, Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, Brendan F. Boyle, Donald S. Beyer Jr.”, Earl Blumenauer, Dwight Evans, J. Luis Correa, Ro Khanna, Suzanne Bonamici, James P. McGovern, Joseph P. Kennedy, III, Jamie Raskin, Colleen Hanabusa, Jacky Rosen, John Lewis, Pramila Jayapal, Val Butler Demings, Frank Pallone, Jr., Ted W. Lieu, Alma S. Adams, Ph.D., Salud O. Carbajal, Donald M. Payne, Jr., John Yarmuth, Alan Lowenthal, Mark DeSaulnier. # # #
03.08.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) is calling for a federal investigation into the suspiciously timed sale of stock by Trump insider and former advisor Carl Icahn just before President Trump announced steel and aluminum tariffs that caused the value of those stocks to plummet. 030818 SEC Chairman Jay Clayton re Carl Icahn.pdf In a letter to Jay Clayton, Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Rep. Gutiérrez said: I write to request that you and your agency immediately investigate possible illegal insider trading by Mr. Carl Icahn, a longtime friend of President Donald Trump, who according to his SEC filings sold $31.3 million worth of stock in a company heavily dependent on steel just days before the President announced plans to impose import tariffs on steel and aluminum. The billionaire Icahn disclosed that he sold nearly 1 million shares of Manitowoc Company, Inc., a company heavily dependent on steel that manufactures cranes and other heavy equipment. Icahn has said that the sale was just a coincidence, but Rep. Gutiérrez isn’t buying this multimillion dollar coincidence theory, especially given the fact that Icahn was forced out of his advisory role with Trump’s White House over potential conflicts of interest. The announcement of tariffs on the heels of Mr. Icahn’s stock sale is highly suspicious. The close relationship between the President and Mr. Icahn adds to the appearance of wrongdoing. Rep. Gutiérrez said that as a Member of the House of Representatives, he not only has to disclose any stock transactions in a timely manner and that he would be immediately investigated if such a beneficial and well-timed stock sale took place that appeared to be based on information not available to the public. He wrote: [I]f I were to dump a stock a week before Congress took action that would impact that stock’s price, I would most certainly be investigated resulting, in possible sanctions, removal from office or jail time. He concludes: It is hard to believe Mr. Icahn’s actions with regard to unloading voluminous shares of Manitowoc stock right before the President’s is just a coincidence. It undoubtedly warrants a federal investigation. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and a former Member and Subcommittee Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. # # #
03.07.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) says President Trump’s “approach to immigration is pretty simple: If you are white, you’re alright. If you are brown, you are lower down. And if you are black, just go back.” He also said that if you look at the medal winners in the Winter Olympics, which he described as “snowhole countries,” you get a pretty good idea of the countries from which Trump wants to accept immigrants. Rep. Gutiérrez pointed to the example of Slovenia, the winners of two Olympic medals in PyeongChang, as a country on Trump’s OK for immigration list. The evidence is the First Lady’s parents who utilized what Trump derides as “chain migration” to come here and are soon to become citizens, as reported by the Washington Post. This was Rep. Gutiérrez’s second day in a row addressing the House from the floor on immigration, noting that we have passed the deadline to enact legislation to protect Dreamers with DACA without action, but today’s remarks were somewhat more tongue in cheek. The Congressman noted that it is clear President Trump does not care for certain immigrants, like Dreamers, refugees and those he deems as having come from “shithole countries” (he was admonished by the Speaker Pro-Temp for repeating the President’s “profanity” on the House floor). But, Rep. Gutiérrez said: As we all know by now, Trump prefers immigrants from ‘snowhole countries’ like Norway. Yep, you take a look at the Winter Olympics leader-board of the countries that won medals and that is a pretty good list of who Trump wants to have here. Norway, check. Canada, check. Netherlands? OK. But we better add Russia. The Congressman went on to address the President’s hypocrisy when it comes to legal immigration: The other group of people Trump is particularly angry about are the family members of U.S. citizens and those who are on the path to becoming U.S. citizens…Which is kind of strange, because he does not have to look very far to find an immigrant American citizen who petitioned – legally – for her parents to come to the United States. Rep. Gutiérrez was referring to the First Lady’s family, but they are from the Winter Olympic bronze and silver medalist country of Slovenia, which makes them OK in Trump’s eyes. And according to news reports, the First Lady obtained an “extraordinary ability” or “Einstein visa” when she worked in the U.S. as a model. This, along with the investor visa that Jared Kushner’s creditors are thought to be possibly seeking by leveraging the First Son-In-Law’s massive foreign debt, led the Congressman to say: Yes, in America, if you have a million dollars or you look like a million dollars, you can get a visa. But if you look like a parking attendant or a busboy or a field hand or the King of Wakanda – in the eyes of our President, you are not welcome. The Congressman concluded that his own family’s story is an example of the American Dream being achieved by migrants of modest means and education and that this more closely reflects the values we should enshrine in our immigration system. My mother came from Puerto Rico with a 5th grade education and Puerto Rico has never won a gold medal at the Winter Olympics. But guess what…Her daughter is a public school teacher and her son is a Congressman and that is what the American story is all about. A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://youtu.be/iS2qqpbvMwI Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks March 7, 2018 Yesterday, I talked about the immigrants Donald Trump doesn’t really care for, like the Dreamers who were raised in the United States and are now vulnerable to deportation. Then, there are refugees from war and religious persecution. He doesn’t really care for them either. Let’s see, there are the people from El Salvador or Haiti or Africa – the people from shithole countries. Trump would rather deport than protect them. And he doesn’t want them coming legally either. As we all know by now, Trump prefers immigrants from ‘snowhole countries’ like Norway. Yep, you take a look at the Winter Olympics leader-board of the countries that won medals and that is a pretty good list of who Trump wants to have here. Norway, check. Canada, check. Netherlands? OK. But we better add Russia. President Trump has been blocking any kind of immigration legislation because he will only agree to, say, protect Dreamers from deportation, if he can eliminate whole categories of legal immigration. And not just any immigration, but specifically the programs that are filled with people who want to come to the United States legally from Asia, Africa, and Latin America. He is especially opposed to diversity in our immigration system and among the programs he insists we eliminate is the one most often used by immigrants from Africa, the Diversity Visa Program. So Trump’s immigration approach is pretty simple: If you are white, you’re alright. If you are brown, you are lower down. And if you are black, just go back. The other group of people Trump is particularly angry about are the family members of U.S. citizens and those who are on the path to becoming U.S. citizens. He insists that we need to take away the rights of U.S. citizens – to petition for their immediate family. Nope, Trump thinks U.S. citizens cannot be trusted to petition for their own family members. Which is kind of strange, because he does not have to look very far to find an immigrant American citizen who petitioned – legally – for her parents to come to the United States. According to the Washington Post, “The parents of first lady Melania Trump have become legal permanent residents of the United States and are close to obtaining their citizenship, according to people familiar with their status… Immigration experts said [they] very likely relied on a family reunification process that President Trump has derided as ‘chain migration’ and proposed ending in such cases.” But the in-laws are from Slovenia and that country won two medals at the Winter Olympics, so I guess they are OK. Let us remember that the First Lady is here because she applied for and received an “extraordinary ability visa” which is often called an Einstein visa because we give it to Nobel Prize winners. But we also give the Einstein visa to musicians and artists…and models. The First Lady’s extraordinary abilities are many, I am sure. Now, I want you to recall that one of the issues in Jared Kushner’s security clearance was that he owes so much money to foreigners that some people might be able leverage that debt into an application for another visa program just for millionaires and fat cats. Yes, in America, if you have a million dollars or you look like a million dollars, you can get a visa. But if you look like a parking attendant or a busboy or a field hand or the King of Wakanda – in the eyes of our President, you are not welcome. Look, let me break it down from my perspective. That is not the country we aspire to be. My mother came from Puerto Rico with a 5th grade education and Puerto Rico has never won a gold medal at the Winter Olympics. But guess what. Her daughter is a public school teacher and her son is a Congressman and that is what the American story is all about. Not special treatment. Not special programs just for the rich and the beautiful. And not special fast-tracking for the President’s family, especially when he is going after so many other people’s families who look like mine. # # #
03.06.2018	Washington, DC – On the House floor this morning, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) addressed his colleagues about the DACA program, the March 5 deadline, now expired, to address it in Congress, and the President’s responsibility for the failure of Washington to take action. The President’s demand that any fix for Dreamers be combined with massive cuts to legal immigration, especially for people of color and from the developing world, made reaching a bipartisan resolution difficult. Much like the gun debate, the Congressman said Republicans, want to make the President happy “because they fear his tweets and the effect it might have on their voters in November,” but find it hard to predict what will make the President happy from moment to moment on immigration, on guns in schools, and on other issues because he is so erratic. “[W]hen you cannot trust the President to have a stable opinion for more than two or three hours, it makes it hard for Republicans to figure what will please him from moment to moment,” the Illinois Congressman said. He said: Oh, the President said he loved Dreamers. Remember? He wanted to preserve DACA and treat them “with heart.” He said he wanted to give a path to citizenship for Dreamers, and he told a group of lawmakers on national television that he would take the political heat and sign whatever bipartisan approach they were able to come up with...But he was lying. Again. The President embraces consensus, bipartisan solutions when the TV cameras are rolling, but, Just like his conversations with lawmakers on guns after the massacre in Florida…what the President says in public, what he does behind closed doors, what he tweets, and what he thinks from moment to moment do not seem to be connected in any logical way. And when the TV cameras are turned off, the radical right wing whispers their orders in the President’s ear and he falls right in line – whether it’s with the gun manufacturers or the anti-immigration nativists. It has become clear that the main obstacle to action on immigration was the President’s opposition to legal immigration by people of color. This is not about Dreamers, it is not about the wall, it is not about border security, it is about a deeply held core belief of the President and many of his advisors that there are too many people of color coming as legal immigrants. There are too many family members of immigrants unless those immigrants are members of Trump’s own family. In the end, it is clear that the President doesn’t want immigrants who look like the diverse and colorful fabric of the world – and he doesn’t want Dreamers who were raised in the U.S. alongside our other children who reflect the diversity of America. The Congressman noted that federal courts have enjoined the President’s actions, forcing the Department of Homeland Security to accept DACA renewals, for now. But he chided his fellow Democrats that “Relying on the courts to save the Dreamers is a cop out and a lot of people are left out if they didn’t already have DACA,” and there is no substitute for legislation. [W]e may be back here in a few days or weeks trying to prevent the deportation of Dreamers and lots of other immigrants if the courts change course. So, I will not let my colleagues in either party rest. His message to Dreamers with DACA was clear: For now, every person who has DACA should renew their DACA as quickly as possible for whatever time we have left. Run, don’t walk. Rep. Gutiérrez concluded that the paralysis of Republicans even when huge majorities support a policy on immigration or guns or climate change, is because Republicans are simply not responding to the majority of voters. [E]ven when faced with an issue on which 80% of the American people agree – whether it is sensible gun control or preventing the deportation of children raised in America – it is the other 20% of the American people who Republicans are listening to and playing to and tweeting to and playing nice-nice with the White House to appease. And the rest of us get nothing, on immigrants, on guns, on climate change, on health care, and on taxes. Unless we as voters reshuffle the deck... A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://youtu.be/T78N1Ve-g-Q Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks March 6, 2018 Yesterday was the deadline for the U.S. Congress to secure the futures of hundreds of thousands of Dreamers -- our constituents who grew up in the United States, have been here at least 10 years, but do not have permanent legal immigration status and are therefore deportable, vulnerable, and exploitable. And guess what? The cynics were right and Congress has taken no action. There have been a few attempts, but the reality is that Congress has not passed a bill and the opportunities for us to pass a bill are dwindling. How did we get here? How is it that we always end up here when it comes to immigration? Well, it has been a failure of both parties to act, to compromise and to legislate…but let’s be honest, the President doesn’t want these immigrants in his country and Republicans in Congress only want to do what the President wants them to do because they fear his tweets and the effect it might have on their voters in November. Oh, the President said he loved Dreamers. Remember? He wanted to preserve DACA and treat them “with heart.” He said he wanted to give a path to citizenship for Dreamers, and he told a group of lawmakers on national television that he would take the political heat and sign whatever bipartisan approach they were able to come up with... But he was lying. Again. Just like his conversations with lawmakers on guns after the massacre in Florida – also with the television cameras rolling – what the President says in public, what he does behind closed doors, what he tweets, and what he thinks from moment to moment do not seem to be connected in any logical way. And when the TV cameras are turned off, the radical right wing whispers their orders in the President’s ear and he falls right in line – whether it’s with the gun manufacturers or the anti-immigration nativists. And when you cannot trust the President to have a stable opinion for more than two or three hours, it makes it hard for Republicans to figure what will please him from moment to moment. And in the end, the President is not interested in Dreamers – or at least not interested in them as anything more than a bargaining chip. Bipartisan proposals that could have passed the House and Senate were brought to him and he rejected them, saying that he wanted to eliminate various types of legal immigration avenues used by people –especially people of color and people from the developing world – and without these massive cuts to legal immigration, the President wasn’t interested. And we offered him money for his silly, mindless, stupid, dimwitted and racist wall, but that was rejected too. This is not about Dreamers, it is not about the wall, it is not about border security, it is about a deeply held core belief of the President and many of his advisors that there are too many people of color coming as legal immigrants. There are too many family members of immigrants unless those immigrants are members of Trump’s own family. In the end, it is clear that the President doesn’t want immigrants who look like the diverse and colorful fabric of the world – and he doesn’t want Dreamers who were raised in the U.S. alongside our other children who reflect the diversity of America. Now, to be fair, many of my Democratic colleagues are just as happy about the injunctions in the federal courts that are keeping the Trump deportation machine from fully engaging and going after the Dreamers. Lawmakers – both Democrats and Republicans – do not need much encouragement to kick the can down the road. But let’s not kid ourselves. Relying on the courts to save the Dreamers is a cop out and a lot of people are left out if they didn’t already have DACA. And for the ones who can renew their status, we may be back here in a few days or weeks trying to prevent the deportation of Dreamers and lots of other immigrants if the courts change course. So, I will not let my colleagues in either party rest. For now, every person who has DACA should renew their DACA as quickly as possible for whatever time we have left. Run, don’t walk. I have been here long enough to know that even when faced with a deadline; even when faced with an issue on which 80% of the American people agree – whether it is sensible gun control or preventing the deportation of children raised in America – it is the other 20% of the American people who Republicans are listening to and playing to and tweeting to and playing nice-nice with the White House to appease. And the rest of us get nothing, on immigrants, on guns, on climate change, on health care, and on taxes. Unless we as voters reshuffle the deck... # # #
02.27.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) called on his colleagues in the House to legislate a permanent solution to the fact that President Trump wants to end the DACA program that protects some Dreamers from deportation. In a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives, he said that despite the failure of DACA legislation in the Senate and the Supreme Court’s decision to let a lower court’s injunction against the President stand for now, “does not mean that the House and Republicans are off the hook for DACA.” The Illinois Congressman appealed to his fellow legislators to stand up to “the racists who are driving immigration policy in the White House [and] are defining the agenda for every House Republican and are shaping the brand of the Republican Party not just as the party opposed to illegal immigration, but now as the party opposed to legal immigration.” He said: The House has an opportunity – indeed, a responsibility – to step up to the occasion and craft a permanent solution. The good news is the solution is supported by more than 8 in 10 voters in the United States, a pathway to citizenship. Can we as a body rise to the occasion to do something Americans want us to do? Can we set aside questions of who wins and who loses politically long enough to do what is right? We won’t know unless we try. He went on to say that he has great faith in the House of Representatives and its Democratic and Republican Members to rise above the immigration agenda of the White House, which he described as “an ethno-centric, pro-European, pro-White agenda that will hurt America.” He said: I am one Democrat who will work with Republicans if Republicans are serious about solutions. But it must start with my colleagues on the other side of the aisle saying yes, we want to solve the problem and we want to rise above the racism emanating from the White House today. A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://youtu.be/8MOMRm4A_AE Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks February 27, 2018; Approx. 10:15 am ET When we left Washington before the President’s Day recess, we watched our colleagues in the Senate vote on a series of bills to address immigration. Only one bill received 60 votes, but it was 60 votes against the bill offered by Senator Grassley, the bill that most closely matches the President’s hatred for immigrants. So, a super-majority in the Senate opposes the President’s plan for massive cuts to legal immigration and massive deportations. Then, yesterday, President Trump’s campaign against immigrants received another blow: the Supreme Court declined to take a case from California and declined to lift an injunction requiring the Department of Homeland Security to continue to process renewals for the DACA program. Which means that those who signed up for DACA over the past 5 years can renew their DACA now and the arbitrary deadline the President set for kicking a thousand people per day off the program beginning Monday has, like so much Trump does, been stopped for now. Just take a moment to appreciate what happened. The Attorney General and the President – without offering any evidence – told the American people that they had to end the DACA program because it was illegal and the courts would strike it down. As it turns out, the truth is almost the exact opposite of what the President and the Attorney General have told the country. While no court has ever found DACA illegal or even legally suspect, their actions, based on this lie, to kill the DACA program has been found highly questionable in the courts. But let’s be clear, Mr. Speaker; just because the courts have taken action and the Senate failed to take action, does not mean that the House and Republicans are off the hook for DACA. The President still plans to kill DACA and make hundreds of thousands of immigrants who are currently documented and known to their government into undocumented immigrants forced underground – vulnerable, exploitable, and deportable. The House has an opportunity – indeed, a responsibility – to step up to the occasion and craft a permanent solution. The good news is the solution is supported by more than 8 in 10 voters in the United States, a pathway to citizenship. Can we as a body rise to the occasion to do something Americans want us to do? Can we set aside questions of who wins and who loses politically long enough to do what is right? We won’t know unless we try. Many on the other side say there should only be one option: leave or be deported, but that is not what we do to American children. And let’s be clear, these are American children. We do not force American children to live in exile for 10, 20 or 30 years. We do not educate and acculturate our youth to then force them out. If you are an American patriot, the last thing you want is for the world to see us deporting our own. Just ask your donors, the Koch Brothers, who know that saving the Dreamers is what is they call something demanded of us as patriots. So, Mr. Speaker, the ball is in our court. We need to take action now. If we can craft a compromise to protect Dreamers and allow them to live in their home country, America – if both sides concede something to the other – we may get to a solution. That is what leaders must do. A compromise will likely be painful for all. We need to show the country that we are willing to take the heat and that we are ready to legislate. The President set us on this course. He pulled the legal rug from underneath the Dreamers and then cloaked his position on immigration in an ethno-centric, pro-European, pro-White agenda that will hurt America. But the racists – and we must call them out for what they are – the racists who are driving immigration policy in the White House are defining the agenda for every House Republican and are shaping the brand of the Republican Party not just as the party opposed to illegal immigration, but now as the party opposed to legal immigration. Not just as the party who doesn’t want poor or Latin American immigrants, but doesn’t want brown or black or anyone who isn’t white in their country. If that is how my colleagues on the other side of the aisle define themselves and want to remembered, then they should do nothing. But I have greater faith in this institution and in the ability of this Congress to rise above racism and do something that the American people want us to do without regard to race, religion, or national origin. I am one Democrat who will work with Republicans if Republicans are serious about solutions. But it must start with my colleagues on the other side of the aisle saying yes, we want to solve the problem and we want to rise above the racism emanating from the White House today. # # #
02.09.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) says a new chapter in the fight to protect Dreamers begins today after the House and Senate approved a two-year budget agreement that excluded protection for Dreamers who face deportation. The following is a statement from Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez, a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus: I am proud of the Democrats who stood up for Dreamers in the wee hours of the morning and cast a very difficult vote against the Senate budget deal. This was one of the hardest votes I have ever taken because there are many good things in the package for the people of my District and the people of Puerto Rico, both of whom I love deeply. But many Democrats stood on principle and did what we were morally commanded to do in order to protect our fellow Americans, the Dreamers. Since September, I and other Democrats have withheld our support for must-pass spending, debt ceiling and spending cap votes to prevent the tragedy of seeing Dreamers deported. As their legal protections expire, more will be lost, and as we face the rest of the year, our ability to hold Republicans to account to our values has faded. Clearly we need a new way forward. Today starts the new chapter in fighting to protect Dreamers who grew up in this country and are our fellow Americans. Protecting them from deportation is not just an act of mercy or altruism for them and their families, it is vital to protecting America’s reputation and standing in the world. The image of America deporting fellow Americans is not something this country or the Republican Party want to see unfolding every night on the national and local news. And when deported doctors, soldiers and teachers show up in shackles in foreign countries and grant interviews in impeccable English on local and international news, it will stain the reputation of the nation we all love. On March 5, the number of Dreamers who become undocumented and unable to work and live here without the constant fear of deportation begins to escalate tenfold. So the clock is ticking loudly for a new way forward. If Republicans in Congress and in the White House are serious about avoiding the ugly spectacle of deporting Dreamers, they need to reach out and reach out fast. We have crafted bipartisan legislation in the past and I am a veteran of those efforts, so I know there are good people on both sides of the aisle who want to get something done. Now we just need the courage and the decency to end the squabbling and get down to legislating a solution to the problem and protecting Dreamers – and America – from the nightmare that we should have never had to fear. # # #
02.08.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) says he will vote against the Senate budget and spending deal the House is expected to vote on later today and he is urging his colleagues to do the same. The two-year deal does not address those with DACA, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program the President ended, nor the Dream Act (HR 3440). Rep. Gutiérrez has consistently said since September that he will not vote for budgets, spending resolutions or other “must-pass” legislation that fails to protect the Dreamers who are becoming vulnerable to deportation. The following is a statement from Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez, a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus: Anyone who votes for the Senate budget deal is colluding with this President and this Administration to deport Dreamers. It is as simple as that. As Democrats, we have to stand on principle and now is the time for some courage. We have made a pledge to protect Dreamers, the very Dreamers we encouraged to come forward and sign up and give their fingerprints to Homeland Security – and if we stand together and stand strong, then we can protect those Dreamers and insist on the passage of the Dream Act. It is not enough to ask Speaker Ryan for open debate on the issue or to hope that Senator McConnell allows a fair and open process to consider the Dream Act. Lives hang in the balance and we must use whatever leverage we have to force this Congress to do the right thing and protect Dreamers from becoming undocumented and deportable. It is not easy for me to call for a vote against a measure that includes hurricane relief for Puerto Rico, the beloved Island I have visited six times since September, bringing aid from the people of Chicago. It is not easy for me to call for a vote against a measure that will fund Community Health Centers in Chicago and elsewhere because they do vital work that helps my constituents. But this is an inflection point where our Party has to stand up to defend the weak and the vulnerable from an outrageous attack from the heartless bully in the White House who decided to deport DACA recipients. These are Americans. They grew up here. They live and work here. They share our nation with us. Right now, we are being called upon to protect them from deportation and we must answer that call. I will not play a role in deporting these young Americans back to countries where they are not welcome and could be endangered. They should live and work here in the country that raised them. They need to be here where being a woman, identifying as LGBTQ or living with a handicap is not a death sentence or a challenge to basic human rights. They are our young people and we should protect them. # # # The Congressman also gave a floor speech this morning on the topic (Text: http://bit.ly/2Ed7KvG | Video: http://cs.pn/2EtML7a)
02.08.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives this morning to voice his opposition to the Senate budget and spending deal the House is expected to vote on today. The two-year deal does not address those with DACA, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program the President has ended, nor the Dream Act (HR 3440). Rep. Gutiérrez has consistently said since September that he will not vote for budgets, spending resolutions or other “must-pass” legislation that fails to protect the Dreamers who are becoming vulnerable to deportation. During his speech this morning, the Congressman also called out the President and his staff for their characterizations of immigrants in the State of the Union address and elsewhere. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: http://cs.pn/2EtML7a Floor Remarks (Transcription via C-SPAN) February 8, 2018; approx. 9:05 am ET Thank you, Mr. Speaker. We sat here and heard the president's state of the union address in which he spoke about immigration and immigrants. Couple of things I want to highlight. No, Mr. President, not all immigrants are, A) Latino, and not all immigrants, Mr. President, are members of organized gangs, MS-13. I know you don't want to be fair and didn't want to talk about the immigrants that are doctors, healing people every day in our hospitals. The immigrants that are teachers educating Americans every day in our schools. The engineers that are innovating and creating new infrastructure that keep us safe and keep us modern in America. No, you don't want to even talk about the millions of immigrants that toil in our fields without papers, without documentation. And we know and we see the fruit of their labor, both literally and figuratively speaking when we go to our grocery stores. Who do you think does that work; does that hard work in the fields? People born American citizens? No. People who have come here. But we didn't want to talk about that. Then you went on to say after you criminalized immigrants and made them these scary people who come to rob and to maim and to murder, then you went ahead and said, and by the way, those who come here legally sponsored by their relatives, by their parents, by their brothers and sisters -- their brothers and sisters, by their immediate family members, they, too, pose a threat. You said, Mr. President, they come here as immigrants and then they sponsor an unlimited of distant relatives. Well, last time I checked in my personal life, my wife, who you can sponsor, is a pretty close relative to me. My children and my parents. Those are the only people -- those are the only people you can sponsor. Yes, parents, children, and your spouse. But you said they were unlimited. So if that's a lie, what part of what you said was true? Well, virtually nothing. Because if the underpinning of one of your arguments is shown to be false, then what is true? And then this week we saw this administration go from calling immigration -- immigrants criminals to saying they are just downright lazy. No. I say to the Chief of Staff of the president of the United States, the Dreamers are not lazy. They may be afraid because it was an executive order which many of them feared a new president might revoke and put them in jeopardy. That's true. But lazy they are not. They scraped together the $500, went through the background checks not once but twice and thousands of them three times in order to get what you today want to take away from them, their ability to work and to live freely in this country with nothing from the government. And so, if you didn't think the criminalization of immigrants was wrong, if you didn't think the demonization of them as hordes of people who can bring unlimited number of distant relatives, that lie was wrong, if you didn't think calling them just lazy was wrong, no. No, you know what I see. Barack Obama said he saw people that were inculcated with the same values that he saw in his own children. I want to go one step further than that. I don't see my children in them. I see fellow Americans. I see fellow Members of the House of Representatives, and I know that scares the hell out of a lot of Americans that that could be, but it shouldn't because that's the way forward and they are going to come and they are going to be integrated because we are going to get them the one thing that they need -- that piece of paper -- because they're Americans. They're serving in the armed forces and dying for us today. Serving in the armed forces and they're working and they're healing. Why can’t we let people that are doctors and lawyers and people that are nurses and people that are in the armed forces stay? They've been through the background checks. Because that's not the kind of America some of us want to see in the future. So today, they are going to bring over from the Senate a proposal, they are going to lift the caps and they're going to say, let's vote on our budget. Well, I say to everybody -- don't collude with this administration. Vote against the budget. # # #
02.02.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) and Democratic Members of the House Judiciary Committee, issued a joint statement following the release of the “Nunes memo,” a set of misleading talking points drafted by the Republican staff of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence in an attempt to discredit the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and undermine Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation: “President Trump’s decision to allow the release of Chairman Nunes’ Republican talking points is part of a coordinated propaganda effort to discredit, disable and defeat the Russia investigation. House Republicans are now accomplices to a shocking campaign to obstruct the work of the Special Counsel, to undermine the credibility and legitimacy of the Justice Department and the FBI, and to bury the fact that a foreign adversary interfered with our last election. “This Republican campaign is a betrayal of the American people. None of this is a surprise coming from President Trump, who has a long track record of dangerous irresponsibility and disregard for the rule of law. But, until now, Congressional Republicans simply ignored and provided cover to this Administration’s obvious, coordinated attempt to protect President Trump at any cost. But releasing these Nunes talking points—likely prepared in coordination with the Trump White House—constitutes a deliberate and active complicity in the Administration’s attempts to undermine the Special Counsel and the FBI. “House Republicans have put the President’s self-interest and their own political objectives above the needs of the country. The FBI warned that the Bureau has, “grave concerns about material omissions of fact that fundamentally impact the memo’s accuracy.” “Despite the intelligence community’s unanimous conclusion that our last election was compromised, and their warning that Russia and others will attempt to interfere in our next election, President Trump and the Republicans have taken no action to secure our democracy against sabotage from foreign adversaries. Republicans seem not to care that President Trump has tried to pressure all three of his FBI directors to make the Russia investigation go away, and continues to smear career officials with lies and innuendo. And now, with the release of the Nunes talking points—a deliberately misleading document that politicizes and distorts highly classified information in order to discredit our intelligence and law enforcement agencies—President Trump has successfully added the Republican Majority in Congress as accessories to his continuing obstruction of justice. “Instead of cooperating with a legitimate and serious investigation, President Trump has decided to attack and undermine the institutions and personnel dedicated to upholding the rule of law. These institutions were in place long before Donald Trump became president, and they will continue to exist long after he leaves – though not before President Trump makes his best attempt to irrevocably damage them. “Republicans, for their part, have done nothing—despite their constitutional duty—to hold a reckless Administration accountable for its actions. At the very least, they should have the courage to join us in protecting Mr. Mueller from political interference until this investigation is complete. We urge our Republican colleagues to finally put country above party and work with us to protect the institutions at the core of our democracy. Instead, they have merely become accomplices to a dangerous and possibly criminal executive, aiding and abetting the destruction of the Special Counsel investigation.” The statement is from Democratic Members of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee, including: Representatives Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Karen Bass (D-CA), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), David Cicilline (D-RI), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), and Val Demings (D-FL). On January 31, 2018, the FBI released a statement to express their “grave concerns about the material omissions of fact that fundamentally impact the memo’s accuracy.” Ahead of the House Intelligence Committee vote to release the memo publicly, Department of Justice Assistant Attorney General Stephen Boyd wrote to Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes (R-CA) to express his concerns, calling the move “extraordinarily reckless.” According to recent reports, White House Chief of Staff John Kelly held meetings or phone calls with senior Justice Department officials to inform them of White House expectations and to express disdain for the DOJ letter. On February 1, 2018, Ranking Member Nadler sent a letter to Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), to request an emergency briefing with Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Christopher Wray, on his concerns regarding the “Nunes memo.” On January 30, 2018, House Judiciary Committee Republicans repeatedly blocked Democratic requests to discuss concerns related to the “Nunes memo” and to allow Judiciary Members to read the memo’s source material. Watch part one here. Watch part two here. On January 23, 2018, after reviewing the “Nunes memo,” Ranking Member Nadler immediately wrote to Chairman Bob Goodlatte to express his concerns regarding its accuracy and to ask that the source material be made available to all Members of the Judiciary Committee. The House Committee on the Judiciary has not held a single hearing on efforts by the Trump Administration and its Republican supporters in Congress to undermine the Special Counsel’s investigation into connections between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. Judiciary Republicans have also taken no action to address the ongoing threat Russia poses to the U.S. federal election system—despite pledging to do so when adopting the Committee’s oversight plan. ###
01.30.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement after listening to the President’s State of the Union address. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Even though I disagreed with almost everything he said, for Trump, the speech was clear and well-delivered. Whoever translated it for him from Russian did a good job. I am still hopeful, but I don’t see this Congress and this President coming to an agreement that prevents the deportation of the Dreamers. The White House agenda is to gut legal immigration in exchange for allowing some of the Dreamers to live here. For those of us who support legal immigration, and that’s most Democrats and many Republicans, it won’t fly. And the Dreamers themselves have said they do not want legal status if it comes at the expense of others who will suffer more as part of the bargain. The speech did nothing to bring the pro- and anti-immigrant sides closer together. I was hoping for some sort of apology on Puerto Rico, but I heard nothing. Puerto Rico is a metaphor for how this President sees all Latinos and people of color: he does not see us as his equals and he does not see us as fellow human beings. If you look at how the President has treated Puerto Rico, you have to conclude that he just doesn’t care and probably thinks of Puerto Rico as just another shithole country. I was born in 1953 in the U.S. when separate but equal was the law of the land. I am proud of the progress the United States has made as a nation on issues of race, gender, sexual orientation, disabilities, and many other areas where we have advanced. I was hoping to get through my life without having to witness an outwardly, explicitly racist American President, but my luck ran out. # # #
01.22.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement reacting to the vote in the Senate to agree to fund the government. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. This simply kicks the can down the road with no assurance that we will protect Dreamers from deportation or fight Republican attempts to curtail or eliminate legal immigration. I have said since September – when Trump killed DACA – that I will not vote for a long-term or short-term spending bill that fails to protect the Dreamers. We will not fund their deportation and we will not exchange their safety for the deportation of others or for the prohibition of others to enter legally. Democrats believe in immigration and it is deeply engrained in who we are as a people. Every American family has been shaped by immigrants who were allowed to live among us legally – even the Trumps – so let’s make sure our laws reflect that. I do not see how a vague promise from the Senate Majority Leader about a vague policy to be voted on in the future helps the Dreamers or maximizes leverage the Democrats and American people have over the Republicans right now. If the Republicans said we are ending same-sex marriage, but we promise Democrats a vote later; or we approve of oil drilling in every national park, but you’ll have a vote later – do you think the Democrats would say yes? This shows me that when it comes to immigrants, Latinos and their families, Democrats are still not willing to go to the mat to allow people in my community to live in our country legally. # # #
01.21.2018	REP. LUIS Gutiérrez (D-IL) ON “THIS WEEK WITH GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS” Video Link: http://abcn.ws/2mWFzWp Transcript Link: http://abcn.ws/2mZRhzA Transcript Highlights Rep. Gutiérrez on conceding to build the wall: “I think the wall is a monumental waste of taxpayers’ money…it’s just idiotic, having said that, if that’s what it’s going to take in order to put 800,000 young men and women…and put them on a course to full integration into our society, if that’s what the hostage takers of the Dreamers, if that’s their ransom call, I say pay it.” Rep. Gutiérrez on Gen. Kelly’s comments that President Trump was not fully informed: “Here is what [Gen. Kelly] said: The president of the United States, while he was campaigning, made promises that were not fully informed…it was so astonishing to me that I immediately wrote it down… He said I’ve educated the president and the president has evolved on the issue.” A rush transcript of “This Week with George Stephanopoulos” airing on Sunday morning, January 21, 2018 on ABC News is below. This copy may not be in its final form and may be updated. All excerpts must be attributed to ABC News “This Week with George Stephanopoulos” Jonathan Greenberger is the Executive Producer. The program airs Sundays on the ABC Television Network (check local listings). Visit the “This Week” website to read more about the show at: www.abcnews.go.com/thisweek Transcript: STEPHANOPOULOS: Back now with two key members of the house on opposite sides of the immigration debate, Democrat Luis Gutierrez from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus; Republican Mark Meadows, chair of the Freedom Caucus. Gentlemen, welcome to both of you. Congressman Gutierrez, let me begin with you. You saw our poll showing that Americans more inclined to blame Republicans for the shutdown,but CNN also has a poll that says they think it's more important to avoid a shutdown, 56 percent versus continuing DACA, 34 percent. We put that poll up right now. Are you worried at all about Democrats overplaying their hand? REP. LUIS GUTIERREZ, (D) ILLINOIS: Yeah, let me start by saying this to you, George, look, I think the wall is a monumental waste of tax payer money. It's to build a monument to stupidity and it's just idiotic. Having said that, if that's what it's going to take in order to put 800,000 young men and women in this country, Dreamers, and put them in a safe place and put them on a course to full integration in our society, if that's what the hostage takers of the Dreamers, if that's their ransom call, I say pay it and then... STEPHANOPOULOS: I thought Mexico was supposed to pay for the wall. GUTIERREZ: Next November , we'll deal with the kidnappers at the election at the polls. And let's reopen the government. But George, that's what the president said. He said I want to wall, and as despicable as it is, as hurtful as it is to people like me and others in this country, we are ready to sacrifice that so that Dreamers can have freedom in this country. STEPHANOPOULOS: $20 billion that Mexico was supposed to pay? GUTIERREZ: That's exactly the point. $20 billion. A president of the United States had said Mexico are murderers, criminals, drug dealers, and we have got to build a wall. We've got to get rid of them. We have got to build a wall. Because the conversation has always been about, well, you know, those Democrats they're not into border security. All right, you want to build this monument to stupidity. You want to waste, and you insist upon wasting $20 billion, then I say free the Dreamers. I have -- they've taken them hostage, George. What am I supposed to do? I asked them to sign up. I filled out forms by the thousand with them. It is my responsibility today to put them in a safe place. But George, it's really not. You know what this demonstrates to us? That it's really not about border security, right. Because the government should be open. Because people like I and others in the Democratic Party -- and I want to make clear, Dick Durbin offered them the money for the wall. Schumer offered the money for the wall. I wasn't the first one to come up with the Democrats to say this. STEPHANOPOULOS: You heard Marc Short... GUTIERREZ: But I have been clear about it. STEPHANOPOULOS: Congressman, you heard Marc Short earlier in the program, he said that that wasn't good enough, that they also needed changes in the chain immigration and the lottery system. Are you willing to accept that in return for freeing the DACA hostages, as you put it? GUTIERREZ: Here's my point to you. What it reveals to us is the president of the United States has said -- and he said this on numerous occasions, George, I want a wall. You get the Dreamers. And now they move the goals, right. Here's what they're saying to us, George, and we have to be very clear about it, and we are going to fight this, they want to end legal immigration to the United States. They say let's build a wall to keep us safe. They say let's build a wall so that our workers don't have to compete with illegals that come across the -- but then they end legal immigration. They say the lottery system, let's end it. That's legal immigration to the United States. George, what they want is the following -- and listen very carefully to what they're saying. When they say chain immigration, which is something just as a general, offensive to me to use that word, right, because it's really about family reunification. It's about a mom bringing their children, about children bringing their moms, about husband and a wife, those are the visas they're going after. Let's be absolutely clear. They what to end. What does my ability to bring my brother to the United States of America, what does the ability that I have to bring my children to this country or my children to bring me have to do with border security? Have to do with keeping this country safe? They want to end legal immigration. And you know what, George, we have to fight that. Because it's the essence of who we are as a nation. It's core to what it is to be American, to have an immigration policy. We would not be a nation without immigrants and an immigration policy. And we have to push back. STEPHANOPOULOS: Congressman, you were at the White House with General Kelly this week, did he really say the president was uninformed on the wall? GUTIERREZ: Yes. Well, I had a meeting. I was sitting right next to him, next to Mr. Kelly, and here's what he said. He said the president of the United States when he was campaigning made promises that were not fully informed. I wrote it down. I wrote it down. It was so astonishing to me that I immediately wrote it down. He said was not fully informed. Is that uninformed? I heard the president was not fully informed. He said I've educated the president and the president has evolved on the issue. And when I asked General Kelly what's a wall? He said it could be the inhospitable terrain. It could be border patrol agents. It could be drones. That's why I'm saying, let's take it off the table. Let's take it off the table. The America public has heard this president say time and time again he wants a wall. And as repugnant as it is to me, and as idiotic as it is to me, George, this debate has to be about men and women, about youth -- 800,000 young people. And I'm going to put them first. And you know what, if I have to muddy up my hands in order to do it so that they live a clean life in this country? Then let's do it. STEPHANOPOULOS: OK. Congressman, thanks, we got your perspective right there. # # #
01.18.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives this morning to discuss what he learned about family immigration, bipartisanship and the fate of the Dreamers in the meeting yesterday between the President’s Chief of Staff and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), the Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, and the Democratic Whip. In discussing immigration and the potential for a government shutdown with General John Kelly, the Congressman learned what bipartisanship and families mean to the President and his Chief of Staff, both for people from and Norway and not from Norway. And the Congressman said he is more confident in the unity of Democrats to stand up for a solution for the Dreamers than ever before. The Congressman said that unity among Democrats to help Republicans avoid a government shutdown this week was strong, but it will only work if Republicans work with Democrats to release the 800,000 Dreamers Republicans are “holding hostage.” Republicans might not need our help, because you’re the majority party, we’re the minority party. But just in case you do need our help in getting a budget approved, I want you to know that we are ready to stand to help keep the government open and to approve a budget. But what I learned from the meeting with General Kelly that everybody should understand is that Democrats are more united than ever before. If you [Republicans] want to take the help – our help – on the budget, you’ve got to release the 800,000 Dreamers you are holding hostage. You’ve got to do it. And Rep. Gutiérrez expressed his confidence that Democrats would stand strong: There comes a time when if you say you stand for justice, you have to actually take a stand and hold it and not back down. And that’s what Democrats are going to do this week. We’re not going to back down. The Congressman started his remarks by observing that the Chief of Staff – in stating that he and the President support a “merit-based” immigration system – was basically telling the CHC that their parents and ancestors were the wrong kinds of people and were a burden to the country. [Kelly] was saying, you know, I’m meeting with a group of Congressmen, but you really shouldn’t be here, because your parents are really tearing the country apart and bringing it down. And that’s exactly what they want to stop, with the merit-based system, unless of course the immigrants come from Norway, then they can continue to come. He also noted that “the party of family values and the party of Donald Trump” where being hypocritical in wanting to eliminate parts of the family-based immigration system. Saying of the President’s businesses: Here’s an organization where the dad created the business, handed it down to the son, and his son is going to hand it down to his children, but they don’t want immigrants to do exactly the same thing and follow the same course that has been so successful for the President of the United States. General Kelly also tried to make the case to the CHC that when Members of the Republican Party work with Members of the Democratic Party, that is not bipartisanship. Only a Senate deal between people who believe in immigration and those who don’t believe in immigration and want to end the immigration system as it is – unless you come from Norway – that’s the only way it’s bipartisanship. He reiterated his bottom line in his conclusion: Need our help? Release the 800,000 Dreamer you hold hostage. And guess what, we are ready to pay a handsome ransom for their release. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://youtu.be/5DFjTUvYAts Floor Remarks January 18, 2018 Mr. Speaker, interesting meeting yesterday with General Kelly. Twenty-five Members of Congress, almost all of whom are descendants of immigrants who came here with nothing – whose parents came here with nothing – sat down with the Chief of Staff to the President of the United States and he said basically, we were the wrong kind of people in America. And that people like our parents that came here to this country really are bringing the country down. Because when he says he is for a merit based system of immigration, he’s saying he’s not for people like my mom and my dad being able to come to this country. But interestingly because all of us whose families came to this country because of family-based immigration system wound up being Members of the U.S. House of Representatives. But he was saying, you know, I’m meeting with a group of Congressmen, but you really shouldn’t be here, because your parents are really tearing the country apart and bringing it down. That is really what he means when he says he wants to replace the system we have with a merit-based system. And that was very telling in the meeting yesterday. But, we Democrats want a system that is family-based, that’s the system that Democrats want, because we believe that businesses are started by immigrant families and it is essential for their families to be united as they come to this country so that they can achieve American success and together, all of us can achieve the American dream. And that’s exactly what they want to stop, with the merit-based system, unless of course the immigrants come from Norway, then they can continue to come. We hear this from the party of family values and the party of Donald Trump – who even employs his children at the White House. The Trump Organization – just think about it – here’s an organization where the dad created the business, handed it down to the son, and his son is going to hand it down to his children, but they don’t want immigrants to do exactly the same thing and follow the same course that has been so successful for the President of the United States. And here is something else we learned from the Chief of Staff: That when people from one party work with people from another party, that’s not bipartisanship, the General said. Bipartisanship as defined by General Kelly and this White House is when people with completely different and opposite views of the world work together. So only a Senate deal between people who believe in immigration and those who don’t believe in immigration and want to end the immigration system as it is – unless you come from Norway – that’s the only way it’s bipartisanship. That’s like saying if a Republican and a Democrat work together on an environmental issue, it’s not bipartisanship because it is a Republican and a Democrat. Unless the Democrat and the Republican are a person that believes in climate change working together with a Republican who thinks climate change is a hoax created by the Chinese. You know what kind of legislation you get? You get nothing. You get a stalemate. You do not move the agenda forward, but that is their definition of bipartisanship. And that’s what we learned at the meeting yesterday. Look, Democrats and Republicans are working together – Senator Graham, Republican, Senator Durbin, Democrat – they put a proposal on the table and the President rejected it. That includes, just so we are clear, Democrats giving up things that are unprecedented in that Senate deal that was put on the President’s desk. And Members of the Hispanic Caucus meeting with General Kelly cannot fathom supporting the Senate deal. But guess what, that’s bipartisanship. That’s what it comes down to. Which brings us to the votes this week. Republicans might not need our help, because you’re the majority party, we’re the minority party. But just in case you do need our help in getting a budget approved, I want you to know that we are ready to stand to help keep the government open and to approve a budget. But what I learned from the meeting with General Kelly that everybody should understand is that Democrats are more united than ever before. If you want to take the help – our help – on the budget, you’ve got to release the 800,000 Dreamers you are holding hostage. You’ve got to do it. Democrats aren’t going to blink. We’re going to stand by our values. There comes a time when if you say you stand for justice, you have to actually take a stand and hold it and not back down. And that’s what Democrats are going to do this week. We’re not going to back down. Need our help? Release the 800,000 Dreamer you hold hostage. And guess what, we are ready to pay a handsome ransom for their release. Thank you. # # #
01.17.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement in reaction to news that Donald Trump’s Chief of Staff John Kelly said that the President was “not fully informed” as a candidate on the promises he made about the border wall he supports. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez attended the meeting and is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. I can confirm that Chief of Staff Kelly said today that the President’s campaign was not fully informed about the wall he was promising to voters. Kelly went on to say that many campaigns are not fully informed about every policy and that campaigning and governing are two different things and that governing is harder. Kelly took credit for educating the President on the wall and that a concrete barrier from sea to shining sea was no longer the conception of border security barriers supported today by the White House. # # #
01.11.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement in reaction to news that Donald Trump attacked immigration from “shithole countries” like Haiti, El Salvador and African countries. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. As an American, I am ashamed of the President. His comments are disappointing, unbelievable, but not surprising. We always knew that President Trump doesn’t like people from certain countries or people or certain colors. We can now we say with 100% confidence that the President is a racist who does not share the values enshrined in our Constitution or Declaration of Independence. He has embraced racists, white nationalists and neo-Nazis and makes excuses for them. He launched his campaign saying Mexicans are rapists and murderers. He has refused to address the crisis facing the American citizens of Puerto Rico. He has tried several times to bar people of certain religions or nationalities from legal entry to the U.S. He attacks professional sports stars to entertain his base and has boasted about his habit of groping women inappropriately. Now he has spent most of the last six months undocumenting immigrants who have work permits and deep roots in the U.S. by killing DACA and TPS. This is the real Donald Trump and my biggest fear is that his voters will applaud him. # # #
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Wednesday, three Members of Congress took the unusual step of calling for the House’s adjournment in order to focus attention on the need for the DREAM Act to protect immigrants. In succession, after delivering one-minute speeches in accordance with House procedures, Reps. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY) and Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL) interrupted scheduled legislative business on the House floor by calling for a recorded vote on whether the House of Representatives should adjourn, thus forcing Members to come to the floor for an unscheduled vote. The Members said they took this action to demonstrate the urgency with which the Congress must address the immigration status of Dreamers, those who arrived in the U.S. as children but have lived here for years and have no way to get legal immigration status. “The President gave the Congress a deadline to pass legislation to protect the Dreamers and we take that deadline very seriously and think our colleagues should too,” said Rep. Gutiérrez. “Any time we are not debating the Dream Act is time wasted and we wanted to make that point by forcing everyone to come to the floor for a symbolic vote.” “We are taking action to make sure everyone knows that people with DACA are already losing their status and face deportation,” said Rep. Grijalva. “If we have to inconvenience our colleagues to get their attention, so be it.” “We are making it clear to Republicans and Democrats that we are willing to use any parliamentary procedure at our disposal to force our colleagues to address the DACA crisis and the Dream Act with the urgency it deserves,” said Rep. Adriano Espaillat. “We have the votes for the Dream Act in the House, so if the Speaker gives us a vote, we can resolve the issue and we won’t be forced to take these unusual actions.” By calling for a privileged Motion to Adjourn, the House Members compel a vote in the House floor to end usual floor proceedings. They are demanding a vote on the DREAM Act (HR 3440), which would give legal protections to certain immigrants, many of whom are among the 800,000 recipients of DACA, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program the President terminated in September. While a court injunction has temporarily blocked the President from undocumenting these long-term immigrants, the Congress must still pass legislation immediately to ensure protection from deportation. Rep. Gutiérrez: “We need the Dream Act because Donald Trump and his followers are trying to turn documented, registered, working immigrants and drive them out of our communities. Someone has to take a stand. Maybe today’s actions are a nuisance, but we will not sit silently while the Trump deportation machine gears up to deport Dreamers or their families.” Rep. Grijalva: “The televised reality show in the President’s Board Room yesterday did not give me any confidence that the President understands these issues or that the White House and congressional Republicans intend to be honest, thoughtful negotiators. But whatever legislation the Congress can pass needs to be passed in a hurry because people’s lives are already being upended.” Rep. Espaillat: “The pressure is on and we are simply demanding a vote. Business as usual will not lead to a solution for the American people, immigrants, and the Dreamers, so we will continue to shake things up until we get a vote." # # #
01.08.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement in reaction to the news that the Trump Administration is ending Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for an estimated 200,000 immigrants from El Salvador. The President has previously terminated protections from deportation and work documents for those with DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) and others with TPS, including Haitians and Nicaraguans. More than a million immigrants who live and work under the protection of American laws will lose that protection in the coming months. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Once again, Donald Trump is turning immigrants who have lived and worked within the laws of the U.S. for a generation into undocumented immigrants. Hostile to immigrants and immigration, the White House has added hundreds of thousands of Salvadorans to the ranks of Dreamers, Haitians, Nicaraguans and others who have lost discretionary protection from deportation. And like the DACA holders, will Donald Trump and Stephen Miller demand ransom to allow them to live and work here? For Dreamers, it’s cuts to legal immigration, increases in deportations and $18 billion for a border wall. What will Trump and Miller extract from the American people to protect TPS holders? A moat with alligators? The White House is peddling a fantasy where hundreds of thousands of people who have established their lives, families, and businesses in the U.S. for decades will leave or can be rounded up and deported. Turning immigrants living and working legally in the U.S. into undocumented immigrants defies logic, even for this President. # # #
12.21.2017	Washington, DC – Today in the House of Representatives, the next installment of hurricane relief funding for Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands along with relief for the California wildfires, is expected to be brought to the House floor for a vote. Given that the partisan package is wholly inadequate to respond to the severity of the disaster and crisis in Puerto Rico, Rep Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) announced he plans to vote against the measure. Puerto Rico is still facing the effects of the most devastating hurricane in its history. More than three months have passed since Hurricane Maria hit and half of the island continues to live without electricity and much of the island does not have consistent access to clean water. House Republicans have introduced an emergency supplemental funding measure that would provide $81 billion dollars for recovery efforts spanning the U.S. mainland and the territories. Given that Puerto Rico alone needs an estimated $94 billion to recover from its historic devastation, the supplemental is completely inadequate. In addition, Republicans failed to designate any of the proposed funds specifically for Puerto Rico—something that will result in Puerto Rico being shortchanged in assistance. “Given how the Trump Administration and the federal agencies have treated Puerto Rico in the face of this historic disaster, it is clear that the supplemental will do very little to help the Puerto Rican people recover,” Rep Gutiérrez said. “It is completely inadequate and we cannot depend on this Administration to distribute the $81 billion in relief in a fair and equitable manner to the people of Puerto Rico. Any funding bill for hurricane relief should designate exactly what the island of Puerto Rico will receive. I don’t trust President Trump or his Administration. Nowhere else in the U.S. would it be acceptable to allow citizens to live in squalor for months and months without electricity or water. We owe it to Puerto Ricans to get them what they need to rebuild the island, not insult and abandon them by tossing them paper towels.” The measure, which will probably be voted on today, also expands the authority of the PROMESA Oversight Board, locally called the “Junta,” by giving them powers over hurricane funding. The bill also fails to include cost sharing waivers that Rep. Gutiérrez and others have called for and does absolutely nothing to address Puerto Rico’s Medicaid crisis. “I guess the Christmas spirit of generosity from the Republican Party only extends to the Junta de Control and billionaires and not the people of Puerto Rico,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “I cannot support a bill that claims to help Puerto Rico but actually shortchanges them, again.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
12.21.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) delivered a letter to Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), the newly-elected Ranking Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee, to be prepared to call the Committee back to Washington for immediate investigation and possible impeachment proceedings if the President fires Special Counsel Robert Mueller over the Christmas recess. The letter congratulates Rep. Nadler on his new position and expresses Rep. Gutiérrez’s concern that the President may use the absence of the Congress in Washington over the holidays to obstruct justice in matters related to Mueller’s investigation into Trump family, Trump campaign, and Trump White House ties to Russian meddling in U.S. elections. In his letter (pdf here: 122117 Letter to Nadler re Mueller FINAL.pdf ), Rep. Gutiérrez writes: Before we leave for Christmas, I want to be very clear that as the Ranking Member, you should be prepared to call the Committee back to Washington if and when this President attempts to undermine Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation by removing the Special Counsel from his post during this holiday season. Every Democrat on the Judiciary Committee should be ready to launch an immediate investigation into obstruction of justice if the President takes this action over the holidays and be prepared to fight to impeach him. Congressman Gutiérrez concludes: While Christmas is my most cherished holiday, we must be prepared to put the nation ahead of this sacred celebration and our own families. I hope we are not called back to Washington, but we have learned that anything is possible with this President and we will have to be ready to act swiftly. Rep. Gutiérrez even included his personal cell phone number in the letter so that Rep. Nadler could reach him over the holidays. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
12.13.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) used his question and answer period during today’s House Judiciary Committee oversight hearing with Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein to ask about sexual assault allegations against the President of the United States. The Congressman said: "I believe these women. In fact, I would say without hesitation whenever it is a case of his word against her word, I generally give her word a lot more weight.” He continued: "And when the ‘him’ in question is Donald Trump, there really should be no further discussion because, as everybody regardless of their political affiliations or partisanship can clearly see, we have a man in the presidency who has a very difficult relationship with the truth. In this case we have women who were made to feel powerless and insignificant, who at great personal cost and risk, have come forward. And I believe them. I do." Using the words of some of the women who have come forward and the words of the President corroborating some of the accusations, the Congressman asked America’s number two law-enforcement official about the President’s groping and other unwanted advances: “Were he on a subway or in a restaurant, would not [these] incidents be enough to get him arrested, in your experience?” The Congressman did not get much of an answer from the Deputy Attorney General. A video of the Congressman’s Q&A session is here: https://youtu.be/bGdtzKmOoMQ Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. REMARKS (As Prepared for Delivery) December 13, 2017 I would like to ask you about sexual assault by the President of the United States. Over the past few days – echoing previous allegations made against the President in the past several years – at least 16 women have come forward to say that the President of the United States felt them up, kissed them without permission, put his hand under their clothing without permission, groped them, touched their genitalia, walked into dressing rooms unannounced to see them naked and made other unwanted sexual advances that are clear violations of law. Now, I believe these women. In fact, I would say without hesitation whenever it is a case of his word against her word, I generally give her word a lot more weight. And when the “him” in question is Donald Trump, there really should be no further discussion because, as everybody regardless of their political affiliations or partisanship can clearly see, we have a man in the presidency who has a very difficult relationship with the truth. In this case we have women who were made to feel powerless and insignificant, who at great personal cost and risk, have come forward. And I believe them. I do. Just as I believe the women who came forward to accuse Senator Al Franken. And it goes no farther than this Committee which has two empty chairs today because two senior Members resigned because women came forward and made credible claims. And others on this dais right now are among the additional Members of this body who are accused – credibly accused – of misconduct. Right now, with the number two person in the Justice Department before our Committee and sworn to tell the truth I think it is important to get your opinion on whether there are grounds for a criminal investigation or an ethics investigation against the President of the United States. For example, Rachel Crooks is one of the 16 women that we know of who have come forward. She said that President Trump, before he was President, “kissed me directly on the mouth. It was so inappropriate he thought I was so insignificant that he could do that.” Jill Harth, another one of the 16 women, said, “He groped me, he absolutely groped me. And he just slipped his hand there touching my private parts.” Now those are just two examples of unwelcome sexual advances. Were he on a subway or in a restaurant, would not either or both of those incidents be enough to get him arrested, in your experience as the number 2 most important law-enforcement officer in the United States? But before you answer that, how about in these cases? Kristen Anderson, in an interview said: “The person on my right who unbeknownst to me at that time was Donald Trump, put their hand up my skirt he did touch my vagina through my underwear.” And Cassandra Searles said: “He continually grabbed my ass and invited me to his hotel room.” These are very serious allegations of crimes committed by the President, are they not? But before you answer, I think it is important to point out that these stories are corroborated by one of the most important witnesses of all, the President himself. He told TV host Billy Bush when he was mic’ed up for an interview with Access Hollywood. “I just start kissing them. It’s like a magnet. Just kiss. I don’t even wait. And when you’re a star, they let you do it. You can do anything. He continued “Grab ’em by the… [pussy]. You can do anything.” Samantha Holvey said on national television that when she was a contestant in a beauty pageant, Trump would come back unannounced in the dressing room. And she tells her story and once again, we have audio tape of the President corroborating this account when he told Howard Stern "Well, I'll tell you the funniest is that before a show, I'll go backstage and everyone's getting dressed, and everything else, and you know, no men are anywhere, and I'm allowed to go in because I'm the owner.” And he went on to say “"the chicks will be almost naked." Mr. Rosenstein, I see you as a law enforcement officer and I value your opinion on these matters. Would it be appropriate for you to investigate these and other allegations of assault and unwanted sexual advances? Are we helping to delegitimize sexual assault if we say, oh, well, the American people voted, the people of Alabama voted, even with Members of this Committee campaigning on behalf of the Alabama Senate nominee and the President, do we on this committee – the Judiciary Committee – bear responsibility for allowing these actions to go unnoticed, uninvestigated, unchallenged because they are uncomfortable? What does that do from a law enforcement standpoint when people get away with assault with no consequences or with in fact, job advancement and accolades. Do you see that as having a long term effect? # # #
12.13.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) delivered a speech on the House floor this morning calling for a vote on the DREAM Act (HR 3440), which would allow immigrants who arrived in the U.S. as children to apply for permanent legal status. His speech focused on the 122 DACA recipients (those with Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) who lose their status every day – and will continue to lose their status until the program shuts down completely in March. To emphasize his point, the Congressman had a poster with the message “122 #DREAMACTNOW” and the Congressman, like many DREAM Act supporters in Congress, is wearing a matching orange button. However, he was asked to remove the button before his remarks began. [The Congressman was also briefly misidentified by the Presiding Officer, who incorrectly recognized “the gentleman from Alabama” to speak. To which, the Congressman retorted, “Today, I’d like to be from Alabama today, but I’m not.] In his speech, the Rep. Gutiérrez stressed the urgency of the moment, saying: We cannot wait until March. The DREAM Act and the protections of the DACA program are not light switches we can turn on and off. Every day we delay passage of the DREAM Act, another 122 DACA recipients lose their status. They go from being documented to being undocumented, and their worlds are turned upside down. And it is not just their lives, but also the lives of American citizens who love them, who employ them, who rely on them. And he noted that “As of today, more than 12,000 have lost their DACA status.” He then told the story of Mayron, Saul and Brittany, three DACA recipients whose DACA status has already expired or will expire by the end of next week when the Congress is slated to adjourn for the holidays. Mayron from Washington State is an entrepreneur, Saul in California wants to be a teacher, and Brittany is a child care provider to a family with a special needs child who lost her status last week. Most Americans don’t understand why taking legal status away from a childcare provider who is employed and cherished by her employers will create law and order. How does creating more undocumented immigrants help? It does not make America great. It does not strengthen security or the economy. I don’t even think it benefits the Republican Party politically to send this young American woman away. But it is up to Republicans and Democrats to stand up for Brittany, Saul, and Mayron. The Congressman concluded: Democrats must be clear that we value the contributions of these young people and will not allow their stories to be ignored. And Republicans—even the brave ones who have said they are for solving the plight of the DACA kids—must do more than write a letter or whisper quietly in the halls that they hope something happens. It is up to us, right now. And I am not leaving and I am not shutting up until we do. Congressman Gutierrez is among those who have indicated that he will not support short-term spending measures or other “must-pass” legislation this year unless there is a clear path forward towards adoption of the DREAM Act. A video of the Congressman’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/xDzIApgTTck Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. REMARKS (As Prepared for Delivery) December 13, 2017 Every day, 122 people with DACA lose their protection from deportation. They lose their government-issued identification that allowed them to stay in this country and work legally. DACA is the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program that the President ended in September and which will completely expire in March, but let’s be clear – people do not have until March. People are already losing their DACA coverage on a daily basis. So when reporters and politicians say that Congress can stall until March to enact the DREAM Act, they are flat wrong. We cannot wait until March. The DREAM Act and the protections of the DACA program are not light switches we can turn on and off. Every day we delay passage of the DREAM Act, another 122 DACA recipients lose their status. They go from being documented to being undocumented, and their worlds are turned upside down. And it is not just their lives, but also the lives of American citizens who love them, who employ them, who rely on them. Young DREAMers came forward and reported to the Department of Homeland Security and paid their own money for a criminal background check by the FBI. In fact, many of them have successfully submitted their paperwork and biometrics three times. They paid all of this processing—the paperwork, the background checks, the fingerprints—with their own money. By definition they arrived in the United States as children, and by definition, they all arrived at least 10 years ago because to be eligible for DACA, you had to have been in the country a full year and a half before President Obama took office. And there are 800,000 of them. 800,000 young Americans who have been playing by the rules, doing everything their government asked them to do, and who have been living productive lives in communities in every state for years. As of today, more than 12,000 have lost their DACA status. Let me tell you about just a few of them. Mayron owns three businesses. He lives in Washington State and has lived in the U.S. since he was 11 years old. His DACA expires on December 22, the day that the CR is set to expire and the day we are all supposed to return to our families for the Christmas holiday and New Year’s. He submitted his DACA renewal well before the application deadline that was arbitrarily set in October. But he made a mistake. His check was for $465, not $495, and so he will be deportable as of December 22. His entire life is in the United States, and yet, if Republicans and the President have their way, he will be sent to Honduras. And his three businesses? Who knows what will happen to them. Another DACA recipient named Saul is from California and thanks to the security and stability provided by DACA, he has pursued a career in education. I was a teacher and I know that the monetary rewards are few, but the rewards for your soul are many – and the rewards to our society of having dedicated teachers are priceless. But without DACA and without the DREAM Act, Saul has no future in teaching and we may squander the passion he would bring to a classroom. His DACA expires on December 29 and this is anything but a Merry Christmas for him as Congress drags its feet. And finally, there is Brittany in New York. She is a child care provider who works with infant twins – one of whom has a severe health condition. Her employers are now scrambling because Brittany’s DACA expired last Thursday and she has no clear legal path forward. The family said “we are devastated at the thought that she may not be able to work in this country and know we won’t find another care giver who is as reliable, nurturing, and unshakable as Brittany.” Most Americans don’t understand why taking legal status away from a childcare provider who is employed and cherished by her employers will create law and order. How does creating more undocumented immigrants help? It does not make America great. It does not strengthen security or the economy. I don’t even think it benefits the Republican Party politically to send this young American woman away. But it is up to Republicans and Democrats to stand up for Brittany, Saul, and Mayron. Democrats must be clear that we value the contributions of these young people and will not allow their stories to be ignored. And Republicans—even the brave ones who have said they are for solving the plight of the DACA kids—must do more than write a letter or whisper quietly in the halls that they hope something happens. It is up to us, right now. And I am not leaving and I am not shutting up until we do. # # #
12.06.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) delivered a speech on the House floor this morning calling for a vote on the DREAM Act (HR 3440), which would allow immigrants who arrived in the U.S. as children to apply for permanent legal status. Later today, the Congressman will speak at a massive rally in Upper Senate Park to advocates who are gathering to send the same message: Pass the DREAM Act now. Yesterday, 34 House Republicans wrote Speaker of the House Paul Ryan to ask him to allow a vote on legislation to protect DREAMers and those with DACA before the end of the year. Rep. Gutiérrez says “You take the 34 Republicans that wrote the Speaker and add them to 194 of my Democrats and you are comfortably in the majority and the DREAM Act passes.” Before the end of this week, a Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the government past the midnight deadline for funding on Friday will be voted on and Rep. Gutiérrez and others are calling for the inclusion of the DREAM Act on this must-pass legislation, because DREAMers with DACA are already losing their protection from deportation. “Every day that Congress does not pass the DREAM Act, 122 DACA recipients lose their protection from deportation,” the Congressman said in his floor speech. He went on to compare the unpopularity of the recent Republican tax proposal (supported by just 29% of the American people in a Gallup poll released yesterday) and the DREAM Act, supported by 86% of the American people in a recent Fox News poll – and 63% of Trump voters – and the Congressman had a chart to show the vast differences in popularity of the two proposals. Yet, as the Congressman said about the DREAM Act, “[H] here is a proposal supported by an overwhelming number of people; an overwhelming number of Republicans; and an overwhelming percentage of people who voted for Donald Trump and we cannot get a vote.” With regard to the news that short-term CRs are in the works to kick the decisions on the DREAM Act until next year, the Congressman said: I will vote against any short-term CR because I assume you have the votes to govern as you see fit, no matter how much I and other Democrats disagree with your priorities on women, on children’s health insurance, the environment, or the DREAMers. Now, if Republicans decide they do need help from Democrats to carry out the most basic functions of government, they know where to find us…and we are more than willing to help, if what we are voting on meets minimal standards of the priorities of the American people. For me and a lot of my colleagues, that means a vote on the DREAM Act right now, this year. He urged the Speaker to allow a vote on the DREAM Act as an “act of charity in the Christmas spirit” to those Republicans who are anxious to vote against the DREAM Act, despite its popularity. What better way to associate yourself with the comments of your President, on Mexicans, on Muslims on everything else, than to vote against the DREAM Act? Republicans will get what most of them want: an opportunity to send a message to their base voters by voting on something the rest of us agree on – just like the tax bill – but this time, with passage of the DREAM Act, at least the majority of the American people will get something out of it too. A video of the Congressman’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/No9YGT0H3SA Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. REMARKS December 6, 2017 Every day that Congress does not pass the DREAM Act, 122 DACA recipients lose their protection from deportation. That’s 122 every day – young people who arrived in the U.S. as children, have gone through multiple background checks and have lived in the U.S. for a minimum of 10 years. Every week that passes nearly 1,000 DACA recipients lose their protection from deportation. By Christmas, the number of DACA recipients who will have lost protection will reach 13,492. But now we are hearing that we may have a short-term CR or a series of CRs and that the whole budget and funding debate might get kicked down the road to next year, when all 800,000 young immigrants who signed up for DACA will begin losing their status on a rolling basis. Mr. Speaker, with Republicans in control of the House, Senate and White House, I am pretty sure you will not need my vote to pass these must-pass bills to secure the integrity of the nation. So I will vote against any short-term CR because I assume you have the votes to govern as you see fit, no matter how much I and other Democrats disagree with your priorities on women, on children’s health insurance, the environment, or the DREAMers. Now, if Republicans decide they do need help from Democrats to carry out the most basic functions of government, they know where to find us…and we are more than willing to help, if what we are voting on meets minimal standards of the priorities of the American people. For me and a lot of my colleagues, that means a vote on the DREAM Act right now, this year. The votes are here, the legislation is here, the American people are already in support, so Mr. Speaker, at some point, Republican leadership should just get out of the way and let America vote. That is what leadership, compromise, and bipartisanship look like. Now, we certainly know what it doesn’t look like. In the middle of the night last weekend, Republicans voted to give a tax cut to the richest Americans. They dressed it up as a tax cut for everyone, but we all know this is an obscene tax cut for the obscenely wealthy. Not a single Democrat in either House supported it and this chart explains part of the reason why. It is tremendously unpopular with the American people as the small slice in red on this chart shows us. According to Gallup yesterday, just 29% of Americans support the Republican tax cut for billionaires and multinational companies. That is what partisanship looks like. So what does bipartisanship look like? It looks like the DREAM Act. Overall, 86% of Americans support the DREAM Act, a bill to legalize the immigration status of immigrants who arrived in the United States as children. 86%!!! That’s the big slice of red on the chart. And that number comes from a Fox News poll, just in case you think I was using a partisan poll where they put their thumb on the scale to show things in my favor. And 63% of Trump voters back citizenship for DREAMers. So here is a proposal supported by an overwhelming number of people; an overwhelming number of Republicans; and an overwhelming percentage of people who voted for Donald Trump and we cannot get a vote. Yesterday, 34 Republicans in this body wrote to the Speaker asking him to please allow a vote on something to protect DREAMers and those with DACA. Clearly all 34 know how to read this chart. They want to do something that is both politically popular and the right thing to do from a moral standpoint. The reason Republican leaders will not allow a vote on the DREAM Act – or at least are acting like they won’t – is because they know it will pass. You take the 34 Republicans that wrote the Speaker and add them to 194 of my Democrats and you are comfortably in the majority and the DREAM Act passes. And for all of those Republicans who oppose the DREAM Act, they get a Christmas present! They get to vote against it. What better way to associate yourself with the comments of your President, on Mexicans, on Muslims on everything else, than to vote against the DREAM Act? So Mr. Speaker, I urge you to let your members vote against the DREAM Act as an act of charity in the Christmas spirit. Republicans will get what most of them want: an opportunity to send a message to their base voters by voting on something the rest of us agree on – just like the tax bill – but this time, with passage of the DREAM Act, at least the majority of the American people will get something out of it too. # # #
12.02.2017	Mayor Rahm Emanuel and Congressman Luis Gutierrez today joined more than 100 elected officials, community leaders and volunteers to celebrate the one year anniversary of the Chicago Legal Protection Fund. The Fund was established to assist thousands of immigrants and refugees in the City who were threatened with deportation in the post-election era. “Our volunteers have done incredible work over the past year to ensure the lives of all our residents are protected and supported,” said Mayor Emanuel. “When we stand up for our immigrants and refugees, we are standing up for the American Dream, and I want to thank all of the community partners and volunteers who have been fighting to turn that dream into a reality.” To date, the Fund has trained more than 400 community volunteers, conducting nearly 700 Know Your Rights trainings and touched over 22,000 immigrants through community based outreach, education, legal consultations and courtroom representation – surpassing all first year goals. "Chicago has a lot to be proud of, not the least of which is the city’s commitment to treating immigrants with fairness and respect," said Congressman Gutierrez. "Chicago is setting the standard for communities across the country. From the Mayor’s office on down, the City is rising to the challenge of the anti-immigrant attitudes and policies coming from the White House and Washington. We know families strengthen neighborhoods and neighborhoods strengthen the city, so defending immigrant families is the right thing to do for the wellbeing of our entire community."​ The City plans to continue supporting the Legal Protection Fund with an additional $1.3 investment planned for 2018. “With the Legal Protection Fund, Chicago has become a leader in protecting its immigrant community,” said Erendira Rendon of the Resurrection Project and DACA recipient. “The community navigators that community based organizations train and organize have reached over 22,000 Chicagoans providing immigrants with Know Your Rights education and connecting them to free legal counsel; this partnership tells immigrants that Chicago is with them.” The Fund is administered through the Heartland Alliance’s National Immigrant Justice Center (NIJC) and the Resurrection Project in partnership with eight community organizations that include: Centro Romero Centro de Trabajadores Unidos Erie Neighborhood House Instituto del Progreso Latino (IDPL) Indo-American Center (IAC) Hana Center Southwest Organizing Project (SWOP) United African Organization (UAO) A recent study by researchers at Syracuse University found that the efforts by the Legal Protection Fund have contributed to a dramatic increase in legal representation for immigrant and refugees in Chicago. According to the report, the percentage of immigrants in Chicago who were represented in deportation hearings spiked from 30 percent in May to 57 percent in August. "In a year where our communities have faced increasing threats to their/our rights from the federal government, we’ve been grateful to be able to work together with the Community Navigators to defend immigrant Chicagoans, help our neighbors understand their rights, and ensure immigrant residents know they are not alone. Access to counsel is critical to keeping families and neighborhoods intact, and we’ll continue to work hard next year and as long as it takes until that right is secured," said Mary Meg McCarthy, executive director, NIJC. The Legal Defense Fund is one in a series of actions the Emanuel Administration has taken to remind all residents that they are welcome in the City of Chicago. Last year, the Mayor joined Congressman Gutierrez and U.S. Senator Dick Durbin to launch the “Chicago is With You,” task force. The Task Force focuses on developing coordinated policies on mental health, legal services, employer communications, and education to ensure the City is delivering comprehensive services to immigrant, refugees and other disenfranchised communities. Since taking office, Mayor Emanuel has also launched a series of initiatives that improve the immigrant community’s access to service, expand new and existing immigrant businesses, and welcomes and celebrates Chicago’s diverse immigrant communities. These initiatives include launching the Cities for Citizenship Campaign with the Mayors of New York City and Los Angeles, which has grown into a bipartisan effort which works with nearly 40 City and county leaders across America. ###
11.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) says the decision to end Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitians is a great injustice coming just as Americans are celebrating a season of generosity and good tidings. Last night, the Department of Homeland Security announced that approximately 59,000 Haitians living and working in the United States for at least seven years would lose protection from deportation in July 2019. The Trump Administration is systematically taking away deportation protections from long-term residents with temporary status, dismantling America’s commitment to refugees and asylum seekers, and aggressively targeting productive, long-term immigrants for deportation. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez, a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Task Force on Immigration. Ending TPS for Haitians is a tragedy and a great injustice. President Trump’s decision means taking 59,000 people who have been living, working and raising families in this country for many years and forcing them back into the underground of limited rights and the constant threat of deportation. Trump’s agenda is clear – he wants to delegitimize immigrants and immigration while playing to the xenophobic elements of the Republican political base. Obviously, any pretense the White House had to say they are working towards solutions on immigration, working to restore the DACA program, or trying to work with Democrats to resolve immigration and refugee issues is complete and utter boloney. Trump wants fewer people of color in this country and is dismantling programs that grant individuals protection from deportation so that he can deport more families and productive members of American society. Our goal should be a system where immigrants, refugees, and asylum-seekers who qualify under our laws are allowed to live and work in the open, playing by established rules that are evenly and humanely enforced, but the President clearly disagrees with that approach. The Haitian people in this country enrich our lives and strengthen our economy, while helping to alleviate the severe political, economic and infrastructure problems that still afflict Haiti less than a decade after the 2010 earthquake crippled the nation. Like everything associated with this President, this is a short-sighted, self-inflicted wound – an unforced error that harms the United States and our standing in the world. # # #
11.17.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez, and Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez, co-chairs of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Task Force on Puerto Rico, today released the following statement in response to reports that the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) would submit a disaster supplemental request of $44 billion to help hurricane affected areas, including Puerto Rico: “Once again the Trump Administration has proven it lacks the will to help Puerto Rico in a comprehensive manner. Puerto Rico is facing a serious humanitarian and economic crisis, and now more than ever the American citizens on the island need our help. This supplemental request fails to provide sufficient funding to help Puerto Rico address immediate needs and set itself on the road to recovery. We also understand that it fails to provide a solution to the potentially devastating Medicaid cliff that is currently facing Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Moving forward without significant changes will only hinder the Puerto Rican government’s capacity to address the situation on the ground and will contribute to further suffering on the island. We will work with our colleagues in Congress to increase funds in the supplemental and help ensure Puerto Rico and its 3.4 million American citizens have the necessary aid to face this crisis head on. While we understand that OMB plans further supplemental appropriations requests, we believe that more must be done now,” said the co-chairs of the CHC Task Force on Puerto Rico. ###
11.16.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Leading House Democrats issued the statements below after the Department of Homeland Security announced its decision to reconsider the applications of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals recipients who applied for an extension by the deadline but were rejected after delays by the U.S. Postal Service and at agency receiving locations. This decision comes after House Democrats, led by House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY) and Reps. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-Ill.), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), and Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-Ill.), publicly condemned the Trump administration’s initial decision to reject these applications as unnecessary, heartless, and unproductive. “Accepting the applications of DACA recipients who sent in their renewals on time is the right thing to do,” said Chairman Crowley. “The DACA program gave sanctuary to nearly one million young men and women, and the Department of Homeland Security should have never held them hostage due to the errors of the U.S. Postal Service.” Congressman Gutiérrez said, “This is about getting Americans into the system and on the books so that they can live and work in the only country they have ever known, so it makes no sense to deny young people the ability to live and work in the United States, especially when they applied and paid for it and did everything right.” “It’s critical that we honor the extension applications that were submitted by DACA recipients but were rejected because of mistakes made by the USPS,” said Congressman Espaillat. “Regardless of your religion, color of skin, ethnicity, or cultural background, any immigrant coming to this country with a vision for hope, freedom and opportunity – for themselves and for their families, should always feel as though they belong here in the United States of America. I commend the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services agency for its decision to allow the previously rejected DACA renewal applications to be resubmitted following a delay that was at no fault of the applicants. These individuals did what was right, and now we must do the same.” "I'm glad to see the USCIS and the Department of Homeland Security do the right thing by heeding our call to process the applications of these DREAMers," said Congressman Krishnamoorthi. "We still have a long road ahead to ensure that all DREAMers will continue to be protected, but this will make a huge difference in the lives of these young people." While this decision from the Department of Homeland Security is encouraging, there are still pressing issues facing DREAMers and their families. Unless congressional Republicans act, 800,000 young men and women will face deportation. House Democrats have called for the passage of the bipartisan, bicameral DREAM Act, legislation that would put the DREAMers in this country on a path to earn citizenship. In September, the Trump administration announced it would end the DACA program in early 2018, giving DACA recipients whose status expires between September 5, 2017 and March 5, 2018 just one month to renew their status. Despite calls from congressional Democrats and advocates, the administration refused to extend this deadline to allow recipients with expiring status more time to fill out and submit renewal applications. It is estimated that the DACA status expires for 122 DACA recipients each day. ###
11.15.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – House Democrats will send a letter to acting Secretary Elaine Duke demanding that the Department of Homeland Security reconsider the applications of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals recipients who applied for an extension but were rejected after a delay by the U.S. Postal Service. The effort was led by House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY) and Reps. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-Ill.), Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-Ill.), and Adriano Espaillat (D-NY). “DACA recipients are young Americans who study, contribute to our economy, and serve in our armed forces. They are our friends, neighbors, and colleagues. The DACA recipients who sent in their renewals well in advance do not deserve to have their applications rejected for factors outside of their control,” wrote the lawmakers. “We urge you to reverse your current stance and process those applications postmarked by October 5th.” The letter was signed by Reps. Krishnamoorthi, Crowley, Gutiérrez, Espaillat, Tom O’Halleran (D-Ariz.), Jim McGovern (D-Mass.), Mike Quigley (D-Ill.), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Jimmy Panetta (D-Calif.), Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Colleen Hanabusa (D-Hawaii), and Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.). Additional House Democrats are expected to sign the Crowley-Gutiérrez-Krishnamoorthi-Espaillat letter in the coming day. In September, the Trump administration announced it would end the DACA program in early 2018, giving DACA recipients whose status expires between September 5, 2017 and March 5, 2018 just one month to renew their status. Despite calls from Congressional Democrats and advocates, the administration refused to extend this deadline to allow recipients with expiring status more time to fill out and submit renewal applications. Dozens of applicants who abided by this deadline and mailed their applications in before the October 5 deadline were still rejected due to mistakes by USPS. While USPS has taken full responsibility for the mistake, the applications of these individuals have been rejected by DHS. This effort follows a push by Crowley and Gutiérrez last Friday demanding that Secretary Duke protect DACA recipients impacted by the Postal Service error. House Democrats have also called for the passage of the bipartisan, bicameral DREAM Act, legislation that would put the more than 800,000 DREAMers in this country on a path to earn citizenship. Read the full text below. -- Dear Acting Secretary Duke, We write to urge you to process all renewal applications postmarked on or before October 5th, 2017, including those applications that arrived late as a result of error by the postal system. According to a November 10th report from the New York Times, at least 33 recipients of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program in the New York area and 41 in Chicago fell victim to unusually long delays by the U.S. Postal Service when mailing their DACA renewal applications. According to the report, some of these applicants sent in their renewal paper work weeks in advance, yet error from the postal system led to the applications arriving at the processing warehouses after the October 5th deadline. Overall, 22,000 people will lose their DACA protections because their applications for a final renewal because they weren’t received by October 5th, including these individuals. This has deprived these people of their ability to work and stay in the country once their DACA permits expire. In the aftermath of Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ September 5th announcement that the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program would be ending with the start delayed to March 5th, 2018, thousands of young undocumented Americans have lived in fear of being deported from the only country they have known once their permits expire. For those whose permits expired between September 5th 2017 and March 5th 2018, the October 5th deadline to mail in renewals was an arbitrary and short deadline; when the DACA program was first implemented, recipients were told to file for renewal at least three months in advance of the expiration date. Additionally, the Department of Homeland Security did not immediately notify immigrants of the deadline once President Trump decided to end the program. The failure by the Department of Homeland Security to take into account the number of eligible persons who would apply as well as the potential for error by the postal service when setting the deadline and processing the applications is shortsighted and unacceptable. DACA recipients are young Americans who study, contribute to our economy, and serve in our armed forces. They are our friends, neighbors, and colleagues. The DACA recipients who sent in their renewals well in advance do not deserve to have their applications rejected for factors outside of their control. We urge you to reverse your current stance and process those applications postmarked by October 5th.
11.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) participated in a press conference at which articles of impeachment against Donald Trump were introduced in the House of Representatives. The articles of impeachment were authored by Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN) and Rep. Gutiérrez has joined as an original co-sponsor along with Rep. Al Green (D-TX) and Rep. Adriano Espaillat (D-NY) who also spoke at the press conference, and Rep. Marcia Fudge (D-OH) and Rep. John Yarmuth (D-KY). Summary of articles of impeachment prepared by Rep. Cohen: https://cohen.house.gov/sites/cohen.house.gov/files/Articles.Summary.PDF Text of articles of impeachment: https://cohen.house.gov/sites/cohen.house.gov/files/Articles.FullText.pdf A press release from Rep. Cohen’s office, which quotes Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) among others, is here: http://bit.ly/2htSah6 The following is the prepared statement made by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez at the press conference. A video of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://www.facebook.com/RepGutierrez/videos/10155882949233205/ Rep. Gutiérrez is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee. Let me put this in context. There are many reasons why I think the President is an awful President and an awful person, but not all of those reasons rise to the level of impeaching a sitting President. We are not seeking his impeachment because of what he did before he was President. For example, he proudly bragged about sexually assaulting women. And he has been linked to such a long list of sexually inappropriate conduct that I think it is fair to conclude that he is hostile to women in general. We are not seeking to impeach him because of the growing racial and ethnic tension in this country, that, in my opinion, this President knowingly and willingly activates by playing up racial hatred and bias. And he thrives on it. He didn’t denounce Nazi marches and racism because he knows he benefits from it. I am not joining this effort because of his sustained anti-Latino bias. He started his campaign calling Mexican immigrants murderers and rapists. He does not think that an American-born judge with a Spanish sounding last name is legitimate, just as he does not believe that Latinos voting is legitimate. And I think he is taking the country in exactly the wrong direction on immigration by taking documented immigrants and making them undocumented so that he can deport them. I think the Muslim Ban and ending DACA are fundamentally hurtful and harmful to the United States and our values. I could probably name off another dozen examples of how President Trump is doing deep, permanent damage to the United States and all of our people by taking away health care, erasing environmental protections, rolling back protections for the LGBTQ community and working people and immigrants, and God knows I think what he is doing – or not doing -- on Puerto Rico is deeply offensive. However, what elevates certain actions to the level of high crimes and misdemeanors are the following examples. President Trump asked the Vice President and others to leave the room so that he could have a private one-on-one conversation with FBI Director Jim Comey to tell him to back off of the Russia investigation. You do not ask witnesses to leave the room unless you know you are committing a crime and in this case it was obstruction of justice. The President once said “It’s very possible that I could be the first presidential candidate to run and make money on it,” and he has kept his word on that promise, by continuing to line his pockets with money and to drive business to his brands using the public office of President. That’s not right and that’s not legal. I think the ongoing investigations will uncover even more instances where the President has violated the law and violated the public’s trust and I am glad those investigations are still moving forward, despite, in some instances, attempts by the President to slow them down or derail them. This is not a substitute for the investigations that should and will go forward. But the Congress needs to get started. The U.S. Congress, and specifically the Judiciary Committee on which I sit with Steve Cohen, is the place where impeachment starts and if we failed to file these articles of impeachment, we would be failing at doing our jobs. # # #
11.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) will be among those questioning Attorney General Jeff Sessions at an oversight hearing in the House Judiciary Committee this morning (link: https://judiciary.house.gov/hearing/oversight-department-justice-2017/ video: https://youtu.be/WyxDzh5IOV8). The Congressman said he will demand that the Attorney General – for a change – tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth under oath. In previous testimony before the Senate, the Attorney General has denied meetings with Russian officials that in fact took place, denied participating in meetings about connections between Russia and the Trump campaign that in fact took place, and otherwise failed to answer questions truthfully and completely in both oral and written testimony under oath (see, for example: “3 Times Jeff Sessions Made False Statements to Congress Under Oath,” Mother Jones, Nov. 8, 2017, http://bit.ly/2hr7089). The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez, a Member of the House Judiciary Committee. I will demand the Attorney General tell the truth under oath. It should go without saying, but given his track record, it needs to be said. I don’t want the Attorney General coming back in a few days or a few weeks to correct his testimony when new facts come to light. I do not trust him or anyone in this Administration to tell the truth, to stand by their word, or to be forthright, especially with regards to Russia and connections between the Trump campaign and Vladimir Putin. # # #
11.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman José E. Serrano, Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez, and Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez, co-chairs of the newly formed Puerto Rico Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, today released the following statement in support of Governor Rossello’s emergency supplemental appropriations request for post Hurricane Maria recovery efforts: “Almost two months after Hurricane Maria, most of Puerto Rico is still in the dark and too many lack access to potable water. While last month’s disaster supplemental was a start in the recovery effort for Puerto Rico, much more needs to be done to help the island address the ongoing crisis in a comprehensive manner. The Governor’s request outlines the scale of assistance that is needed to help Puerto Rico get back on its feet. We are united in our efforts to help the island, and will be doing everything possible to ensure that Puerto Rico fully recovers.” ###
11.10.2017	Chicago – Rep Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) has learned of at least 21 cases in Chicago where applicants to renew DACA have been denied because USCIS says they did not accept the applications before the October 5, 2017 deadline. When the DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) program was killed by President Trump in September, a window for renewal applications was opened for some DACA recipients whose DACA status expired before March 5 of next year. However, USCIS (U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the branch of Homeland Security that processes applications for immigrants) said the applications had to be “accepted” by October 5 of this year. But applications mailed to USCIS as early as September 13 were not received or “accepted” for processing, even though they were mailed from addresses in Chicago to the USCIS lockbox address also in Chicago. In one case, an application mailed to the Chicago lockbox address on September 13 via registered mail was delivered, according to the Post Office receipt, on October 5, but USCIS says it did not receive it until the next day, thereby making the application invalid. In another case, an application was mailed on September 21, which the Post Office estimated would be received by September 29. The actual receipt, according to USCIS, was October 9. Cases came directly to Rep. Gutiérrez'soffice and through local advocacy groups that helped DACA applicants before the deadline, including the Instituto for Progreso Latino and the Logan Square Neighborhood Association. It is not clear if the U.S. Postal Service is to blame or USCIS, but that doesn’t matter to Congressman Gutiérrez. The following is a statement from Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. I don’t care if it was incompetence by one federal agency or the other, the DACA applicants did everything right and they are still getting rejection notices and their whole lives in this country and the hopes and dreams of their families are at stake. I am sure there are many other cases like this across the country, but for the 21 cases that have come to my office so far, because somebody else did not do their job correctly we are taking innocent young immigrants and making them deportable. That is unacceptable. I don’t trust this Administration as far as I can throw the White House and all its occupants. They feel they have a mandate to turn documented immigrants into undocumented immigrants so they can deport more people. Killing the DACA program and ending TPS (Temporary Protected Status) are examples of how they are trying to increase the ranks of deportable people. And in the case of DACA, there is no appeals process or accountability for USCIS or Homeland Security. So these young people who played by the rules have no recourse. You cannot trust Donald Trump to keep his word and you cannot appeal to his sense of decency because it doesn’t exist. The fact is we have dozens of people who did everything right and are still getting nothing, And estimates are that another 22,000 eligible DACA recipients did not beat the application deadline, which means people are already losing their DACA status well before the March 5, 2018 cutoff. Congress must pass the DREAM Act immediately to grant legal status to these young immigrants and not waste any additional time waiting for Donald Trump to deliver on a promise to treat these young immigrants fairly when all he wants to do is deport them. # # # Related: Rep. Gutiérrez and Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO) previously requested that applications for DACA be accepted if postmarked on or before Oct. 5: See “Reps. Gutiérrez & Coffman Request Technical Fixes For DACA Participants from USCIS & DHS” 9/18/17 http://bit.ly/2x9J2bb Link to NY Times story: “Post Office Fails to Deliver on Time, and DACA Applications Get Rejected” (by Liz Robbins, 11/10/17): http://nyti.ms/2yn82sF
11.08.2017	Washington, DC – In the newspaper The Hill today, 25 House Democrats articulated their strategy and priorities in demanding a vote on the DREAM Act (HR. 3440) before the end of the year. In short, the groups said they will withhold votes from various funding bills unless Republicans give them a vote on the DREAM Act. “We will fight for our Dreamers” http://bit.ly/2iEMdyf, The Hill, November 8, 2017 By Luis V. Gutiérrez, Raúl M. Grijalva, Adriano Espaillat, Pramila Jayapal, Mark Pocan, Steve Cohen, Sheila Jackson Lee, Ruben Gallego, Tony Cárdenas, Wm. Lacy Clay, Nydia M. Velázquez, José E. Serrano, Lois Frankel, Nanette Diaz Barragán, Jimmy Gomez, Chellie Pingree, Albio Sires, Eleanor Holmes Norton, James P. McGovern, Keith Ellison, Jan Schakowsky, Frank Pallone, Jr., Grace F. Napolitano, Barbara Lee, and Ro Khanna Also today, several Members of Congress who had authored the article spoke at a Washington Press conference, including Luis V. Gutiérrez, Raúl M. Grijalva, Adriano Espaillat, Pramila Jayapal, Ruben Gallego, Nanette Diaz Barragán, Keith Ellison, Jan Schakowsky and Grace F. Napolitano. The press conference was broadcast on Facebook Live: https://www.facebook.com/RepGutierrez/videos/10155863143853205/ In the op-ed, the Members of Congress said: If Speaker Ryan does not call a vote on the DREAM Act (H.R. 3440) as a standalone bill, which would pass with bipartisan support, then he has two ways to approach the pending funding vote. First, he can choose to coalesce his Republican colleagues, including the extreme factions, and enact a hardline budget that drastically cuts funding for essential programs, all while attempting to increase funding for the unpopular border wall. With this, the Speaker would appease a small group of lawmakers at the expense – literally – of most Americans, which is a huge risk that would place Republicans in a difficult position heading into an election year. Or, the second and more likely scenario: Speaker Ryan can choose to keep the government open by presenting a workable budget that Democrats could support, which must include a clean version of the DREAM Act. Such a spending package would reflect broad, bipartisan American values, not just the narrow interests of extremist Republicans. They concluded: The choice is for the Speaker to make. As a group, we are actively whipping among our colleagues to create a critical mass of Democratic votes that will not support a funding package that fails to include a clean DREAM Act. We are confident that Democrats from our Leadership to the rank-and-file – and even some Republicans – will stand with us when we get to December. At the press conference, Members indicated that they are seeking to grow this core group to expand the number of Members committed to this strategy for passing the DREAM Act this year. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
11.08.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) participated in a hearing on Tuesday in the House Natural Resources Committee where he asked questions of two senior leaders of the Puerto Rico Financial Oversight and management Board, also known as the Junta de Control Fiscal of just the Junta. They were reluctant to answer his questions, to say the least. A video of the Congressman’s questions and answers at the hearing is here: https://youtu.be/-JjLk_tm4bw Today, Rep. Gutiérrez wrote to the Chairman of the Junta José B. Carrión, III to express “outrage and dismay” at the performance of the two officials and request that they be fired immediately. Link to letter: 110817 Letter to Chair Carrion.pdf Rep. Gutiérrez makes reference in the letter to responses from Natalie Jaresko, the Executive Director of the Puerto Rico Junta and Noel Zamot, the Revitalization Coordinator of the Junta who has been nominated to oversee PREPA, the electric power company. The Congressman cites their inability – or unwillingness – to provide answers to simple questions about their compensation, expenditures by the Junta, and the impact of the Jones Act on Puerto Rico’s ability to reduce its debt. The answers were less than impressive, especially given the enormous salaries paid to these individuals and the overall $350 million annual price tag of the Junta paid for by the Puerto Rican people. Speaking of Ms. Jaresko’s responses on questions about the Jones Act, Rep. Gutiérrez wrote: Her answers flabbergasted me: I posed basic questions about one of the most commonly understood and highly cited issues contributing to the high cost of food and goods for Puerto Ricans and inhibiting economic development and prosperity, and your Executive Director did not know the answers to my questions. This is absolutely unacceptable. Someone in charge of directing Puerto Rico through its darkest financial days must know more than dealing with debt, paying bondholders and imposing austerity—the Executive Director must at least be equipped with knowledge fundamental to understanding the key contributors to Puerto Rico’s debt, how to decrease it and prevent its growth in the future. In his letter, Rep. Gutiérrez goes on to recall an encounter he had with Mr. Carrión this past weekend at a restaurant in Puerto Rico where the Chairman was apparently accompanied by a security escort of four, again raising questions about how much the Junta itself is costing taxpayers in Puerto Rico, especially given the financial crisis and the hurricane emergency facing the island and its inhabitants. The Congressman makes two specific requests for information in the letter: “I would also like to know why such security is justified in your and your colleague’s roles. “Finally, I request that you share with me a full reporting of the Board’s last two years of expenditures, which should include all expenses related to the operation of the board, including salaries and benefits of paid staff.” He concludes by saying: Between the shockingly exorbitant salaries of your staff and what appears to me to be an excessive use of a large and unnecessary protection detail, I can only say that I am appalled… Given what is being asked of the Puerto Rican people to sacrifice to pay for the island’s recovery and decades old debt for which they are in no way responsible, the very least the public should be able to expect from you, other Board members and staff is that you will act and behave in a reasonably austere and financially responsible manner. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago to parents who migrated to the mainland from San Sebastián, Puerto Rico in the 1950s. He attended high school and began college in Puerto Rico and has lived there at various times in his life. # # #
11.08.2017	Washington, DC – This morning on the floor of the House of Representatives, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) reported on his third and latest relief trip to Puerto Rico bringing aid from the people of Chicago to the stricken island. During his trip (Friday 11/3 – Monday 11/6), the Congressman visited several towns, including Jayuya and Loíza where he met with local mayors and community leaders. He brought photographs from his most recent trip to illustrate his floor speech this morning. The Congressman began his remarks by saying “I wish I could report that a lot of progress is being made, but I can’t. It is still a disaster that is a stain on the reputation of the United States.” The first picture was of a group of people by the side of a road near Jayuya washing clothes with spring water in a bucket using a toilet plunger. The Congressman said, “This man is a police officer, but he is learning to make do, just like every other Puerto Rican. Everywhere you go, you see Puerto Ricans making do.” He continued: On the one hand, when I am in Puerto Rico, I am confronted by the very best of mankind. The people who are helping strangers, feeding their neighbors, and pitching in wherever they can. On the other hand, when I am in Puerto Rico, I am confronted with the human tragedy of people who – like all of us -- depend on the government for basic assistance and help after a major disaster and have received almost nothing. Yes, the damage is massive, but there is no task Americans cannot accomplish if we put our minds and our backs into it. Rep. Gutiérrez then showed a damaged Head Start center in Loíza and a destroyed road and bridge near Jayuya, describing the damage and the effort needed by Puerto Ricans, with help from the people of Chicago, to fix things. He continued: Mr. Speaker, I should not have to give this speech almost two months after the storm. We should have accomplished much more. The people of Puerto Rico pretty much understand that President Trump doesn’t want to help them. And that the passports and documents they have that say “citizen of the United States” should have been printed with small print that says, yes, Puerto Ricans are citizens of the U.S. for the purposes of being drafted into war, but don’t come asking for help when you really need it. His final photograph was from the wedding of two women on a beach, about which Rep. Gutiérrez said: Puerto Ricans are learning to make do, just like these two young women who got married on the beach in Cerro Gordo, Vega Alta and let us take their picture. Life goes on, even when the government has turned its back on you. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago, but has lived in Puerto Rico at various points in his life. He was in Puerto Rico this past weekend. A video of the Congressman’s speech today is here: https://youtu.be/uOwEHWd-JdU The text as prepared for delivery is here: Floor Speech November 8, 2017 Monday, I returned from my third trip to Puerto Rico since Hurricane Maria devastated the island almost two months ago. I wish I could report that a lot of progress is being made, but I can’t. It is still a disaster that is a stain on the reputation of the United States. Most places do not have power. Generators – the sound you hear humming in every corner of the island like metallic coquis – are running ragged from overuse. In many places, the water is not on because the power is not on to pump it. And drinkable water mixes with sewer water in many places. As you can see from this picture taken near Jayuya, people are tapping mountain springs and in this case, are using it mostly for laundry, thank goodness, because the mountain water in many places is contaminated from humans and animals. This man is a police officer, but he is learning to make do, just like every other Puerto Rican. Everywhere you go, you see Puerto Ricans making do. So, think about your life without power, cell services, water, lights, fans, or in some cases food. Imagine the dialysis patient or the elderly man in an electric wheelchair who uses oxygen tanks to breathe. I met those people in Puerto Rico. How do you get to physical therapy or regular pre-natal visits when there are still roads and bridges down? On the one hand, when I am in Puerto Rico, I am confronted by the very best of mankind. The people who are helping strangers, feeding their neighbors, and pitching in wherever they can. On the other hand, when I am in Puerto Rico, I am confronted with the human tragedy of people who – like all of us -- depend on the government for basic assistance and help after a major disaster and have received almost nothing. Yes, the damage is massive, but there is no task Americans cannot accomplish if we put our minds and our backs into it. [Switching Photographs] Mr. Speaker, this is the Head Start building in Loíza. As you can see, the roof is torn up and there is metal sheeting that was blown around. The people in Loíza are forming a brigade to rebuild the structure so that they can open up the Head Start program for pre-schoolers and one of the things I was doing in Loíza was bringing money to get them started, raised by the Puerto Rican Agenda from the people of Chicago. Individuals in Chicago are investing in the well-being of people in Loíza they have never met. And they are not calling in expensive contractors or companies from Montana – and they are not waiting for the folks from FEMA or the U.S. military. They are not waiting for Donald Trump to grant Puerto Ricans a little more time now that he has made it clear he will not personally give them his “grade A-plus help” forever. Nope. The people of Chicago are getting help to the people of Puerto Rico before any official resources are coming to their rescue. It boggles the mind that it has come to this. Here is another more difficult case, a bridge and a road were washed out by the storm. This is near Jayuya, but it could be almost anywhere on the island. More than 6 weeks after the storm and…nothing. Not even orange cones or a guard rail to keep people from driving into danger. If you live up on the side of this hill, you are not going anywhere until something changes because that is the only way in or out. The people of Puerto Rico are going to have to rebuild this on their own because the Army Corps of Engineers is missing in action. Mr. Speaker, I should not have to give this speech almost two months after the storm. We should have accomplished much more. The people of Puerto Rico pretty much understand that President Trump doesn’t want to help them. And that the passports and documents they have that say “citizen of the United States” should have been printed with small print that says, yes, Puerto Ricans are citizens of the U.S. for the purposes of being drafted into war, but don’t come asking for help when you really need it. And Puerto Ricans are coming to grips with how little they can expect from the President and his Administration. They are finding ways to make do, just as the people of Chicago are making do by sending their own help in their own way. It should not have to come to that, but it has. [Switching Photographs] Puerto Ricans are learning to make do, just like these two young women who got married on the beach in Cerro Gordo, Vega Alta and let us take their picture. Life goes on, even when the government has turned its back on you. # # #
11.07.2017	Washington, DC – At a press conference today, Rep. Adriano Espaillat (D-NY) and Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) introduced the Waiver of Emergency Payments Act (WEPA), a bill to eliminate cost-sharing requirements for Puerto Rico for recovery from Hurricanes Irma and Maria. Under current law (the Stafford Act that governs FEMA major disaster assistance), Puerto Rico or any U.S. state or territory would be expected to pay up to 25% of the costs to the federal government of disaster relief. In addition, with certain forms of assistance the Administration has the authority to assume a cost share greater than 75% by waiving a percentage of the state or territory cost share, but such waivers are often time limited and rarely dip below 10%. Under WEPA, if enacted, all cost-sharing would be waived for Puerto Rico in handling the current disaster. The bill does not have an assigned bill number as of this writing. “Puerto Rico was in a dire financial strain before Hurricane Irma and Hurricane Maria and has struggled every day since the storms made landfall,” said Rep. Espaillat. “Puerto Rico is flat out broke and to require the island to pay for its own recovery is simply outrageous and harsh. We introduced this bill as part of our efforts to continue the call for emergency federal assistance to rebuild Puerto Rico and to ensure the island receives the funding it needs and does not have to pay for its own clean up. It’s simply the right thing to do.” “Puerto Rico needs all the help it can get and should not be constrained in asking for help based on what it can pay back, said Rep. Gutiérrez. “The government of Puerto Rico is already controlled by the financial oversight and management board, known as the Junta. Let’s not mess around with payments and waivers; Puerto Rico should be off the hook, period, punto, when it comes to recovery.” A one-page summary of WEPA: WEPA One Pager Final.doc Bill text of WEPA: WEPA Final.pdf WEPA Final.pdfhttps://www.congress.gov/115/bills/hr4277/BILLS-115hr4277ih.xml Earlier in the day, at a hearing held by the Natural Resources Committee, Rep. Gutiérrez and other Members of Puerto Rican descent were allowed to sit in the hearing and ask questions of the witnesses, Natalie Jaresko, the Executive Director of the Puerto Rico Junta; Noel Zamot, the Revitalization Coordinator of the Junta who has been nominated to oversee PREPA, the electric power company, and the Mayor of Guaynabo, Angel Perez Otero. A video of the Congressman’s questions and answers at the hearing is here: https://youtu.be/-JjLk_tm4bw Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago to parents who migrated to the mainland from San Sebastián, Puerto Rico in the 1950s. He attended high school and began college in Puerto Rico and has lived there at various times in his life. # # #
11.07.2017	Washington, DC – Yesterday, the Trump Administration announced it is cancelling Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Nicaraguans in the United States, terminating the work authorization and protection from deportation for approximately 2,500 individuals who have lived, worked, and raised families in the U.S. for almost two decades. This is the latest round of news on the TPS program and further terminations are expected that could end TPS status for 57,000 Hondurans and the other people currently protected by TPS (the overall estimate is 320,000 people from 10 countries). The next decision date is on November 23 for approximately 50,000 Haitians living and working in the United States. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, issued the following statement: The President does not have a mandate to turn documented immigrants into undocumented immigrants so that it is easier to deport them, yet by terminating TPS and the DACA (the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) program, that is exactly what he is doing. He is uprooting millions of lives that have been established in the United States, families that are deeply ingrained in American communities, businesses that help our economy and working men and women who contribute to our success. It is an avoidable tragedy that the President is inflicting on our nation. Our goal for immigration should be to have a system where people can come legally with visas instead of smugglers and where we fully incorporate immigrants who already live here and have deep roots in the U.S. into our society so that everyone is playing by a clear, permanent, and enforceable set of rules. That is not the direction Donald Trump is taking us in when he eliminates legal status for immigrants already here and proposes deep cuts to legal immigration for anyone coming in the future. The President’s approach leads to greater illegality, less control, more chaos and tremendous hardship for families that call the United States their home. ‘Blood and soil’ immigration policies taken straight from the White Supremacist playbook are coming into clear view as the President hurdles down the nativist road towards a walled-off America. For hundreds of thousands of American citizens with parents and other family members with TPS, this President is aggressively trying to destroy their families, end their American dreams and cleanse American communities of their continued presence. The cost of electing a President with deep-seated animosity towards Latinos and immigrants is becoming more real – and more tragic – every day. # # #
11.03.2017	Washington, DC – This morning, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) flew to Puerto Rico for his third relief trip since Hurricane Maria hit the island in September. He will visit towns that are still struggling to recover, meet with Mayors leading the recovery efforts, and deliver direct relief aid from the people of Chicago to Puerto Rico, coordinated by the Puerto Rican Agenda. Saturday he will visit Caguas. On Sunday he will visit Jayuya and meet with Mayor Jorge “Georgie” González Otero. Later Sunday, he will visit with the Sisters of Jesus Mediador (Hermanas de Jesús Mediador) who work with the distressed, homeless and vulnerable in El Volcan, Bayamón. On Monday, the Congressman will return to Loíza to visit Mayor Julia Nazario and meet with Oscar López Rivera, the former political prisoner who is organizing a community reconstruction brigade to help rebuild the island. Rep. Gutiérrez returns to Chicago on Monday. He is flying commercial and Mrs. Soraida Gutiérrez is joining him on this trip. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago, but has lived in Puerto Rico at various points in his life. # # # Related: Speech to the City Club of Chicago, 10/31/2017: http://bit.ly/2zZ6W6L Press Release, 10/27/2017: FEMA Should Respond ASAP to Request for Temporary Shelter Assistance from Puerto Rico That Could Help Some Reach Safety (http://bit.ly/2iF5piY) Press Release, Text & Video 10/25/2017: In Floor Speech, Gutiérrez Raises Questions About $300 Million Whitefish Energy Deal, Reiterates Calls For Investigation (http://bit.ly/2y71EF5) Press Release, Text & Video 10/24/2017: Rep. Gutiérrez Brings Paper Towels To House Floor To Highlight Plight Of Puerto Ricans (http://bit.ly/2zMZz3e) Chicago Tribune op-ed 10/24/2017: Puerto Ricans need help evacuating hurricane-ravaged island (http://trib.in/2z3E013) Press Release 10/24/2017: Gutiérrez Calls For Investigation Into $300M Contract Awarded To Construct Puerto Rico Electrical Grid (http://bit.ly/2y4mdC6) Press Release 10/17/2017: Rep. Gutiérrez Returns To Puerto Rico Wednesday (http://bit.ly/2gLKvuP) Press release, Text & Video 10/12/2017: Rep. Gutiérrez Responds To President’s Tweets On Puerto Rico, Challenges His Colleagues (http://bit.ly/2xBkrYK) Press Release, Text & Video, 10/11/2017: Gutiérrez Calls For Evacuation Of Puerto Rico’s Sick, Elderly And Vulnerable (http://bit.ly/2xx5USZ) Press Release with link to press conference, 10/05/2017: Members Of Congress: Are We Doing Enough To Protect Sick, Elderly & Vulnerable Hurricane Survivors In Puerto Rico? (http://bit.ly/2fPBS1B) Press Release, Text & Video, 10/04/2017: Rep. Gutiérrez Responds To President’s Puerto Rico Performance (http://bit.ly/2yZgrmK) Press Release, Text & Video, 10/03/2017: Puerto Rico Rescue, Recovery & Evacuation: Gutiérrez Addresses House In English & Spanish (http://bit.ly/2yUBOWl) Press release, 9/28/2017: Gutiérrez Travels To Puerto Rico Friday To See The Damage & Call Attention To The Crisis (http://bit.ly/2wZ9PCI) Press Release & Letter 9/27/2017: Chairman Crowley And Rep. Gutiérrez Request Meeting With Defense Secretary Mattis To Discuss Emergency Aid To Puerto Rico (http://bit.ly/2ytydNX) Press Release, Text & Video 9/26/2017: Floor Speech: Gutiérrez Calls For Help To Address Urgent Humanitarian Crisis In Puerto Rico (http://bit.ly/2y654MJ) Press Release & Letter 9/22/2017: Gutiérrez Calls On Ryan & Pelosi To Organize Bipartisan Delegation To See Hurricane Maria Destruction In Puerto Rico (http://bit.ly/2hnOE7A) Press Release & Letter; 9/21/2017: Gutiérrez Offers Assistance to Governor of Puerto Rico, Calls on President to Take Additional Actions on Behalf Of Hurricane Stricken Island (http://bit.ly/2fdI1Ee). Facebook Live Video; 9/21/2017: Chicago Responds to Hurricane Maria (a community meeting of Puerto Rican community leaders, elected officials, disaster relief experts and others in Chicago, convened by Rep. Gutiérrez, the Puerto Rican Cultural Center of Chicago and Puerto Rican Agenda) (http://bit.ly/2fCiYLM). Press Release & Letter; 9/20/2017: Gutiérrez Calls On President Trump To Help Puerto Rico Rescue And Recovery “As Quickly As Humanly Possible” (http://bit.ly/2hibM7I).
11.02.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement today in response to news that Republican Senators and President Trump have decided to exclude the DREAM Act or any other protection for immigrant youth with DACA from the spending package that must be passed by December 8. The following is a statement from Rep. Gutiérrez who is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The President ended DACA and the top priority of many Democrats is to make sure that DREAMers are in a safe place by the end of this year. It sounds like Republicans and the President are reneging on that plan and all the promises we had from the White House to work towards passage of a bill to protect DREAMers from deportation are out the window. You simply cannot make a deal with Donald Trump and expect him to hold up his end of the bargain two months, two weeks or two minutes later. I have been clear from the beginning that if Republicans think they can pass a Republican-only spending package to keep the government open in December, they should do so. They control all branches of government and both houses of Congress and don’t need a single Democratic vote if they are unified. However, we all know the Republicans are not unified and always need Democratic votes to pass big spending packages and keep the government open. They lost 90 of their own guys in the House last time If the Republicans need Democratic votes to pass their spending package in early December, House Democrats will insist that it include a clean DREAM Act to legalize immigrants made vulnerable by President Trump killing DACA. More and more, I think Democrats are coalescing around the idea of forcing Republicans to give us a vote on DREAM if they want our help passing anything else this year. Democrats will bring 190-plus votes and there are at least 35 Republicans who support legalization for immigrants who arrived in the U.S. as children. That is enough to pass the DREAM Act tomorrow if the Speaker calls the vote. Messing around with that majority by adding unrelated cuts to legal immigration or ramping up border militarization and deportations will weaken support for the bill and it will be rejected by Democrats. When the American people favor legal status for DREAMers by a 4 to 1 margin, maybe Republicans should stop stonewalling and allow the majority in the House to pass the DREAM Act. # # #
11.01.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement today in response to President Trump’s attacks on the Diversity Visa Program and Senator Chuck Schumer’s alleged role in creating the program. After the murder of eight people in New York, two of whom were Americans, by a terrorist from Uzbekistan, the President claimed that the Diversity Visa program that grants 50,000 green cards (Lawful Permanent Resident status) per year was to blame for the attack and that Senator Schumer’s support for the program was singled out for blame. The following is a statement from Rep. Gutiérrez who is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The President should stop lying about immigration and trying to use the senseless murder of eight people to advance his policy goal of eliminating categories of legal immigration. Our nation is in mourning and the victims of this terrorist attack should be respected, but the President cannot help himself and feels compelled to lie about everything he sees and turn everything into politics. We know President Trump wants to end the program because the majority of the people who come to America on Diversity visas are from sub-Saharan Africa and it has always been on the hit list of the anti-immigration movement. Now that Trump, for all intents and purposes, is the head of the anti-immigration movement in the United States, of course he is going to attack the Diversity Visa Program and any other legal immigration he can restrict from the developing world. I will stand with the Congressional Black Caucus; I will stand with the CHC and others on the Hill who have been staunch defenders of the Diversity Program. Making visas available to people from countries that do not already have substantial Diaspora populations in the U.S. makes us a better country. Most Americans other than the President understand that diversity is a strength—one of the unique aspects of immigration to America that makes us stronger and more prosperous as a nation. I will join with allies to defend the Diversity Visa Program from the President’s politically motivated attacks. # # #
10.31.2017	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressmen Emanuel Cleaver, II and Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL) applaud the news today that one of the largest private prison systems in the United States has agreed to their request to support criminal justice reform efforts. Earlier this year, Congressman Cleaver (D-MO) and Congressmen Luis Gutierrez (D-IL) sent a letter to the CEO's of Core Civic and The Geo Group, INC urging the private prison CEO’s to back national criminal justice reform efforts. In the letter, which can be found here, to CEO Damon Hininger and CEO George Zoley, the Congressmen stated, "Your organizations have often publicly said that you do not support positions that lead to enhanced incarceration, but in supporting a President who is implementing policies designed to increase the populations of individuals in both criminal and immigration detention, you are advocating for policies that deprive people of their liberty in order for you to increase your profits," "We believe this is immoral and unjust,"... Today, Core Civic responded to the letter announcing a stepped-up effort to lobby for government programs and policies to keep former inmates from returning behind bars. Core Civic listed several steps to achieve this goal on their website. Among the concrete steps, the company said it will advocate for "ban the box" policies to keep employers from asking about a job applicant's criminal history until after an initial interview. "Ban the box" policies have been put in place for state workers in 29 states. Nine states have removed the conviction history question from private employer job applications, according to the National Employment Law Project. Of the 405,000 prisoners released in 30 states in 2005, 77 percent were re-arrested within five years, and more than half returned to prison, a federal study found. Roughly 70 million Americans have an arrest or a conviction record. Other steps announced by Core Civic; • It will spend $250 million on a network of community corrections centers to help keep people out of prison. • The company said it also will lobby to protect employers who hire former inmates from negligent-hiring lawsuits; to support re-entry programs and their funding; and to support private recidivism programs in which governments only have to pay contractors if certain goals are met. “We hope our support for these policies sends a powerful message to state capitals and our nation’s capital that there is broad consensus around tackling our country’s recidivism crisis,” said Tony Grande, CoreCivic executive vice president and chief development officer. “We just wanted to put these companies on notice that the American people are watching and that profiting from incarceration has moral consequences,” Congressman Gutiérrez said. “I am pleased that Core Civic heeded our call for change. As members of large African American and Latino districts, this affects our communities greatly. Reducing the recidivism rate will not only improve our communities but will help strengthen our economy by putting people to work,” said Congressman Cleaver. # # #
10.27.2017	Washington, DC – For weeks, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) has expressed concern that the elderly and most vulnerable people in Puerto Rico who want to leave for safety on the mainland have not been given the means to do so, but Wednesday, Puerto Rican Governor Ricardo Rosselló made a request to FEMA that could, if approved, help some of the most vulnerable on the island reach safety. The Governor requested that the FEMA Temporary Shelter Assistance (TSA) program be turned on so that people whose homes are destroyed or uninhabitable can access temporary shelter on the island and anywhere in the United States. If FEMA grants the request, it could help some of the people who have left Puerto Rico by their own means to seek FEMA-funded temporary stays in hotels and motels in Chicago and elsewhere. “There is a lot more that FEMA can be doing to get assistance to people in Puerto Rico and a lot more they can do to get the elderly, the sick and the vulnerable to safety,” said Congressman Gutiérrez who has visited the island to deliver relief supplies from Chicago twice since Hurricane Maria hit in September. “The Governor’s request for Temporary Shelter Assistance is a welcome and important step in helping people get out of harm’s way, especially those who have limited means, who have no credit cards or reserves of cash, but who need to have a roof over their heads to protect their loved ones,” the Congressman continued. Transitional Sheltering Assistance was turned on for both Hurricane Harvey survivors in Texas and Hurricane Irma survivors in Florida within days of each storm’s passage. Given the historic devastation of Hurricane Maria that befell Puerto Rico 38 days ago, time is of the essence for FEMA to swiftly approve this request which will help move people out of harm’s way. Rep. Gutiérrez continues to urge FEMA to also assist with evacuating individuals from the island who are homeless and are unable to find shelter in Puerto Rico. This is especially urgent for children so they may go to school and the sick and elderly who are particularly vulnerable, especially those without adequate access to medicine and healthcare. “The Mayor of Chicago has really stepped forward on this, making it clear that he wants people to be able to leave the island if they need to and that cities like Chicago are ready to welcome and help people for as long as it takes to stabilize things in Puerto Rico,” the Congressman continued. “Evacuation is happening informally for people who have the means to buy a ticket and family to stay with on the mainland, but we should make leaving the island a viable alternative to the people who can’t get a ticket, can’t afford to fly, or do not have family on the mainland with whom they can stay. We simply need to do more for Puerto Rico and that includes helping some people get out.” On his second trip to the island, a three-day trip that ended last Saturday, the Congressman visited the towns of Loíza, Dorado, Toa Baja and Comerío where he observed the devastation first hand and delivered supplies purchased with donations from people in the Chicago area. “There are hundreds of thousands of people who are homeless or living in roofless homes—many still without even a blue tarp—more than a month after the storm hit, which is completely unacceptable,” he said. “The water is dirty, the power is off, hospitals are overloaded, medicine is running out, and dry, safe housing is an issue for everyone I met outside of San Juan. This is still a major emergency even though it is fading from the headlines on the mainland.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago to parents who migrated to the mainland from San Sebastián, Puerto Rico in the 1950s. He attended high school and college in Puerto Rico and has lived there at various times in his life. # # # Copy of Letter from Gov. Rosselló to FEMA: 102517 Rosello TSA Program Request Letter.pdf Related: Press Release, Text & Video 10/25/2017: In Floor Speech, Gutiérrez Raises Questions About $300 Million Whitefish Energy Deal, Reiterates Calls For Investigation (http://bit.ly/2y71EF5) Press Release, Text & Video 10/24/2017: Rep. Gutiérrez Brings Paper Towels To House Floor To Highlight Plight Of Puerto Ricans (http://bit.ly/2zMZz3e) Chicago Tribune op-ed 10/24/2017: Puerto Ricans need help evacuating hurricane-ravaged island (http://trib.in/2z3E013) Press Release 10/24/2017: Gutiérrez Calls For Investigation Into $300M Contract Awarded To Construct Puerto Rico Electrical Grid (http://bit.ly/2y4mdC6) Press Release 10/17/2017: Rep. Gutiérrez Returns To Puerto Rico Wednesday (http://bit.ly/2gLKvuP) Press release, Text & Video 10/12/2017: Rep. Gutiérrez Responds To President’s Tweets On Puerto Rico, Challenges His Colleagues (http://bit.ly/2xBkrYK) Press Release, Text & Video, 10/11/2017: Gutiérrez Calls For Evacuation Of Puerto Rico’s Sick, Elderly And Vulnerable (http://bit.ly/2xx5USZ) Press Release with link to press conference, 10/05/2017: Members Of Congress: Are We Doing Enough To Protect Sick, Elderly & Vulnerable Hurricane Survivors In Puerto Rico? (http://bit.ly/2fPBS1B) Press Release, Text & Video, 10/04/2017: Rep. Gutiérrez Responds To President’s Puerto Rico Performance (http://bit.ly/2yZgrmK) Press Release, Text & Video, 10/03/2017: Puerto Rico Rescue, Recovery & Evacuation: Gutiérrez Addresses House In English & Spanish (http://bit.ly/2yUBOWl) Press release, 9/28/2017: Gutiérrez Travels To Puerto Rico Friday To See The Damage & Call Attention To The Crisis (http://bit.ly/2wZ9PCI) Press Release & Letter 9/27/2017: Chairman Crowley And Rep. Gutiérrez Request Meeting With Defense Secretary Mattis To Discuss Emergency Aid To Puerto Rico (http://bit.ly/2ytydNX) Press Release, Text & Video 9/26/2017: Floor Speech: Gutiérrez Calls For Help To Address Urgent Humanitarian Crisis In Puerto Rico (http://bit.ly/2y654MJ) Press Release & Letter 9/22/2017: Gutiérrez Calls On Ryan & Pelosi To Organize Bipartisan Delegation To See Hurricane Maria Destruction In Puerto Rico (http://bit.ly/2hnOE7A) Press Release & Letter; 9/21/2017: Gutiérrez Offers Assistance to Governor of Puerto Rico, Calls on President to Take Additional Actions on Behalf Of Hurricane Stricken Island (http://bit.ly/2fdI1Ee). Facebook Live Video; 9/21/2017: Chicago Responds to Hurricane Maria (a community meeting of Puerto Rican community leaders, elected officials, disaster relief experts and others in Chicago, convened by Rep. Gutiérrez, the Puerto Rican Cultural Center of Chicago and Puerto Rican Agenda) (http://bit.ly/2fCiYLM). Press Release & Letter; 9/20/2017: Gutiérrez Calls On President Trump To Help Puerto Rico Rescue And Recovery “As Quickly As Humanly Possible” (http://bit.ly/2hibM7I).
10.25.2017	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) wrote to the Attorney General and the FBI Director asking them to investigate the circumstances around the awarding of a $300 million contract to an obscure Montana firm with close ties to President Trump’s campaign for rebuilding the electrical grid in hurricane ravaged Puerto Rico (press release: http://bit.ly/2y4mdC6/ letter: http://bit.ly/2gIkEqR pdf ). Today, Rep. Gutiérrez spoke on the House floor outlining why he feels the deal with Whitefish Energy appears to be “fishy.” “So what is going on here?” Rep. Gutiérrez said on the House floor. “A tiny company that does not have a track record gets one of the biggest contracts to help rebuild Puerto Rico in a no-bid, out of the ordinary contracting procedure?” He continued: This is why I wrote a letter yesterday to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and FBI Director Christopher Wray, because I want them to investigate this deal, how it was awarded, why this company got the contract, and whether there is any evidence of it being a sweetheart deal or corruption to boost business allies and political allies of the President and his Cabinet. Whitefish is based in Whitefish, Montana, the hometown of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and a town in which “everyone knows everybody,” according to an Interior spokesman. The company is less than two years old and had only two employees just six weeks ago. The Congressman said: Go a little deeper and you find that Whitefish is financed by HBC Investments, which is a private equity firm founded by Joe Colonnetta, who holds the title of general partner. The Daily Beast reported that Colonnetta gave $20,000 to the Trump Victory PAC and maxed out on contributions to Trump during the primaries and the general election, about $32,000 total and another $30,000 to the Republican National Committee. Kimberly Colonnetta, his wife, was also a maximum donor – meaning she gave the maximum amount allowed by law during the 2016 elections to Trump and his various committees. The Congressman had pictures from Facebook and the Internet showing Mr. and Mrs. Colonnetta with the President, with HUD Secretary Ben Carson and at the President’s Inauguration. The Congressman concluded: Now, I know that not everything that looks like corruption is in fact corruption. Sometimes what looks fishy on the surface turns out to be legit, but a lot of times, you know what? It turns out to be fishy. And the reason this matters so much is that without electricity, we cannot get water to the people of Puerto Rico… Without electricity, we cannot get Puerto Ricans back to work rebuilding their island. The last thing the people need right now is a fat cat lining his pockets with money because they are well-connected when that money should be saving lives. For Puerto Ricans, this is a matter of life and death. That’s why I asked the FBI and the Attorney General to investigate. Yesterday, the Chicago Tribune published an op-ed the Congressman wrote about his most recent trip to Puerto Rico: “Gutiérrez: Puerto Ricans need help evacuating hurricane-ravaged island,” http://trib.in/2z3E013. He also spoke on the House floor yesterday about what he saw while delivering food and supplies to various towns on the island hit hard by the hurricane (text and video: http://bit.ly/2zMZz3e). Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago, but has lived in Puerto Rico at various points in his life. He was in Puerto Rico this past weekend. A video of the Congressman’s speech today is here: https://youtu.be/1fAf2VV2WRI The text as prepared for delivery is here: Floor Speech October 25, 2017 There is something fishy about the Whitefish Energy deal that was reported in the Washington Post. Whitefish, based in Whitefish, Montana, was awarded a $300 million contract to repair and replace the electrical grid in Puerto Rico. We learned that the company is two years old and as of about six weeks ago, it had just two employees. It does not have a track record of working on massive projects – certainly not one as massive as rebuilding the power grid in Puerto Rico after a once-in-a-century storm like Hurricane Maria. The Puerto Rican Electric Power Authority, or PREPA, did not solicit bids for this contract. They did not do what most power utilities do under these circumstances, which is to rely on mutual assistance relationships with other power companies. In Florida and Texas – and in Illinois, for that matter – after a big storm, power companies from around the country send linemen and other workers in to assist the local company, but that is not happening here. The Florida power company, FPL, brought in 20,000 workers after Irma and, apparently, was willing to send workers to help Puerto Rico, but the request never came. So what is going on here? A tiny company that does not have a track record gets one of the biggest contracts to help rebuild Puerto Rico in a no-bid, out of the ordinary contracting procedure… This is why I wrote a letter yesterday to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and FBI Director Christopher Wray, because I want them to investigate this deal, how it was awarded, why this company got the contract, and whether there is any evidence of it being a sweetheart deal or corruption to boost business allies and political allies of the President and his Cabinet.. I also plan to bring up this issue with the oversight committees in this body. On the surface, the Whitefish deal looks fishy, but when you look a little deeper, the Whitefish deal looks even fishier. Whitefish Energy is based in Whitefish, Montana. That’s the hometown of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, who used to represent Montana in this body. His son even worked for them briefly at one point. The Chief Executive of Whitefish, Andy Techmanski, knows Secretary Zinke, but as a spokesman for the Interior Department said to the Washington Post, in Whitefish [quote] “everyone knows everybody.” That does not make me feel better. Go a little deeper and you find that Whitefish is financed by HBC Investments, which is a private equity firm founded by Joe Colonnetta, who holds the title of general partner. The Daily Beast reported that Colonnetta gave $20,000 to the Trump Victory PAC and maxed out on contributions to Trump during the primaries and the general election, about $32,000 total and another $30,000 to the Republican National Committee. Kimberly Colonnetta, his wife, was also a maximum donor – meaning she gave the maximum amount allowed by law during the 2016 elections to Trump and his various committees. And the pictures on the Internet certainly add additional evidence to the idea that Whitefish and the Colonnetta’s are pretty chummy with our President and his Cabinet. Here is Mr. Colonnetta with the President, the two Colonnetta’s at the inauguration, and a picture of Mrs. Colonnetta with Dr. Ben Carson, the President’s Secretary of HUD. Don’t forget, all you kids watching at home on C-SPAN, what you post on Facebook is there forever. Now, I know that not everything that looks like corruption is in fact corruption. Sometimes what looks fishy on the surface turns out to be legit, but a lot of times, you know what? It turns out to be fishy. And the reason this matters so much is that without electricity, we cannot get water to the people of Puerto Rico. Water does not flow uphill without pumps and those pumps need power. Dialysis machines, electric wheelchairs, refrigeration for baby formula – all of that requires electricity. I was just there and I saw the suffering of the people in the villages and towns across Puerto Rico. Without electricity, we cannot get Puerto Ricans back to work rebuilding their island. The last thing the people need right now is a fat cat lining his pockets with money because they are well-connected when that money should be saving lives. For Puerto Ricans, this is a matter of life and death. That’s why I asked the FBI and the Attorney General to investigate. # # #
10.24.2017	Washington, DC – Fresh back from his second trip to Puerto Rico since Hurricane María hit in September, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor about what he saw in the towns of Comerío, Loíza, Toa Baja and Dorado. He told a stark story of an island that has not received the aid it needs and he brought visual aids. He held a package of paper towels, which he said were sent to his office after the President was seen in Puerto Rico throwing rolls of paper towels to hurricane survivors. He also brought three poster-sized blow ups of pictures he had taken in Loíza, Comerío and Toa Baja last week. Today, the Congressman also published an op-ed in the Chicago Tribune about his trip: “Gutierrez: Puerto Ricans need help evacuating hurricane-ravaged island” (http://trib.in/2z3E013). “Having returned from my second trip to Puerto Rico since the hurricane, I can tell you one thing for sure: We need a lot more than paper towels from the President and this Congress,” Rep. Gutiérrez said in his speech on the floor. Pointing to a photo of a destroyed home in Comerío, the Congressman said: See this? People sleep there on that bed. Without tarps, because somehow we forgot that in a hurricane-destroyed society, it might be a good idea to have something over your head. Of course the President said he gave himself a 10. Tell that to the people who have to live there for four weeks. The Congressman said he received one question over and over while visiting Puerto Rico: People kept asking me, no matter where I went, they said, “Where is FEMA? Where is the help that we expect from the most powerful and richest nation on the earth in this moment of despair?” He concluded his remarks by saying: We would not allow this in Texas. We would not allow this in New Jersey. We would not allow this in Florida. We did not allow it even after a week in Katrina. Let’s not allow it in Puerto Rico either. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago, but has lived in Puerto Rico at various points in his life. He was in Puerto Rico this past weekend. A video of the Congressman’s speech today is here: https://youtu.be/zOseckvOpf4 The text (transcribed by Rep. Gutiérrez’s office) is here: Floor Speech October 24, 2017 Shortly after the President returned from his trip to Puerto Rico, I received a shipment in my office of paper towels. It did not come with a note or an explanation, just 12 rolls of Viva. I guess there is a little irony because the name is in Spanish. Maybe after watching the President entertain himself by tossing paper towels at hurricane victims in Puerto Rico, some well-intentioned person thought that giving paper towels to Puerto Ricans was an appropriate sign of respect, the gift you give to Puerto Ricans after a major disaster to kinda cheer us up. Viva! Having returned from my second trip to Puerto Rico since the hurricane, I can tell you one thing for sure: We need a lot more than paper towels from the President and this Congress. [Pointing to board marked Loíza] This is Loíza. I was visiting with the Mayor. I want you to look at the pictures. This woman here [pointing to lower left corner of the board marked “Loíza”], she has a disabled adult sleeping on a wet mattress. Yeah, sleeping on a wet mattress. That’s the home where she takes care of her son. Four weeks after the hurricane! Children hiding behind barricades. Homes destroyed. [Replaces pictures marked “Loíza” with pictures marked “Comerío”] This is Comerío. Where food, four weeks after the hurricane because there is no food, has to be handed out neighborhood to neighborhood, hill top to hill top, hamlet and village to village within the town. [Pointing to lower left corner photo of destroyed home.] See this? People sleep there on that bed. Without tarps, because somehow we forgot that in a hurricane-destroyed society, it might be a good idea to have something over your head. Of course the President said he gave himself a 10. Tell that to the people who have to live there for four weeks. I just came back from this trip on Saturday. I am now not surprised that the Congressmen – my colleagues – are taking day trips to Puerto Rico. Yes, that’s what we do as Members of Congress. We get there at 9 o’clock during the sun of the day and we leave by 4 before the darkness comes, because of course there is no electricity. And then they take us on a helicopter ride around the island. That’s no way to visit. You get off the plane and off the helicopter and you stay overnight when it’s pitch black, because that’s the way 3.4 million Americans citizens live. One month after the hurricane! That’s how they live. So, I don’t know, maybe Congressmen should stop taking day trips where they get there by 9 and leave by 4. Spend the night! Get out of your comfort and go talk to the American citizens you are supposed to be representing. [Replaces pictures marked “Comerío” with pictures marked “Toa Baja”] America. See this? [Pointing to damaged house in upper left corner.] That’s a horse stable, an abandoned house where people live. I met a thirteen year old girl who lives there with her mom and her twelve year old brother. That’s where they live. [Pointing to upper right corner.] See this mom and her two kids? No roof over their heads – just a little tarp to keep one part of their house, and no place to sleep. See this man right here? He lives in his abandoned house in a little tent with a two-month old child and his wife. Disabled in a wheelchair, and no electricity to run his air tank so that he can get the vital air that he needs to sustain his life. This is what I saw, and this was without the help of the federal government. Because if you ask for help, they’ll put you on a helicopter, and take you on a nice tour, and you will not talk with or see anybody. And I know that there are some in America who say that they should just do this for themselves. Well guess what? They’re citizens of the United States of America. They’re a colony of the United States of America. And I just ask America, there are over half a million people on that island who are homeless, whose homes have been destroyed, and our government… here’s the one question. People kept asking me, no matter where I went, they said, “Where is FEMA? Where is the help that we expect from the most powerful and richest nation on the earth in this moment of despair?” Soon it will be out of the headlines. Soon it will be out of the rotation. And we will try to forget, but they will continue to suffer. I came back on a flight from Puerto Rico this past Saturday night filled with people fleeing. And I met this wonderful woman who said to me, “I have my child here, I’m dropping her with my sister so that she can be free.” We would not allow this in Texas. We would not allow this in New Jersey. We would not allow this in Florida. We did not allow it even after a week in Katrina. Let’s not allow it in Puerto Rico either. # # # # # #
10.24.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) is calling for an investigation into the news that Whitefish Energy Holdings, a small Montana firm with ties to key Trump Administration officials, was awarded a $300 million contract to construct Puerto Rico’s power grid. As the Daily Beast reported, the company is headed by a major Trump contributor who has close ties to Interior Department Secretary Ryan Zinke, a former Montana Congressman. “There is something very fishy about the Whitefish deal,” the Congressman said. “I have been here 25 years and this doesn’t pass the smell test. I am writing to the Justice Department and the FBI to ask them to investigate how this contract was awarded and why it went to this firm with no connection to Puerto Rico but plenty of connections to the Trump White House.” Letter to Attorney General and FBI Director: 102417 Whitefish Letter Final.pdf Rep. Gutierrez just returned from Puerto Rico where he observed horrible conditions and little if any evidence that FEMA or the Army Corps of Engineers is restoring power to hard hit island residents anytime soon. Earlier today, he gave a speech on the floor of the House using photos he took in Puerto Rico and a package of paper towels he brought to the House floor to illustrate the disconnect between what should be happening to help Puerto Ricans and what is actually happening, now almost five weeks after Hurricane Maria hit (Video: https://youtu.be/zOseckvOpf4). “People are dying. Because walls and roofs are missing, people are living under tarps if they have them. People are forced to scrounge for food and water every day,” the Congressman said. “And now we hear that a company who has connections is getting $300 million to help? Wait a second, where is FEMA, where is the Corps of Engineers? And where is the accountability and oversight?” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
10.24.2017	Washington, DC – This morning, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement on today’s markup of two bills related to immigration in the Judiciary Committee. One is an agricultural worker bill introduced by Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), the other is a mandatory E-Verify bill introduced by Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX). Rep. Gutiérrez opposes both bills, which are retreads of bills that have been marked up and passed by the House Judiciary Committee on previous occasions. This markup demonstrates to me once again that the opponents of legal immigration are running the show on the Republicans side of the aisle. There is nothing of substance moving forward to solve the crisis Trump and Sessions created by ending DACA. We are getting nothing that moves us closer to passing the DREAM Act or putting DACA recipients in a safe place and instead we are getting the same old recycled bills from the anti-immigration lobby’s wish list. It appears that the agenda of Judiciary Chairman Goodlatte, Immigration Subcommittee Chairman Labrador and other Republican Judiciary Members is to make it clear they have no real intention of doing anything to secure the futures of DREAMers in the U.S. As I have shown in bills I have introduced in previous years, Democrats support E-Verify if it is coupled with legal status for immigrants who are already here and with legal channels for immigrants coming in the future. Otherwise, we are just throwing people out of work and driving them underground, when our goal should be to get immigrants and immigration within the law, on-the-books, and above board. The Agricultural Worker Program Act (H.R. 2690) that I introduced in May is a better approach to the need for workers in the agricultural sector, for stabilizing our food supply and for protecting native and immigrant workers alike. There is broad consensus on how to move forward, but most Republicans are apparently no longer interested in legislation that has broad consensus, favoring instead the Steve Bannon red meat approach for consumption by Republican primary voters next year. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
10.18.2017	U.S. Representative Bill Pascrell, Jr. For Immediate Release October 18, 2017 WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-09), Juan Vargas (CA-51), David N. Cicilline (RI-01), Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07) led a letter to President Donald Trump expressing disappointment in his decision to set the presidential determination for refugee admissions at 45,000 for Fiscal Year 2018. The letter urges the President to reconsider his determination and establish a minimum refugee admission level of 110,000 for Fiscal Year 2018. Additionally, the letter expresses concern about the reported changes to the resettlement process to require refugees to meet an assimilation standard. This letter was signed by 121 members of the House of Representatives. "An unprecedented 65.6 million people across the globe have been forcibly displaced from their homes because of violence, persecution, and war. Approximately 22.5 million of those individuals are refugees, and more than half are children," the Representatives wrote. "The U.S. has a moral imperative to welcome refugees, who are the most thoroughly vetted people who enter our country. America taking a leadership role during this crisis bolsters our credibility as a nation of immigrants founded on the promise to welcome those seeking a better life." For the last three fiscal years Representative Pascrell has led an appropriations letter with his colleagues requesting additional funding to support increased funding for refugee related-accounts. In 2016, Representative Pascrell met with refugee families resettled in New Jersey’s 9th Congressional District. In the 114th Congress, Representative Pascrell introduced H.R. 2839, the Domestic Refugee Resettlement Reform and Modernization Act, to help states and non-profit organizations better meet the needs of refugees as they rebuild their lives in the United States. The full text of the letter to President Trump is below (101817 Refugee PD Letter to POTUS.pdf). President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Trump, We write to express our deep disappointment in your decision to set the Presidential Determination (PD) for Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2018 at 45,000. We strongly urge you to reconsider this decision and increase the refugee admission level to 110,000 for Fiscal Year 2018. Further, we are alarmed by proposed changes to the resettlement process to require refugees to meet an assimilation standard and ask you brief us at least 30 days before any such changes are made. As you know, the world is in the midst of the largest refugee crisis in history. An unprecedented 65.6 million people across the globe have been forcibly displaced from their homes because of violence, persecution, and war. Approximately 22.5 million of those individuals are refugees, and more than half are children. The U.S. has a moral imperative to welcome refugees, who are the most thoroughly vetted people who enter our country. America taking a leadership role during this crisis bolsters our credibility as a nation of immigrants founded on the promise to welcome those seeking a better life. As both Republican and Democratic administrations have confirmed, the United States screens refugees more stringently than any other traveler allowed to enter the United States. The U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) has safely and successfully resettled more than three million refugees from around the world to American communities across the country since 1975. Refugee applicants must undergo a robust and thorough screening process that takes roughly two years and involves our nation’s top security and counter-terror experts. The exhaustive vetting process includes checking fingerprints and other biometric data against terrorist and criminal databases and multiple interviews through multiple Federal agencies. Since the enactment of the 1980 Refugee Act, the average annual goal for refugee admissions has been 95,000. In Fiscal Year 2016, the U.S. resettled approximately 85,000 refugees, and the Presidential Determination for Fiscal Year 2017 was 110,000. During the worst refugee crisis in the world, these resettlement numbers pale in comparison to the support our allies are providing and our moral leadership commands. Since Executive Order 13769 was signed, the number of refugees coming to the United States each month has dropped precipitously. Australia, Norway, Canada, Sweden, and Finland all accept more refugees per capita than the United States, with Canada pledging to accept 300,000 refugees in 2017. Failing to do our part to alleviate this global crisis undermines our leadership, diplomacy, and national security. In addition to the U.S.’s moral responsibility, supporting our allies and partners, whose resources are being strained by hosting large numbers of refugees, promotes security and stability at home and abroad. Twenty national security leaders, including Henry Kissinger, Michael Chertoff, Madeleine Albright, and Leon Panetta wrote a letter in 2015 noting that “resettlement initiatives help advance U.S. national security interests by supporting the stability of our allies and partners that are struggling to host large numbers of refugees.”[1] By doing more to host and assist refugees, the United States would help safeguard the stability of nations like Lebanon, Jordan, and Turkey, which are hosting the vast majority of Syrian refugees. This can help reduce regional instability and potential for conflict and terrorism. Additionally, severely limiting the number of refugees the U.S. admits perpetuates extremist organizations’ false narrative of a war between Islam and the West. In order to make clear that the United States rejects this worldview, we must bolster our refugee program by supporting the world’s most vulnerable people, without discriminating based on religion or nationality. As a nation of immigrants, our country has a long history of welcoming newcomers of all different backgrounds. Any efforts to require refugees meet an assimilation standard misunderstands the purpose of our resettlement program which is to assist the most vulnerable. This is especially true if no additional assistance is provided to ensure refugees are successfully integrated into the fabric of our nation. The 45,000 PD for Fiscal Year 2018 is woefully insufficient when compared to the millions of people who have been forced to flee their home countries. Establishing a PD of 45,000 is the lowest refugee admissions goal in our nation’s history. This would prevent tens of thousands of people from enriching American communities while seeking safety, protection, and an opportunity to provide a better future for themselves and their families in the United States. The current global humanitarian crisis requires strong American leadership. To reflect that, we request that you reconsider and increase the PD for refugee admissions level to 110,000 for Fiscal Year 2018. Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to working together with you and your Administration on this critical issue. Sincerely, CC: The Honorable Rex Tillerson, Secretary, State Department The Honorable Elaine Duke, Acting Secretary, Homeland Security Department The Honorable Mark Green, Administrator, Agency for International Development The Honorable H.R. McMaster, Assistant to the President, National Security Advisor ________________________________________ [1] Letter from Madeleine K. Albright, Henry A. Kissinger, et. al. to members of Congress (Dec. 1, 2015) available at: http://www.humanrightsfirst.org/sites/default/files/FormerNatSecOfficialsLetterRefugees.pdf Signatories: Eddie Bernice Johnson Donald S. Beyer, Jr. Earl Blumenauer Lisa Blunt Rochester Suzanne Bonamici Robert A. Brady Anthony Brown Michael Capuano Salud Carbajal Tony Cárdenas André Carson Judy Chu David N. Cicilline Katherine Clark Yvette D. Clarke Steve Cohen John Conyers, Jr. J. Luis Correa Joe Courtney Joe Crowley Elijah E. Cummings Danny K. Davis Peter DeFazio Diana DeGette John K. Delaney Mark DeSaulnier Ted Deutch Debbie Dingell Lloyd Doggett Michael Doyle Keith Ellison Eliot L. Engel Anna G. Eshoo Adriano Espaillat Elizabeth H. Esty Dwight Evans Bill Foster Lois Frankel Ruben Gallego John Garamendi Jimmy Gomez Josh Gottheimer Gene Green Raúl Grijalva Luis V. Gutiérrez Colleen Hanabusa Alcee L. Hastings Brian Higgins James Himes Eleanor Holmes Norton Pramila Jayapal Hakeem Jeffries Marcy Kaptur William R. Keating Robin L. Kelly Joseph P. Kennedy Ro Khanna Daniel T. Kildee James Langevin Rick Larsen John B. Larson Brenda L. Lawrence Barbara Lee Sander Levin Ted W. Lieu Zoe Lofgren Alan Lowenthal Stephen Lynch Carolyn B. Maloney Doris Matsui Betty McCollum James P. McGovern Gwen Moore Seth Moulton Jerrold Nadler Grace Napolitano Donald Norcross Beto O’Rourke Frank Pallone, Jr. Jimmy Panetta Bill Pascrell, Jr. Donald Payne, Jr. Ed Perlmutter Scott Peters Chellie Pingree Mark Pocan Jared Polis David Price Mike Quigley Jamie Raskin Ben Ray Lujan Lucille Roybal-Allard Bobby Rush Tim Ryan John Sarbanes Jan Schakowsky Adam Schiff Bradley S. Schneider Robert C. "Bobby" Scott José E. Serrano Carol Shea-Porter Albio Sires Louise Slaughter Adam Smith Darren Soto Eric Swalwell Mark Takano Dina Titus Paul Tonko Norma J. Torres Niki Tsongas Juan Vargas Marc Veasey Filemon Vela Nydia Velázquez Peter J. Visclosky Timothy Walz Debbie Wasserman Schultz Bonnie Watson Coleman Peter Welch John Yarmuth ###
10.17.2017	Washington, DC – This morning at a press conference in Chicago, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) told reporters he was going back to Puerto Rico on Wednesday (10/18) to see for himself what progress is being made in getting relief to the people of Puerto Rico. The Congressman will visit Comerio (in the central highlands) on Thursday and Loiza Aldea (on the northeast coast) on Friday, returning to Chicago on Saturday (10/21). He is flying commercial and some news media from Chicago are planning to accompany him. “It has been four weeks and some people still don’t have reliable access to water, medicine, or food and I want to see why and what Congress can do,” said Rep. Gutiérrez. “The President and the far-right are saying that Puerto Ricans are to blame for their own misery after this once-in-a-lifetime disaster, and that is not what I saw when I was there two weeks ago and not what I am hearing from people on the island. My fear is that the public health crisis is escalating and that we have not made evacuation an option for sick, elderly or vulnerable people who want to leave and do not have the means to buy a plane ticket.” The press conference today was organized by the Puerto Rican Agenda, a Chicago non-profit that has been around for more than 20 years and which has raised nearly 180,000 in this most recent effort of Chicagoans helping Puerto Ricans. Coordinating with the Mayor of Chicago, Chicago businesses, and led by the Puerto Rican Diaspora community in and around Chicago, Rep. Gutiérrez is making his second trip to Puerto Rico with supplies purchased by the people of Chicago. He previously brought more than $50,000 worth of supplies flown to the island by United Airlines and distributed via a FEMA helicopter to the municipalities of Comerio and Dorado. Further flights with supplies organized by the Puerto Rican Agenda and other Chicagoans will continue and distribution of materials to their proper recipients is being documented on the ground to counter the narrative that supplies are not reaching their intended destinations because of misconduct by Puerto Ricans. Today’s press conference was fed to Facebook Live by Fox 32 (WFLD-TV) in Chicago and can be viewed on the Congressman’s Facebook page here: http://bit.ly/2xMZC1B The Congressman is booked on American Flight 395, ORD-SJU, October 18, departing O’Hare at 8:25 am CT, arriving 2:07 pm AT. He is scheduled to return on American Flight 1329, SJU-ORD, October 21, departing 2:58 AT, arriving 7:15 pm CT. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago, but has lived in Puerto Rico at various points in his life. # # # Related: Press release, Text & Video 10/12/2017: Rep. Gutiérrez Responds To President’s Tweets On Puerto Rico, Challenges His Colleagues (http://bit.ly/2xBkrYK) Press Release, Text & Video, 10/11/2017: Gutiérrez Calls For Evacuation Of Puerto Rico’s Sick, Elderly And Vulnerable (http://bit.ly/2xx5USZ) Press Release with link to press conference, 10/05/2017: Members Of Congress: Are We Doing Enough To Protect Sick, Elderly & Vulnerable Hurricane Survivors In Puerto Rico? (http://bit.ly/2fPBS1B) Press Release, Text & Video, 10/04/2017: Rep. Gutiérrez Responds To President’s Puerto Rico Performance (http://bit.ly/2yZgrmK) Press Release, Text & Video, 10/03/2017: Puerto Rico Rescue, Recovery & Evacuation: Gutiérrez Addresses House In English & Spanish (http://bit.ly/2yUBOWl) Press release, 9/28/2017: Gutiérrez Travels To Puerto Rico Friday To See The Damage & Call Attention To The Crisis (http://bit.ly/2wZ9PCI) Press Release & Letter 9/27/2017: Chairman Crowley And Rep. Gutiérrez Request Meeting With Defense Secretary Mattis To Discuss Emergency Aid To Puerto Rico (http://bit.ly/2ytydNX) Press Release, Text & Video 9/26/2017: Floor Speech: Gutiérrez Calls For Help To Address Urgent Humanitarian Crisis In Puerto Rico (http://bit.ly/2y654MJ) Press Release & Letter 9/22/2017: Gutiérrez Calls On Ryan & Pelosi To Organize Bipartisan Delegation To See Hurricane Maria Destruction In Puerto Rico (http://bit.ly/2hnOE7A) Press Release & Letter; 9/21/2017: Gutiérrez Offers Assistance to Governor of Puerto Rico, Calls on President to Take Additional Actions on Behalf Of Hurricane Stricken Island (http://bit.ly/2fdI1Ee). Facebook Live Video; 9/21/2017: Chicago Responds to Hurricane Maria (a community meeting of Puerto Rican community leaders, elected officials, disaster relief experts and others in Chicago, convened by Rep. Gutiérrez, the Puerto Rican Cultural Center of Chicago and Puerto Rican Agenda) (http://bit.ly/2fCiYLM). Press Release & Letter; 9/20/2017: Gutiérrez Calls On President Trump To Help Puerto Rico Rescue And Recovery “As Quickly As Humanly Possible” (http://bit.ly/2hibM7I).
10.12.2017	Washington, DC – For the second day in a row, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor about Puerto Rico, today responding to Tweets this morning from the President suggesting it was time for FEMA and the U.S. military to pull out of Puerto Rico’s recovery effort. Rep. Gutiérrez responded to the President with a question and an answer: How long do we have to stay, Mr. President? Until every Puerto Rican name is taken off of the Vietnam Memorial or erased from the records of Korea, Afghanistan or Iraq. We stay as long as it takes. Now three weeks into the Puerto Rico crisis, Rep. Gutiérrez compared the effort in Puerto Rico to our rescue mission to evacuate U.S. citizens from St. Maarten after Hurricane Irma and even to the progress we made in the first three weeks after D-Day in 1944. Thirty six hours to get evacuated from St. Maarten. Three weeks in Puerto Rico and still no plan for evacuation…. Three weeks after D-Day in 1944, the Allies liberated the deep water port of Cherbourg, one of the most important objectives in France. It took 20 days and we built bridges and communication lines along the way. We made better progress in the three weeks after D-Day than we are making on Puerto Rico, and in Puerto Rico, to the best of my knowledge, there are no Germans shooting at us. Rep. Gutiérrez also chided his colleagues who are visiting Puerto Rico on Congressional Delegations this weekend: This weekend, Members of Congress are going to Puerto Rico and I spoke with a few of them and I was saying, hey, at night you should go to this place where it is really bad… And he cut me off and said, oh, we’re not staying overnight. So an island where 85% of the power is out and our Members of Congress are only going to see things during the day? Not during the pitch black darkness, which is what Puerto Ricans are living with every single night for three weeks. Congressman Gutiérrez concluded by saying: Regardless of what my colleagues see during the day or what the President tweets in the morning, my friends who stand in line for hours for food if they can find it, my constituents worried about their family members, and 5 million Puerto Ricans in the Diaspora have run out of patience and we want our people to be free. Mr. Speaker, my constituents want the government’s help to get their families out. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago to parents who migrated from Puerto Rico to the mainland and has lived in Puerto Rico at various points in his life. He is traveling to Puerto Rico again next week and plans to stay overnight. A video of the Congressman’s speech today is here: https://youtu.be/iErDzQdPJtU The Text as prepared for delivery is here: Floor Speech October 12, 2017 A little over a month ago, Hurricane Irma struck the Caribbean and hit the island of St. Maarten very, very hard. Within a couple of days, I got a call from the loved ones of a couple of constituents. They had family members trapped at a hotel on St. Maarten with dozens of other Americans. The power was out, they were running out of food and water, and incidents of looting were reported. So they called me, their Member of Congress. And I called the State Department to see what could be done. Within 36 hours of my call, our U.S. citizens – nearly 150 of them – were evacuated - from an island, in the ocean, surrounded by water. And do you know where they were taken for safety? Puerto Rico. Yes, Puerto Rico, where it has now been three weeks since Hurricane Maria, and most people do not have power or clean drinking water and where the deterioration of the health care system is leaving people without critical treatments and causing the death toll to go up. Now in St. Maarten, this is what the State Department said, according to NBC News: "Evacuation efforts will prioritize U.S. citizens needing urgent medical care.” And within a few days they had evacuated 1200 Americans. So right now, if a thousand U.S. citizens are facing danger in Japan or Ethiopia or Finland, our State Department would arrange to save them. But we have millions of Americans facing danger in Puerto Rico and we can’t get the same help, not from the military, not from FEMA, and not from the State Department, because, well, they don’t assist U.S. citizens who are on U.S. soil, even if that soil is a colony in the ocean surrounded by water, as our President reminds us. Thirty six hours to get evacuated from St. Maarten. Three weeks in Puerto Rico and still no plan for evacuation. And this morning the President is tweeting that he wants to pull FEMA and the military out of Puerto Rico. How long do we have to stay, Mr. President? Until every Puerto Rican name is taken off of the Vietnam Memorial or erased from the records of Korea, Afghanistan or Iraq. We stay as long as it takes. Yesterday, a lot of us received briefings from FEMA, the military and Homeland Security. I wanted to know whether FEMA and the military are prepared to take people off the island as we normally do for emergency situations – as we did for Houston, Jacksonville, and New Orleans. No, the Governor has not asked for help evacuating people, they told me. I asked how many bridges, even temporary ones, had been constructed on Puerto Rico to replace those destroyed by the hurricane and to allow for the transportation of supplies to more remote areas. None, Congressman. Zero. We have not erected any bridges. Again, because the Governor has not asked us to. When I was there, I flew over the town of Maricao in the mountains, well-known for coffee and home to a pharmaceutical factory. There are six ways in and out of the town and five of those six bridges are gone. Three weeks after D-Day in 1944, the Allies liberated the deep water port of Cherbourg, one of the most important objectives in France. It took 20 days and we built bridges and communication lines along the way. We made better progress in the three weeks after D-Day than we are making on Puerto Rico, and in Puerto Rico, to the best of my knowledge, there are no Germans shooting at us. Now, when I asked the officials about evacuating people from the island, they had no real answer. But if I remember correctly, FEMA and the military come to us to fund their budget every year. They are accountable to us. And we are accountable to our constituents. Constituents are coming to me – and to many others who have Puerto Ricans in their districts – they are coming to us asking for help to get their families out. Mr. Speaker, when will we be able to give these constituents an answer as to why their family members and loved ones are not being evacuated? This weekend, Members of Congress are going to Puerto Rico and I spoke with a few of them and I was saying, hey, at night you should go to this place where it is really bad… And he cut me off and said, oh, we’re not staying overnight. So an island where 85% of the power is out and our Members of Congress are only going to see things during the day? Not during the pitch black darkness, which is what Puerto Ricans are living with every single night for three weeks. Regardless of what my colleagues see during the day or what the President tweets in the morning, my friends who stand in line for hours for food if they can find it, my constituents worried about their family members, and 5 million Puerto Ricans in the Diaspora have run out of patience and we want our people to be free. Mr. Speaker, my constituents want the government’s help to get their families out. # # #
10.11.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor today and called for the evacuation from Puerto Rico of the sick, elderly and vulnerable who are at risk because the situation in Puerto Rico has not been stabilized after three weeks. The Congressman spoke Tuesday with Chicago firefighters who volunteered to go to Puerto Rico who report that things are “worse than we are being told.” Citing an article from the New York Times (http://nyti.ms/2guwHVq), he said the health care situation is dire and people are dying because of the lack of power, the lack of water, and the inability of clinics and hospitals to keep up with demand. The Congressman said: Our response to Hurricane Maria and the people of Puerto Rico is a national and international embarrassment and tragedy. Our own citizens in our own Caribbean colonies of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and we have not helped them. He added: I spoke with Chicago Firefighters yesterday who have been in Puerto Rico for about a week and they tell me it is worse than we are being told. They said they are still making contact with towns where people come up to them and say ‘thank God, FEMA is finally here.’ And they have to tell them, ‘no, we’re not from FEMA, we’re from Chicago.’ Under FEMA procedures, the federal government will not take on a task unless the Governor asks them to do so. But the Governor is unlikely to call for an evacuation for two reasons: Number 1, it is a difficult request for any local official to make. Captains of industry and leaders on the island want to make sure there are Puerto Rican workers there to rebuild and to buy their products. I get that. But those same captains of industry and political leaders have already in most cases gotten their relatives off the island to safety. But Number 2, we know the Governor has to be extremely careful how he asks for anything because we all know the President does not take criticism very well – or even the hint of criticism. The Governor doesn’t want to get black-balled by the President who might go off on a Twitter rant at any moment unless he is praised and stroked every step of the way. The Congressman said he and other colleagues in the House are hearing from constituents who want family members off the island. They are demanding help getting their family members out and I think FEMA and the U.S. military can the job, they just need the orders from the people in charge. Let’s be clear, if anyone wants to leave Puerto Rico, they should have our help in doing so. That is what is needed to help Puerto Rico. Rep. Gutierrez added: We don’t need the President tossing paper towels to storm victims like he was tossing a ball to a dog, or maybe tossing peanuts to squirrels at the park. We need airplanes, ships and helicopters to get people the hell out. Otherwise it will be worse than ‘Let them eat cake.’ It’s ‘let them die.’ Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago, but has lived in Puerto Rico at various points in his life. He was in Puerto Rico this past weekend. A video of the Congressman’s speech today is here: https://youtu.be/p7OJ0e_I3Xs The Text as prepared for delivery is here: Floor Speech October 11, 2017 It has been three weeks. Three weeks since the eye of Hurricane Maria crossed over Puerto Rico. Three weeks and there are still parts of the island that have not had contact with FEMA yet. Three weeks. For most people that has meant no power. And most still don’t have running water. Hospitals and clinics are hit hard, as the New York Times reports. The daughter of one man who died because he couldn’t receive oxygen treatment told the paper “Because of the electricity situation, a lot of people died, and are still dying.” Forty percent of the island still lacks running water because of the blackout, which still affects 85 percent of the island. As a result, many people are bathing in streams and receiving water from huge tanks, the Times reports… And this is after three weeks in the most powerful nation on earth! This is unacceptable. Our response to Hurricane Maria and the people of Puerto Rico is a national and international embarrassment and tragedy. Our own citizens in our own Caribbean colonies of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and we have not helped them. I spoke with Chicago firefighters yesterday who have been in Puerto Rico for about a week and they tell me it is worse than we are being told. They said they are still making contact with towns where people come up to them and say thank God, FEMA is finally here. And they have to tell them, no, we’re not from FEMA, we’re from Chicago. Last week, a group of my colleagues and I got together. We represent large Puerto Rican communities here on the mainland in Connecticut, New York, Massachusetts, Illinois, Ohio and Florida. All of us have been contacted by our constituents who are desperate to get loved ones out of Puerto Rico. After three weeks, they have run out of patience and are not interested in excuses. They want their parents or their Tía with cancer or their cousin on Dialysis off the island. Period. They want a plane ticket to get them the hell out. Our communities are ready. Lorain, Ohio, Hartford, Boston, Orlando, New York, Newark and my hometown of Chicago – we are all ready, but the problem is transportation. If you have money, connections or internet access, you can probably find a flight if you are willing to pay. I know this because when I was in Puerto Rico two weeks ago, I saw Land Rovers and Jaguars parked at the private airport in San Juan – because if you have the money, you have already put your loved ones on a flight out. The individuals from FEMA have been doing a fantastic job given the constraints: logistics, heat, roads, rain, and bureaucracy at all levels of government locally and federally. They are heroes, but I think now FEMA and military resources should focus on the task of evacuating the elderly, the sick, and the vulnerable from the island. Look, this is the way FEMA works: They will not take on a task unless the Governor asks them to. And the Governor is not likely to go to FEMA to ask them to help get thousands and thousands of his constituents off the island. Number 1, it is a difficult request for any local official to make. Captains of industry and leaders on the island want to make sure there are Puerto Rican workers there to rebuild and to buy their products. I get that. But those same captains of industry and political leaders have already in most cases gotten their relatives off the island to safety. But Number 2, we know the Governor has to be extremely careful how he asks for anything because we all know the President does not take criticism very well – or even the hint of criticism. The Governor doesn’t want to get black-balled by the President who might go off on a Twitter rant at any moment unless he is praised and stroked every step of the way. But our Puerto Rican constituents don’t vote for the Governor of Puerto Rico, they vote for us and expect us to help them and their families when they are in danger. They are demanding help getting their family members out and I think FEMA and the U.S. military can the job, they just need the orders from the people in charge. Let’s be clear, if anyone wants to leave Puerto Rico, they should have our help in doing so. For thousands, it is a matter of life and death and survival. That is what is needed to help Puerto Rico. We don’t need the President tossing paper towels to storm victims like he was tossing a ball to a dog, or maybe tossing peanuts to squirrels at the park. We need airplanes, ships and helicopters to get people the hell out. Otherwise it will be worse than “Let them eat cake.” It’s “let them die.” # # #
10.09.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released a statement reacting to the release on Sunday of the White House’s principles on immigration, a laundry list of recycled anti-immigration policies the Republicans demand in exchange for sparing 800,000 DACA recipients from deportation. These include funding for the President’s Great Border Wall, reducing legal immigration in half, and further barring or criminalizing immigrants, asylum seekers, and refugees. President Trump has acted to eliminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program that for five years has allowed young immigrants who arrived in the U.S. as children to come forward, register, submit to a background check, and be allowed to work while designated as the lowest priority for deportation. Advocacy by Rep. Gutiérrez during the Obama Administration was instrumental in compelling the former President to act to protect immigrant youth (the so-called DREAMers) in 2012. I don’t think Democrats have a partner to negotiate with in the White House on sensible immigration policy or sparing 800,000 DACA recipients from deportation. Any decision the President makes one day is likely to be completely reversed another, depending on which extremist advisor he is listening to that day. The one thing Trump has demonstrated consistently is how comfortable he is denigrating immigrants and Latinos, questioning the legitimacy of our very citizenship in the U.S., and standing up for and defending white supremacist policies – and returning to the anti-immigrant well over and over. Democrats and the rest of the country would be crazy to take seriously this set of principles or the President who is proposing them. The goal of the President’s approach to immigration seems to be to criminalize and deport as many immigrants and Latinos as he can by outlawing whole categories of legal immigration, pushing young people with DACA back into the black market, and making it easier to label law-abiding immigrants as criminals so that he can deport them. The 800,000 DACA recipients who could lose protection from deportation have come forward and gone through multiple background checks, arrived here as children, and have lived here for a minimum of ten years. We should be incorporating and integrating them further, not threatening them or their families with deportation to play to the anti-immigration wing of the President’s political base. There is bipartisan support in Congress to get this done, and the votes are there. Those serious about solutions need to keep going and deliver what the vast majority of Americans support. Now after a few weeks of delay, we know once again that it is up to Republican congressional leaders to decide if they are serious about moving forward and if they will let the majority in the House of Representatives who support the DREAM Act to have a vote and protect DREAMers before the deportations ramp up further. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He is a co-sponsor of the DREAM Act (HR. 3440), which has 200 co-sponsors. He introduced the American Hope Act (HR 3591) in July 2016 to provide legal status for immigrant youth, a bill that now has 133 co-sponsors in the House. (press release: http://bit.ly/2h9vFkn) He is the lead Democratic sponsor of the bipartisan BRIDGE Act (HR 496, Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy), introduced with Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO) in January 2017, which now has 31 co-sponsors. It would extend the protections of DACA for three years to give Congress an opportunity to enact permanent legislation. (press releases: http://bit.ly/2jofbSI and http://bit.ly/2ilEMyy) # # #
10.05.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released a statement in response to the news that the Consumer Finance Protection Board (CFPB) issued a new rule designed to protect consumers from the predatory practices of payday and car title lenders. Rep. Gutiérrez was Chairman of the Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee 2007-2010, and played a pivotal role in the crafting and passage of the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. He was a forceful advocate for the creation of the CFPB and fought for provisions to govern oversight of payday lending and forms of lending that often catch consumers in a spiral of debt. The following is a statement by Rep. Gutiérrez, who is currently a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The CFPB is doing exactly what it was designed to do, which is taking on difficult consumer protection issues and standing up for little people against the fat cats and Wall Street. Payday loans were a major issue we tried to address while we were crafting Dodd-Frank and one of my priorities as a Subcommittee Chairman negotiating a House/Senate compromise in the Conference Committee in 2010. I think CFPB is making great progress, despite the constant criticism from Republicans and this action to address payday loans is a perfect example. It is important help for the people in my district. Resources: Press release: CFPB Finalizes Rule to Stop Payday Debt Traps: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/newsroom/cfpb-finalizes-rule-stop-payday-debt-traps/ A video from CFPB for consumers on payday lending: https://youtu.be/XUqyyJSoM_s A factsheet summarizing the CFPB rule on payday loans is available at: http://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/201710_cfpb_fact-sheet_payday-loans.pdf Text of the CFPB rule on payday loans is available at: http://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/201710_cfpb_final-rule_payday-loans-rule.pdf # # #
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Thursday, a group of Democratic House Members who represent substantial Puerto Rican constituencies in their districts held a press conference in front of the U.S. Capitol to discuss what they are hearing from the Puerto Rican communities they represent. In particular, the Members said they are receiving pleas of help from constituents to get sick, elderly and vulnerable loved ones off of the island and to the mainland. At the press conference, they discussed the urgency with which aid is needed in Puerto Rico, but also the need to evacuate people and help them resettle on the mainland if they want to. In total, eight Members of Congress from five states spoke at the press conference and Rep. Darren Soto of Florida, who is one of the four Democrats of Puerto Rican heritage, was called away, but provided a statement for this press release. “The stories that you’re reading and seeing from Puerto Rico are all true. The devastation and damage is real and people need our help,” stated Rep. Darren Soto (FL-09). “Our fellow American citizens are facing unthinkable tragedies. I saw people all over the island waiting in long lines for groceries and gas, most areas lacked electricity, cell phone service, and functioning traffic lights. Debris still covered many roads. Most buildings sustained minor or major damage. In the immediate term, it is critical we send air assets and airlifts with additional supplies to rural areas. I urge my colleagues in Congress to come together and pass a supplemental FEMA package for Puerto Rico.” “If people want to stay, they should stay, but if people want to leave Puerto Rico for the mainland, we should find a way to help them do so,” said Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04). “FEMA and the Governor of Puerto Rico are in charge, but our constituents are calling us to say, ‘help us’ and we would not be doing our jobs if we did not lift up our voices and amplify the concerns of our constituents. How long can hospitals go without electricity, or the elderly without their medicine, or the children without schools? It has been weeks and I know in Chicago we are ready to take families in.” “What’s happening in Puerto Rico is nothing short of a humanitarian crisis,” said Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-07). “We have a moral responsibility to help and, especially, ensure the most vulnerable citizens on the island are safe. To that end, I will continue advocating for a robust recovery package that, beyond rebuilding the Island’s infrastructure, helps address the Medicaid shortfall and Puerto Rico’s flagging healthcare system.” “Hundreds of thousands of people, including seniors and people with chronic diseases, have no access to proper health care in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria,” said Rep. José E. Serrano (NY-15). "Hospitals have limited electricity and/or water, Doctors are not readily available, and the waiting lines at health care facilities providing some sort of care are too long. Those who can afford it are resorting to leaving the island to find proper care in the States. But those who can’t afford even access to clean water and food are the ones suffering the most. I urge my colleagues to join us in helping address this issue at the federal level by ensuring the government of Puerto Rico has the funding and tools they need to properly address this crisis.” “Puerto Rico is in crisis,” said Rep. Joe Crowley (NY-14), Chairman of the Democratic Caucus. “The federal government must immediately do more to help the island rebuild and ensure that the individuals living there have the access to water, supplies, and health care they so desperately need.” “Lorain has the most densely populated Puerto Rican community in the entire state of Ohio. Families in my District are concerned about their loved ones and I share their concern,” said Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-09). “As Puerto Rico begins to recover from devastation, it faces a dangerous crisis; there is no electricity, no water, and donated goods cannot reach the people as many roads are impassable. People are in limbo. Kids can't go to school, doctors can't reach the sick. Addressing this humanitarian crisis is priority number one, and we need to get our fellow Americans the help and relief they need.” “I am deeply concerned about the response to the tragedy in Puerto Rico,” said Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03). “As we witness the devastation, I am angry, and I am frustrated. These are Americans citizens—our family, our friends—being abandoned by the Trump Administration at their hour of most need. We are blessed to have a vibrant, large Puerto Rican community in Connecticut. I met with family members and advocates in New Haven on Monday, and it is clear that we need to get the most vulnerable people off the island to get the care, treatment, and hospitalization the need. I want everyone to know that you are welcome; the doors to New Haven are open. Our brothers and sisters in Puerto Rico deserve the highest standard of care. Let’s act now.” “Now is a time for action. I am getting calls every day from Massachusetts families with loved ones in Puerto Rico who desperately need our help. Many are unable to contact their families or worry about their access to essential medical care,” Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) said. “They want to know that we are doing all we can to help. Despite all the rosy rhetoric coming out of the White House, we know the situation on the ground is dire and the failure of the administration to help our fellow Americans is shameful. This is urgent and we will not rest until Puerto Rico gets the assistance they need to recover from this tragic hurricane.” “We must stand united in our efforts to provide a safety net for Puerto Rico’s most vulnerable residents including our seniors, children, and individuals with urgent medial needs,” said Rep. Adriano Espaillat (NY-13). “As we enter day 15 since Hurricane Maria first made landfall, we are fast approaching dire life or death situations for individuals facing the critical circumstances in their lifetime. America will be remembered for the way we responded to the needs of our citizens, and we must act now to provide relief for Puerto Ricans and help them rebuild.” The press conference was broadcast on Facebook Live: https://www.facebook.com/RepGutiérrez/videos/10155766587978205/ Photos from the press conference here (via Office of Rep. Gutiérrez): https://www.dropbox.com/sh/4g3caosdccd95n2/AABbPX-6HUH2ly94UZF-d5QNa?dl=0 # # #
10.04.2017	Washington, DC – For the second day in a row, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor about what he saw while he was in Puerto Rico over the weekend and about the President’s trip to Puerto Rico yesterday. The President and First Lady met with officials and toured Guaynabo, a wealthy suburb of San Juan, and the President was also pictured distributing flashlights and paper towels to victims of Hurricane Maria. The President also remarked that Puerto Rico was throwing his budget “out of whack” and that the death toll, then 16, now officially 34, compares favorably to “a real catastrophe like Katrina” and therefore shows the President that the relief effort in Puerto Rico is going great. Rep. Gutiérrez does not agree with the President’s rosy assessment. I was frankly horrified by our President’s performance yesterday on the island. He said that Puerto Rico was making his budget out of whack, as if the monetary cost of saving lives is what we should be focusing on, or that an agenda to cut taxes is really as important as people’s lives in danger. Rep. Gutiérrez spoke about the people who call his office, most of them constituents in his Chicago-area district, seeking help locating and evacuating loved ones. “Two weeks after the hurricane hit Puerto Rico,” Rep. Gutiérrez said, “there are people who have not been heard from and people who are calling for help, but have not received it.” He said he has received requests for help on Facebook and from his constituents – and even from other Members of Congress seeking his help in getting people out of Puerto Rico. He said: These messages break my heart and I don’t know what to tell people except to say that help may be on the way soon, but of course that is not good enough. And I have no explanation for why it is not already there. He chided the President for using the current body count of deaths caused by Hurricane Maria, 16 as of yesterday and 34 as of today, as the ‘metric’ by which the President congratulated himself for his own success. At the conclusion of his speech, Rep. Gutiérrez said: I don’t think today’s body count is the right ‘metric’ to look at, but rather we should be challenging ourselves to make sure it doesn’t go any higher. The most serious event in Puerto Rico’s modern history may not qualify as a significant disaster to our President, but let us not sit back and allow the body count to change his mind. We cannot wait that long. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago, but has lived in Puerto Rico at various points in his life. He was in Puerto Rico this past weekend. A video of the Congressman’s speech today is here: https://youtu.be/mOIEp36_OAo The Text as prepared for delivery is here: Floor Speech October 4, 2017 I have received a lot of calls in my office in the last few days. Some are offering help to the people of Puerto Rico, but many are from moms and dads hoping to hear from their children. From children hoping to hear from their moms and dads. From grandchildren worried about an elderly grandparent who is still in Puerto Rico. Two weeks after the hurricane hit Puerto Rico, there are people who have not been heard from and people who are calling for help, but have not received it. I have had Members of Congress, state and local officials and people from all over the country call me to tell me about someone who needs help getting out of Puerto Rico. Their mom is still in Puerto Rico or a cousin is on Dialysis and has not been heard from and can I help them get to a hospital on the mainland. These calls are heartbreaking because they are all about U.S. citizens who should be treated better two weeks after a calamity – even a devastating calamity like Hurricane Maria. Most of the calls I have received have been from my constituents in Chicago. Here is one example that was summarized to me by one of my staff members in Chicago. She said, Congressman I just received a call from Mrs. K (I won’t give her full name)… She lives here in Illinois, but has an aunt who is in a hospital in Guaynabo, Puerto Rico who is very ill with cancer….She is requesting assistance from our office to get her aunt out of Puerto Rico so that she can receive treatment. And Mr. Speaker, if you take a look at my Facebook, you will see the same sort of thing. MANNY writes: The municipality of Arecibo, a coastal town in the northern part of Puerto Rico, has not received help. I spoke to my family there via text and they said the situation there is dire. YANNY writes: Please don’t forget Aibonito! The people there are hungry thirsty and there are many sick who need medicine. Thank you. I just spoke ten minutes ago to María in Chicago and she said “Congressman, I haven’t heard from my parents, in Cayey.” It’s tragic. Mr. Speaker, these messages break my heart and I don’t know what to tell people except to say that help may be on the way soon, but of course that is not good enough. And I have no explanation for why it is not already there. It certainly is not the fault of the brave men and women who work for FEMA. I spent a lot of time with them in Puerto Rico while I was there and they are working hard, tired, and facing the difficult task of finding and feeding people. From what I saw in Puerto Rico, what I am hearing from my constituents, and what I am hearing from my family and friends, we need to seriously ramp up and use the full capabilities of the U.S. government and the U.S. military to rescue people. They don’t need paper towels tossed to them like T-Shirts at a sports arena. They need helicopters, bridges, cell towers and generators. Which is why I was frankly horrified by our President’s performance yesterday on the island. He said that Puerto Rico was making his budget out of whack, as if the monetary cost of saving lives is what we should be focusing on, or that an agenda to cut taxes is really as important as people’s lives in danger. From the beginning, he has focused on the cost of saving Puerto Ricans, not the moral duty to save Puerto Ricans. He has essentially said that Puerto Ricans are sitting around looking for hand-outs and not helping themselves, which is not at all what I saw in Puerto Rico, Mr. Speaker. Yesterday, the President said we should all feel proud because only 16 people have been listed as officially killed by Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico. Really? We should feel proud? Yes! He said that a real tragedy like Hurricane Katrina killed many more, so I guess he is saying, hey, only 16 people, why the big fuss. And that number doubled overnight, by the way. And everyone understands that it will go up farther still when contact is made with all parts of the Island. I look at it a different way. To me, it is almost like Hurricane Maria has posed a test to the United States of America and our President. The Hurricane said “I am going to take 34 souls. That is 34 too many, but that is what I am going to take.” Now, I am leaving it up to you America, Mr. President, and you people in Congress…tell me what will you do to prevent that number from going higher? Are you getting medicine to the sick? Are you evacuating the aunt with cancer or the cousin on Dialysis? Are you providing safe drinking water and flights to safety? Mr. Speaker, I don’t think today’s body count is the right ‘metric’ to look at, but rather we should be challenging ourselves to make sure it doesn’t go any higher. The most serious event in Puerto Rico’s modern history may not qualify as a significant disaster to our President, but let us not sit back and allow the body count to change his mind. We cannot wait that long. # # #
10.03.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor about what he saw while he was in Puerto Rico over the weekend, the humanitarian crisis that is unfolding, and the need for U.S. cities and towns to prepare to receive Puerto Rican evacuees. Yesterday in Chicago, Rep. Gutierrez and other Puerto Rican and city leaders met with the Mayor of Chicago and the Mayor made it clear at a press conference that Chicago would take steps to welcome Puerto Rican and U.S. Virgin Islander evacuees, in addition to aid that the city is sending. Rep. Gutiérrez used part of his speech to address the Puerto Rican people directly in Spanish, saying, “Oímos tus peticiones de ayuda, y la fuerza del gobierno estadounidense finalmente vienen a ayudar”. (“We hear your cries for help and the full strength of the American government is finally coming to help.”) He continued: Ciudades y pueblos, alcaldes y gobernadores a través del país, están abriéndote las puertas de sus comunidades para que tengas un lugar seguro mientras el rescate, la recuperación y la reconstrucción continúan. Y ayer, presente con el alcalde de Chicago, él me dijo que quiere que la ciudad de Chicago sea un lugar en el cual todo Puertorriqueño que necesite un lugar seguro pueda llegar inmediatamente y reestablecerse. Puerto Rico, no estás solo. [TRANSLATION] Cities and towns, Mayors and Governors from across the country are making their communities available to you so that you have a safe place to be while the rescue and recovery and rebuilding continues. And standing with the Mayor of Chicago just yesterday, he said he wants the City of Chicago to be a place where any and all Puerto Ricans who need a safe place can come immediately and we will help you resettle. You are not alone. Switching back to English, Rep Gutierrez spoke of what he saw in Puerto Rico: It was worse than I imagined and it broke my heart. To see my beloved Island so destroyed, so scared for its future, and feeling so alone and isolated. There were dead animals all over the place, the people were still desperate for food and water, and anyone who is sick or elderly is finding it hard or impossible to get medicine and care. He concluded his remarks by stressing the need to prepare for receiving evacuees and the role Chicago hopes to play in that effort: One thing I learned in Puerto Rico this weekend is that in Chicago and the rest of the U.S. we need to start thinking about evacuation in addition to rebuilding and recovery. I have welcomed family into my own home and people I know across the country are welcoming relatives escaping Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, but we need to ramp up our commitment beyond the family-to-family, informal relationships and look systematically at how we organize ourselves to meet the great need of our fellow citizens in the Caribbean. Rebuilding Puerto Rico -- making her a strong and self-sufficient Island Nation of industrious and hard-working people again will take years and require a long-term commitment from this Congress and this country to the well-being of our fellow man. So, Mr. Speaker, let’s roll up our sleeves and get to work. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. A video of the Congressman’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/EZdyL5esGXM The Text as prepared for delivery is here: Floor Speech October 3, 2017 Mr. Speaker, I just returned from Puerto Rico and to start my remarks I would like to say a few words in Spanish, the language of Puerto Rico and then I will switch back to English. I will provide a translation to the desk. [See below] Mi amado Puerto Rico, no estás solo. Oímos tus peticiones de ayuda, y la fuerza del gobierno estadounidense finalmente vienen a ayudar. Ha sido despacio, y comparto tu frustración sobre una respuesta que no se dió con la urgencia y prioridad que los Puertorriqueños--y cualquier ser humano que está sufriendo--se merecen. Les digo a mis colegas lo que he visto, y lo que me has dicho cuando estuve ahí. Trabajaré con ellos inmediatamente para asegurar que este Congreso trate a Puerto Rico justo y generosamente. Y no soy el único. Otros Puertorriqueños, y el Caucus Hispano están trabajando con el liderazgo de la Cámara para conformar un programa de ayuda. Ciudades y pueblos, alcaldes y gobernadores a través del país, están abriéndote las puertas de sus comunidades para que tengas un lugar seguro mientras el rescate, la recuperación y la reconstrucción continúan. Y ayer, presente con el alcalde de Chicago, él me dijo que quiere que la ciudad de Chicago sea un lugar en el cual todo Puertorriqueño que necesite un lugar seguro pueda llegar inmediatamente y reestablecerse. Puerto Rico, no estás solo. Mr. Speaker: I flew to Puerto Rico on Friday to see what was happening on the ground with my own eyes. Mr. Speaker, it was worse than I imagined and it broke my heart. To see my beloved Island so destroyed, so scared for its future, and feeling so alone and isolated. There were dead animals all over the place, the people were still desperate for food and water, and anyone who is sick or elderly is finding it hard or impossible to get medicine and care. Things are improving day by day and the number of helicopters flying missions of mercy to the interior of the Island is increasing, but almost everyone has no power. Almost everyone has no food or is having trouble finding it. Almost everyone has no water and some are seeking water from unreliable or possibly contaminated sources. At the same time, I also saw an amazing unity and toughness – a can do spirit that my fellow Puerto Ricans have – the ability to make a way when there is no way, to improvise, and most importantly to work together. Any divisions of party or class that are right on the surface on a typical day in Puerto Rico – this faction vs. that faction – all of that was blown away. The only “status issue” that matters for Puerto Ricans right now is the status of S.O.S. Save Our Souls. We need help and plenty of it. Yesterday, I spoke at a press conference in Chicago with Mayor Rahm Emanuel and leaders from Chicago, including Fire Commissioner Santiago and the head of Chicago's Office of Emergency Management & Control, a Brigadier General in our National Guard. The Mayor announced that 22 Chicago firefighters are going to Puerto Rico to help with the rescue and recovery efforts, including bringing equipment that may help make communications to remote parts of the Island easier. The Mayor also announced that in Chicago, we want to be for Puerto Rico what Houston was for New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina -- a place of refuge where we will help you get settled, get your kids in school, get you the medical care you need and make you feel welcome. One thing I learned in Puerto Rico this weekend is that in Chicago and the rest of the U.S. we need to start thinking about evacuation in addition to rebuilding and recovery. I have welcomed family into my own home and people I know across the country are welcoming relatives escaping Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, but we need to ramp up our commitment beyond the family-to-family, informal relationships and look systematically at how we organize ourselves to meet the great need of our fellow citizens in the Caribbean. Rebuilding Puerto Rico -- making her a strong and self-sufficient Island Nation of industrious and hard-working people again will take years and require a long-term commitment from this Congress and this country to the well-being of our fellow man. So, Mr. Speaker, let’s roll up our sleeves and get to work. # # # [TRANSLATION OF SPANISH] My beloved Puerto Rico, you are not alone. We hear your cries for help and the full strength of the American government is finally coming to help. It has been slow and no one has been as frustrated as I am that the response did not happen with the urgency and priority that Puerto Ricans – and every human being who is suffering – deserve. I tell my colleagues what I saw and what you told me while I was there. I will work with them immediately, and make sure that this Congress treats Puerto Rico fairly and generously. And I am not alone. The other Puerto Ricans and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus are working with the leadership of the House to put together an aid package. Cities and towns, Mayors and Governors from across the country are making their communities available to you so that you have a safe place to be while the rescue and recovery and rebuilding continues. And standing with the Mayor of Chicago just yesterday, he said he wants the City of Chicago to be a place where any and all Puerto Ricans who need a safe place can come immediately and we will help you resettle. You are not alone. # # #
09.28.2017	Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), the ranking member on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, joined Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Chairwoman Congresswoman Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01) and CHC Immigration Task Force Chair Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04) to release the following statement in response to reports that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) will not extend the October 5th renewal deadline for recipients of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and is open to sharing DACA recipient data with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE): “The Trump Administration first rescinded DACA, upending the lives of nearly 800,000 Dreamers, young patriots who have done everything right. Then, DHS proceeded to issue an unrealistic and arbitrary DACA renewal deadline of October 5th. This meant that 154,000 Dreamers had 30 days to find legal assistance, fill out renewal paperwork and pay a $495 fee or risk losing their status and getting deported. DHS has not done any outreach or provided support to these 154,000 Dreamers to ensure they can meet this unrealistic deadline and keep their status. Instead, DHS Acting Secretary Duke has chosen to undermine DACA renewal efforts by creating more fear by stating that DACA recipient data can be shared with ICE. “The reality is that individuals require the assistance of attorneys to ensure their applications are completed correctly and the short amount of time to come up with the $495 application fee disproportionately affects Dreamers who are students and breadwinners. Moreover, the recent natural disasters have created a substantial and unanticipated barrier for Dreamers to file their applications. “The Administration should exercise common sense and extend the DACA renewal deadline to January 5, 2018, as we requested in a September 21st letter to Acting DHS Secretary Elaine Duke. Surely, Dreamers who have met every requirement to receive DACA and are contributing to their communities as paramedics, teachers, and soldiers in the armed forces are deserving of an extension. Furthermore, we urge the Administration to protect DACA recipients’ privacy and confidentiality by not sharing their data with ICE.” ###
09.28.2017	Washington, DC -- Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) will fly to San Juan from Chicago early Friday morning and plans to return to Chicago on Sunday. He will both travel within the San Juan Metro area and go out of the city to see for himself the damage caused by Hurricanes Maria and Irma and assess why relief is not flowing to the people of Puerto Rico quickly enough. “It has been more than a week and basic aid like food, water, medicine and fuel isn’t getting where it needs to be to help people,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “We can’t allow inaction in Washington to create a humanitarian crisis for 3.4 million American citizens in Puerto Rico. I won’t sit back and watch TV as another crisis like Katrina in New Orleans unfolds. These are our people and they need our help right now.” Rep. Gutiérrez has helped with Chicago-area relief efforts that have already sent a planeload of supplies to San Juan and is coordinating that relief with the Mayor of San Juan. He has been a vocal opponent of the Jones Act and has called on the U.S. military to do more to help in the relief effort. He speaks at a 10 am ET press conference in Washington this morning with Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and other Democrats calling for swifter federal response (link to live stream online here). “Finally, the White House is beginning to wake up, taking temporary action on the Jones Act and upping the military presence, but it took a while and more is needed right now,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “Whatever it takes to rescue people, whatever it takes to airlift people to safety, to open hospitals and get them food and water, it has to happen right now.” Responding to reports that FEMA and the White House were delaying official trips by delegation of Members of Congress, Rep. Gutiérrez said, “Soy Boricua, no necesito permiso. I’m Puerto Rican, so I don’t need anyone’s permission to go.” Note: The Congressman is flying commercially to San Juan and will speak to interested reporters at O’Hare airport before he leaves (he is booked on UA1996, Friday, departing ORD 7:50 am CT | arriving SJU 1:30 pm AT). He will speak to interested reporters upon his return to Chicago (he is booked on UA841, Sunday, departing SJU 2:30 pm AT | arriving ORD 6:35 pm CT). Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez, who is the Chicago-born son of Puerto Rican migrants, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # # Related: Press Release & Letter 9/27/2017: Chairman Crowley And Rep. Gutiérrez Request Meeting With Defense Secretary Mattis To Discuss Emergency Aid To Puerto Rico (http://bit.ly/2ytydNX) Press Release, Text & Video 9/26/2017: Floor Speech: Gutiérrez Calls For Help To Address Urgent Humanitarian Crisis In Puerto Rico (http://bit.ly/2y654MJ) Press Release & Letter 9/22/2017: Gutiérrez Calls On Ryan & Pelosi To Organize Bipartisan Delegation To See Hurricane Maria Destruction In Puerto Rico (http://bit.ly/2hnOE7A) Press Release & Letter; 9/21/2017: Gutiérrez Offers Assistance to Governor of Puerto Rico, Calls on President to Take Additional Actions on Behalf Of Hurricane Stricken Island (http://bit.ly/2fdI1Ee). Facebook Live Video; 9/21/2017: Chicago Responds to Hurricane Maria (a community meeting of Puerto Rican community leaders, elected officials, disaster relief experts and others in Chicago, convened by Rep. Gutiérrez, the Puerto Rican Cultural Center of Chicago and Puerto Rican Agenda) (http://bit.ly/2fCiYLM). Press Release & Letter; 9/20/2017: Gutiérrez Calls On President Trump To Help Puerto Rico Rescue And Recovery “As Quickly As Humanly Possible” (http://bit.ly/2hibM7I).
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Wednesday, Reps. Joe Crowley (D-NY), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, and Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) wrote to Defense Secretary James Mattis to request an urgent meeting to discuss the crisis in Puerto Rico. The Island is still without power, food, fuel, water, and adequate medical supplies a week after Hurricane Maria. The United States military has aided natural disaster victims in the past – both on domestic soil and foreign soil. While some military resources have already deployed to the Puerto Rico, operation, Crowley and Gutiérrez believe the Department of Defense (DOD) has the capability and capacity to do much more. In their letter they state: The U.S. military provided life-saving, heroic support to the people of Haiti after the earthquake in 2010 and in 2005 to the people of New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, deploying a Three-Star General to command operations there. These are but two examples. We believe the U.S. military is best positioned to save lives, meet immediate needs of the people with food and water, set up a functioning telecommunications system and establish medical triage and emergency medical services. Our military servicemen and women are the best in the world and their fellow citizens in Puerto Rico need their help desperately. We would like to meet with you as soon as possible to discuss what the military is currently doing to help Puerto Rico and what more it can and will do in the future. Both Crowley and Gutiérrez represent districts with significant Puerto Rican populations and Gutiérrez is the U.S.-born child of Puerto Rican migrants. Full text of letter: 092717 Crowley Gutierrez DOD Ltr re PR.pdf # # #
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Reps. Grace Meng (D-NY), Nydia Velázquez (D-NY), Darren Soto (D-FL), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), and José Serrano (D-NY), in response to the humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico, introduced the Humanitarian Disaster Relief Act of 2017 to permit waiving the Jones Act for humanitarian relief efforts. “It is clear we need to adjust the Jones Act to permit waivers for humanitarian relief,” said Rep. Meng. “Puerto Rico has been devastated by Hurricane Maria, and just as we wouldn’t stand for delays in delivery of humanitarian supplies and increased costs for the continental United States, we cannot stand for it in Puerto Rico or for our fellow Americans on other U.S. islands. Our common sense legislation would allow for waivers to help all U.S. islands receive the supplies they need after natural disasters, and I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support it.” “This is a humanitarian crisis and Puerto Rico needs all the help it can get,” said Rep. Velázquez. “This includes ensuring any and all maritime assets can access the Island to deliver aid, regardless of their Jones Act status. Furthermore, given the devastation from Maria, it is clear that Puerto Rico’s already struggling economy will face a difficult road ahead. I’m proud to cosponsor this legislation, which would provide another avenue for lifting this bureaucratic barrier and helping Puerto Ricans get the assistance they need.” "Our nation just endured deadly hurricanes, which caused tragic destruction in Florida, Puerto Rico, Texas, and the U.S. Virgin Islands,” said Rep. Soto. “Damage to our infrastructure has led to complete power outages and massive flooding, at times making it difficult to deliver basic supplies to those in desperate need. This is unacceptable! I'm proud to join my colleagues in introducing legislation to provide humanitarian relief to our American citizens when they need it most. In time of crisis, it is our responsibility to act swiftly with as much support as we can.” “What is more important, getting aid to people in need or policies to maintain profits for shipping companies?” said Rep. Gutiérrez. “Let the aid flow from wherever it is available to wherever it is needed most, without bureaucratic or man-made barriers.” “When Harvey and Irma hit the United States, President Trump didn’t hesitate to temporarily waive the Jones Act for Texas and Florida,” said Rep. Serrano. “There is no reason he shouldn’t do the same in the case of Puerto Rico and its 3.4 million US citizens. With the Administration blaming the technical language of the statute for being unable to waive the Act, this legislation will simply add humanitarian relief efforts as an allowable justification for a waiver. Taking this small step would help speed the delivery of humanitarian relief and lower the price of basic necessities like fuel. I urge my Republican colleagues to join us in supporting this important piece of legislation for the people of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.” Currently, waivers to the Jones Act may only be provided in the “interest of national defense.” The Humanitarian Disaster Relief Act of 2017 would allow for waivers in the interest of humanitarian relief efforts as well. The Jones Act, or the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, requires that ships transporting goods between American ports be built primarily in the United States and have U.S. citizens as their owners and crews. As a result, Puerto Ricans often pay more for disaster supplies, and the number of ships that can deliver much needed fuel, food, water, medical supplies, and infrastructure is limited. A copy of the bill text can be found here.
09.26.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor about the humanitarian crisis unfolding in Puerto Rico a week after it was struck by Hurricane Maria, the second hurricane to hit the Island in September. He called for more urgent and comprehensive federal government aid, the permanent suspension of the Jones Act, and other immediate measures to respond to the urgent need for food, water, fuel and medicine. He also responded to the President’s tweets last night reminding Puerto Rico of its debt owed to Wall Street bondholders. The Congressman indicated he would fly to Puerto Rico on Friday and has invited other Members of Congress to join him. No, Mr. President, Puerto Rico is not doing well,” Rep. Gutiérrez began, referring to President Trump’s tweets. “We don’t need to be reminded of the debt. We should remind ourselves of our responsibility to the 3.4 million people of the Island Nation of Puerto Rico. They are suffering greatly.” “We need all hands on deck and to make rescuing Puerto Rico our number one priority,” he continued. “Immediate needs must be met – fresh water, food, medicine, shelter and fuel. But we will need sustained investment and cooperation with the Island’s government and its people to make Puerto Rico livable again.” However, he said that Congress’s recent track record with Puerto Rico indicates that Washington may not be willing to go “all in” for Puerto Rico. I fear is that the federal government is not stepping up as fully and as quickly as we must. I remember in this body when the legislation to take over the Puerto Rican government and put in place a Junta or Control Board was working its way through Congress, the PROMESA Bill. What was the main selling point for the bill? Vote for PROMESA because it will not cost us a penny! So, that is where this Congress and the federal government start from, not wanting to spend what needs to be spent or do what needs to be done. We need to waive cost-sharing that would charge Puerto Rico for a percentage of the relief and rescue help they are receiving. Puerto Rico is broke, they cannot borrow and they cannot set their own budgets and spending priorities – that was all taken away from Puerto Rico. So the U.S. government should start by waiving those cost-sharing requirements and suspend the Jones Act permanently or for a substantial period of time – at least a decade – in order to help in the recovery. Since it was imposed on Puerto Rico, the Jones Act has cost Puerto Rican consumers more than all the money owed to Wall Street, yet the President reminds us of the debt in his tweets. Let the ships flow as quickly and as cheaply from wherever they may come from because this is an emergency. He concluded: I am leaving early on Friday to go there and I am hoping other Members will join me. I have family who need help, so I am headed there to do what I can do. But most importantly, I am committed to shining a spotlight on the people of Puerto Rico so that they are neither out of sight nor out of mind. We need to make them the priority in this moment of great need. In this moment of national disaster. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. A video of the Congressman’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/UJs6RgjIIQk The Text as prepared for delivery is here: Floor Speech September 26, 2017 No, Mr. President, Puerto Rico relief is not going well. We don’t need to be reminded of the debt. We should remind ourselves of our responsibility to the 3.4 million people of the Island Nation of Puerto Rico. They are suffering greatly. Mr. Speaker, the people of Puerto Rico need our immediate and sustained help. We all know that flooding, destruction, and the complete elimination of the power grid for the whole Island are among the consequences of Hurricane Maria, but this was no ordinary hurricane and it hit at no ordinary time. Mr. Speaker, we need all hands on deck and to make rescuing Puerto Rico our number one priority. Immediate needs must be met – fresh water, food, medicine, shelter and fuel. But we will need sustained investment and cooperation with the Island’s government and its people to make Puerto Rico livable again. Like a lot of Americans, I have watched with increasing horror and panic as the Governor of Puerto Rico, the Mayor of San Juan, and ordinary Puerto Ricans have pleaded for more help. The work of first responders and our military has been heroic, but the Island needs more. One third of the doctors – over 5,000 – have left Puerto Rico in the last 10 years. Hospitals have no doctors, nurses, fuel and medicine – at the hospitals that remain open. This is a public health crisis and should be declared a health emergency by the federal government. Puerto Rico has been in economic crisis for years. Five thousand people flee Puerto Rico every month, before two hurricanes hit, leaving behind many old, many young, the very sick, the very poor, and the very vulnerable. There is no food in supermarkets. We need an airlift. We need an effort the scale of Dunkirk. We know the U.S. is capable. We can invade foreign countries with hundreds of thousands of troops, flawless communications, food and security. We need the same effort now. We need the federal government to go all in to rescue Puerto Rico from a humanitarian crisis and welcome other nations if they want to help, like Cuba which has offered doctors and other emergency assistance. But what I fear is that the federal government is not stepping up as fully and as quickly as we must. I remember in this body when the legislation to take over the Puerto Rican government and put in place a Junta or Control Board was working its way through Congress, the PROMESA Bill. What was the main selling point for the bill? Vote for PROMESA because it will not cost us a penny! So, that is where this Congress and the federal government start from, not wanting to spend what needs to be spent or do what needs to be done. We need to waive cost-sharing that would charge Puerto Rico for a percentage of the relief and rescue help they are receiving. Puerto Rico is broke, they cannot borrow and they cannot set their own budgets and spending priorities – that was all taken away from Puerto Rico. So the U.S. government should start by waiving those cost-sharing requirements and suspend the Jones Act permanently or for a substantial period of time – at least a decade – in order to help in the recovery. Since it was imposed on Puerto Rico, the Jones Act has cost Puerto Rican consumers more than all the money owed to Wall Street, yet the President reminds us of the debt in his tweets. Let the ships flow as quickly and as cheaply from wherever they may come from because this is an emergency. Let’s be clear, with or without hurricanes, the electrical grid, the roads, ports, public safety and public health systems are close to collapsing, so this emergency cannot just be treated by Congress, the President, FEMA and the other agencies as just another storm. Mr. Speaker, I have asked the Speaker of the House and the Democratic Leader to form a delegation to send Members to Puerto Rico so they can see for themselves how dire things are. I am leaving early on Friday to go there and I am hoping other Members will join me. I have family who need help, so I am headed there to do what I can do. But most importantly, I am committed to shining a spotlight on the people of Puerto Rico so that they are neither out of sight nor out of mind. We need to make them the priority in this moment of great need. In this moment of national disaster. # # # Related: Press Release & Letter; 9/26/17: Gutiérrez Calls On Ryan & Pelosi To Organize Bipartisan Delegation To See Hurricane Maria Destruction In Puerto Rico (http://bit.ly/2hnOE7A) Press Release & Letter; 9/21/2017: Gutiérrez Offers Assistance to Governor of Puerto Rico, Calls on President to Take Additional Actions on Behalf Of Hurricane Stricken Island (http://bit.ly/2fdI1Ee). Facebook Live Video; 9/21/2017: Chicago Responds to Hurricane Maria (a community meeting of Puerto Rican community leaders, elected officials, disaster relief experts and others in Chicago, convened by Rep. Gutiérrez, the Puerto Rican Cultural Center of Chicago and Puerto Rican Agenda) (http://bit.ly/2fCiYLM). Press Release & Letter; 9/20/2017: Gutiérrez Calls On President Trump To Help Puerto Rico Rescue And Recovery “As Quickly As Humanly Possible” (http://bit.ly/2hibM7I).
09.22.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released a letter he sent to Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) today asking them to organize a bipartisan delegation of congressional leaders to visit Puerto Rico and see the damage caused by Hurricane Maria for themselves. The Chicago-born Puerto Rican Congressman from Illinois says Puerto Rico faces unique challenges after the devastating hurricane that Members of Congress must see in order to appreciate the aid that is necessary to help the Island recover. Text of letter: 092217 LVG Letter to Ryan Pelosi re Hurricane Maria relief for PR.pdf “This was no average storm,” Rep. Gutiérrez said in releasing the letter. “It was a powerful direct hit that struck Puerto Rico when it was already down because of the economic situation, financial crisis, limited autonomy because of the federal takeover, and a barely adequate public health, power, and public services infrastructure. What little Puerto Rico had before Maria was literally blown away and in order to understand the scope of the damage and the magnitude of the recovery, Members of Congress need to see it with their own eyes.” In his letter to Speaker Ryan and Leader Pelosi, Rep. Gutiérrez writes of “the singularly tragic issues Puerto Rico is dealing with, on top of the unfathomable chaos and destruction Maria has caused.” The storm’s damage is historic and comes on the heels of Hurricane Irma, which already weakened the Island’s power grid and infrastructure just two weeks ago. The closest state is 1,000 miles away, the only language most Puerto Ricans speak is Spanish, and years of recession, an on-going financial crisis, and high levels of outmigration present unique challenges for the Island and its government. Just this week, Speaker Ryan visited Houston to inspect damage caused by Hurricane Harvey and was joined by Republican lawmakers. In his letter, Rep. Gutiérrez recalls a previous bipartisan congressional visit to Puerto Rico organized by a previous Speaker after a 1998 hurricane – which helped galvanize support for congressional action: In 1998, Speaker Newt Gingrich led a bipartisan delegation to Puerto Rico in the aftermath of Hurricane Georges—a Category 4 hurricane that badly damaged Puerto Rico, but that is significantly dwarfed by the destruction of Hurricane Maria. The Gingrich-led delegation resulted in congressional action and assistance worthy of the strength and resilience of the Puerto Rican people. I hope that in the case of Maria, we can do the same. Rep. Gutiérrez concludes his letter to Speaker Ryan and Leader Pelosi, saying: You both know how close Puerto Rico is to my heart. We must respond swiftly and generously to help our fellow Americans. I thank you in advance for your efforts and I look forward to working with you both to help pull together a bipartisan delegation together to visit the people of Puerto Rico and muster support in their hour of great need. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # # Related: Press Release & Letter; 9/21/2017: Gutiérrez Offers Assistance to Governor of Puerto Rico, Calls on President to Take Additional Actions on Behalf Of Hurricane Stricken Island (http://bit.ly/2fdI1Ee). Facebook Live Video; 9/21/2017: Chicago Responds to Hurricane Maria (a community meeting of Puerto Rican community leaders, elected officials, disaster relief experts and others in Chicago, convened by Rep. Gutiérrez, the Puerto Rican Cultural Center of Chicago and Puerto Rican Agenda) (http://bit.ly/2fCiYLM). Press Release & Letter; 9/20/2017: Gutiérrez Calls On President Trump To Help Puerto Rico Rescue And Recovery “As Quickly As Humanly Possible” (http://bit.ly/2hibM7I).
09.21.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released a letter he sent to Puerto Rican Governor Ricardo Rosselló offering his support to the people of Puerto Rico and expressing gratitude to the Governor for the vital work he has done so far addressing a once-in-a-century natural disaster, Hurricane Maria. Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico as a category 4 storm and left a path of destruction across the Island just two weeks after Hurricane Irma also cause $1 billion in damage and widespread power outages. Rep. Gutiérrez, who was born in Chicago and is Puerto Rican, pledged any assistance he could muster to address the Island’s immediate and long-term needs. The two also tried to connect by telephone unsuccessfully (as of this writing). Link to letter: 092117 LVG letter to Gov Rossello.pdf The Congressman also called on the Trump Administration to take actions that take into account the unique problems facing Puerto Rico in the face of this disaster. Puerto Rico’s location, its colonial or territorial status, and the deep financial crisis that has deteriorated the infrastructure and reduced the population in Puerto Rico are among the factors that could contribute to a far more severe impact of this storm in the coming days and weeks. Specifically, Rep. Gutiérrez wants the President to waive cost-sharing that would normally cause the Puerto Rican government to saddle some of the cost of federal assistance. The Congressman also wants the President to suspend the Jones Act – which requires U.S. flag vessels be used to bring any goods, relief supplies or fuel to Puerto Rico. The President has the power under current law to take these two executive actions. Rep. Gutiérrez said: “Puerto Rico is broke and the federal government already controls the purse strings through the financial control board or Junta that was imposed by Congress. Puerto Rico can’t borrow funds and they are required to use American shipping only, which is the most expensive in the world. In their hour of need, Washington can help by suspending the Jones Act and suspending cost-sharing obligations. Puerto Rico was closing schools and hospitals and laying off cops before the two hurricanes hit this month, so Washington should go these extra steps.” Rep. Gutiérrez reiterated concerns he first expressed in a letter to President Trump yesterday (http://bit.ly/2hibM7I) that a public health crisis is looming if Puerto Rico does not get massive aid quickly. Rep. Gutiérrez said: “Hundreds of doctors and medical professionals have left the Island in recent years and many of the youngest and healthiest workers too, so the people who remain in Puerto Rico are even more vulnerable to disease and other calamities after these hurricanes because the public health infrastructure was already collapsing.” Earlier in the day, Rep. Gutiérrez convened a meeting in Chicago with leaders from the city’s Puerto Rican community, local elected officials, disaster relief experts, and local business leaders to begin addressing what Chicago can do to help Puerto Rico (see Facebook Live video: http://bit.ly/2fCiYLM). In his letter to Governor Rosselló, Rep. Gutiérrez concluded by saying: My thoughts and prayers are with you, your government and the people of Puerto Rico. Thank you for all that you are doing to help Puerto Ricans face this unprecedented disaster. I stand ready to help you in any way I can, so please do not hesitate to call on me if there is anything you need or you think I can do to help. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
09.20.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released a letter he sent to President Trump today urging the President to declare a major disaster in Puerto Rico, which is being hit by a once-in-a-century hurricane today. The Congressman, a U.S. born Puerto Rican, asks Trump to “declare a major disaster in Puerto Rico as soon as the statute allows and direct FEMA to aggressively marshal and coordinate all federal resources available to the Island as quickly as humanly possible.” Full text of letter: 092017 Hurricane Maria Letter to President.pdf The Congressman is requesting fast action to deal with the immediate crisis, including rescue operations, and also a long-term commitment to helping the Island recover. “Puerto Rico is particularly vulnerable. Hurricane Maria is barreling over Puerto Rico two weeks after it was hit by Hurricane Irma which caused over $1 billion in damage. Puerto Ricans have already been reeling from power outages, lack of potable water and a shortage of basic resources. Obviously, the first order of business is search and rescue, saving lives, reopening airports and seaports for critical supplies and to ensure that the Puerto Rican people have shelter, clean water and food. “In addition, the dire needs facing Puerto Ricans in the coming days and weeks cannot be overstated. The Island has suffered for more than 10 years under a recession and is in the midst of a severe financial crisis, crushing debt, high unemployment and unprecedented out-migration. The fiscal control board imposed on Puerto Rico by the U.S. Congress has already slashed the public budget, imposed extreme austerity measures and is powerless to invest in the economy, create jobs and promote growth. This means that Puerto Rico is broke and absolutely unable to financially contribute to its own recovery. Given this, I ask you to ensure that any cost sharing requirements that would normally be imposed on a state or territory under less dire circumstances be waived, as you are allowed to do under law.” Rep. Gutiérrez’s letter also asks the President and federal agencies to see clearly the unique disadvantages Puerto Rico faces in a disaster such as this one because of its location, demographics, and federal policies that starve Puerto Rico of much-needed infrastructure and aid. In addition, the Congressman calls the President’s attention to the needs of the elderly in Puerto Rico and the need for Spanish-language capabilities as federal resources are deployed. “While states facing major disasters on the mainland benefit from relatively accessible emergency assistance of neighboring states, Puerto Rico’s location offers no such access. The call for emergency assistance must be aggressive, broad and throughout the United States, with a particular focus on air and sea resources to more swiftly facilitate the marshalling of desperately needed assistance to the Island. […] “I will do my part in Chicago to rally support and resources from Puerto Ricans and other Americans concerned for the plight of those in Hurricane Maria’s path.” The Congressman is hosting a community meeting in Chicago on Thursday morning with leaders in the Puerto Rican community and experts on disaster relief to harness the deep connections between Chicago and Puerto Rico to address the Island’s emergency and make sure aid flows quickly to where it is needed most. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
09.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 18, 2017) – Reps. Luis Gutiérrez [D-IL] and Mike Coffman [R-CO] sent a letter today to the Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) requesting a series of important technical fixes to the process for winding down the DACA program. The requests from Reps. Coffman and Gutiérrez are intended to ensure DACA participants are treated fairly, in a transparent manner, and that no one is unduly penalized by the timing of when their current authorization expires. "These young people, who came out of the shadows to sign up for DACA, did the right thing and the technical fixes that we are proposing will help them as the program winds down," said Coffman. “DACA participants have already lived in the U.S. for at least 10 years and gone through multiple detailed background checks for the initial application and renewals, so treating those with DACA with respect and compassion is the least that USCIS can do until such time as Congress enacts legislation to protect DREAMers permanently,” said Rep. Gutiérrez (D-IL), who is a member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The fixes suggested by Gutiérrez and Coffman are as follows: Allow individuals whose DACA expired before September 5, 2017 to apply for renewal; Accept and process renewal applications postmarked on or before October 5, 2017; Do not penalize applicants whose applications are rejected for minor, technical errors; For those currently with unexpired DACA, provide two-year grants of deferred action from the date of the expiration of their current DACA grant, instead of the date of approval. A copy of the letter to DHS and USCIS is available here: 09182017 Letter to USCIS re End of DACA Technical Fixes_FINAL.pdf # # #
09.14.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement in reaction to the news yesterday that President Trump and Democratic Leaders had made progress towards the DREAM Act of 2017 and the debate on the House Floor today on H.R. 3697, the so-called “Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act.” The bill was introduced last week, has six co-sponsors, and is being debated and will likely pass today. It makes it easier for the government to label people as gang members and jail or deport them. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. While the President is playing deal or no deal with the lives of DREAMers, Speaker Ryan is allowing House Republicans to vote on a bill that labels as many immigrant youth as possible as gang members and makes it easier to deport them. He could be moving the bipartisan DREAM Act forward, but instead, he wants to make it very clear that Republicans see Latinos and immigrants as a threat to the U.S., not an asset. Hundreds of thousands of doctors, teachers, nurses and soldiers are going to be yanked from the American economy if Speaker Ryan does not allow the DREAM Act to go forward in the next few weeks, but his priority is feeding red meat to the anti-immigration wing of his party and satisfying them with a big helping of ‘let’s label Latino youth as machete-wielding menaces.’” This is not a bill to curtail violence or make the country safer, it is a political bill to allow Republicans in the House to make speeches about urging Americans to fear young immigrants. It is clear that Democrats and Republicans would prefer to be talking about the DREAM Act and showing the country that we can act in a bipartisan manner to resolve the status of DACA recipients and other immigrants who were raised in the U.S. I am committed to not exchanging the safety of DREAMers for more deportations or further restricting legal immigration so that there are no available legal avenues for immigrants who help feed us, build our communities and serve our country. But the priorities of House Republicans seem inconsistent with what the American people, the majority of House Members and their own voters want them to do. # # #
09.12.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued an alert on social media and on his website to tell DACA recipients whose DACA status expires between now and March 5, 2018, to submit renewal applications as soon as possible in order to make the October 5, 2017 deadline. As part of the President’s decision to fully terminate DACA in six months, the Department of Homeland Security will accept renewal applications ONLY for those DACA recipients whose status expires between September 5, 2017 and March 5, 2018. As many as 154,000 of the almost 800,000 DACA recipients fall into this category and could renew their DACA status and work authorization for two years, if they apply in time. The Congressman’s office in Chicago is acting as a resource center for residents of the Fourth District of Illinois who are in this group who can renew immediately. Only applicants whose expiration dates fall inside this narrow window can renew and applications received after October 5, 2017 will be rejected by DHS. . Residents with questions or seeking an appointment to speak with the Congressman’s staff should call (773) 342-0774. “Nationwide, there are more than 150,000 DACA recipients who can renew their status for a full two years if they act fast,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “We want to get as many of them signed up as possible in Chicago and everywhere else, so we need to get the word out and protect as many people as we can for as long as we can, even while we work towards legislation like the DREAM Act in Congress.” The Congressman’s previously scheduled Community Town Hall Forum at 6:00 p.m. on Thursday, September 14 at Roberto Clemente Community Academy, is being partly repurposed to serve DACA recipients seeking information. “I had a Town Hall meeting scheduled for this week and I want to make sure that in addition to having the normal Town Hall with constituents, everyone who has questions about their DACA should come too,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “We will have resources and information and you can make appointments to meet with my staff to make sure applications are filed correctly and on time.” Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. ENGLISH GRAPHIC: http://bit.ly/2w9D62k SPANISH GRAPHIC: http://bit.ly/2h2ROxH The Text of the Congressman’s alert in English and Spanish: ALERT ON DACA NOW Current DACA recipients whose authorizations expire between Sept. 5, 2017 and Mar. 5, 2018, DHS will only adjudicate DACA renewal applications received by Oct. 5, 2017. DHS will reject all renewal applications received after that date. BUT: To ensure your renewal application is accepted for adjudication in time, applications must be submitted as soon as possible and should be mailed with delivery confirmation or tracking. DHS no longer accepts first-time DACA applications as of Sept. 6, 2017. DHS will continue to process and render decisions on first-time DACA applications received by Sept. 5, 2017. DHS will honor current DACA grants and associated work permits through their expiration dates. Recipients whose DACA authorizations expire on or after Mar. 6, 2018 may not renew their authorizations. Once DACA recipients’ authorizations expire, they will become subject to removal like other removable individuals. Source: House Judiciary Dems ALERTA SOBRE DACA PERIODO DE RENOVACIÓN INMEDIATO Si eres uno de los beneficiarios actuales de DACA cuya autorización expira entre el 5 de septiembre del 2017 y el 5 de marzo del 2018, recuerda que el Departamento de Seguridad Nacional (DHS) solo procesará solicitudes para la renovación de DACA si son recibidas antes del 5 de octubre del 2017. DHS rechazará todas las solicitudes de renovación recibidas después de esa fecha. PERO: Para asegurar que tu solicitud de renovación sea aceptada para ser procesada a tiempo, la solicitud debe ser enviada lo antes posible y debes enviarla por correo certificado, para confirmar su entrega. Si solicitaste DACA por primera vez y DHS recibió tu solicitud antes del 5 de septiembre del 2017, DHS continuará procesando y tomando decisiones sobre esas solicitudes. Si planeabas solicitar el beneficio de DACA por primera vez, es importante saber que DHS ya no está aceptando nuevas solicitudes a partir del 6 de septiembre del 2017. DHS honrará tu estatus de DACA y tu permiso de trabajo vigente hasta la fecha de su expiración. Beneficiarios de DACA que tienen autorizaciones que expiran en o después del 6 de marzo del 2018, no podrán renovar sus autorizaciones. En cuanto sus autorizaciones expiren, podrán ser sujetos a ser removidos del país al igual que otros individuos removibles. Fuente de Información: Demócratas del Comité Judicial de la Cámara Baja. # # #
09.06.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke during debate on a “Previous Question” motion, a procedural move where the Democrats tried to attach the DREAM Act of 2017 (HR 3440) to a package of spending bills. His remarks happened after scores of Democratic Members stood in line to make brief statements about DACA recipients and other immigrant youth impacted by the cancellation of DACA or who would benefit from the DREAM Act. A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/WYM0yx9yVrE The Congressman’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks: September 6, 2017 How did we get here? In December of 2010, the House passed the DREAM Act. Right here on this floor. Almost all of the Democrats voted for it and a handful of Republicans did too. The goal was to legalize immigrants who had grown up in the U.S., had lived here a long time, had achieved goals in education and had no way of getting legal immigration status unless Congress took action. Way back in 2001, I had introduced the first bill to legalize immigrant youth, so it took almost 10 years until it passed the House in 2010. And later that same week, there was a vote in the Senate and 55 out of 100 Senators voted for cloture on the DREAM Act to legalize the status of undocumented immigrant youth. And we know you need 60 votes in the Senate to move something forward, so the DREAM Act was blocked – even though it got a majority of the votes – because of a filibuster led by Republicans. And not just any Republican, but the leader of the opposition to the DREAM Act was none other than Jeff Sessions. So yesterday, the President, unwilling to go out in front of cameras and announce he was killing the DACA program himself, sent Jeff Sessions out to tell 800,000 immigrants, we don’t want you here anymore. Included in the announcement was a half-hearted sales pitch for Congress to pass legislation, but remember, when Sessions had a chance to do that, he led the fight to stop it. That is hypocrisy on steroids. So, President Obama finally took the only action he could take two years later and crafted a narrowly defined program called DACA that has never been successfully challenged in court. DACA recipients are teachers, nurses, and one is even a Chicago policeman who straps on his gun and badge to protect people every day. During Hurricane Harvey, DREAMers with DACA were first responders and volunteers and those who gave their lives to save others, like Alonso Guillen of Lufkin, Texas. Look, we want a clean DREAM Act – up or down vote. And Democrats, let’s be clear. This is a crisis that requires swift passage of legislation to fix it—as big a priority as anything else we need to pass this month. Our votes are needed on the debt ceiling, on this bill, and on the CR, and what are we getting for our votes? When the CEO of Microsoft says you can only take my DREAMers with DACA by coming through me first, that is a challenge to every policymaker in this chamber. When will we throw down and say no, you can’t have our votes unless you give us the DREAM Act? When will we say you cannot have our votes unless we can bring 800,000 young lives along with us? Let’s demand a vote on the DREAM Act. We can pass it right here, right now and give our young people – the future of our nation – the safety and security they need and deserve to continue contributing to the United States, the only country most of them have ever known. # # #
09.05.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released a statement reacting to the news that President Trump has taken action to eliminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program that for five years has allowed young immigrants who arrived in the U.S. more than ten years ago as children to come forward, register, submit to a background check, and be allowed to work while designated as the lowest priority for deportation. Advocacy by Rep. Gutiérrez during the Obama Administration was instrumental in forcing the former President to act to protect immigrant youth (the so-called DREAMers) in 2012. Throughout the month of September, there are expected to be multiple votes on funding the government and the various federal agencies and functions for the next fiscal year beginning October 1, and the Congressman indicated he will lead an effort to withhold Democratic votes unless measures to protect DACA or DACA recipients are tied to those votes. “I personally will not support any funding bill that does not include a safe harbor for DREAMers – and I will work to have others join me in opposition. If they need our votes, we are bringing 800,000 young immigrants with us. “I have already spoken with Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) and will be talking to other Democrats in the House, but if Republicans need our votes, we need to have legislation to protect immigrant youth who have DACA. “As a movement, we will not go away, back down or give up because the President has taken this callous and destructive action. The CHC, other Democrats, and the pro-immigrant movement fought hard against a Democratic President to win DACA and I am confident my CHC and Democratic colleagues will fight a Republican President even harder to defend DACA, in the courts, through legislation, and community by community and deportation by deportation, if necessary. “Immigrant youth, immigrant families, and our allies in all sectors of American life are here to stay, regardless of the President’s mass deportation fantasies and objectives. Americans will not let this President dictate the fate of the immigrants who have placed so much trust in their country. We have stood at airports to resist the Muslim Ban, marched with women to protect their rights, denounced racist and homophobic violence, and fought to defend Planned Parenthood and now young immigrants need everyone’s help. I watched families line up by the tens of thousands at Navy Pier in Chicago in August 2012 just for the opportunity for one or two of their children to achieve safety and security in America. I am not prepared to give up on them and will not. “America is a better country than its President and most Americans do not want to see documented immigrants converted into undocumented immigrants. It just takes the country in the wrong direction and will be devastating to individual immigrants and families. The disruption, chaos and fear that this action precipitates will also strain state and local governments, educators, and employers. DACA is a program that has been a smashing success, yet the President, purely out of spite and incompetence is smashing DACA. “General Kelly, when he was the head of Homeland Security, lied straight to the faces of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus about preventing the mass deportation of DREAMers. Now as Chief of Staff, this former general is executing the plan to take away their lifeline and taking steps to criminalize young people who live and work here legally. General Kelly is a hypocrite who is a disgrace to the uniform he used to wear. He has no honor and should be drummed out of the White House along with the white supremacists and those enabling the President’s actions by ‘just following orders.’ “This Administration is on a very dangerous trajectory towards the full-throated endorsement of white supremacy—the likes of which we haven’t seen in the open from a sitting President for a century. President Trump followed up his weak and insincere response to racist violence in Charlottesville by pardoning notorious convicted racist Joe Arpaio and condoning Arpaio’s abuse of official power in defiance of federal law and court orders. Trump praises those who marched at the University of Virginia with torches shouting ‘Jews will not replace us,’ and launched his campaign for the White House by saying Mexican immigrants are rapists and murderers. But this action on DACA to pull the rug out from under almost 800,000 documented immigrants who have lived here for at least ten years and cast them back into the shadows is the ugliest act of appeasement for the far-right’s white-supremacist goals of them all, so far.” Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. On Monday, he released a statement (“Gutiérrez on Paul Ryan and reports Trump will end DACA” http://bit.ly/2wCicWw) and two videos on DACA: SPANISH VIDEO: Un mensaje de Congresista Luis Gutiérrez sobre DACA: https://youtu.be/eVInjtsA6Qg ENGLISH VIDEO: A message from Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez on DACA: https://youtu.be/3bmWas2GgmE Rep. Gutiérrez introduced the American Hope Act (HR 3591) in July 2016 to provide legal status for immigrant youth, a bill that now has 139 co-sponsors in the House. (press release: http://bit.ly/2h9vFkn) He is the lead Democratic sponsor of the bipartisan BRIDGE Act (HR 496, Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy), introduced with Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO) in January 2017, which now has 25 co-sponsors. It would extend the protections of DACA for three years to give Congress an opportunity to enact permanent legislation. (press releases: http://bit.ly/2jofbSI and http://bit.ly/2ilEMyy) He is one of the most outspoken proponents of DACA and opponents of President Trump in Congress and was arrested as part of an act of civil disobedience at the White House at a pro-immigrant rally on August 15. (press release: http://bit.ly/2uMREA8) # # #
09.04.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) called on Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI) to immediately bring up legislation to protect immigrant youth from deportation and not load it up with poison pills. If reports are true and President Trump ends the DACA program with an announcement on Tuesday, then the House and Senate have very little time and a firm mandate to act to protect immigrants. Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) allows immigrants who have lived in the United States for a minimum of ten years to apply for temporary relief from deportation, and if they are approved, allows them to work legally and requires them to renew their status every two years. According to a Politico report last night, the President intends to announce on Tuesday that the program will end in six months. ** See below for two video statements released by the Congressman today, one in English and another in Spanish. ** The following is a statement by Rep. Gutiérrez who represents the Fourth District of Illinois in and around Chicago, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee, and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Paul Ryan needs to do more than talk; he needs to take action to put legislation on the floor of the House that will protect immigrant youth from deportation if the President ends DACA as expected. Talking about bipartisanship in helping Hurricane Harvey victims and keeping the government open is important. It is all critical and the Speaker should give DACA recipients an equally elevated emergency status on his agenda for Congress. Almost 800,000 young immigrants who have lived in the U.S. for more than a decade need to have action and the Speaker shouldn’t load up legislation with poison pills that could cost it the Democratic votes needed for success. These young immigrants are not bargaining chips or hostages. Paul Ryan came to Chicago and joined me in 2013, just after he lost his bid for the vice-presidency and he was unequivocal in his support for legal status for immigrants. He was a co-sponsor of comprehensive immigration reform and legal status for DREAMers, so I know he knows what the right thing to do is. He needs to stand up to Donald Trump, stand up to Breitbart, and stand up to the opponents of immigration in his own Republican Conference to bring up a bill and let the House vote and let the majority rule. Almost 800,000 immigrants are in limbo until Ryan and his Senate counterpart allow a vote. I am confident we have majorities in both houses of Congress who will vote to protect DACA recipients with the DREAM Act or one of the other bills, including two that I have introduced. Rep. Gutiérrez also released two short videos today that were recorded at his home. SPANISH VIDEO: Un mensaje de Congresista Luis Gutiérrez sobre DACA: https://youtu.be/eVInjtsA6Qg ENGLISH VIDEO: A message from Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez on DACA: https://youtu.be/3bmWas2GgmE Rep. Gutiérrez introduced the American Hope Act (HR 3591) in July 2016 to provide legal status and eventual citizenship for immigrant youth, a bill that now has 138 Democratic co-sponsors in the House. (press release: http://bit.ly/2h9vFkn) He is the lead Democratic sponsor of the bipartisan BRIDGE Act (HR 496, Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy), introduced with Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO) in January 2017, which has 25 co-sponsors (12 Republicans and 13 Democrats). It would extend the protections of DACA for three years to give Congress an opportunity to enact permanent legislation. (press releases: http://bit.ly/2jofbSI and http://bit.ly/2ilEMyy) He is one of the most outspoken proponents of DACA and opponents of President Trump in Congress and was arrested as part of an act of civil disobedience at the White House at a pro-immigrant rally on August 15. (press release: http://bit.ly/2uMREA8) # # #
08.28.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released a statement reacting to the news that Illinois Governor Bruce Rauner had signed two important bills into law. One bill, known as the Trust Act (SB 31), strengthens the statewide firewall between federal immigration and deportation issues and the enforcement of law by state and local police, thereby enhancing public safety. The other bill provides for automatic voter registration for eligible voters in Illinois. “Illinois, like Chicago, has been a leader in defining and strengthening the firewall between our state and local police and federal immigration and deportation policies. Leaders in law enforcement up and down the state recognize the public safety consequences of turning local cops into deportation agents and they have fought back on behalf of the people of Illinois. We do not give sanctuary to criminals, but we do make sure that nobody hesitates when they need to call 911 for help, and we stand by that. “I think there is very broad agreement that more people voting is better than fewer people voting, despite the national Republican assault on voting rights to prevent eligible U.S. citizens from participating in democracy. I think this is a massive slap in the face to President Trump and Kris Kobach who are on a national crusade to keep Americans from voting. Even with a Republican in the Governor’s office, narrow-minded discrimination just doesn’t work in Illinois. “I am glad to see my state leading on these issues because it demonstrates a lot about the integrity of Illinois’ voters. Politicians all over, especially Republicans, have been selling lies about immigrants and crime and voting, and the people of Illinois are simply smarter than that to take the bait that Trump and others are using to chum the political waters. Those strategies just do not work in the Land of Lincoln. They do many things wrong in Springfield, but at least Illinois policies are fact-based.” Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
08.25.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released a statement reacting to the news that President Trump had pardoned convicted Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio. “It isn’t easy to find a convicted, notorious racist, but Trump found him and pardoned him. Sheriff Arpaio chose to ignore the law and judgements by federal courts. He chose to use race and ethnicity as a pretext to deprive people of their rights. He shredded the Constitution and became a celebrity for Fox News, white supremacists and the President. “Nobody believed the President when he said he would be the ‘Law and Order’ President and he has proven us all right. Joe Arpaio should serve a very, very long time for his crimes, but in him, Trump finds a kindred spirit. Both men are not ashamed to use overt appeals to racism to glorify themselves and both are not ashamed of abusing public office if it enhances their personal brand. This is a sad chapter even by the standards of the tragic saga of Trump.” Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
08.24.2017	WASHINGTON—Fifty-three members of the United States House and Senate are calling out Attorney General Jeff Sessions for holding critical violence prevention funds used by American cities hostage to the Trump Administration’s extreme immigration agenda. The Department of Justice has placed new and onerous conditions on local law enforcement’s access to federal funding through the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (Byrne-JAG) program, forcing cities to choose between redirecting already scarce resources from local policing efforts to enforcing federal immigration laws. The lawmakers are demanding an explanation, including the statutory authority for the Department’s new conditions, which will hurt the ability of local governments to fight violent crime in their communities. “These conditions are an unwarranted, coercive effort to leverage communities’ longstanding reliance on Byrne-JAG funds in furtherance of the Trump Administration’s mass-deportation agenda. By forcing local law enforcement to choose between redirecting resources from policing efforts to immigration enforcement or else sacrificing violence prevention funds that the Justice Department itself has described as “critical” and “necessary,” these new Byrne-JAG conditions will undermine the ability of local law enforcement agencies to combat gun violence in communities like Chicago and Baltimore,” the lawmakers wrote. The letter is signed by U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Al Franken (D-MN), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Cory A. Booker (D-NJ), Christopher Murphy (D-CT), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Ben Cardin (D-MD), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD); and U.S. Representatives Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Bill Foster (D-IL), Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL), Bradley S. Schneider (D-IL), Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Michael E. Capuano (D-MA), Juan Vargas (D-CA), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Dina Titus (D-NV), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), J. Luis Correa (D-CA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT), Judy Chu (D-CA), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D-VA), Terri Sewell (D-AL), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Adam Smith (D-WA), Donald M. Payne Jr. (D-NJ), Mark Takano (D-CA), Grace Meng (D-NY), Joseph P. Kennedy III (D-MA), Raul M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Jimmy Gomez (D-CA), Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), John Sarbanes (D-MD), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Theodore E. Deutch (D-FL), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), and William R. Keating (D-MA). Full text of the letter: 082417 Letter to Attorney General Final.pdf August 24, 2017 The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice Washington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Sessions: We are alarmed that the Department of Justice is placing new and onerous conditions on local law enforcement’s access to critical violence prevention funding under the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (Byrne-JAG) program. We write to seek an explanation of these new Byrne-JAG conditions and to request answers to important questions regarding their inclusion in the FY 2017 Byrne-JAG Local Solicitation form that was published on August 3. These conditions are an unwarranted, coercive effort to leverage communities’ longstanding reliance on Byrne-JAG funds in furtherance of the Trump Administration’s mass-deportation agenda. By forcing local law enforcement to choose between redirecting resources from policing efforts to immigration enforcement or else sacrificing violence prevention funds that the Justice Department itself has described as “critical” and “necessary,” these new Byrne-JAG conditions will undermine the ability of local law enforcement agencies to combat gun violence in communities like Chicago and Baltimore. During your confirmation hearing, you stated under oath that you are “committed” to “addressing the violent crime problem facing Chicago.”[i] The importance of the Byrne-JAG program to violence prevention efforts cannot be overstated; indeed, the Justice Department’s website describes the program as “the leading source of federal justice funding to state and local jurisdictions” and says that Byrne-JAG “provides states, tribes, and local governments with critical funding necessary to support a range of program areas including law enforcement” (emphasis added).[ii] Additionally, you stated during your confirmation hearing that the Byrne-JAG program is “important for improving public safety” and that you “will seek to best use the resources available to the Department of Justice to address violent and other crimes in Chicago and elsewhere throughout the country, and to partner with state and local law enforcement agencies to help them address these issues.”[iii] And on June 30, you stated that “[t]he most critical factor to our success is the strength, training, and morale of the Chicago Police Department” [iv] – all of which are fostered through the Chicago Police Department’s longstanding participation in the Byrne-JAG program. Given your commitments and President Trump’s repeated statements about the unacceptably high levels of shootings and homicides in communities like Chicago, Baltimore City, and elsewhere, it is inexplicable that the Justice Department under your leadership would jeopardize access to this critical funding. Yet the Justice Department’s recently published FY2017 Byrne-JAG Local Solicitation form contains new provisions that would do just that. This solicitation form would condition Byrne-JAG grant awards upon the Department’s subjective view of a local jurisdiction’s “compliance” with “two new express conditions” that deal with assisting the federal Department of Homeland Security in its enforcement of federal civil immigration laws.[v] These new conditions seek to pull local law enforcement agencies away from policing duties and commandeer their time and resources in the service of federal immigration authorities. Local police forces across the country have determined that their community policing and violence prevention efforts would be impeded by this, but the Justice Department appears determined to override these local judgments and impose a one-size-fits-all approach on every local agency that has come to rely on critical Byrne-JAG funding. Notably, the Justice Department concedes that compliance with these new conditions will impose additional costs on local jurisdictions, stating in the solicitation form that the Department will allow jurisdictions to cover such costs by using their Byrne-JAG grant money.[vi] The Department has neither itemized these costs, nor explained its authority for redirecting Byrne-JAG funds away from their authorized purposes and toward this new use. Further, by redirecting crime prevention funds toward immigration enforcement, these new conditions fail to recognize that studies have shown that immigrants in our country are less likely to commit serious crimes than native-born individuals, and that there is no evidence that undocumented immigrants are responsible for any significant proportion of homicides or shootings in Chicago.[vii] As Chicago Police Superintendent Eddie Johnson said in a recent statement, “I have been a police officer for more than 30 years and the federal government's plans will hamper community policing and undermine the work our men and women have done to reduce shootings by 16% so far this year. I have said it before and I will say it again, undocumented immigrants are not driving violence in Chicago and that's why I want our officers focused on community policing and not trying to be the immigration police.” And Baltimore Police Commissioner Kevin Davis has stated “Public safety depends on all communities, regardless of immigration status, having trust in law enforcement. Without this trust, immigrants may be less likely to communicate with the police, report crimes, or seek assistance upon becoming a victim.”[viii] It is incumbent on Congress to conduct oversight over the Justice Department’s administration of the Byrne-JAG program and the precipitous changes that the Department is making to the program. The Department’s new express conditions on the Byrne-JAG program raise important questions that demand prompt answers, particularly in light of the September 5 deadline for applications under the solicitation form. Accordingly, please answer the following questions by September 1, 2017. Please provide the statutory authority for the Justice Department’s inclusion of the “two new express conditions” described on p. 30 of the solicitation form. Please provide an itemization of the estimated “reasonable costs” that a Byrne-JAG recipient could expect to incur as a result of its obligation to “honor any duly authorized requests from DHS that is encompassed by these conditions,” as described on p. 30 of the solicitation form; and please provide the statutory authority that enables the Justice Department to designate such “reasonable costs” as “allowable costs” under a Byrne-JAG award. Please provide the statutory authority for the Justice Department’s statement on p. 30 of the solicitation form that “[c]ompliance with the requirements of the two foregoing new award conditions will be an authorized and priority purpose of the award.” Please explain how the Department intends to evaluate “compliance” with the two new express conditions described on p. 30 of the solicitation form. Can the Justice Department guarantee that a local jurisdiction’s actions taken to secure “compliance” with the two new express conditions described on p. 30 will not run afoul of the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution and that imposition of these conditions does not violate the Tenth Amendment? According to reports, the Justice Department has also conditioned local jurisdictions’ eligibility for the Department’s Public Safety Partnership (PSP) upon the Department’s assessment of compliance with certain immigration policies.[ix] For example, the Baltimore City Police Department received a letter on August 2nd which suggested that while Baltimore City met the requirements to receive funding via PSP, the City’s compliance with federal immigration policies could compromise their funding. These reports indicate that the Department’s plans to place new immigration conditions on law enforcement grant funding are not limited to the Byrne-JAG program, and indicate a heightened degree of coerciveness to the Department’s actions. Please list each Department of Justice grant, program, or initiative for which the Department has conditioned, or plans to condition, local jurisdictions’ participation upon an assessment of compliance with the two new express conditions described on p. 30 of the Byrne-JAG solicitation form. Does the Department of Justice believe that Byrne-JAG funding has helped local law enforcement agencies increase public safety, including by preventing and reducing shootings and homicides in their jurisdictions? On March 6, Chuck Wexler, the executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, wrote an op-ed in which he said that “police chiefs warn that if their agencies are required to enforce federal immigration laws, it will hurt their ability to investigate and solve serious crimes in their communities. If people are afraid to have contact with the local police, they will not report crime, serve as witnesses, or tell police what is going on in their neighborhoods. Without information from the community, investigating crime becomes difficult and crime levels rise.”[x] How do the Justice Department’s two new express conditions avoid creating this dynamic that Mr. Wexler highlighted? Is the Justice Department able to provide any credible evidence that demonstrates how redirecting local law enforcement resources to enforce civil immigration laws will bring about a significant reduction in shootings and homicides in the City of Chicago? If so, please detail any such evidence. Thank you for your attention on this important matter. We look forward to your prompt response. [i] Sessions Confirmation Hearing Responses to Questions from Senator Durbin, Response 1.a, available at https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Sessions%20Responses%20to%20Durbin%20QFRs.pdf. [ii] https://www.bja.gov/jag/index.html, accessed on August 4, 2017 (emphasis added). [iii] Sessions Confirmation Hearing Responses to Questions from Senator Durbin at Response 1.b. [iv] https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/attorney-general-jeff-sessions-we-cannot-accept-these-levels-violence-chicago. [v] https://www.bja.gov/Funding/JAGLocal17.pdf at p. 30. [vi] Id. [vii] See, e.g., Rafael Bernal, “Reports find that immigrants commit less crime than US-born citizens,” The Hill, March 19, 2017, available at https://thehill.com/latino/324607-reports-find-that-immigrants-commit-less-crime-than-us-born-citizens. [viii] Kevin Rector, “Davis to DOJ: Making crime assistance contingent on local immigration policy 'perplexing,' 'concerning,’” The Baltimore Sun, August 15, 2017, available at: https://www.baltimoresun.com/news/maryland/crime/bs-md-ci-bpd-justice-letter-20170815-story.html. [ix] Associated Press, “Cities baffled as Jeff Sessions targets them on immigration,” August 3, 2017, available at https://www.mcclatchydc.com/news/politics-government/national-politics/article165146222.html. [x] Chuck Wexler, “Police chiefs across the country support sanctuary cities because they keep crime down,” Los Angeles Times, March 6, 2017, available at https://www.latimes.com/opinion/op-ed/la-oe-wexler-sanctuary-cities-immigration-crime-20170306-story.html. -30-
08.15.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) was among approximately 25 people arrested in front of the White House at a rally and march to defend DACA, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program that began accepting applications five years ago today. The rally, in Lafayette Park, turned into a march around the White House, and at the end, about 25 U.S. citizens and Legal Permanent Residents were arrested for failing to leave the sidewalk in front of the White House (the charge was failing to obey a lawful order by U.S. Park Police to move). The Congressman and the others were handcuffed and led away, taken to a U.S. Park Police holding facility in Washington, processed and released about two hours later, after paying a $50 fine. The Congressman was among the fiercest advocates for DACA and was arrested in front of the White House twice (in 2010 and 2011) urging then-President Barack Obama to protect immigrant youth from deportation, which he eventually did on June 15, 2012 in creating the DACA program which began accepting applications on August 15, 2012. Thousands attended the rally today, which was organized by United We Dream and Casa of Maryland, and other immigration issues, like the possible end to Temporary Protective Status (TPS), were also discussed. Rep. Gutierrez issued the following statement after his arrest, processing and release today. While the President is coddling racist white supremacists because he is afraid to lose their votes, we took a stand today for justice. There is no doubt the American people stand with the young people who face deportation if Republicans kill DACA or fail to defend it in court. The people with DACA are 800,000 young men and women who are now doctors and lawyers and raising their own families. They are not criminals, they are assets to the United States and should not be driven out or driven underground. Another 300,000 or so people have been living and working here legally with TPS for decades and it now appears the President is actually contemplating making over 1 million documented immigrants into undocumented immigrants. I am a citizen and know when I leave my house in the morning that I will return that night, but millions of immigrants leave for work or school each day unsure whether they will be arrested and detained. I gave up a few hours of my freedom to stand up for them. I think as the reality of mass deportation, of ending DACA or ending TPS, as that sinks in and becomes more palpable for people, we will see an escalation of non-violent protest across the country. It is a shame and an embarrassment – es una vergüenza – the way this White House has turned on immigrants and fomented animosity towards immigrant families. I was at Navy Pier in Chicago on August 15, 2012 when immigrant youth and their families lined up to be the first to sign up for DACA. It was a moment of great hope as families helped fill out the paperwork knowing that only their children would actually benefit from DACA. I didn’t think I would be back in front of the White House facing arrest to defend DACA just five years later. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
08.02.2017	“The modern Republican Party would erect barriers both physical and legal to admitting their own families… were they aspiring immigrants today.” Chicago, IL – Today, in Washington, D.C., Senators Cotton and Perdue introduced a bill to cut legal immigration by as much as 50% and eliminate already overstretched categories of immigration for families and workers, all but guaranteeing a huge increase in illegal immigration if this bill ever becomes law. Though widely praised by anti-immigration advocates inside and outside the Trump Administration – including nationalists and hate groups – the bill is exactly the opposite of what is needed to modernize our outdated and dysfunctional legal immigration system, according to Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), a leading advocate for legal immigration, immigration reform, the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Immigration and Border Issues Task Force, and a Member of the Judiciary Committee in the House of Representatives. The following is a statement by the Illinois Representative: “The bill – and the bear hug by the Bannon/Kelly/Trump White House – betrays the deep animosity towards legal immigration that has become the central, unifying tenet of the Republican Party. They don’t want “the huddled masses yearning to breathe free” in “their” country and it doesn’t matter if the immigrants are legal or not. The proposal all but guarantees a sharp increase in the percentage of immigrants who are forced into the black market of smuggling, false documents, and unscrupulous employers willing to exploit vulnerable workers and undercut our domestic workforce. Opposition to immigrants and refugees – especially if they are people of color or lack higher degrees –is driving the agenda to slash legal immigration and deport as many families and individuals as possible. This is an Administration that brags about deporting children and families, breaks up immigrant families, and deports job-creators, and promotes the most aggressive deportationist Secretary of Homeland Security in the agency’s history to the position of White House Chief of Staff. Even Speaker of the House Paul Ryan who used to be a moderating influence on his fellow Republicans has crossed over to the dark side, embracing the absurd notion of building the Great Wall of Trump on the border. I dare say the modern Republican Party would erect barriers both physical and legal to admitting their own families – including the Reagans, Kellys, Ryans, Cottons, Perdues, and Trumps – were they aspiring immigrants today. If the Republicans have their way, the very lifeblood of our nation as a collection of the world’s outcasts and strivers will be in jeopardy and something uniquely successful in the history of mankind could become a thing only of memory. At least the Republicans are being honest about their agenda and are saying out loud that if you are brown, black, Asian, or anything other than an English-speaking, highly-trained technician, the Republican Party doesn’t want you here – with a visa, without a visa, it just doesn’t matter to them.” # # #
07.28.2017	Washington, DC – On Friday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) introduced the American Hope Act of 2017, a bill to give those with DACA and others who arrived in the United States as children a path to permanent legal status and eventual citizenship. He was joined at a press conference in the Capitol by an impressive array of Democratic House leaders and his colleagues on the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and the Judiciary Committee who are among the 112 co-sponsors of the bill at the time of introduction. The bill, if enacted, gives immigrants who arrived in the U.S. before their 18th birthday and before December 31, 2016 an opportunity to apply for legal status if they meet certain requirements. If approved, they would receive a form of conditional legal status (Conditional Permanent Resident status or CPR) that would allow them to live and work here legally for three years and then they could apply for Legal Permanent Resident (LPR) status. For those who currently have DACA, the time in DACA counts towards time in CPR status so that they would move forward more quickly. Rep. Gutierrez said in his opening remarks at today’s press conference: “DACA is under threat and we know that President Trump and the Attorney General, if he is still in office, will not lift a finger to defend DACA. This will replace the order in the lives of these young people with chaos. It will replace the hope they have for their futures with despair. It substitutes cruelty for their aspirations and the aspirations of our entire immigrant population. All of us here support DACA. We fought for DACA and we will defend DACA. And the defense includes putting on the table legislation that charts a way forward.” In addition to Rep. Gutiérrez, the speakers at today’s press conference included House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA-12), House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD-05), House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (NY-14), CHC First Vice Chair Rep. Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Ranking Member on Homeland Security Subcommittee Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Ranking Member on House Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus Chair Judy Chu (CA-27), Congressional Progressive Caucus Chair Raúl Grijalva (AZ-03), Rep. Ruben Kihuen (NV-04), and (on behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus) Rep. Marc Veasey (TX-33). The press conference was live streamed (via Facebook) and can be viewed here: https://bit.ly/2h9tjSP The American Hope Act of 2017 bill text: American Hope Act Text FINAL.pdf A summary of the American Hope Act of 2017: One Page Summary of American Hope Act of 2017.pdf The “Dear Colleague” letter sent to Democratic Offices by Rep. Lofgren, Roybal-Allard, Gutiérrez and Lujan Grisham: Dear Colleague Letter on American Hope Act to Dems from Gutierrez Lofgren Roybal-Allard and Lujan Grisham 072717.pdf The text of Rep. Gutiérrez’s remarks today, as prepared for delivery, is below. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Task Force on Immigration and Border Issues of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks // July 28, 2017 Those of us who know and work with our immigrant communities and live with our immigrant communities know that immigrants are integral parts of our country and our future and that we need to move forward from division and do what we can to incorporate immigrants into our society. President Obama asked young immigrants, those who arrived here as children, to come forward to register for DACA, the deferred action program, and almost 800,000 immigrant youth came forward and registered, went through a background check and regularly renew their status. They were able to add order to their lives – to work, study, and help their families. It has been a tremendous success and based on the young people I spoke with in my office yesterday – the CHCI Capitol Hill interns, some of whom have DACA – they are making the most of the chance they were given to live openly and freely. But now DACA is under threat and we know that President Trump and the Attorney General, if he is still in office, will not lift a finger to defend DACA. This will replace the order in the lives of these young people with chaos. It will replace the hope they have for their futures with despair. It substitutes cruelty for their aspirations and the aspirations of our entire immigrant population. All of us here support DACA. We fought for DACA and we will defend DACA. And the defense includes putting on the table legislation that charts a way forward. The American Hope Act, which as of right now has over 110 confirmed original co-sponsors, gives immigrant youth who arrived in the United States before their 18th birthday and before December 31, 2016 a chance to come forward and apply for Conditional Permanent Resident status if they meet certain criteria and have clean records. After three years they can apply to have the conditions of the status removed and get a full-fledged green card if they stay out of trouble and want to apply. And if you have DACA, your time in DACA counts towards your time in conditional status so that you move forward more quickly. Meeting with CHCI interns yesterday impressed on me the hope and the innocence of youth, the unbounded potential of young people to contribute to their country and build a better society. But those who have DACA and those who have no status at all are scared and we have to be able to tell them we are fighting for you, for young people like you, for young people who want to do great things for themselves, for their families and for our country. We cannot let chaos and division ruin the inherent goodness and optimism of young people. So we are charting a course forward, and I want to thank my partners, Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren and Ranking Member Lucille Roybal-Allard for working with me to craft this bill and working with me to unite Democrats around immigrant youth. And while this bill focusses on immigrant youth, we know that they are only part of the immigration issue so we will continue to work together on other components of what needs to happen to make immigration legal again, but with DACA in the crosshairs of the Republican Party, they are our focus today. We are not picking good immigrants versus bad immigrants or deserving versus undeserving, we are working to defend those who live among us and should have a place in our society. And we know that our path is not the only path forward. Lucille Roybal-Allard and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen in the House and Dick Durbin and Lindsey Graham in the Senate have the new DREAM Act which is a bipartisan approach to the same goal of giving those with DACA and those who arrived here as children a way forward. And there are good men and women in the House – in the Republican Party – that have their own proposal and we are not arrogant enough to believe that our approach is the only approach. Good men and women in both parties should be working together to solve the problem that immigrant youth face, which is that they cannot get legal status and they cannot leave and come back legally, but this is the country they live in and were raised in and is for most of them the only country they know. And let’s be clear, the immigrant communities in this country can see today that I am standing here with an incredible array of the Democratic Party and the top leaders in our Party in the House and I thank you, Nancy Pelosi, Steny Hoyer, Joe Crowley, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and everyone, I thank you. And our community thanks you. # # #
07.26.2017	Washington, DC – On Wednesday morning, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor about the controversy surrounding his remarks about President Trump at a meeting at a Chicago church on Saturday, July 22. Breitbart, the nationalist web publication associated with Trump Advisor Stephen Bannon, said that Rep. Gutiérrez said it was time to ‘eliminate’ Trump and bring him to his knees. The Washington Times, Fox News, and others ran stories based on Breitbart’s account and The Daily Stormer – which Rep. Gutiérrez described as the “the whipped cream on top of the White Nationalist/Neo-Nazi banana split” – ran with the headline “Subversive Beanman Luis Gutiérrez Calls for Trump’s Elimination.” So Congressman Gutiérrez went back to look at what he actually said this past Saturday, because, he said, “If Fox, Breitbart and The Daily Stormer report something as true, it must be true.” But, as it turns out, he didn’t threaten violence, threaten the President’s life or incite people to violence, as he detailed in his speech this morning. On Saturday, the Congressman said he wants to return to Congress so that “we write those articles of impeachment and take [the Trump Administration] to trial before the Senate and eliminate him as President of the United States of America.” He continued, about the President, “He cannot just fire Comey, threaten to fire Mueller, or say ‘I am the king, and I am the dictator.’” The Congressman said that was “nothing new” because he has previously – in speeches and letters – called on Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) to initiate hearings into the Trump/Russia affair, as the Senate Judiciary Committee is already doing. After reviewing what he actually said to the gathering in Chicago on Saturday, Rep. Gutiérrez said: What Breitbart imagined as an incitement to violence, was really a call to action for people to get involved in their democracy, which, last time I looked, is still the form of government we aspire to in this country and still non-violent. In fact, during the speech on Saturday, Rep. Gutiérrez discussed the non-violent tactics of Mahatma Gandhi and said he took on the powerful British Empire “nonviolently with love in his heart and he brought them down to their knees.” In his speech today he reiterated a point he made on Saturday, that a debt is owed to non-violent activists who have shown us the path towards resistance, saying: Dr. [Martin Luther] King [Jr.], a disciple of Gandhi, applied those strategies to the American civil rights movement to great success. And were it not for Dr. King and the other heroes who laid down their lives during the civil rights movement, this Puerto Rican would not be standing here and we wouldn’t even be talking about standing up to The Daily Stormer, Breitbart or Trump in defending immigrants and other vulnerable communities. So we owe them a great debt. He concluded his remarks today by saying, “So I read the headlines in Breitbart and I went back to look at what I actually said. And you know what? I stand by it. And I won’t back down.” A video of the Congressman’s speech today is here: https://youtu.be/MXIXz8Dz0aM The text of his remarks today, as prepared for delivery, is below. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks July 26, 2017 This past Saturday, I was a guest at Lincoln United Methodist Church in Chicago where we had an emergency meeting to discuss how we would defend DACA, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals initiative started 5 years ago. DACA has allowed nearly 800,000 DREAMers – immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as children and who grew up here –to work and live here if they meet requirements, go through a background check and renew their applications periodically. Now, Republicans, led by the Governor of Texas, are planning to sue the President if he does not rescind DACA, and given this President and his opinion of Mexicans, Latinos and immigrants, we are not expecting the President to put up much of a fight. So, for a few weeks now, I have been telling people to prepare for the end of DACA, maybe as soon as September. You can watch the speech on Facebook or YouTube. And, a lot of Trump supporters got angry about what I said Saturday. They didn’t take the time to watch or listen to the speech. No. They got fired up by Breitbart, the only publication I can count on to cover everything I say. Breitbart said I was “unhinged” and said in the headline that I said it is time to ‘Eliminate’ Trump and bring him to his knees. The Washington Times didn’t watch the speech but saw Breitbart’s fair and balanced coverage and said I threatened Trump with physical violence. Fox News then echoed the idea that I was threatening violence and would bring our violent movement to every neighborhood in America. So, by the time it got to the Daily Stormer – the whipped cream on top of the White Nationalist/Neo-Nazi banana split – they cited the Fox News story and ran with the headline [quote] “Subversive Beanman Luis Gutiérrez Calls for Trump’s Elimination.” If Fox, Breitbart and the Daily Stormer report something as true, it must be true. So, I went back to the video to see if I threatened to assassinate the President and you know what? I didn’t. Here is what I said this past Saturday. I said I want to come back to Congress because [quote]: “I am going to make sure that I am there to make sure of one thing... That we write those articles of impeachment and take [the Trump Administration] to trial before the Senate and eliminate him as president of the United States of America. He cannot just fire Comey, threaten to fire Mueller, or say ‘I am the king, and I am the dictator.’" That is the quote and clearly I am talking about the impeachment process, which I believe to be non-violent. Bill Clinton is still alive. In fact, in short hand, I am saying we should go through regular order. And that’s nothing new for me. I have stood on this floor and called on the Chairman of the Judiciary Committee to begin the process of hearings and witnesses, just as the Senate Judiciary Committee is doing, because that is our job. Just a moment later in my speech, I said: “This is a democracy and we will make democracy work. We will make sure that it works for everyone whether you are gay, straight, brown, white, documented or undocumented. We are going to make sure democracy works for you…” Meaning the people packed in the church and, really, everyone. I said: “and we are starting here this afternoon at this marvelous Church in Chicago. Get ready. Our movement is coming somewhere in your neighborhood!” So what Breitbart imagined as an incitement to violence was really a call to action for people to get involved in their democracy, which, last time I looked, is still the form of government we aspire to in this country and still non-violent. But my favorite part of the Breitbart headline and whole blood-thirsty-brown-people motif that drove the coverage from Breitbart to Fox to the Daily Stormer, is that I said I want to bring President Trump to his knees. But what I actually said was that Gandhi, by employing the techniques and practices of non-violent resistance, brought the British Empire to its knees, which is true. And we should learn from his example. Indeed, Dr. King, a disciple of Gandhi, applied those strategies to the American civil rights movement to great success. And were it not for Dr. King and the other heroes who laid down their lives during the civil rights movement, I would not be standing here and we wouldn’t even be talking about standing up to the Daily Stormer, Breitbart or Trump in defending immigrants and other vulnerable communities. So we owe the civil rights movement a great debt. And I want to follow in those footsteps. So I read the headlines in Breitbart and I went back to look at what I actually said. And you know what? I stand by it. And I won’t back down. # # #
07.25.2017	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke during Morning Business (the 10 am hour ET) on the House floor about President Trump and families. The Congressman, noted that President Trump was recently, and conveniently, interrupted by his granddaughter during an oval office interview with the New York Times about the Russia investigation that was not going so well, so the Congressman today, standing in front of a picture of himself with his grandson Luis Andres, pointed out lessons that Donald Trump should learn about parents, grandparents, children, refugees and immigrants. The Congressman and his grandson have a close relationship, Rep. Gutierrez said, continuing: Grandchildren and grandparents, in the President’s world, do not have a “bona fide” family connection when it comes to being refugees. In the latest incarnation of his Muslim and refugee Ban, the President excluded grandparents from the category of close family members. Well, let me tell you something, if the President can be interrupted by his grandchild to shake up an interview that isn’t going so well, I can ask my grandson to help me make a point here in the Congress. Rep. Gutiérrez said: Throughout much of the world, and throughout American history until fairly recently, the idea that families do not include grandparents is laughable. Multiple generations live together or very nearby, and grandparents, even great-grandparents, are an integral part of the family unit and share child rearing responsibilities. So when you’re in Syria or Yemen, Central Africa or Central America – places where surviving day to day without being killed by gunmen, governments or gangs is not easy – extended, multi-generational families not only live together and support each other, occasionally they have to flee to safety together. But not if Donald Trump has his way, they don’t – or at least they can’t come here. Thankfully, the American court system disagrees with our President on this. The Congressman then turned to the tragedy in San Antonio, saying: Ten dead and another 20 near death – some of them children – under the hot Texas sun in an apparent smuggling operation….This, Mr. Speaker, is another lesson in families that I hope the President will learn from. If we cut off legal immigration channels and make people wait decades for a visa – if they are eligible to apply at all – it strengthens the hand of the smugglers. The Congressman concluded his remarks by addressing the border wall and a $1.67 billion rider being tucked into the “minibus” spending bill this week: A border wall, like the one Republicans will slip into a military spending bill this week in the House, will not help matters, but only make them worse. Forcing people to enter the black market because there is no way to go through our visa system will undoubtedly increase the number of times we hear about tragedies like the one in Texas and the number of parents, grandparents and children who lose everything because we have failed to create and maintain a functioning immigration system. A video of the Congressman’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/g-9QM_l2v3M The text of his remarks, as prepared for delivery, is below. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks on House Floor July 25, 2017 I think the President has a lot to learn about families. In my opinion, families should be protected and families should remain intact whenever possible, but it is clear the President has other notions. In the President’s world, families can and should be cut off from health insurance coverage. So, he is working with Republicans to take coverage away from 20 or 30 million Americans so they can say they made good on a campaign promise, regardless of the consequences in real people’s lives. In the President’s world, children – especially his children – do not have to be honest when they apply for security clearances or disclose all the meetings they had with Russians. In the President’s world, children and grandchildren can be convenient political props, like when a 6-year-old granddaughter is sent into the Oval Office to interrupt an interview with the New York Times – especially when that interview is not going so well for him. But grandchildren and grandparents, in the President’s world, do not have a quote/unquote “bona-fide” family connection when it comes to being refugees. In the latest incarnation of his Muslim and refugee Ban, the President excluded grandparents from the category of close family members. Well, let me tell you something, if the President can be interrupted by his grandchild to shake up an interview that isn’t going so well, I can ask my grandson to help me make a point here in the Congress. [Note: The Congressman removed picture of Donald Trump to reveal a picture of himself with his grandson.] This is Luis Andres, my grandson. You see, in the Gutiérrez family, grandparents and grandchildren are pretty close family members and have a “bona fide” family connection. In fact, Luis Andres lives downstairs from me with his mom and dad in the ground floor unit of our Two-Flat in Chicago. And growing up with grandma and grandpa upstairs has distinct advantages. There is always someone to feed you, watch you, or take you somewhere or just joke around with you. Throughout much of the world, and throughout American history until fairly recently, the idea that families do not include grandparents is laughable. Multiple generations live together or very nearby, and grandparents, even great-grandparents, are an integral part of the family unit and share child rearing responsibilities. So when you’re in Syria or Yemen, Central Africa or Central America – places where surviving day to day without being killed by gunmen, governments or gangs is not easy – extended, multi-generational families not only live together and support each other, occasionally they have to flee to safety together. But not if Donald Trump has his way, they don’t – or at least they can’t come here. Thankfully, the American court system disagrees with our President on this. Hawaii sued the President, again, and won an injunction, again. And the Supreme Court, which will ultimately determine the fate of America’s commitment to refugees and religious tolerance, will determine the case later this year. But in the meantime, over the objections of the President, grandparents are officially part of the family and have a “bona-fide” relationship that allows them – under law – to bypass the President’s attempt to keep them out. Thank you, courts, for recognizing and defending families and giving our President a lesson in the obvious. On Sunday, I learned about the tragedy in San Antonio where a truck packed with migrants was discovered and at least 10 people were killed. The truck had no ventilation or air-conditioning, there was no water for those inside who had likely paid a lot of money to risk their lives to live in America; Ten dead and another 20 near death – some of them children – under the hot Texas sun in an apparent smuggling operation. This, Mr. Speaker, is another lesson in families that I hope the President will learn from. If we cut off legal immigration channels and make people wait decades for a visa – if they are eligible to apply at all – it strengthens the hand of the smugglers. If we turn asylum seekers around – in violation of our own law and international law – those seeking freedom are driven into the arms of smugglers. If by going through our legal system and requesting asylum, your entire family becomes vulnerable to deportation – being sent back to a place you fled because death was a certainty –then people will pay smugglers to go around our system because there are no ways to go through it. A border wall, like the one Republicans will slip into a military spending bill this week in the House, will not help matters, but only make them worse. Forcing people to enter the black market because there is no way to go through our visa system will undoubtedly increase the number of times we hear about tragedies like the one in Texas and the number of parents, grandparents and children who lose everything because we have failed to create and maintain a functioning immigration system. When Luis Andres turns 18 and is able to vote – just like a million Latino citizens do every year – I know he will remember which party stood for and stood by families and which did not. # # #
07.20.2017	Washington, DC – On Thursday, Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL) introduced a new version of the DREAM Act (an acronym for Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors). The President has pledged, through a spokesperson, to fight this bipartisan legislation that would allow immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as children to live and work here legally if they meet certain criteria. This happens as the DACA program (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the program that provides temporary deportation relief for Dreamers and allows them to work legally) is under attack by Republican leaders and it is clear the President and his team are unlikely to defend it. This could make the 800,000 people who would qualify for the DREAM Act and who currently have DACA vulnerable to deportation, especially because they have registered with federal authorities as part of the program. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement in reaction to the bill introduction in the Senate. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. I support this measure to spare Dreamers from deportation because this is the country in which they live, the country to which they are loyal, and they are American in every way except for a piece of paper that our government could and should issue to them allowing them to stay. I will do everything in my power to work toward a solution in the House to protect Dreamers, including those with DACA. We will keep fighting in Congress, in the courts, and using every peaceful means available to us in our communities to stop the mass deportation of immigrants. The Dreamers occupy a special place in our movement to make immigration legal again because of their courage and determination and because they represent the future of America and immigration to America. Dreamers and their families should know that there are lawmakers, leaders, clergy, and communities that are fighting for them and who will join them as they fight for other immigrants, including their parents, who deserve to live in the U.S. The President has said he opposes bipartisan legislation to allow the Dreamers to live here, which is a shameful statement to make, but one that is consistent with his determined effort to go down in history as the most anti-immigrant and anti-immigration American president. He is going to say what he is going to say, but that does not dissuade us. We have to keep fighting for what is right, what is just, and what the majority of Americans say they want, which is a legal immigration system that works, a way for those who have lived here or grown up here for years to earn legal status, and a system going forward that makes sure that everyone is playing by a clear set of rules that benefit America in the 21st century. Note: The Congressman issued a call to action during a floor speech on Wednesday (text and video: https://bit.ly/2tf5sCE | Facebook video: https://bit.ly/2vFp4jV) asking immigrants and allies to join him in the fight to protect immigrants with DACA and others at risk of deportation. In Chicago on Saturday afternoon at 2:00 pm CT, the Congressman is convening a community strategy meeting at Lincoln United Methodist Church (2242 S. Damen Ave, Chicago, IL 60608). # # #
07.19.2017	Washington, DC – On Wednesday in a speech on the floor of Congress, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a call to action to resist the Trump Administration’s plans to turn 1.2 million immigrants with documents into undocumented immigrants in the coming weeks or months by ending the DACA program and TPS. He also announced he would participate in a community meeting this Saturday in Chicago to strategize – and begin the organizing process – and invited diverse allies to join the effort. “Fighting for DACA and fighting to keep millions of people in this country who have put down roots and built lives here is going to be a people’s fight,” the Illinois Congressman said. “And the effort to find ways to protect families and cope with more than a million people being pushed into the black market requires us to organize in every community.” He spoke specifically of teachers, environmentalists, and those who have stood up to bathroom laws and fighting discrimination in all its forms to join the effort, which starts in Chicago with an initial strategy meeting open to the public at Lincoln United Methodist Church (2009 W 22nd Place at S. Damon, Chicago, 60608) at 2:00 pm Saturday (July 22). “If you marched with your pink hat at the Women’s March, I am asking you now on behalf of immigrants and the very future of immigration to stand with us….At airports across the country we stood up for refugees and said no to Trump’s Muslim ban, we need you. Black Lives Matter, we need you and frankly, we need each other. People are going to peacefully stand up and fight for justice, common sense, and what is right – and we need everyone to be there with us, helping us, walking with us.” The speech was a call to action, an invitation to diverse allies to stand with immigrants and their families to resist the latest and most serious anti-immigration actions coming from the Trump Administration. Rep. Gutiérrez said: “It is up to us to teach each other how we will resist this latest insult – in our congregations, in schools and universities, in cities and neighborhoods. And immigrants or people who have DACA or TPS cannot do this on their own, but they need to be part of the coalition that fights back.” DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals), a program in which 800,000 young immigrants are enrolled, is facing a court challenge from Republican leaders and could be terminated in September if the Trump Administration, as expected, does not fight back. TPS (Temporary Protected Status) has given at least 400,000 people the ability to live and work legally in the U.S., but the Department of Homeland Security has indicated strongly that they will let TPS expire for the ten countries that have it now. Congressman Gutiérrez concluded by saying: “The road ahead is not going to be easy, but we have fought hard to win victories for our country, and for the DREAMers, who are the leading edge of our movement to make immigration legal again. Now is the time. We need your help to protect families and communities and what is right. And we cannot do it alone.” A videotape of the Congressman’s floor speech is here: https://youtu.be/P7d2FIXzUhU The text as prepared for delivery is pasted below. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks 07/19/17 Mr. Speaker, it looks almost certain that the Trump Administration is going to take about 1.2 million immigrants who currently have documents issued by the U.S. government and turn them into undocumented immigrants. They have work permits and pay their full share of taxes. They are covered by U.S. labor laws and they are not undercutting the wages, wellbeing and livelihood of native-born American workers. For all intents and purposes, they are documented workers in the U.S. and many have been here for more than two decades. Nevertheless, the more than 400,000 people with Temporary Protected Status, or TPS, and the 800,000 with Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, could be made undocumented in the coming weeks and months. Then, once they are categorized as undocumented, President Trump will unleash ICE and Homeland Security to go after them so that they can be deported. There are 800,000 young people who went through a thorough background check and have been complying with the rules of the DACA program for almost 5 years. They were brought here as children and grew up in the United States, went to our schools, played sports with our kids, and they speak English, many times better than you or I do. They came forward, as they were told to, and we actually reduced the population of undocumented immigrants, got people on-the-books, and were able to redeploy our resources elsewhere. Now it appears that the leaders in the Republican Party who do not like the idea of so many immigrants having legal status are giving the President an ultimatum: Deport the DREAMers or we will sue. The Governor of Texas, who is leading the charge, has a very sympathetic judge and it is up to Attorney General Jeff Sessions to put up a fight when he himself has been trying to kill legal status for immigrants for years. So practically speaking, between ending DACA and ending TPS, we are talking about dumping another 1.2 million people into the pool of 10 to 11 million people who are living and working here under-the-radar, outside of legal protections and without any way to become legal. So this Saturday in Chicago, at 2:00 pm, at Lincoln United Methodist Church on Damon, we are getting together to organize ourselves to fight back. Yes, there will be legislation from Democrats and maybe even Republicans to fight back. And there will be court cases to fight back even if the Attorney General does nothing. But fighting for DACA and fighting to keep millions of people in this country who have put down roots and built lives here is going to be a people’s fight – and the effort to find ways to protect families and cope with more than a million people being pushed into the black market requires us to organize in every community. It is up to us to teach each other how we will resist this latest insult – in our congregations, in schools and universities, in cities and neighborhoods. And immigrants or people who have DACA or TPS cannot do this on their own, but they need to be part of the coalition that fights back. Teachers who work with kids every day and bear witness to the fears students face –everyday – about their parents and families, they cannot do this alone, but they need to be part of the coalition that comes together to resist. Employers will face a choice: whether they are just going to roll over while employees are ruled ineligible and work documents are terminated, or to stand with us and stand with their workers and fight for them. So, if you marched with your pink hat at the Women’s March, I am asking you now on behalf of immigrants and the very future of immigration to stand with us. If you marched for science or the environment, if you have joined us in protesting bathroom laws and discrimination in all its forms, your brothers and sisters need you now. At airports across the country we stood up for refugees and said no to Trump’s Muslim ban, we need you. Black Lives Matter, we need you and frankly, we need each other. People are going to peacefully stand up and fight for justice, common sense, and what is right – and we need everyone to be there with us, helping us, walking with us. In Chicago, it starts this Saturday afternoon at 2 at Lincoln United Methodist Church in Pilsen. The road ahead is not going to be easy, but we have fought hard to win victories for our country, and for the DREAMers, who are the leading edge of our movement to make immigration legal again. Now is the time. We need your help to protect families and communities and what is right. And we cannot do it alone. # # #
07.18.2017	Washington, DC – At a press conference on Tuesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) discussed the Agricultural Workers Program Act (HR 2690), which has 46 co-sponsors in the House as of today. The bill would create a program that allows agricultural workers and their families to apply for a “Blue Card” that gives them legal status and work authorization if they show consistent employment in U.S. agriculture over the past two years, pay a fine, and pass a thorough background check. A 3- to 5- year path to citizenship is provided to those who continue to work in agriculture for the requisite amount of time. The bill is the House companion to Sen. Dianne Feinstein’s bill, S. 1034, introduced in May (for more background, see May 25 Gutierrez press release: “Agricultural Worker Program Act (H.R. 2690) Introduced In House With Strong Support”). On Wednesday (at 2:00 pm ET), the House Immigration Subcommittee convenes for a hearing on immigration and farmworkers, and is expected to discuss conservative proposals for so-called guest-workers that are inferior alternatives for farmers, farmworkers and the American people when it comes to normalizing immigrant farm labor. At the press conference on Tuesday, Rep. Gutiérrez was joined by Giev Kashkooli, Political Director of UFW (United Farmworkers of America), Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Ranking Democrat on the Immigration Subcommittee, Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA) Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC), Rep. Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA), Rep. Salud Carbajal (D-CA) and Greisa Martinez, Advocacy Director of United We Dream. A video of the press conference, edited from Facebook Live, is here: https://youtu.be/F_Tf280He1Q Still photos are available on Rep. Gutiérrez’ Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/RepGutierrez/ The following are Congressman Gutiérrez’ opening remarks, as prepared for delivery: Remarks at Press Conference July 18, 2017 Thank you to the United Farmworkers for all that you do and for being our partner on the Agricultural Worker Program Act. I have had the honor of meeting with the members of UFW on many, many occasions over the past 20 years or so, and they always rejuvenate my soul with their dedication to making life better for other farmworkers and for strengthening the agricultural industry in this country. They literally make eating food possible and we should appreciate that every single day. Today, reporters asked me why we are having a press conference outside in Washington on such a hot day and let me tell you, being inside on a day like this is an option that we have that farmworkers do not have. They are out in this heat every day from sun up to sun down and we only have to be here for about half an hour, so relax and remember what they go through. If each of you were to bend over or get on your knees – for a few hours – using a sharp tool or working with chemicals and heavy equipment or cows that do not want to go where you want them to go, then you would get just a taste of what farmworkers do every single day. And they do it for not much money. And they do it without much job security and in dangerous and remote areas, sometimes. The risk of exploitation and the risk of sexual assault for women is extraordinarily high; much higher than many might expect. And they do it knowing that they and their families are at risk of arrest and deportation because we do not have a legal immigration system that provides legal avenues to come to this country to work in this very vital industry. We know that foreign hands will touch our food and the question for America is whether we want those foreign hands to grow our food in this country or another country. The choice for America is whether we want our food grown and produced under our laws for food safety and workplace safety or someone else’s. And we could choose to have legal immigration and a functioning visa program so that our working men and women are protected by our labor laws and employers are in full compliance, and accountable, but we have chosen as a nation not to do that. The Republican proposal that will be discussed at a hearing tomorrow is to invite workers in, make them beholden to their employer and once the work is done, they have to get out or be deported. It is based on the old model of guest workers that has not worked well for employers and especially not for workers. The workers are not people, families, or potential Americans – the way all immigration has happened in the US for two centuries. Rather, they are disposable. Well, we have a different vision that honors farmworkers and honors American agriculture by allowing those who work in agriculture and stay in agriculture to earn legal status if they qualify. Senator Feinstein introduced the bill in the Senate and today I can announce I have 46 co-sponsors for the Agricultural Worker Program Act, HR 2690 in the House. Look, when immigrants are under attack, we have to find a way to offer them safety and security and legality, not just for them and their families, although that is very important, but also for their co-workers, for the supply chain, for the American food industry, and to hold employers accountable to our laws. [The Congressman then continued briefly in Spanish, see video: https://youtu.be/F_Tf280He1Q] Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
07.13.2017	Washington, DC – On Thursday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez spoke about the Congressional Hispanic Caucus’ meeting with Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly on Wednesday that Gutiérrez says was “our call to action” to fight mass deportation. Rep. Gutiérrez said that Sec. Kelly intimated that Temporary Protective Status (TPS), Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and other ways millions of immigrants are protected from deportation and allowed to work legally in the U.S. are coming to an end as early as this fall. The Congressman said: We are going to have to organize, mobilize and stand with our allies to protect families, to protect American citizens in those families, and to defend communities, because these guys [the Trump Administration] are serious. They want to deport millions of people and they are coming after the DREAMers and those with deep ties and long-term lives in the US. The Congressman said that in the meeting with Sec. Kelly, CHC Members discussed the deportation of veterans and long-term residents with no criminal history and American citizen children. In his speech, Rep. Gutiérrez mentioned two cases he is following, including Francisca Lino in Chicago and Jesus Lara in Ohio, both of whom are slated for deportation despite deep ties to family and community. The Congressman challenged the Secretary in the meeting yesterday and in his speech today, saying: I told him he could pick up the phone and stop Ms. Lino’s and Mr. Lara’s deportations and spare the American citizens in their families from hardship and cruelty. But he is hiding behind the old “it’s out of my hands” bureaucratic dodge, the old “I’m just following orders” defense. But General, that is completely invalid because we know you have the power to do the right thing. The Congressman concluded in Spanish, saying: Es el momento de resistir, vienen a destruir nuestra comunidad, vienen a deportar a los soñadores. Parecen, organizasen y resistan. [Translation: It is the moment to resist, they are coming to destroy our communities, they are coming to deport DREAMers. Let's stand up! Get organized and resist.] A videotape of the Congressman’s floor speech is here: https://youtu.be/oYsnP7oPl5Y The Congressman’s statement after the Kelly/CHC meeting on Wednesday is here: https://bit.ly/2sQKBoX The text as prepared for delivery is pasted below. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks July 17, 2017 Mr. Speaker – Yesterday, Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly met with Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. We asked him about veterans who are being deported. We asked him why American citizens were increasingly having their families broken up by deportation. We asked about the 800,000 young people who signed up for DACA and the hundreds of thousands of long-term residents of the U.S. who have Temporary Protected Status or TPS. And he really had no answers. We know he is on board with Trump’s agenda to deport millions and millions of people or he would not have been appointed to his position. But honestly, he seemed not to understand what his own agency does, the statutory powers he has as Secretary of Homeland Security under current law, or, for that matter, how Congress works. Let me offer some examples. Number 1, Francisca Lino lives in Chicago and her husband and children are U.S. citizens. For nearly a decade she stayed out of trouble and reported every year to immigration authorities. Now, people who work for the Secretary decided she must leave the country, leave her kids, her husband, and that she has to go in August. Why? What changed? The same goes for Jesus Lara in Ohio. He has 4 American kids who will live their entire lives here, but their family is being broken up by their own government. According to the Secretary, the courts are deporting them, not him or his agency. He denied responsibility and said he can’t do anything about it. But we all know the Secretary of Homeland Security has extraordinary powers to spare families from deportation, especially when doing so would not be in our national interest. I told him he could pick up the phone and stop Ms. Lino’s and Mr. Lara’s deportations and spare the American citizens in their families from hardship and cruelty. But he is hiding behind the old “it’s out of my hands” bureaucratic dodge, the old “I’m just following orders” defense. But General, that is completely invalid because we know you have the power to do the right thing. On TPS - a program that currently allows hundreds of thousands of people to live and work here legally- the Secretary has almost unilateral power to extend TPS. But the Secretary was like, well, I don’t know what I’m gonna do about TPS when I have to decide. What kind of an answer is that? To me this means that hundreds of thousands of people’s lives – lives that have been built in the United States – are about to be turned upside down. He wants to take hundreds of thousands of documented immigrants, make them undocumented, and then go after them and their families. How does that possibly make America great? And then there is DACA, the program where 800,000 children and young adults came forward and registered with the government, went through a background check, and were rechecked periodically. Now Secretary Kelly says he thinks DACA is illegal and once again, that it is out of his hands and up to Attorney General Jeff Sessions – only America’s number 1 opponent of immigration; Any immigration. So, to me, this was our call to action. The way we rose up to support women and Planned Parenthood, we have to do that again and again. The way lawyers and patriotic Americans stood at airports to protect refugees and religious freedom, well, now, DREAMers, DACA, TPS and families like the Laras and the Linos are in the crosshairs and let me tell you something… We are going to have to organize, mobilize and stand with our allies to protect families, to protect American citizens in those families, and to defend communities, because these guys are serious. They want to deport millions of people and they are coming after the DREAMers and those with deep ties and long-term lives in the US. This is our call to action. We must resist. We must rise up and stand up for American values! And whether the President, the Secretary or the Attorney General like it or not, we need to make it clear that immigrants and immigration are here to stay. Listen, last May the secretary of homeland security sent an edict, he has told the Haitians, over 55 thousand of them, you have 6 month, get your paperwork ready you're leaving the country. Then he is going to come after hundreds of thousands of Central Americans that are here legally in this country, have been here ten, fifteen, twenty years; he is also telling them get your affairs in order you are going to be deported from the United States, I am eliminating your legal status. And when it comes to DREAMers, I want to make absolutely clear to everyone today, he is going to end that program and he is going to begin that process this September. He says oh, I like them, they are nice people, but there is nothing I can do, I am going to talk to my buddy Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Jeff Sessions has never liked the program since he was a U.S. Senator and now he is the Attorney General. They will eliminate the program putting 800,000 people in the crosshairs of deportation. We have the moment to rise up. SPANISH: Es el momento de resistir, vienen a destruir nuestra comunidad, vienen a deportar a los soñadores. Parecen, organizasen y resistan. # # # TRANSLATION OF SPANISH: It is the moment to resist, they are coming to destroy our communities, they are coming to deport dreamers. Let's stand up! Get organized and resist. # # #
07.12.2017	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) was among the Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) to meet with Secretary John Kelly of the Department of Homeland Security. In the closed door meeting that lasted more than an hour, Sec. Kelly was questioned about the continuation of the DACA program (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals); ICE arrests targeting the parents and family of children seeking refuge; detention and deportation of those with no criminal record and/or stays of deportation; the renewal of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for numerous countries; and the deportation of U.S. veterans. The following is a statement from Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez, a Member of the Judiciary Committee and Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. I think we have to prepare for the worst and get ready to fight mass deportation. We showed up at airports to fight the Muslim and Refugee Ban and now DREAMers and people who have lived here legally for decades with TPS are in imminent danger. Secretary Kelly determines the future of TPS and basically told us he is not sure if he will extend it for hundreds of thousands of people. He also said that the future of DACA is up to Attorney General Jeff Sessions, America’s leading advocate against immigration, so Kelly was basically telling us DACA is facing a death sentence. They actually want to take millions of people who are documented – with our own government – make them undocumented, and then go after them and their families. So, I fear for anybody currently with DACA or TPS. This was a wake-up call that Trump, Sessions and Kelly are serious about mass deportation and are anxious to get started. It is a call to action for people who oppose mass deportation and turning the documented into undocumented so that they can be deported. Upon questioning, Sec. Kelly made it clear he does not understand how his agency works or how the Congress works. He stood by his past remarks that Congress should change the law if we don’t like it, as if Democrats have not been fighting Republican obstruction for years, and asking for a vote on immigration reform, the DREAM Act and other legislation. Sec. Kelly says it is up to Congress, but his party is the obstacle standing in the way of a modern immigration system. Sec. Kelly said he could not help people and their American citizen children who have no criminal record and are being deported, as if he doesn’t understand that he has the power under current law to spare people through his prosecutorial discretion. I told him straight up that he could prevent the August deportation of Francisca Lino – the wife of a U.S. citizen and mother of U.S. citizen children in Chicago – just by picking up the phone and he seemed not to know he has that power. He either does not understand his authority under current law or was stonewalling or doing a very convincing job of playing dumb – or maybe some combination of the three. He is playing along with Trump’s agenda to deport millions and pretending to not understand his powers to do something about it. ‘Just following orders’ is not a valid defense, especially when you have the power to prevent a tragedy for millions of American citizens and their families. Trump, Sessions and Kelly want to take 800,000 DREAMers with DACA and hundreds of thousands with TPS who are registered with the government and in compliance with the law and make them into criminals, felons, and deportees in the next few months. Anyone with a conscience who thinks legal immigration is an integral part of who we are as a country just got called to action. # # #
07.12.2017	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor about homophobic comments made by the President of the Puerto Rican Senate Thomas Rivera Schatz, who is a leader of the statehood effort in Puerto Rico. Congressman Gutiérrez called recent remarks made by Sen. Rivera Schatz “a troubling incident” – referring to a radio interview in which the Senator repeatedly referred to an openly gay, female public official as “Mister” (or “Señor”) in order to call attention to – and denigrate – her sexual orientation. On Tuesday, Rep. Gutiérrez sent a letter (link) to House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) calling her attention to the statements made by Sen. Rivera Schatz, which were directed at Ana Matosantos, the only woman on Puerto Rico’s Financial Oversight and Management Board (the Junta de Supervisión Fiscal). Ms. Matosantos was appointed to the board by Leader Pelosi when the Junta was created in 2016. In his floor speech, Rep. Gutiérrez said: It is important that people hear about how women and the LGBT community are treated by the highest levels of the Puerto Rican government and the values and politics that run deeply throughout the politics of statehood for Puerto Rico. There is a renewed push for statehood for Puerto Rico, including a plebiscite in June (which was boycotted by every party except the statehood party and in which only 23% of those eligible voted) and a new Equality Commission for Puerto Rico (Comisión de la Igualdad para Puerto Rico) appointed by the Governor to lobby Congress – and especially Democrats – on statehood. Last week, Rep. Gutiérrez issued a press release (link) denouncing Sen. Rivera Schatz’s offensive comments, which came during a radio interview with Carmen Jovet on AM 610 NotiUno radio (link) and drew criticism from an array of pro-LGBT advocates (link). The Illinois Congressman said on the floor today: I don’t see Rivera Schatz as one bad apple – he is a bad apple that exemplifies and is a voice for the other leaders in his party. So, as a Puerto Rican and as a supporter of equality, all of this is deeply disturbing to me and a lot of other people. Gender and LGBT equality issues are deeply ingrained values of the Democratic Party and I think they are core issues that bind Democrats together – issues of justice, opportunity, and fair-play. This is why I wrote a letter this week to Leader Pelosi and the other leaders of my party in the House. So when the leaders of the Statehood movement visit Democrats in Congress to speak about equality and justice for Puerto Ricans, I want my colleagues to think about the agenda they are pursuing in Puerto Rico and the extent to which they have a very different approach to fairness and equality on the Island. Rep. Gutiérrez concluded his remarks in Spanish, saying: How can they [statehooders] be taken seriously about equality when their agenda in the legislature is to take away those rights from women, the LGBT community, students, peaceful protesters and others? That is the fundamental hypocrisy I have pointed out to my Democratic colleagues, right now and in private meetings and correspondences. In his letter on Tuesday to Leader Pelosi (and copied to other Democratic Leaders), Congressman Gutiérrez wrote: It is my hope that you will consider the bigoted comments and sentiments of Sen. Rivera Schatz. Should he appeal to you and your commitment to civil and equal rights with regard to his desire for statehood for Puerto Rico, I urge you to take the opportunity to challenge him on his supposed commitment to the same values and goals. A videotape of the Congressman’s floor speech is here: https://youtu.be/JyAJxAb5Io8 Letter to Leader Nancy Pelosi from Rep. Gutiérrez: 071117 Gutierrez Letter to Leader Pelosi re Rivera Schatz + Matosantos.pdf The text as prepared for delivery is pasted below. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He has lived, worked and studied in Puerto Rico at various times in his life and was born (in Chicago) to parents who themselves migrated from Puerto Rico in the 1950s. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks July 17, 2017 Mr. Speaker, I want to bring to everyone’s attention – and especially my Democratic colleagues – a troubling incident that transpired over the recess. It is important that people hear about how women and the LGBT community are treated by the highest levels of the current Puerto Rican government and the values and politics that run deeply throughout the politics of statehood for Puerto Rico. It is fair to say that in the era of Trump, admitting a Spanish-speaking Caribbean country as the 51st state would depend on the strength of Democratic votes, so it is important for my Democratic colleagues in particular to understand who the statehooders really are and what they really stand for, beyond their rhetoric in Washington. The President of the Senate of Puerto Rico, Thomas Rivera Schatz, is a key leader of the Statehood Party. In a recent interview on NotiUno radio, he was asked about the Financial Oversight and Management Board, known as la Junta de Supervisión Fiscal. This is the controversial board created by Congress a year ago to take over financial and fiscal decisions in Puerto Rico and to prioritize the payment of Puerto Rico’s debt to Wall Street. I was one of the chief opponents of the “PROMESA” legislation that created the Junta and I have spoken out against it on numerous occasions. But it wasn’t what the statehood Senate President said about the Junta that was so offensive; it was how he talked about one of its board members – in fact, the only woman on the board and an appointee nominated by Democrats in the House. Ana Matosantos has impeccable, bipartisan qualifications and also happens to be an openly gay woman. So during the interview, the Senate President and Statehood leader referred to Ms. Matosantos as “Mister” Matosantos, using the masculine pronoun “Señor.” He did it multiple times so that listeners would not miss his disdain for lesbians and for women. It was no accident or slip of the tongue. Given an opportunity to apologize or backtrack, Rivera Schatz has declined to back down. And this is not the first time he has displayed his contempt for women and for the gay and lesbian community. His agenda is clear and he knows he has many like-minded allies in Puerto Rico’s Statehood movement. Every time he has had an opportunity to block civil and human rights protections for LGBT individuals, he does it with gusto. He goes out of his way to belittle gay and lesbian citizens, even when they are the victims of hate crimes. And to be clear, I don’t see Rivera Schatz as one bad apple – he is a bad apple that exemplifies and is a voice for the other leaders in his party. So, as a Puerto Rican and as a supporter of equality, all of this is deeply disturbing to me and a lot of other people. Gender and LGBT equality issues are deeply ingrained values of the Democratic Party and I think they are core issues that bind Democrats together – issues of justice, opportunity, and fair-play. So when the leaders of the Statehood movement call upon Democrats in Congress to speak about equality and justice for Puerto Ricans, I want my colleagues to think about the agenda they are pursuing in Puerto Rico and the extent to which they have a very different approach to fairness and equality on the Island. Now, in closing, I would like to offer a few words to the Puerto Rican people in their own language, and I will provide a translation to the desk. SPANISH Los valores de la igualdad y del trato justo y equitativo son valores fundamentales que la mayoría de los puertorriqueños atesoramos profundamente en nuestros corazones. Así que cuando el Partido Estadista, el PNP, permite que figuras polarizantes y divisivas como el Senador Rivera Schatz sean su cara y su principal representante en el Senado, eso me hace a mí y a muchos otros sentirnos escépticos en cuanto a los argumentos de los estadistas que usan palabras como “igualdad” y “justicia” en Washington, pero luchan en contra de la igualdad y la justicia en Puerto Rico. ¿Cómo esperan que se les tome en serio al hablar de “igualdad” cuando su agenda en la Legislatura es el quitarles derechos a las mujeres, a la comunidad LGBT, a los estudiantes, y a los que se manifiestan y protestan pacíficamente? Esta es la fundamental hipocresía que le he señalado a mis colegas Demócratas, aquí, ahora, y en reuniones privadas, y a través de correspondencia. Si el movimiento estadista en realidad tuviese un compromiso con la igualdad, actuarían conforme a la igualdad y no meramente usando el término como un lema cuando les conviene. ENGLISH Mr. Speaker, I yield back. # # # TRANSLATION OF SPANISH PORTION: Core values of equality and fair treatment values I know most Puerto Ricans hold deeply in our hearts. So when the Statehood Party allows divisive and polarizing figures like Senator Rivera Schatz to be their face and their leading advocate in the Senate, it makes me and many others skeptical about the arguments we hear from people who support statehood say the words “equality” and “justice” in Washington, but fight against equality and justice in Puerto Rico. How can they be taken seriously about equality when their agenda in the legislature is to take away those rights from women, the LGBT community, students, peaceful protesters and others? That is the fundamental hypocrisy I have pointed out to my Democratic colleagues, right now and in private meetings and correspondences. If the statehood movement is really committed to equality, they should act accordingly and not just use it as a slogan when it suits them. # # #
07.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Chairwoman Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham and Members of the CHC sent a letter to U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary John F. Kelly asking for clarification and details about reports that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents are targeting and criminally charging parents and sponsors of unaccompanied children. As stated in the letter, “We applaud efforts to target, make arrests and bring down these [human smuggling] criminal organizations. However, targeting family-member sponsors that seek to protect children escaping violence and abuse is completely unacceptable, reprehensible and will create a culture of fear and lack of cooperation among this vulnerable community.” Nearly 170,000 unaccompanied children have been released to sponsors across the U.S. since October 2013, according to the federal Office of Refugee Resettlement. The letter was signed by: Michelle Lujan Grisham, CHC Chairwoman; Joaquin Castro, CHC First Vice Chair; Ruben Gallego, CHC Second Vice Chair; Pete Aguilar, CHC Whip; Adriano Espaillat, CHC Freshman Representative; Luis V Gutiérrez, CHC Immigration and Border Issues Task Force Chair; Norma Torres, CHC Latin America and Foreign Affairs Task Force Chair. COPY OF LETTER July 7, 2017 The Honorable John F. Kelly Secretary of Homeland Security Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Kelly, We are alarmed by reports that the Trump Administration is targeting and criminally charging parents and family-member sponsors of unaccompanied children. It is our understanding that U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) have begun sharing information about unaccompanied children’s parents, caregivers or sponsors for the purposes of criminal and immigration enforcement actions. According to news reports, ICE officials have confirmed that parents or sponsors are being targeted as part of an initiative focused on disrupting and dismantling human smuggling operations. We applaud efforts to target, make arrests and bring down these criminal organizations. However, targeting family-member sponsors that seek to protect children escaping violence and abuse is completely unacceptable, reprehensible and will create a culture of fear and lack of cooperation among this vulnerable community. Furthermore, family reunification, a cornerstone of basic child welfare principles, should not be used as a weapon against these children seeking protection. Reports indicate that individuals in Texas, Virginia, and New Jersey have been arrested. The vast majority of these children are fleeing dangerous and life-threatening conditions in their home countries. As a result, many children are forced to make the dangerous trek to the United States to escape gang violence and even possible death. It is alarming that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) may now be equating these families trying to protect vulnerable children with criminals engaged in human smuggling. The mission of DHS is to ensure the safety and security of the homeland. Targeting parents and family members of vulnerable children for questioning and detention in no way advances this mission. Indeed, this policy will only create unease and panic, and separate families for extended periods of time, which may violate the Flores Settlement Agreement. While ICE disclosed this new enforcement initiative last week, details are scarce. It is imperative that DHS respond to the following questions in writing by July 14, 2017: How long has this new policy been in place? Is this a written policy? If so, please share the document. What is the protocol to determine which sponsors will be targeted? Does DHS have access to the Office of Refugee Resettlement’s Unaccompanied Alien Children Portal? If so, what agencies within DHS have access to this information? How do these agencies use this information? Is this information shared with the DOJ for criminal prosecution purposes? It has been reported that ICE agents will arrest sponsors of children who have paid smuggling entities. What criminal charges have been levied on these individuals? How many of these individuals have legal representation? How many sponsors have been arrested and are currently being held? Of these sponsors, how many are being held in family detention? Are any of them being held together with their children? Have any sponsors been deported? If so, how many and to what countries have they been deported to? Of the parents or sponsors who have been detained as part of these actions, how many have indicated a fear of return, and if so, how is the department handling their cases? If a sponsor is detained, where are the unaccompanied children and other children in home being placed? Have any children been placed in state run foster care programs? Have any children been returned to ORR custody? how is this affecting ORR’s overall population of children in its care? What is the average stay of children in ORR custody, and has that gone up as part of this operation? How many children have been impacted? What are you doing to ensure compliance with the Flores Settlement Agreement? How many people have been criminally charged? Have any been sent to the Bureau of Prisons or U.S. Marshalls custody? For decades the U.S. has had a longstanding history of welcoming refugees and immigrants. We have been a beacon of hope for individuals fleeing dangerous and violent conditions. Many of DHS’s most recent policies and actions run in stark contrast to our nation’s history and values. We must continue to protect vulnerable children and families and utilize our limited resources to target and dismantle actual human smuggling organizations rather than going after the innocent parents and family members of helpless children. We demand that DHS immediately stop any current or planned operations targeting parents or family-member sponsors of unaccompanied children. Thank you for your attention to this urgent matter. Sincerely, [The letter was signed by: Michelle Lujan Grisham, CHC Chairwoman; Joaquin Castro, CHC First Vice Chair; Ruben Gallego, CHC Second Vice Chair; Pete Aguilar, CHC Whip; Adriano Espaillat, CHC Freshman Representative; Luis V Gutiérrez, CHC Immigration and Border Issues Task Force Chair; Norma Torres, CHC Latin America and Foreign Affairs Task Force Chair.] # # # https://congressionalhispaniccaucus-lujangrisham.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/chc-questions-dhs-effort-to-target-parents-of-unaccompanied-children The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), founded in December 1976, is organized as a Congressional Member organization, governed under the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives. The CHC is dedicated to voicing and advancing, through the legislative process, issues affecting Hispanics in the United States, Puerto Rico and U.S. Territories.
07.05.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) responded to Thomas Rivera Schatz, Puerto Rican Senate President and a leader of the Statehood Party, who used the masculine pronoun “señor” repeatedly to describe Ana Matosantos, the only female member of Puerto Rico’s Financial Oversight and Management Board (known locally as the Junta de Supervisión Fiscal or simply the Junta). It occurred during a radio interview with Carmen Jovet on AM 610 NotiUno radio (link) and was widely regarded as a homophobic slur from a politician and party with a record of hostility towards the LGBT community. “This crossed a line,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “This wasn’t an accident or a slip of the tongue, this fits the pattern of how Statehooders relate to the LGBT community – namely: with hostility and homophobia. What matters is that one of the most senior leaders of the Puerto Rican government thinks it is OK to talk this way and it reveals a lot about the conservative politics of the pro-statehood movement. Making fun of someone’s sexual orientation or gender identity is never okay – in Puerto Rico or anywhere else. I am the last one to support anything the Junta is up to, but homophobic remarks? That is beneath the dignity even of the Statehooders and makes President Trump look mature and well-adjusted by comparison.” Rep. Gutiérrez recently spoke on the House floor to warn his fellow Democrats that Statehooders in Puerto Rico are not political allies (video and text: https://bit.ly/2sUVb19). Rep. Gutiérrez fought harder than anyone else in Congress against the Financial Oversight and Management Board of which Ms. Matosantos is a member. The Junta was put in place as part of the PROMESA Act passed in 2016 to wrest power from local elected officials and install an unelected board of eight members. Ms. Matosantos was an appointee nominated by Democrats in Congress. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He has lived, worked and studied in Puerto Rico at various times in his life and was born (in Chicago) to parents who themselves migrated from Puerto Rico in the 1950s. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
06.28.2017	Washington, D.C. - The Congressional Hispanic Caucus urges the House to oppose “No Sanctuary for Criminals Act” (H.R. 3003) and “Kate’s Law” (H.R. 3004). These two measures will undercut law enforcement’s ability to keep communities safe, undermine Constitutional protections, and criminalize immigrants. The severe incarceration penalties in H.R. 3004 will swell the number of immigrants in prisons with no criminal convictions and tear families apart. H.R. 3003 will compel states to use limited resources to act as federal immigration agents and will strip federal funding for critical law enforcement and national security initiatives from localities that abide by the Fourth Amendment – both would violate the Tenth Amendment’s “commandeering” principle. “Simply put, these two bills won’t make our neighborhoods safer - in fact, they will jeopardize national security, undermine the Constitution, and threaten public safety. It is no surprise that major law enforcement groups across the country have strongly opposed the immigration policies put forward by the GOP Congress and the Trump Administration. American families deserve real solutions to our broken immigration system—that means fixing our immigration system, not playing politics by scapegoating immigrant communities and threatening the effectiveness of local law enforcement,” said Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham, Chair of the CHC. # # # https://congressionalhispaniccaucus-lujangrisham.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/chc-opposes-anti-immigrant-bills The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), founded in December 1976, is organized as a Congressional Member organization, governed under the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives. The CHC is dedicated to voicing and advancing, through the legislative process, issues affecting Hispanics in the United States, Puerto Rico and U.S. Territories.
06.28.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor about the two immigration bills on the House floor this week (HR 3003 and HR 3004), saying despite this being Immigrant Heritage Month, “House Republicans have made this anti-immigration week in the Congress.” The vote on the bills to jail immigrants for longer periods of time and take money away from more than 600 cities and counties who do not enforce federal immigration laws in the way Republicans want them to comes as anti-immigration advocacy groups hold their annual talk-radio festival of live broadcasts from Washington, designed “to reinforce the anti-immigration fever that has gripped the Republican Party and allowed a tough-sounding game-show host to take over the party,” according to Rep. Gutiérrez. The Congressman said: So, we have a coordinated campaign from broadcasters, lawmakers, and the anti-immigration advocates to pressure Congress into passing bills to paint immigrants as a threat to our national and community safety. Right out of the Trump playbook. And the question is not whether or not these bills will pass the House – they will – but whether Democrats will be tempted to vote for tough-sounding measures because they are afraid to be labeled by conservative talk-radio hosts as weak on punishing the “Mexican murderers and rapists” they think are lurking in every alley. The bills, which will be debated today and tomorrow, include the so-called “Kate’s Law” (HR 3004), a bill named for Kate Steinle who was killed in July 2015 by an immigrant who had been mistakenly released by the Bureau of Prisons and ICE and allowed out on the streets. “Kate’s Law” would not have had an impact on the Steinle case, the Congressman said while addressing claims by right-wing conservative groups that he had made statements insensitive to the Steinle family’s loss. [W]hat is coming to the floor this week would not have kept Kate Steinle’s killer off the streets. It would have had no impact on that case whatsoever. Instead, we are voting on a bill to put other people – in different circumstances – in jail for longer periods of time. It is a bait and switch strategy; use a horrible tragedy to sell a policy that would not have prevented that death, so that you put more immigrants in jail for longer periods of time and prevent them from ever living legally in the United States. The other bill, HR 3003, would take money for fighting crime away from the 600 or more counties and cities that Republicans call “sanctuary cities.” Rep. Gutierrez said: That doesn’t sound like crime-fighting, because it isn’t. So why are they doing this? Because Republicans in Washington think they have a better idea of how to fight crime than the county executives, state legislators, mayors and police chiefs. “Do what we say or we will take your money away,” is what the Republicans are saying to cities and counties. HR 3003 is opposed by the Fraternal Order of Police and other law enforcement and state/local government associations, leading the Congressman to ask: So, to all the talk-radio hosts and advocacy groups: why are you on the side opposing the National Fraternal Order of Police and why would any Democrat want to cross that blue line to stand with you? A video of the Congressman’s floor speech is here: https://youtu.be/8F8rE5-nU4w The text (as prepared for delivery) is pasted below. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. FLOOR SPEECH June 28, 2017 Mr. Speaker: June is Immigrant Heritage Month in the United States, but to celebrate that, House Republicans have made this anti-immigration week in the Congress. The advocates against legal immigration have their annual talk-radio festival here in DC this week to extol the virtues of cutting off legal immigration. Dozens of conservative talk-radio hosts set up remote broadcasts here to talk about why criminalizing immigrants and turning misdemeanors into felonies is a good thing for America. They trade stories – while broadcasting on the air – about immigrants doing horribly bad things to innocent Americans as if we were in a national crime spree of brown people killing white people. The goal of the talk-radio hosts is to reinforce the anti-immigration fever that has gripped the Republican Party and allowed a tough-sounding game-show host to take over the party. The main organization behind the gathering of talk-radio hosts is FAIR, the Federation Against American Immigration Reform, which we should note is designated as a hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Center. That’s the organization in Alabama most directly responsible for suing the KKK out of the main-stream – or at least out of it until recently. It’s like D.W. Griffith might rise up from his grave to film “Rebirth of A Nation-The Sequel” because FAIR and its allies want to take our immigration policies back to the 1920s when the Klan marched openly in Washington and legal immigration was reduced to almost zero. And they want to get rid of anyone here who is deportable or could be made deportable by passing new laws to criminalize them. Now, to coincide with the talk-radio anti-immigration week, Republicans are putting on a passion play of their own in the House of Representatives by bringing two anti-immigrant bills to the floor. So we have a coordinated campaign from broadcasters, lawmakers, and the anti-immigration advocates to pressure Congress into passing bills to paint immigrants as a threat to our national and community safety. Right out of the Trump playbook. And the question is not whether or not these bills will pass the House – they will – but whether Democrats will be tempted to vote for tough-sounding measures because they are afraid to be labeled by conservative talk-radio hosts as weak on punishing the “Mexican murderers and rapists” they think are lurking in every American alley. Of course, that is not what these bills actually do at all. “Truth” and “talk-radio” do not often go together – certainly not in the era of Trump. Let’s look at the two bills Republicans are bringing for a vote. One bill is H.R. 3004, named for Kate Steinle, a young woman who was shot and killed by an immigrant nearly two years ago in San Francisco. It happened in July and as you may remember, I was the first person to come to the floor and give a speech denouncing Kate’s killer and calling for laws that keep people like him off the streets. A week later, while talking about various immigration issues in Spanish with Telemundo, a quote was included in a story about Kate Steinle’s killing. After it was aired, right-wing groups circulated it, alleging it was proof that I was insensitive to the Steinle family, when in fact, I was not speaking about Kate Steinle at the time and I had already spoken out specifically on Kate’s death here on the floor. But what is coming to the floor this week would not have kept Kate Steinle’s killer off the streets. It would have had no impact on that case whatsoever. Instead, we are voting on a bill to put other people – in different circumstances – in jail for longer periods of time. It is a bait and switch strategy; use a horrible tragedy to sell a policy that would not have prevented that death, so that you put more immigrants in jail for longer periods of time and prevent them from ever living legally in the United States. The other bill, HR 3003, is designed to take money away from America’s largest cities and counties, specifically from efforts to fight crime. Grants that help local police fight crime would be eliminated for 600 of the country’s largest jurisdictions. That doesn’t sound like crime-fighting, because it isn’t. So why are they doing this? Because Republicans in Washington think they have a better idea of how to fight crime than the county executives, state legislators, mayors and police chiefs. “Do what we say or we will take your money away,” is what the Republicans are saying to cities and counties. And that is the approach being taken by the conservatives who always talk about how state and local people should be trusted more and protected from federal mandates. Well, I guess not when immigrants are concerned. This is why these types of bills are opposed by The National Fraternal Order of Police and other police organizations. So, to all the talk-radio hosts and advocacy groups: why are you on the side opposing the National Fraternal Order of Police and why would any Democrat want to cross that blue line to stand with you? # # #
06.22.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor about the June 11 plebiscite in Puerto Rico where 97% of the voters supported statehood, but only 23% of the voters actually took the time to vote. The Congressman warned Democrats that “Those who are peddling the fantasy of statehood sometimes call themselves Democrats, but we should all beware of an elephant in donkey clothing.” The speech comes a few days after Democratic National Committee Chairman Tom Perez embraced the Puerto Rican statehood agenda. The Congressman (sarcastically) conceded that the 97% result was “pretty impressive,” but said the results represent: The kind of numbers that would make Vladimir Putin jealous and Saddam Hussein green with envy if he were not so dead. And the reason why the statehooders got 97 percent of the vote was pretty much the same reason as those guys too: Only one political party participated. Rep. Gutiérrez said: All the other parties thought the election was so rigged and so pre-determined for the outcome the sponsors wanted that it was not even worth taking part. And the vast majority of Puerto Ricans agreed. Only 23 percent of the people voted. 77 percent thought it was not worth their time to participate in what was basically an elaborate publicity stunt for the ruling party. And they were absolutely right. Rep. Gutiérrez noted that the current Resident Commissioner (Puerto Rico’s non-voting delegate to Congress) ran on the statehood party ticket, is a Republican and “a proud supporter of Donald Trump” and that the head of the Governor’s office in Washington is a Republican operative who ran the “’Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles,’ infamous for its constant bashing of President Obama.” The head of the Puerto Rican ruling party, a statehood Governor who self-identifies as a Democrat, has “a conservative record that speaks for itself.” He opposes LGBT rights and has embraced GOP presidential candidates and has not been a critic of President Trump, even with the President’s clear agenda to denigrate Mexicans, Puerto Ricans and Latinos in general. So instead of spending money to help children whose schools are closing, or fix roads that are falling apart, or pay doctors enough to prevent them from moving to Florida, it seems the entire Puerto Rican Government is now dedicated to pursuing the unlikely chance of statehood. It is certainly useful as a distraction from what the Governor and his DC operatives are actually doing. The Congressman, who was born in Chicago to parents who were migrants from Puerto Rico, has lived, worked and gone to school in Puerto Rico at various times in his life. He concluded his speech by saying: I have said before and will say again, I plan to be buried on the beautiful Island of to Puerto Rico some day and I hope that when that happens, I will be in a free and sovereign nation that has thrown off the yoke of colonialism and dependence on an overseas master – just as this country – the country of my birth -- has done. In the meantime, I think it is important to warn my fellow Democrats that they should no more get in bed with the statehooders than with any other group of right-wing conservatives with an agenda. A video of the Congressman’s floor speech is here: https://youtu.be/L60dhJ2kYNo The text (as prepared for delivery) is pasted below. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. FLOOR SPEECH June 22, 2017 So the ruling party in Puerto Rico staged an election and they are very proud of the results. They say that 97 percent of Puerto Ricans support statehood and that the United States should grant statehood right away because of it. 97 percent! That’s pretty impressive. The kind of numbers that would make Vladimir Putin jealous and Saddam Hussein green with envy if he were not so dead. And the reason why the statehooders got 97 percent of the vote was pretty much the same reason as those guys too: Only one political party participated. All the other parties thought the election was so rigged and so pre-determined for the outcome the sponsors wanted that it was not even worth taking part. And the vast majority of Puerto Ricans agreed. Only 23 percent of the people voted. 77 percent thought it was not worth their time to participate in what was basically an elaborate publicity stunt for the ruling party. And they were absolutely right. But I guess in the era of alternative facts and made-up statistics about how many people attended your inauguration, you can try to make a one-party vote of 23 percent of the people look like a mandate for statehood. But I am here to warn my fellow Democrats not to believe the hype for one second. Those who are peddling the fantasy of statehood sometimes call themselves Democrats, but we should beware an elephant in donkey clothing. Let’s look at the leaders of the Statehood Party here in Washington. Our colleague, the Resident Commissioner who ran on the Statehood ticket is a Republican who caucuses with the Republicans here in the House. She is a proud supporter of Donald Trump and pals around with other Republican Members like Steve King of Iowa, among many others who are, shall we say, not the most friendly when it comes to Latinos – including Puerto Ricans – and tend not to vote the Democratic Party line, to say the least. The head of the Governor’s office here in Washington is headed by Republican Carlos Mercader, who was appointed to the position by Governor Rosselló after serving as executive director of the right-wing organization called “Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles”, infamous for its constant bashing of Obama and the Democrats. That is who is pushing statehood in DC. Which makes me wonder – and should make any Democrat wonder – why the new Chairman of the DNC is embracing this bunch, unless it is – as the press are reporting, simply payback for Chairmanship votes. From an ideological standpoint, the statehooders are anything but friends of the Democratic Party or a progressive agenda. And as for Governor Ricardo Rosselló, leader of the Statehood Party and a “Democrat” – his conservative record speaks for itself, even though he has only been in office for less than a year. As a candidate he sided with the bondholders and vulture capital funds and opposed any debt restructuring for Puerto Rico, saying that Puerto Rico should pay its debt in full to Wall Street speculators, in spite of the massive cuts that would entail for police, fire, health care, pensions, roads and schools. He hosted GOP presidential candidate Ben Carson and the Governor opposes LGBT rights, including same-sex marriage and opposes the teaching of gender equality in the schools. Townhall, the über-conservative website sees a kindred spirit in Governor Rosselló, praising him for his conservative approach to helping bondholders before school children. And the Governor has withheld his criticism of President Trump, which few Democrats are able to resist and for Latino Democrats, it is darn near impossible unless they are just playing the role of Democrats to get ahead. When confronted with the obvious, that Trump has denigrated Mexicans as “rapists and murderers,” promised to build a wall to keep Latinos out and sneered at Puerto Rico’s desire for a “bailout,” Rosselló responded, saying of the President: “My view is, I don’t know that he is anti-Latino…Obviously I’ve heard some derogatory remarks but I don’t know him personally, and it doesn’t deter me.” So instead of spending money to help children whose schools are closing, or fix roads that are falling apart, or pay doctors enough to prevent them from moving to Florida, it seems the entire Puerto Rican Government is now dedicated to pursuing the unlikely chance of statehood. It is certainly useful as a distraction from what the Governor and his DC operatives are actually doing. Mr. Speaker, as I have said before and will say again, I plan to be buried on the beautiful Island of to Puerto Rico some day and I hope that when that happens, I will be in a free and sovereign nation that has thrown off the yoke of colonialism and dependence on an overseas master – just as this country – the country of my birth -- has done. In the meantime, I think it is important to warn my fellow Democrats that they should no more get in bed with the statehooders than with any other group of right-wing conservatives with an agenda. # # #
06.21.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor to take note of the hearing this morning in the House Judiciary Committee to pass Republican bills to slash refugee numbers and make it harder for asylum seekers to find safety in the U.S. This comes just one day after World Refugee Day, a day “to reflect upon those in crisis and dedicate ourselves to helping those we can help,” the Congressman said. Standing in front of a replica of the “Irish Need Not Apply” signs from the 19th century, Rep. Gutiérrez noted that the bills voted on in Committee today would have kept many of the Irish out. He said: Roughly 32 million Americans trace their roots to Ireland, that’s about 10% of the U.S. population. And, let’s be clear, the British rulers over Ireland were not sending what they considered their best people. They were poor, they were uneducated, and U.S. politicians at the time said they were sending rapists and murderers and drunks – even if some, they assumed, were good people… But who can imagine America without the Irish today? In his speech, Rep. Gutiérrez recalled the history of – and resistance to – Irish migration, the quarantines and laws to keep them out, and the fear of Catholicism. He said: A lot of this sounds familiar to me today as we discuss the Muslim Ban that the courts have blocked and which motivated thousands of Americans to go to airports to demand that the United States honor its visas and honor its commitment to refugees; Or as the House Judiciary Committee meets today to punish children fleeing violence in Central America. The Congressman, concluded by noting that the current Speaker of the House and countless others in the Congress, the White House and throughout American society, are descendants of the Irish Catholic wave of migrants, and that they should heed the words, just this past weekend, of Pope Francis who discussed the benefits of meeting with and getting to know refugees. The Congressman said: His Holiness said “personal meetings with refugees can dissolve fears and distorted ideologies and become paths for growth in humanity.” Mr. Speaker, I hope my Republican colleagues, including our Speaker who is both Irish and Catholic, had been listening, but I fear they were not. A video of the Congressman’s floor speech is here: https://youtu.be/Lha5qLd7rgI The text (as prepared for delivery) is pasted below. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. FLOOR SPEECH June 21, 2017 Mr. Speaker: Yesterday was World Refugee Day, a day set aside by the United Nations to reflect upon those in crisis and dedicate ourselves to helping those we can help. To mark this solemn occasion, today in the Judiciary Committee, House Republicans will vote to slash refugee resettlement numbers, cut back aid to those fleeing violence and persecution for their religious or political beliefs, and make it harder for children fleeing violence – especially those from Central America – from receiving asylum from the richest, freest nation in the world. Tell me, how does that “Make America Great Again” Mr. Speaker? According to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, there are more than 65 million people—a record number—who have been forcibly displaced from their homes. More than 21 million are refugees. War – like the fighting in Somalia, Afghanistan and Syria – is one of the main causes of displacement. Almost half of the Syrian population has been displaced. But famine and political persecution, instability and violence are also big contributing factors. 86 percent of the world’s refugees are now finding refuge in the developing world, with only 14 percent finding refuge in developed countries like the U.S., Canada and European nations. Worldwide, more than half of all refugees are children under 18. So when anti-immigrant leaders, websites, and TV networks paint those fleeing the Middle East, Africa and Asia as hardened jihadists – or those fleeing Central America as gang-leaders and drug kingpins – remember, for the most part, we are actually talking about children fleeing for their lives, with their parents who are desperate to find a safe place for their children to grow up and thrive. Mr. Speaker, America has throughout our history been a beacon of hope to refugees fleeing religious attacks, facing government intolerance and persecution, ethnic strife or unsustainable poverty. And this dates back long before those words were etched in the Statue of Liberty about “give us your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.” Beginning in the 1840s, when the potato crop disappeared because of a blight in Ireland, the Irish people were left starving. Of the 8 million people in Ireland, 3 to 4 million faced starvation, about 1 million died, mostly of starvation and disease, and another 2 million came to North America, primarily to the US and Canada. According to a recent article in The Irish Times, “Panic had set in by winter 1846/47. People risked winter voyages across the Atlantic on unsanitary, unsafe ‘coffin ships’” The article continues: “People were placed in quarantine stations, or held onboard ships docked at ports…Refugees experienced violent and racist reactions. Liverpool, Glasgow and Edinburgh, Montreal, Boston, New York and Philadelphia sought unsuccessfully to restrict entry.” A lot of this sounds familiar to me today as we discuss the Muslim Ban that the courts have blocked and which motivated thousands of Americans to go to airports to demand that the United States honor its visas and honor its commitment to refugees; Or as the House Judiciary Committee meets today to punish children fleeing violence in Central America. Roughly 32 million Americans trace their roots to Ireland, that’s about 10% of the U.S. population. And, let’s be clear, the British rulers over Ireland were not sending what they considered their best people. They were poor, they were uneducated, and U.S. politicians at the time said they were sending rapists and murderers and drunks – even if some, they assumed, were good people. They were from a religion that threatened the United States. They were Catholics, who were as foreign to American Protestants in some regards as Muslims are today. Americans said they would never be loyal to the U.S. and would only be loyal to Rome. They did not share our values of hard work and family, of sobriety or abiding by laws. But who can imagine America without the Irish today? You look down the list of Generals and Presidents, Members of Congress, Senators, entertainers, business leaders and every aspect of American society – today in America we can all say we are Irish to some degree. As House Republicans vote today to pass bills to keep out the “wretched refuse of your teeming shore…” – as we pass laws to pull up the draw bridge and put a big “Do Not Enter” sign on the Statue of Liberty, I hope my Republican colleagues who can trace roots back to someone who came across the water, risked everything, and bet their lives on the United States – I hope all of us will reflect on those ancestors as we deliberate laws that would have kept many of them out. His Holiness Pope Francis, who we all remember spoke just steps from where I am now and reminded us to always remember the Golden Rule in all our deliberations – Pope Francis said just this past Sunday that the nations of the world should continue to welcome refugees; and each of us as individuals can learn a lot by meeting with, speaking with, and breaking bread with refugees. His Holiness said, “personal meetings with refugees can dissolve fears and distorted ideologies and become paths for growth in humanity.” Mr. Speaker, I hope my Republican colleagues, including our Speaker who is both Irish and Catholic, had been listening, but I fear they were not. # # #
06.16.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement in reaction to the announcement last night that the Trump Administration was officially revoking the Deferred Action for Parental Accountability (DAPA) program, a program to grant work permits and protection from deportation to the parents of U.S. citizens and Legal Permanent Residents announced by President Obama in November 2014, which was blocked by Republican lawsuits and never implemented. Rep. Gutiérrez was a driving force behind DAPA and the similar program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), while President Obama was in office (see, for example: https://to.pbs.org/2rz7xws). The Congressman from Illinois participated in two press conferences yesterday marking the DACA program’s fifth “DACA-versary” – the same day the Trump Administration announced they were revoking DAPA (see https://bit.ly/2sHp3hQ or https://bit.ly/2tvBaLx or https://www.facebook.com/RepGutierrez/). “It is curious that ICE made the announcement about formally killing DAPA on the anniversary of DACA. I think they wanted to flavor the day with a little bitterness and spice it up by reminding immigrants they should live in fear. That is pretty much the way the Department of Homeland Security operates under Trump and his anti-immigration lieutenants. “Clearly the way forward for the country is to incorporate long-term, law-abiding immigrants with deep roots and families in the U.S. into our communities so that they fully integrate and can live and work with permanent status. That is the best way to protect U.S. families, communities and our economy, but clearly not the direction that Trump and the Republicans are headed.” Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
06.13.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor to reiterate his call for the Judiciary Committee to begin hearings or investigations into the Trump/Sessions/Russia matter. Former FBI Director James Comey’s Senate testimony last week clearly indicates this is no longer a matter just for the Intelligence Committee, the Congressman said. But so far, there has been no action in the Judiciary Committee, which Gutiérrez said is working to “protect the President at all costs; shielding the President from tough questions.” The Congressman also noted that Trump allies have called on the President to fire former FBI Director Robert Mueller who currently heads the Department of Justice investigation, an action that Gutiérrez said would put the President “on a fast track to impeachment.” Rep. Gutiérrez has previously called on Judiciary Chairman Robert Goodlatte (R-VA) to take action (see https://bit.ly/2t3L7iY and https://bit.ly/2r5Vb9Q) and has been blunt in his assessment of the President as a “con artist” (see: https://cnn.it/2stj9k9), but he is stepping up his criticism of the Chairman for the Committee’s inaction. As soon as President Trump said on Friday he was willing to testify under oath “100%” -- I wrote Judiciary Chairman Goodlatte to say that the Committee should schedule a hearing and take the President at his word…I don’t think the Chairman will invite the President, a man he campaigned for, because the role of the House Judiciary Committee right now is to protect the President at all costs; shielding the President from tough questions. The Congressman from Illinois who sits on the Judiciary Committee continued: Judiciary Republicans – and House Republicans in general – are getting deeper and deeper in bed with this President. They have a whole agenda and are counting on this President to help them cut taxes for people with trust funds while cutting health care, education, child care, environmental protections, civil rights, and voting rights for people who work for a living. The Congressman praised Senate Judiciary Committee Chuck Grassley (R-IA) for calling the Trump Administration’s policy of denying congressional oversight requests “nonsense,” turning at one point to the Republican side of the House chamber saying, “See, my friends, that is how you do it.” The Congressman concluded by saying that “our old friend” former House Speaker and current presidential advisor Newt Gingrich and others close to the President have started advocating the President fire former FBI Director Robert Mueller who heads the Department of Justice investigation into the Trump/Sessions/Russia affair. Mr. Speaker – and Mr. Former Speaker – if you want to see the President on a fast track to impeachment, then he should take this advice and fire Mueller. You want to see this President in the express lane to impeachment, no ifs, ands or buts, then go for it. Come on, we dare you. Even the Judiciary Committee, which has shown no interest in doing anything other than rubber stamping the Trump agenda, would have to take action then. A video of the Congressman’s floor speech is here: https://youtu.be/DEGMexIzesk The text (as prepared for delivery) is pasted below. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. FLOOR SPEECH June 13, 2017 Mr. Speaker, the saga continues and there seems to be no end in sight for the Trump Administration’s growing legal and ethical problems. Every day another shoe drops – or at least another foot is inserted into the Administration’s mouth. The testimony of James Comey before the Senate Intelligence Committee last week showed us that this is no longer just a matter of foreign intelligence and Russian meddling in American elections. While that is very important and we need to address the foreign intelligence and security aspects of that matter – and the very, very important question of how we keep Russia from hacking our elections in the future – what is clear is that the investigations into the Trump Administration are now matters for the Judiciary Committee. The Gentlelady from California, Senator Feinstein, and I were on CNN this weekend, and we both made the point that the Judiciary Committee has the oversight responsibility for the Justice Department and therefore it is time for the Committee to do its job. That was the theme of my speech here last week and nothing has happened. It is also the reason I wrote to Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte last week to request that he take action, hold hearings, begin preparations for the hearings that will come, because the silence of the Judiciary Committee has been deafening so far. As soon as President Trump said on Friday he was willing to testify under oath “100%” -- I wrote Judiciary Chairman Goodlatte to say that the Committee should schedule a hearing and take the President at his word. Now, I don’t think the Chairman will invite the President, a man he campaigned for, because the role of the House Judiciary Committee right now is to protect the President at all costs; shielding the President from tough questions. In so doing, Judiciary Republicans – and House Republicans in general – are getting deeper and deeper in bed with this President. They have a whole agenda and are counting on this President to help them cut taxes for people with trust funds while cutting health care, education, child care, environmental protections, civil rights, and voting rights for people who work for a living. Mr. Speaker, the House Judiciary Committee ought to be in the middle of congressional examinations of the Trump Administration and so far we are on the sidelines. Is it no longer the practice of the House of Representatives to hold oversight hearings? Is it no longer the practice of this body to hold the Executive Branch and the White House accountable? I have never seen an Administration more in need of congressional oversight than this one, yet the Congress does not dare do anything that might cause the President to call someone out in one of his dawn Twitter rants. We know now that the Administration has a policy against cooperating in congressional oversight, instructing agencies not to comply with inquiries from Members of Congress unless they are Committee Chairman. I am sorry, Mr. Speaker, but the President and his Administration are accountable to over 320 million Americans, all 435 Members of this body and all 100 Senators as well, not just the 20 or so Committee Chairmen or just to their Republican allies. At least one senior Senator called this policy opposing congressional oversight (quote) “nonsense.” To his credit, the Republican Chairman of the Judiciary Committee in the Senate – Mr. Grassley of Iowa –is not impacted by the Trump Administration policy because he is a Chairman, but he spoke out forcefully against this presidential obstruction. See, my friends, that is how you do it. And then there is our old friend, the former Speaker and an advisor to the President, Mr. Gingrich, who is now advising the President to terminate Robert Mueller, the former FBI Director investigating the President and his subordinates. Mr. Gingrich said Mueller was ‘a superb choice” with an impeccable reputation for fairness just a few weeks ago, but now says that there is no way Mueller can be fair. He wants the President to fire Mueller and wants a political fight against the very idea of Special Prosecutors. Now Mr. Gingrich has been joined in this chorus by a Trump confidant and golf-buddy, the President of Newsmax, who says the President is contemplating firing Mueller. Mr. Speaker – and Mr. Former Speaker – if you want to see the President on a fast track to impeachment, then he should take this advice and fire Mueller. You want to see this President in the express lane to impeachment, no ifs, ands or buts, then go for it. Come on, we dare you. Even the Judiciary Committee, which has shown no interest in doing anything other than rubber stamping the Trump agenda, would have to take action then. # # #
06.09.2017	Washington, DC – In a letter this afternoon, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) called on Judiciary Committee Chairman Robert Goodlatte (R-VA) to invite the President of the United States to testify before the Committee. Earlier today at a press conference, responding to a question related to fired FBI Director Comey’s testimony yesterday, President Trump offered to testify under oath. He said he was “100%” willing when he was asked if he would testify to investigators of Former FBI Director Robert Mueller’s investigation at the Department of Justice. But Rep. Gutiérrez, who, along with other Democrats on the Judiciary Committee, has been calling on the Chairman to get the Committee started on its own examination of the unfolding scandal and potential obstruction of justice, called on the Chairman to convene the Committee and give Members an opportunity “to receive the President’s testimony.” The letter reads in part: It is the House Judiciary Committee that should be the venue for the President to defend himself against the serious allegations of official misconduct, including but not limited to apparent attempts at obstruction of justice in the removal of Mr. Comey in order to relieve the “pressure” the President was feeling from investigations related to his campaign’s ties to Russian meddling in America’s most recent presidential election. Therefore, I believe it is incumbent on you as Chairman to immediately invite the President to testify. A copy of the letter, which was also delivered to White House Counsel Don McGahn as a courtesy, is available here: 060917 Gutierrez to Goodelatte on Trump Testimony Invite.pdf Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
06.09.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement in advance of Sunday’s vote in Puerto Rico that is ostensibly a plebiscite on the Island’s future status. The supporters of statehood are selling a fantasy that a Latino, Caribbean nation will be admitted as a state during the era of Donald Trump; That states, many of which supported Trump, will accept a Spanish-speaking state that will receive just as many Senators and maybe even more House seats than they currently have; And all of this for an Island the U.S. has made deeply in debt with a sputtering economic engine that leaves Puerto Rico significantly poorer and more dependent than even our poorest states. I do not point out Puerto Rico’s problems to denigrate my fellow Puerto Ricans, simply to point out the reality that what is being peddled by the supporters of statehood is a fantasy. Let’s focus on job creation that showcases the talent and creativity of the Puerto Rican people. That is the path forward towards a brighter economic future, which is the fundamental bedrock on which Puerto Rico survives and thrives and grows, regardless of its political status. Those who advocate statehood in Puerto Rico will claim that this Sunday’s vote is a referendum on statehood. That is a fiction, because it’s clear that only one party will participate in the one-sided election and because the U.S. Government has not made any sort of commitment to honor this vote. So, regardless of how carefully the Statehooders dress it up to look like a legitimate democratic process, the June 11 plebiscite is a farce. Rep. Gutiérrez supports independence and economic self-sufficiency for Puerto Rico. He is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He was born in Chicago to parents who were migrants from Puerto Rico. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
06.07.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor today urging the Judiciary Committee in the House to get to work on investigations related to President Trump's and Attorney General Sessions' ties to Russia and efforts to derail investigations that are taking place in other committees of the House, in the Senate, and by former FBI Director Mueller at the Dept. of Justice. The House Judiciary Committee plays a special role in matters that could lead to impeachment of a sitting President, but so far has been silent. The Congressman, who sits on the Judiciary Committee, said: “From the Committee of jurisdiction that is supposed to be in charge and taking action, we have exactly nothing. Not a peep. Not a hearing or a subpoena. Nada, zip, nothing. Just crickets.” Only the House of Representatives can indict a sitting President, but despite growing evidence, there is no preparation, no meetings or hearings that indicate the Committee is taking this role seriously. “We are the Grand Jury. Robert Mueller, the former FBI Director investigating the President will not be able to indict him no matter what he uncovers. Most legal scholars argue a sitting President cannot be indicted in criminal court. “So, it is the Judiciary Committee that will bring criminal charges if there is evidence of ‘Treason, Bribery or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors’ as provided by Article II, Section 4 of the Constitution. But here we are with evidence that the Attorney General lied to a Committee of Congress about his contacts with senior Russian officials – and lied on his security clearance application about contacts with Russian officials – officials who are suspected by our government of being covert espionage operatives, with evidence that hacking and other activities in fact took place directed by Russia…and nothing from the Judiciary Committee.” The Congressman stood before a poster with photos of President Trump, Attorney General Sessions, and Judiciary Chairman Robert Goodlatte (R-VA) and held a copy of the U.S. Constitution to emphasize his point. “Mr. Speaker, that has got to change…and I suspect it will because it simply has to. The Constitution says it has to. Judiciary Committee, it is time to act and fulfil your constitutional responsibilities.” A video of the Congressman’s floor speech is here: https://youtu.be/-Jh_fnNGM6k The text (as prepared for delivery) is pasted below. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. FLOOR SPEECH 06/07/2017 Mr. Speaker, We waste a lot of time in the House Judiciary Committee; passing bills we have already passed year after year that go nowhere. But now, evidence is growing that our elections were interfered with by a foreign adversary, evidence that the President and the Attorney General have been less than truthful about their meetings and relationships with this foreign adversary, and other Committees in this body and in the Senate and at the Justice Department have launched investigations into the behavior and truthfulness of the President, his subordinates, and his family…but, from the House Judiciary Committee we have heard exactly nothing. Not a peep. Not a hearing or a subpoena. Nada, zip, nothing. Just crickets. When I joined the Judiciary Committee, I remember hearing something about how the Committee has jurisdiction over the enforcement of laws, the courts, and the conduct of the Executive Branch, especially when it comes to law enforcement agencies like the FBI or Justice Department, or activities that may or may not be criminal. And guess what? I was right. You need look no further than the Committee’s website, where it proudly proclaims: “The Committee on the Judiciary has been called the lawyer for the House of Representatives because of its jurisdiction over matters relating to the administration of justice in federal courts, administrative bodies, and law enforcement agencies.” And if you dig a little deeper into the Committee’s website and its history you learn: “The committee’s weighty agenda has frequently placed it in a central role in American politics, most notably during its consideration of impeachment charges against presidents of the United States in both 1974 and 1998.” So with all due respect to the Intelligence or Oversight Committees or to our colleagues in the Senate, it is the Judiciary Committee in the House where impeachment will begin. We are the Grand Jury. Robert Mueller, the former FBI Director investigating the President will not be able to indict him no matter what he uncovers. Most legal scholars argue a sitting President cannot be indicted in criminal court. So, it is the Judiciary Committee that will bring criminal charges if there is evidence of “Treason, Bribery or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors” as provided by Article II, Section 4 of the Constitution. But here we are with evidence that the Attorney General lied to a Committee of Congress about his contacts with senior Russian officials – and lied on his security clearance application about contacts with Russian officials – officials who are suspected by our government of being covert espionage operatives, with evidence that hacking and other activities in fact took place directed by Russia…and nothing from the Judiciary Committee. The Attorney General publicly recused himself from any matters at the Justice Department related to the investigation of Russia contacts, but the Attorney General played a role in the firing of FBI Director James Comey… …And we now know, because the President said so, that the firing of Comey was done because the President said he was “under great pressure” from the Russia investigation… and still nothing from the Judiciary Committee. Now, let’s go back to the two dates when the Committee play (quote) “a central role in American politics.” In 1974, we had a criminal conspiracy that involved tampering with elections that went all the way to the Oval Office. It involved firing senior Justice Department officials who were part of the investigation, asking the intelligence community to discredit the investigations, and there were secretly recorded conversations. Sound familiar? The Judiciary Committee under Peter Rodino of New Jersey eventually filed three articles of impeachment that were approved with bipartisan support. President Nixon soon resigned because he knew what was coming. In 1998, the issue was whether the President of the United States had lied to a Grand Jury about an extra-marital sexual encounter with a consenting adult who was his subordinate. Judiciary Chairman Henry Hyde of the Great State of Illinois, who, as it turned out, knew a thing or two about extra-marital sexual encounters with consenting adults, passed 4 articles of impeachment along an almost exclusively party-line vote. And an impeachment trial was held in the Senate which became an epic embarrassment to the Republican Party and to this body. But now, given all of the evidence of electoral tampering, the apparent efforts to cover it up, the actions by the President and Attorney General to deflect or derail investigations that to me and others appear to be attempts at or actual obstruction of justice… from the Committee of jurisdiction that is supposed to be in charge and taking action, we have exactly nothing. Not a peep. Not a hearing or a subpoena. Nada, zip, nothing. Just crickets. Mr. Speaker, that has got to change…and I suspect it will because it simply has to. The Constitution says it has to. Judiciary Committee, it is time to act and fulfil your constitutional responsibilities. # # #
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) and 29 of his House Democratic colleagues introduced the Agricultural Worker Program Act (AWPA, H.R. 2690), a bill to legalize the immigration status of farm workers working in American agriculture. The bill would create a program that would allow agricultural workers and their families to apply for a “Blue Card” that gives them legal status and work authorization if they show consistent employment in U.S. agriculture over the past two years, pay a fine, and pass a thorough background check. A 3- to 5- year path to citizenship is provided to those who continue to work in agriculture for the requisite amount of time. The bill is the House companion to Sen. Dianne Feinstein’s bill, S. 1034, introduced earlier this month, which currently has seven Senate co-sponsors. In addition to Rep. Gutiérrez, the 29 original co-sponsors include Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Chair Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-MI), Immigration Subcommittee Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), and Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) Chair Judy Chu (D-CA). The complete list of original co-sponsors (alphabetical order): Nanette Barragán (CA); Earl Blumenauer (OR); Salud Carbajal (CA); Tony Cárdenas (CA); Judy Chu (CA); John Conyers (MI); Adriano Espaillat (NY); Dwight Evans (PA); Ruben Gallego (AZ); Vicente González (TX); Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ); Pramila Jayapal (WA); Hakeem Jeffries (NY); Zoe Lofgren (CA); Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM); Doris Matsui (CA); James McGovern (MA); Jerrold Nadler (NY); Grace Napolitano (CA); Jimmy Panetta (CA); Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA); Linda Sánchez (CA); Brad Schneider (IL); Albio Sires (NJ); Darren Soto (FL); Mike Thompson (CA); Juan Vargas (CA); Filemon Vela (TX); and Peter Welch (VT). “Every day, the food we eat, the dairy products, the wine, the berries and veggies – it all passes through the hands of undocumented immigrants,” said Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04), who is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and Chair of the Immigration Taskforce of the CHC. “Every American is complicit in the reality that we depend on agriculture, and agriculture depends on immigrants, but we have not allowed those workers to come here legally nor allowed them to work legally once they have been here. So let’s put our agricultural industry and the families, farmers, and entrepreneurs in this critical industry on a legal footing and take them out of the black market.” “Immigrant farm workers are not only the backbone of our nation’s agriculture industry, they and their families are the heart and soul of many rural communities,” said Rep. Jimmy Panetta (CA-20). “They plant and harvest the food that goes on our dinner tables and contribute to the social, cultural, and historical fabric of our society. If Congress continues to ignore our nation’s severe labor shortage, our agriculture industry will suffer, perishable produce will be left to rot in our fields, and families will see an increase in their grocery bills. The people who help feed our families deserve this opportunity to step out of the shadows and fully participate in their communities. This bill is a positive step forward for both our farmers and farm workers.” “It's no secret that U.S. farmers have long relied on undocumented workers to grow, pick, and produce American food,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19). “There are simply not enough willing American workers to meet the country's agricultural labor needs. Unfortunately, Trump’s immigration raids and executive orders have terrified agricultural workers and put our food supply at risk. This bill will give our professional farm workers the security and peace of mind they deserve and ensure our nation’s food producers have the workers they need.” “Nationwide, there are more than half a million immigrant farmworkers - a majority of which are undocumented - who do back-breaking work to feed our families,” said Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01), CHC Chairwoman. “Their contributions are critical to our national economy. Despite this, farm workers lack many basic protections and legal status. This legislation aligns our moral responsibility with our legal principles. Moreover, it provides a fair labor system for hard working farmworkers and farmers, which ensures the stabilization and growth of our nation's billion dollar agriculture industry. Ultimately, we must call on our colleagues in Congress to have the courage to modernize our outdated immigration system.” “When my father arrived in the United States he found work as a field laborer picking potatoes,” said Rep. Tony Cárdenas (CA-29). “He supported my family, and it is because of him that I’m here today. Our economy relies on the hard-working immigrants who work in these fields. Without them our agriculture industry wouldn’t function. It’s time for us to recognize their importance and work with them so they can achieve a legal status. This, in turn, will continue to grow and strengthen our agriculture sector. I am proud to join my colleagues in leading this legislation, and I hope we can move the ball forward on this issue.” “Fixing our broken immigration system – as politicians from both sides of the aisle insist we must – takes more than a wall, a scare campaign, or a deportation force; it takes new laws that offer legal avenues to enter, stay, and contribute to our country”, said Rep. Judy Chu (CA-27). “Farm workers, in particular, have it especially hard, working long hours in difficult conditions for little pay. And while we are happy to eat the literal fruits of their labor, we cannot be happy with a situation that forces them to live in fear and uncertainty about their future here. This bill fixes that by providing legal status to those we depend on to help feed our nation.” “Agriculture is central to my district's economy and every day Imperial Valley farmers rely on undocumented workers to produce the food that feeds millions of people in the United States and around the world,” said Rep. Juan Vargas (CA-51). “This bill is about guaranteeing much-needed fairness for undocumented farmworkers by allowing them to come out of the shadows and continue making positive contributions to our country and our economy.” BACKGROUND/RESOURCES Release (5/29/17): “Gutiérrez Discusses New Agricultural Worker Program Act to Legalize Farmworkers” https://bit.ly/2qo6UVw AWPA/Blue Card Bill Summary Blue Card summary.docx AWPA/Blue Card Section-by-Section Agricultural Worker Program Act of 2017_Section.by_.section_final.docx AWPA/Blue Card Bill Text House GUTIER_009_xml.pdf AWPA/Blue Card Organizational Sign-on Letter 5-3-2017AgWorkerProgramActSignOnLtr.pdf # # #
05.24.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement reacting to Judiciary Committee passage of a bill the Democrats labeled the Trump Mass Deportation and Child Incarceration Act of 2017 (HR 2431). The bill, which recycles the worst and least effective deportation-only approaches of previous failed Republican bills like the SAFE Act and the Sensenbrenner Bill (HR 4437 of 2005-06), is designed to make House Republicans look tough and uncompromising in opposing immigration, but in reality would undermine the civil liberties of American citizens, undercut the rule of law, and undo improvements in immigration enforcement that have contributed to historically low levels of illegal immigration in recent years. The Congressman from Illinois who sits on the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Taskforce of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, offered three amendments to the bill – among scores of Democratic amendments – which were defeated by party line votes (like the other Democratic amendments). “The Judiciary Committee should be focused on investigating President Trump and preparing for the inevitable impeachment proceedings that will go through the Judiciary Committee in the coming months,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “Instead, Republicans are going back to the well of immigration fear-mongering, more interested in terrifying citizens about how awful they think immigrants are and equating immigrants with crime, not addressing solutions related to immigrants and immigration. Republicans see the immigration issue as a convenient weapon and a distraction from the serious issues facing their President,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. The bill requires mandatory detention for children seeking asylum in the United States, a massive increase in immigrant detention, new methods of criminalizing immigrants so that it appears the Trump Administration is deporting more serious, violent criminals than is the case in reality, and new restrictions on the rights of U.S. citizens. Rep. Gutiérrez said, “It is the kind of hearing that demonstrates the gridlock in DC and specifically on the immigration issue. Both parties have different goals. The Republicans play politics, going along with their leader Donald Trump and the team of anti-immigration advocates who populate his administration. They like demonizing immigrants and want to deport as many as they can regardless of the individual circumstances. Democrats on the other hand are put in the position of defending state and local police, U.S. citizens, immigrants and refugees, and the rule of law against Republican overreach.” “The debate is focused exclusively on illegal immigration, not on consensus issues, ways to fix legal immigration that would end illegal immigration and increase legality and vetting. We never get a chance to legislate broadening and strengthening legal immigration so that we reduce smuggling. We need to discuss how the pretense of immigration enforcement impinges on the civil rights and civil liberties of American citizens. We never get to debate broad issues like the use of private prisons and mass incarceration for profit and the impact on children we place in prison.” One of Gutiérrez’s amendments would have required ICE agents to be subjected to the same hiring standards and background checks required of FBI Special agents, especially in light of the fact that the legislation authorizes the use of military-style weapons. (Video: https://youtu.be/01orbSFOw7c) A second Gutiérrez amendment would have given U.S. citizens and legal immigrants the right to sue the federal government – and state and local governments acting on behalf of the feds – if the citizen or legal immigrant is put in detention by authorities who wrongly suspect them of being immigrants in the country illegally. (Video: https://youtu.be/SKMPYWRY4Ow) Finally, the most contentious amendment offered by Rep. Gutiérrez was to prioritize the deportation of serious, violent criminals rather than treating all immigrants as equally high priorities for deportation per executive actions from President Trump. During President Obama’s tenure there was an attempt to prioritize the deportation of serious, violent criminals rather than immigrants who have no serious criminal record or crimes not derivative of their visa status. Republicans voted against the amendment to treat serious violent criminals as higher priorities for deportation on a party line vote. (Video: https://youtu.be/1pBads_1F64) “When Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) offered an amendment to change the bill’s name to the ‘Trump Mass Deportation and Child Incarceration Act of 2017,’ I think she hit the nail on the head,” said Gutiérrez of one of the last amendments offered and later withdrawn. “If Republicans are proud of what they are doing, they should own up to the actual content and substance of the bill. However, they do not want to admit they are advocating for mass deportation or child incarceration, not to mention the treatment of refugees and asylum seekers fleeing violence and persecution, or victims of domestic violence who will be cut off from seeking help from law-enforcement. I am very proud of the fight that Democratic Members of the Committee put up to this awful bill. If enacted, it will weaken American communities and tear at the fabric of American life.” # # #
05.17.2017	Washington, DC – El jueves, Oscar López Rivera hará un regreso histórico a Chicago acompañado por l Congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) y su esposa Soraida. Después de pasar 35 años en prisión y tres meses bajo arresto domiciliario en la casa de su hija en Puerto Rico, López Rivera, el célebre prisionero político puertorriqueño ahora está libre para viajar y hará un regreso triunfal a Chicago, donde una calle será nombrada en su honor y donde un evento comunitario se llevará a cabo en el Centro Cultural Puertorriqueño. Rep. Gutiérrez comentó: “Hice un compromiso en 1992 cuando primero me postulé a la Cámara de Representantes de devolver a Oscar López Rivera a Chicago un hombre libre y ese día ha llegado. Saldremos de San Juan temprano con Oscar y estaremos en Chicago para las celebraciones. Este es un día que muchos de nosotros en la comunidad puertorriqueña hemos estado trabajando, orando, marchando y esperando durante tantos años”. “Oscar es un patriota y un héroe para todos los puertorriqueños en todo el mundo y su regreso a Chicago es un evento que he estado trabajando toda mi carrera para alcanzar. Me faltan palabras para expresar el orgullo que siento y cuanto me alegro que mi esposa e hijas podrán darle la bienvenida a Oscar a Chicago y que podremos caminar por las calles de Chicago con Oscar como un hombre libre”. La delegación que acompaña a López Rivera sale de San Juan en un vuelo a las 7:15am en ruta a través de Atlanta, llegando a Chicago aproximadamente a las 2:30pm hora local. Gutiérrez está en su decimotercer período representando el Cuarto Distrito de Illinois. Es miembro del Comité Judicial y es el Presidente del Grupo de Trabajo sobre Inmigración del Caucus Congresional Hispano. # # # Translation by Office of Rep. Gutiérrez: Gutiérrez To Escort Oscar López Rivera on Historic Trip Back to Chicago “Oscar is a patriot and a hero to Puerto Ricans all over the world and his return to Chicago is an event I have spent my entire career working towards.” Washington, DC – On Thursday, Oscar López Rivera will make a historic return to Chicago escorted by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) and his wife Soraida. After 35 years in prison and three months confined to his daughter’s home in Puerto Rico, López Rivera, the celebrated Puerto Rican political prisoner is now free to travel and will make a triumphant return to Chicago where a street is being renamed for him and where a community event will be held at the Puerto Rican Cultural Center. Rep. Gutiérrez said: “I made a commitment in 1992 when I first ran for the House of Representatives that I would return Oscar Lopez Rivera to Chicago a free man and that day has come. We are leaving early from San Juan with Oscar and will be in Chicago for the festivities. This is a day that so many of us in the Puerto Rican community have been working towards, praying for, marching for, and hoping for for so many years. “Oscar is a patriot and a hero to Puerto Ricans all over the world and his return to Chicago is an event I have spent my entire career working towards. I cannot begin to say how proud I am and how overjoyed my wife and my daughters are to welcome Oscar to Chicago and that we will be able to walk the streets of Chicago with Oscar as a free man.” The delegation escorting López Rivera to Chicago leaves San Juan on a 7:15 am flight routed through Atlanta, arriving in Chicago at approximately 2:30 pm local time. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
05.11.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement reacting to news that President Donald Trump appointed anti-immigration leader Kris Kobach to a new commission on voter-fraud, stemming from the President’s sustained and outrageous campaign of lying about massive voter fraud in the 2016 election. Kobach, known as the “Lawyer for America’s Nativist Movement,” is the disgraced former Kansas Secretary of State who has made a career attacking immigrants and immigration and promoting conspiracy theories about voter fraud, especially targeting immigrant and Latino voters. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. I can think of no American less qualified for a position on any federal commission, let alone one about voting, than Kris Kobach. He is the architect of voter suppression policies and state and local anti-immigrant laws that have mostly resulted in lawsuits, injunctions and reversals, costing states and localities both in terms of money and reputation. He is an enemy of American democracy who acts as if he believes that too many American citizens vote and that something must be done to stop them. I would call him an outlier even among Republicans, but it is getting hard to say that these days. He is clearly a radical when it comes to American policies concerning people of color, immigration and democracy. It is one thing if our President invents the fantasy of voter fraud to try to cover up the fact that he lost the popular vote, but using government resources to go after massive voter fraud is fraud itself. It is frankly an elaborate and ideological cover up for having lost the popular vote and having been caught lying about it later. # # #
05.09.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement reacting to the news today that President Donald Trump fired FBI Director James Comey. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. We will look back on this day as the day the Trump cover-up began – and began to unravel. President Trump is up to no good firing Comey, which is why we need a special prosecutor to investigate Trump, the campaign, and White House ties to Russia. I don’t buy the justification that all of a sudden, President Trump decided Comey’s conduct regarding the investigation of candidate Hillary Clinton warranted Comey’s dismissal. Even if Trump had a deep well of truthfulness, which he does not, I would find it hard to believe he is doing this to vindicate Hillary Clinton. Trump isn't. He's obviously scared of what the Russia investigation or investigations might turn up and has acted to knock them off track. That the Attorney General was involved in the decision to fire Comey is unacceptable. Jeff Sessions lied under oath about his dealings with Russia and recused himself from the investigation, only to turn around and play a role in the firing of the guy in charge of investigation. How is that OK? This is a dark day in American democracy. # # #
05.09.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) participated in a teleconference with reporters discussing the new Agricultural Worker Program Act, legislation that he will introduce shortly in the House of Representatives to legalize farm workers in the United States. The legislation would allow those who have worked in U.S. agriculture to apply for a “Blue Card,” granting them a kind of temporary legal immigration status that could eventually lead to a Green Card (permanent residency) if the conditions of the program are met and the worker meets eligibility criteria. A summary of the bill from Farmworker Justice (FJ) is here: https://bit.ly/FWJonAWPA Congressman Gutiérrez said: “We are taking steps to get our agriculture industry – the food we eat every day – on a legal footing. Not just for the immigrant worker, not just for the family, not just because it makes us feel good, but because our agriculture industry and our workforce in farm labor should be on a legal footing.” Sen. Diane Feinstein (D-CA) already introduced the bill in the Senate (bill text pdf: https://bit.ly/2pwAFPE) and Senators Leahy (D-VT), Bennet (D-CO), Hirono (D-HI), and Harris (D-CA) are co-sponsors. Senator Feinstein joined the press conference call, which was hosted by the United Farm Workers union (UFW). UFW President Arturo Rodriguez served as the moderator and they were joined by Shah Kazemi (owner of Monterey Mushroom farm in California), Sagrario Arellano (farm worker and UFW member), Lourdes Cardenas (farm worker and UFW member), and Bruce Goldstein (Executive Director, FJ). Link to UFW press release: https://ufw.org/sen-feinstein-rep-gutierrez-labor-movement-advocates-review-efforts-to-protect-immigrant-farmworkers-and-discuss-their-contributions/ Link to Sen. Feinstein press release: https://www.feinstein.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/press-releases?id=A7920354-F4C1-48CB-95CF-9F25298EEDFB An mp3 recording of the press conference call can be downloaded here: https://bit.ly/2pZ3DL0 Rep. Gutiérrez’ remarks, as prepared for delivery, are pasted below. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Rep. Gutiérrez Remarks: I am delighted to team with the Senior Senator from California Diane Feinstein on this effort and to be working with my friends – including Arturo Rodriguez from the United Farmworkers union. I have traveled many, many times to Delano, the Central Coast, and the Big Valley and all over California and met with farm workers. They are among the hardest working and most vulnerable people I have ever met. That is why we are working to build support for the bill in the House and plan to introduce the Agricultural Worker Program Act in our chamber in the next few weeks. Farm workers provide backbreaking labor that keeps our economy going and keeps our food production on American soil. We benefit greatly from their hard work and eat and drink the products, the milk, the fruits, the strawberries, and the sweat of their work every single day. But we do not fully recognize those contributions by allowing workers to work legally, protected by our labor laws, and fully integrating into American society. We benefit from them, but we do not have a legal way for them to come here or a way for them to get legal once they are here. It is as if we are saying that you can stoop over in our fields, but we are going to treat you as outsiders – never part of America’s society, never able to become citizens, never able to keep your families together under the protection of and in compliance with U.S. law. We wink and nod. We know that every time we have a nice glass of wine or a delicious apple or open up a yogurt, that immigrant hands touched that food, brought it to our grocery store and got it to our table. We know. There is no way anyone cannot know. And we know those immigrant hands are rough, sunburned, blistered and they hold tools, but they do not hold the documents that allow someone to live openly, freely, confidently in our country. This legislation moves us in the direction of recognizing their humanity, their aspirations, their families and their future in this country. This legislation says to farm workers that we value your contributions and see you as legitimate and our laws ought to reflect that. We are taking steps to get our agriculture industry – the food we eat every day – on a legal footing. Not just for the immigrant worker, not just for the family, not just because it makes us feel good, but because our agriculture industry and our workforce in farm labor should be on a legal footing. Businessmen and women should know that they can operate under the law in this country and compete with each other fairly, employing workers who are on solid ground, protected by our labor laws, and being paid above-board. And if we fail to do that, we will see more and more of the food we eat being grown overseas. Foreign hands are going to touch the food we eat and the question before us is whether those foreign hands will cultivate our food in this country under our laws, benefiting our economy or whether it will be in some other country that may or may not have labor laws, may or may not have environmental and food quality laws. Look, we are fighting this President on many fronts and we have to play both offense and defense. We are taking on the President’s deportation agenda with this bill, just as we are taking him on in the courts, in the congressional appropriations process, and in communities across the country by protecting immigrants with deep ties to the United States and no way of obtaining legal status. So I want to thank the Senator and UFW and the workers and employers we will hear from today and I am just so pleased to be part of this effort. # # # RESOURCES: AWPA/Blue Card Bill Summary - Blue Card summary.docx AWPA/Blue Card Section-by-Section Agriculatural Worker Program Act of 2017_Section.by_.section_final.docx AWPA/Blue Card Bill Text House GUTIER_009_xml.pdf AWPA/Blue Card Organizational Sign-on Letter 5-3-2017AgWorkerProgramActSignOnLtr.pdf
05.04.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement reacting to the passage of Trumpcare in the House by a vote of 217-213. Rep. Gutiérrez voted against the bill, as he had previously indicated on Twitter and elsewhere. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “Watching Republicans celebrate as they stripped health care coverage from millions of Americans was angering. Taking political retribution against Obama is one thing, but what Republicans are doing is snatching health care coverage from sick people, families and the elderly to make a political point. “Attacking Pearl Harbor, firing on Fort Sumter and invading Iraq looked like good ideas to the perpetrators at the time. But in the end, they were huge blunders that harmed America and came back to haunt those who to took those actions. That is how I see this health care vote for Republicans. Republicans kicked a hornets’ nest and it is not too soon to begin saying goodbye to some of my Republican colleagues from moderate Districts, because this will cost them dearly.” # # #
05.03.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement reacting to the news that the Governor of Puerto Rico announced he will seek bankruptcy protection under Title III of the PROMESA law that established the Financial Control Board over Puerto Rico. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “It’s about time the Governor called on the Financial Control Board to initiate the bankruptcy process under Title III of PROMESA. The ability to restructure Puerto Rico’s debt is really the one provision of PROMESA that had any value. The cost in lost sovereignty, lost control, severe austerity and payments to bondholders was too high a price to pay for PROMESA, which I predict will ultimately be a failure. But the bankruptcy provisions will require the bondholders to pay at least a small price for plundering and profiting off of Puerto Rico and its municipal bond market.” # # #
05.03.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor to make his thoughts on the omnibus budget agreement clear: he will not support it because, despite not funding the “the President’s ‘tremendous’ border wall,” the bill still contains more than $1.2 billion for deportations. It also short-changes funding for health care in Puerto Rico, he said. “I will not be voting for the omnibus bill because I do not believe that it is okay to slip another billion here or there into the budget to break up families, put moms and dads in detention, or send DREAMers out of the only country they know.” While not funding the border wall is good, the Congressman said, “A border wall will not deport anyone and I seriously doubt it would do a good job of keeping anyone out, either…Are policy experts and pundits really discussing whether 5th century technology plays a role in modern homeland security?” But funding still in the bill would be used for “the President’s mass deportation agenda,” Rep. Gutiérrez said: “$1.2 billion of Trump’s original $3 billion request for border security and interior enforcement is still in there – and any money we give those agencies at this point will find its way into funding the President’s mass deportation agenda.” While some in Congress are pleased that the budget does not fully fund Trump’s deportation force, Congressman Gutiérrez asked whether his colleagues would still celebrate other compromises on key progressive policy priorities. “Now, imagine if we were applauding the approval of a budget that had $1.2 billion in new funding to roll back Roe v. Wade…adding additional federal money to restrict women’s health care and reproductive rights… Would we celebrate $1.2 billion in additional money to weaken the civil rights act or the voting rights act? Would we celebrate more money to combat and weaken same-sex marriage or take away transgender rights? Not me.” The Illinois Democrat concluded: “I have worked for decades with families who have complied with every order they have been given by Homeland Security and have reported to authorities like clockwork – but now they are desperate because the new President has ordered them out. I cannot turn around and bless more money for the machinery that is grinding up their families… “As long as we are short-changing health care in Puerto Rico and subsidizing the deportation of families in Chicago, you will not have my vote.” A video of the Congressman’s floor speech is here: https://youtu.be/4M7nOe_3nFU The text (as prepared for delivery) is pasted below. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. FLOOR SPEECH 05/03/17 Mr. Speaker, I will admit that I am pleased that the deal worked out between Democratic Leadership and the Republicans to keep the government open until October does not include funding for the President’s “tremendous” border wall. But let’s put that in perspective. A border wall will not deport thousands of people living and working in the City of Chicago or moms and dads in my neighborhood. A border wall will not deport anyone and I seriously doubt it would do a good job of keeping anyone out, either. Building a three-thousand mile wall is a hugely expensive boondoggle to solve a policy problem we do not have. Border apprehensions have been going down steadily for years and now we have people fleeing violence and persecution who are so scared of us, they are deciding not to come to America and are applying for asylum somewhere else. They are not taking their legitimate claims for political asylum and safety to the nation that is the hallmark of freedom. So, while even Donald Trump admits that border apprehensions are significantly down, it is not necessarily for reasons we should be proud of. But a wall? Are policy experts and pundits really discussing whether 5th century technology plays a role in modern homeland security? The Great Wall of China boosts tourism; it is not factor in national security at this point. What concerns me more is the spending on deportations that is still included in what we will be voting on this week…today. $1.2 billion of Trump’s original $3 billion request for border security and interior enforcement is still in there – and any money we give those agencies at this point will find its way into funding the President’s mass deportation agenda. Now, imagine if we were applauding the approval of a budget that had $1.2 billion in new funding to roll back Roe v. Wade…adding additional federal money to restrict women’s health care and reproductive rights… I’d never do that. Or what if Trump asked for $3 billion, but we only gave him $1.2 billion to undermine workplace safety laws and labor rights… I’d never do that. Or $1.2 billion to defeat environmental regulations that protect clean air and water… Would we celebrate? No. Would we celebrate $1.2 billion in additional money to weaken the civil rights act or the voting rights act? Would we celebrate more money to combat and weaken same-sex marriage or take away transgender rights? Not me. Adding $1.2 billion dollars to the budget to make it easier for the U.S. government to deport people should never be celebrated by any of us, and certainly not in the era of Trump when we know their number one policy priority is to scare immigrants into leaving or into not coming in the first place. Look, the people who will be deported with the money we are voting on are usually people with no criminal background and deep roots in their communities. They are parents, teachers and business owners, mostly people of color, who have lived and worked here a long time. And some have to seek refuge as is their right under our laws and international law. Yes, some are dangerous criminals, but don’t believe the hype. The Trump Administration and Attorney General Jeff Sessions are overhauling who we define as serious criminals so they can make their deportation force look benign or even beneficial to America. Mr. Speaker, I will not be voting for the omnibus bill because I do not believe that it is okay to slip another billion here or there into the budget to break up families, put moms and dads in detention, or send DREAMers out of the only country they know. I have looked into the eyes of kids, U.S. citizens whose parents are being deported. I have spoken to teachers in Chicago and elsewhere who have to deal with the fear in their student’s lives every day. I have worked for decades with families who have complied with every order they have been given by Homeland Security and have reported to authorities like clockwork – but now they are desperate because the new President has ordered them out. I cannot turn around and bless more money for the machinery that is grinding up their families. I won’t do it. I cannot turn my back on the Latino community and the alliances we have made and our allies in immigrant families from across ethnicities by supporting funding that will be used to detain immigrants in private jails and put them on airplanes out of the country. As long as we are short-changing health care in Puerto Rico and subsidizing the deportation of families in Chicago, you will not have my vote. # # #
05.01.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement on the 200-plus pro-immigrant and labor events taking place around the country today and on his thoughts on the budget deal announced to fund the government through September. Rep. Gutiérrez is scheduled to speak at the Washington, DC pro-immigrant event in Lafayette Park, across the street from the White House (the march from Dupont Circle started at 2 ET, the event in Lafayette Park starts at 4 and the Congressman is scheduled to speak around 5:30 ET). He will also be joining Democratic Leaders in both the House and Senate who will gather on the Capitol steps at 7:00 pm ET to show their support for the pro-immigrant message and movement around the country (rain location is HVC Radio/TV Gallery; event will be live streamed here: https://bit.ly/2pqgBQ2). Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. What makes me so happy about the events we are seeing across the country is the solidarity with immigrants and refugees from people who are new to immigration issues. Today, you are seeing immigrants march for their own safety and the safety of their families and neighborhoods, but the events are much bigger and broader. Women, Muslims, environmentalists, labor unions, the LGBTQ and African-American communities see that the attacks on immigrants by President Trump are attacks on America and her values and are standing in unity against divisiveness. We are saying that mass deportation, mass incarceration, spending billions on a wall, and demonizing immigrants as criminals or free-loaders – it is just not acceptable. The fear that Donald Trump and Jeff Sessions are ginning up to scare immigrants into leaving the country is being answered by having thousands and thousands of immigrants stand shoulder to shoulder with their allies to say we are here and we are staying and the American flag is our flag too. Public support for sensible immigration reform and protection of immigrants in American society in polls has never been higher and you can see it also in the alliances we are forging. The more Trump attacks and dehumanizes immigrants – which he does almost every day – the more the American people see the humanity of our immigrant brothers and sisters, their vulnerability, and the contributions they make. Trump has forged unity across progressive issues and constituencies that is a powerful force. On the other hand, at this point, I don’t think I can vote for the budget deal that has been worked out precisely because it buys into the false premise that we need more than a billion dollars more for the border and deportation. I would not support a billion or more to attack Roe v. Wade or to hurt the environment, so I will probably not be able to vote for another additional $1.2 billion to deport more immigrants. I cannot look families in my district in the eye and say I support more deportations, because I do not. I’m glad the wall is not being funded, but the wall will not deport anyone in my neighborhood; more money for ICE and detention will. Puerto Rico is getting about one-third of what they need to address healthcare shortfalls, but it should have been more. It is not as if we can ask two-thirds of the Puerto Rican people to not get sick, or to wait for a new funding bill to get sick. When Congress has done so much harm to Puerto Rico through the PROMESA bill, the Fiscal Control Junta, and decades of neglect, it is hard to feel positive about almost $3 billion, but it is better than nothing. The treatment of immigrants and of Puerto Rico says to me that we have a lot of work to do in defending Latinos. We are still seen as an afterthought or a scapegoat in Washington when we are thought of at all. So, looking out the window or across the TV channels and seeing demonstrations and events in more than 200 locations makes a point in a very persuasive way: Latinos are a force in American politics, we are not going to simply disappear and we are getting stronger every year. # # # Rep. Gutiérrez statement on Trump’s 100 Days 4/29/17 (press statement): https://bit.ly/2oSRrZ5 Rep. Gutiérrez on Puerto Rico funding in omnibus 4/28/17 (op-ed, El Nuevo Día): https://bit.ly/2qer8k1 Rep. Gutiérrez on AG Sessions, Trump & mass deportation 4/27/17 (floor speech w/ video): https://bit.ly/2qjhzwA Rep. Gutiérrez on omnibus budget negotiations and Trump’s deportation agenda 4/25/17 (press statement): https://bit.ly/2oNwWgk
04.28.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement with his thoughts on the first 100 days of the Trump Administration. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Trump has flip-flopped on NATO and he has backed down from labeling China a currency manipulator because he is now best friends with China’s President, but there is one thing he has been 100% consistent on from day 1 of his campaign to day 100 of his Presidency: demonizing and attacking Latinos. Almost the first words out of his mouth when he descended the golden escalator to announce his candidacy were to call Mexicans rapists and murderers. Now he is tweeting about Puerto Rico and that health care for the Puerto Rican people is not important with regard to budget negotiations. Last week Trump sent out Jeff Sessions to call Latino immigrants “filth” and “cartel henchmen.” Trump returns to bashing Latinos every time he has a setback on some other issue. We knew that a team of misogynist, climate-change denying, anti-immigration, billionaire civil rights opponents would be bad, but I fear that we have not seen the worst yet. One of the most important observations on Trump’s 100 Days is that on immigration, on women, on LGBTQ issues, on Muslims, on the environment, on Black Lives Matter and on corporate greed, the American people are more united in their opposition to Trump and the Republican Party than ever. This is a deeply unpopular President. When he attacks something or someone, their support grows, and when he embraces something or someone, their support plummets. He has the reverse Midas touch in politics as in his business career. Unlike Obama, Reagan, Carter or any President I can remember, he has been the biggest liability to his own success and he has done more to make his priorities toxic to the American people in the first 100 days than anyone I can remember. # # # Rep. Gutiérrez on Puerto Rico funding in omnibus 4/28/17 (op-ed, El Nuevo Día): https://bit.ly/2qer8k1 Rep. Gutiérrez on AG Sessions, Trump & mass deportation 4/27/17 (floor speech w/ video): https://bit.ly/2qjhzwA Rep. Gutiérrez on omnibus budget negotiations and Trump’s deportation agenda 4/25/17 (press statement): https://bit.ly/2oNwWgk
04.27.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor about the Attorney General's campaign “to paint immigrants as criminals, rapists, gang members and ‘cartel henchmen.’” The Congressman from Illinois noted the Attorney General’s characterization of the U.S. border as “this sliver of land, where we first take our stand against this filth.” Even though the Attorney General edited out his reference to “filth” when he delivered his speech at the border a couple of weeks ago, the line remains on the DOJ website and reflects the way the Attorney General and the Trump Administration view immigrants and Latinos. Through pronouncements and executive orders, the Attorney General and President Trump have labeled immigrants “Public Enemies Number 1” with new instructions to U.S. Attorney offices and with half of all federal prosecutions devoted to immigration-related offenses. In the new Trump era, a felony prosecution against an immigrant who has been living and working here peacefully for decades is three-times more important than a felony prosecution against a narcotics trafficker. And that imbalance is not enough for the Attorney General. He wants to prosecute immigrants beyond the full extent of the law by turning misdemeanors into felonies and turning felonies into aggravated felonies. Rep. Gutierrez noted that associating immigrants with crime and violence has been a centerpiece of Trump’s political career – and that of the Attorney General while he was in the Senate – from the beginning: This is not a surprise. When Donald Trump descended the golden escalator and announced his candidacy for President, almost the first words out of his mouth were that Mexicans are rapists and immigration is turning America into a war zone. When he was a Senator from Alabama, the Attorney General made a career of associating immigrants with crime and doing his best to defeat reforms that would strengthen legal immigration and reduce illegal immigration. Deportation, criminalization, and restricting legal immigration were the bedrock of his approach to immigration. The Congressman went on to say: When you hear a constituent say ‘Hey, why don’t those immigrants come here legally’ Or, ‘why don’t those who are here illegally go out and come back legally? The answer is clear: As a Senator, our Attorney General played a big role in making that impossible. He concluded by saying, The American people are sensible, fair, and pragmatic and are correct when they reject the idea that a wall makes sense in the 21st century as the centerpiece of our immigration policy. We are not persuaded by the poetry of the Attorney General when he stands at our border and says ‘It is here, on this sliver of land, where we first take our stand…’ No. We think of another, better poem, the one at the Statue of Liberty, the lady with her torch in the harbor who shares our deeply held values as Americans and says every day to the entire world, ‘Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free…’ A video of the Congressman’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/lJ8vcgB9yHk Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. FLOOR SPEECH (As prepared for delivery) 04/27/17 “This is a new era, this is the Trump era.” Mr. Speaker, those were the words of the Attorney General, the former Senator from Alabama. The Attorney General has launched a campaign to paint immigrants as criminals, rapists, gang members and [quote] “cartel henchmen.” In his prepared remarks at the border a couple of weeks ago, the Attorney General planned to say the following: [Quote] “It is here, on this sliver of land, where we first take our stand against this filth.” [end quote] When he gave the speech, he edited out the words “this filth” because I guess calling immigrants from Latin America “filth” was too extreme even for the Attorney General…but the line remains on the DOJ website. (https://www.justice.gov/opa/speech/attorney-general-jeff-sessions-delivers-remarks-announcing-department-justice-s-renewed) In fact, as far as the Attorney General is concerned, any immigrant who is here illegally is a criminal alien. He has ordered the government to prosecute immigration violations, even minor ones, to the full extent of the law and to make prosecution of immigrants a top priority – on a par with murder, drugs or counterfeiting. He has ordered every one of the 94 US Attorney’s offices to appoint a special prosecuting attorney so that immigrants are considered “Public Enemies Number 1” nationwide. According to latest federal data, 46 percent of the new federal criminal prosecutions are immigration related, while narcotics, the second highest crime prosecuted, accounts for only 14 percent of new federal cases. In the new Trump era, a felony prosecution against an immigrant who has been living and working here peacefully for decades is three-times more important than a felony prosecution against a narcotics trafficker. And that imbalance is not enough for the Attorney General. He wants to prosecute immigrants beyond the full extent of the law by turning misdemeanors into felonies and turning felonies into aggravated felonies. They think it will not look so ugly when the U.S. is deporting moms and dads who have raised successful families – or deporting children who grew up in the U.S. from the time they were toddlers – if the Attorney General and his team can make them look like thugs, gang-bangers, and rapists. Jeff Sessions and Donald Trump want more immigrants criminalized, felonized, and deported. Yes, we are truly in the Trump era. But, let’s be frank. This is not a surprise. When Donald Trump descended the golden escalator and announced his candidacy for President, almost the first words out of his mouth were that Mexicans are rapists and immigration is turning America into a war zone. When he was a Senator from Alabama, the Attorney General made a career of associating immigrants with crime and doing his best to defeat reforms that would strengthen legal immigration and reduce illegal immigration. Deportation, criminalization, and restricting legal immigration were the bedrock of his approach to immigration. Our legal immigration system already works fine, according to both Senator and Attorney General Sessions, no matter that some of the people who are arriving today with visas applied for those visas when Bill Clinton was President or that some of those who apply today may have to wait until Chelsea Clinton is President to come here legally. So, Mr. Speaker, when you hear a constituent say “Hey, why don’t those immigrants come here legally?” Or, “why don’t those who are here illegally go out and come back legally?” The answer is clear: As a Senator, our Attorney General played a big role in making that impossible. Next week, millions of Americans will take to the streets to demonstrate against mass deportation, the border wall, prison beds and drive-by deportations. But it is not because we are soft on crime or love immigrants more than the people who were born here. No. We have a different vision of what the United States is and should always be. We are not an incarceration nation, a country hostile to all other countries and their people. We are a great nation. A nation that in her greatness is a beacon of hope to refugees, a land of opportunity for entrepreneurs, a democracy with separate branches of government that act as effective checks and balances on unlimited power. The American people are sensible, fair, and pragmatic and are correct when they reject the idea that a wall makes sense in the 21st century as the centerpiece of our immigration policy. We are not persuaded by the poetry of the Attorney General when he stands at our border and says “It is here, on this sliver of land, where we first take our stand…” No. We think of another, better poem, the one at the Statue of Liberty, the lady with her torch in the harbor who shares our deeply held values as Americans and says every day to the entire world, "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free…” (https://libertystatepark.com/emma.htm) # # #
04.26.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement on the on-going omnibus budget negotiations. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. I strongly oppose funding Trump’s anti-immigration agenda and executive orders and I have been sharing my objections with my colleagues. It is not enough to stand up against the President’s wall. Democrats don’t endorse ideas like ramping up detention beds, border guards and building up the infrastructure of mass deportation. We fought President Obama on these matters and we should fight President Trump as well. The wall is only one part of it; one particularly wasteful, stupid part of it. It essentially calls for 5th century technology to address 21st century immigration issues. But the wall is more symbolic than substantive. Detention beds, on the other hand, are filled with actual people whose lives will be irrevocably shattered and families that will be destroyed if we do not fight back. There is a massive campaign to paint immigrants as criminals, from the first day of the Trump campaign when he said Mexicans were rapists to Attorney General Sessions saying on the DOJ website that the border is where we are taking a stand against “filth.” We know the Republican approach to border security and immigration makes our country less safe because it is almost exclusively political theater designed to scapegoat and demonize, not a serious effort to deploy resources to manage immigration and deter threats. Democrats won’t play a role in the Republican’s absurd political theater because we know a tragedy when we see one. # # #
04.19.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement in response to the news that Juan Manuel Montes, a DREAMer with DACA, had been deported by agents from the Department of Homeland Security in February. If you came to this country when you were a young child and have DACA, then the United States is your home and you should not be deported. Juan Manuel came at age 9 and had DACA and should not have been deported at age 23. The Trump Administration should be clear that they are following the law. People who are assets to their communities and who do not violate the terms of their immigration status should not be removed or coerced into leaving. Period. If our government is following the law, Juan Manuel should be living in the United States today. When Attorney General Jeff Sessions boasts on Fox News, "Everybody in the country illegally is subject to being deported,” he is both ignorant of the way our immigration laws work and is being dangerously dismissive of the due process rights human beings have in our society. DACA is still in place and Trump, Sessions, DHS Secretary Kelly and the rest of them should know that. I have talked with attorneys familiar with Juan Manuel’s case and the more I hear, the more troubling this incident becomes. We do not know all the facts at this point, but it sounds like Juan’s initial deportation was coercive and was an unacceptable curtailing of his due process rights. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
04.12.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) learned that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) granted a highly unusual and suspect second extension to Energy Answers of their Prevention of Significant Deterioration of Air Quality (PSD) permit that would allow the company to move forward in the construction of a waste-to-energy incinerator in Arecibo, Puerto Rico. It was extended contrary to the EPA’s own guidance to not extend a PSD permit without commencement of construction on the proposed site by the deadline of April 10, 2017. As reported yesterday and previously, Rep. Gutiérrez called on the EPA not to extend the permit. “I am outraged by the EPA’s decision,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “Unfortunately, this decision was a fait accompli. The EPA violated its own guidance and its mission to protect public health and the environment and sided with polluter Energy Answers and let the people of Puerto Rico down. The exploitation of our beautiful island of Puerto Rico and its people to the benefit of the wealthy and powerful must end, now. Corporations should not use Puerto Rico as a trash dump for profit while the federal government looks the other way.” In response to the EPA extension, Rep. Luis Gutiérrez wrote to EPA Region 2 Acting Administrator Catherine McCabe to demand that the decision be reconsidered and permit extension revoked and to request that the agency share the monthly construction updates they have requested of Energy Answers. The text of the letter is below: April 11, 2017 Ms. Catherine McCabe Acting Regional Administrator Region 2 Environmental Protection Agency 290 Broadway New York, NY 10007-1866 Dear Acting Regional Administrator McCabe: I write to urge the EPA to reconsider the decision it made with regard to Energy Answers’ March 21, 2017 request for an extension of the final Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) permit. I find the EPA’s decision in this case highly unusual and offensive, given that it is contrary to your own guidance requiring construction by April 10th at the proposed site for the waste-to-energy incinerator. There is no doubt in my mind that if this incinerator were proposed in your back yard, such as in Albany, NY, a city similar in population as Arecibo, the EPA would never have granted the extension. You are also likely aware that Energy Answers first tried to build an incinerator in the south Baltimore, MD neighborhood of Curtis Bay, but the project failed in the face of understandable and justified community opposition. Why, then, would Energy Answers put its sights on building a trash incinerator in Arecibo? Because Puerto Rico is a place corporations, sadly with the help of the federal government, can get away with the kind of pollution and exploitation that would never be permitted in New York or Chicago or anywhere else in the mainland United States. We need only look at recent history: the collusion of the U.S. Congress with bankers and bondholders to pass PROMESA and impose a fiscal control board on Puerto Rico; the contamination of the local environment in and around Peñuelas and other towns in Puerto Rico with coal ash; and the failed effort to construct the Gasoducto, a gas pipeline, through the heart of the tropical island of Puerto Rico. History has shown that such projects that threaten the health, safety and wellbeing of U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico are laden with secretive backdoor deals that benefit the wealthy or powerful few and our government plays along and treats Puerto Ricans as second class citizens. With regard to this incinerator and based on my conversation yesterday with you, this decision was an apparent fait accompli. The EPA has sacrificed the health and safety of residents of Arecibo and all Puerto Ricans and shamefully sided with Energy Answers by extending the polluter’s PSD permit. It’s an outrage and Americans both on and off the Island should not stand for it. I urge you to reconsider this decision and revoke the extension. In your letter to Energy Answers Vice President Mark J. Green, you request monthly construction updates during the 5-month extension of the PSD permit. I ask that you share those same updates with me as you receive them. Sincerely, Luis V. Gutiérrez Member of Congress # # #
04.10.2017	April 10 Groundbreaking Deadline is Today Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke with Catherine McCabe, EPA Region 2 Acting Regional Administrator, to urge the EPA to deny a second extension to Energy Answers of their Prevention of Significant Deterioration of Air Quality (PSD) permit that would allow the company to move forward in the construction of a waste-to-energy incinerator in Arecibo, Puerto Rico. Under the EPA’s own written policy, the agency would not grant an extension of the PSD permit without commencement of construction on the proposed site by April 10, 2017. That date has arrived and there is no construction of the project on the proposed site. The proposed waste-to-energy incinerator has been criticized for several reasons, including its pollution of the air, excessive use of freshwater, its limited ability to generate electricity, and the manner in which the project has been imposed on the local population, despite fierce and growing opposition. As previously reported, Rep. Gutiérrez released two letters related to the proposed solid waste incinerator project in Arecibo, Puerto Rico: one a letter from the Congressman to the Acting Regional Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Region 2; and the response back to the Congressman. Since then, the Congressman wrote another letter on April 6 to EPA Region 2 calling out once again the lack of construction and requesting a meeting about the same. As a result of this appeal, a conference call with Catherine McCabe was happened this morning. “It’s time to kill this dirty project, once and for all,” said Rep. Gutiérrez after talking with Ms. McCabe. “The Acting Regional Administrator Ms. McCabe told me this morning that Energy Answers has not broken ground in Arecibo. I told her then and there to not go against the agency’s own policy and to deny Energy Answers their second extension of the PSD permit. A trash incinerator will fill Arecibo’s air with filth, strain and pollute our precious water resources and make people sick. The energy production will be negligible and besides, municipalities are opposed to trucking their trash from all over the Island to the incinerator.” If the Energy Answers project had financing and were viable, the company would have already broken ground. This incinerator is doomed, as it was from the beginning. An extension of the PSD permit would be a travesty of justice.” Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
04.05.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House (video: https://youtu.be/bJ2uEIt7nis) about events planned for May 1 in more than 40 cities in 33 states to “to lift up immigrant communities and demonstrate the solidarity between Americans and immigrants” under the slogan “Rise Up May 1.” On the day observed internationally as Labor Day, activities, rallies, and strikes are going to take place across the USA organized by a coalition of immigrant advocates, labor, religious, youth and community groups (see www.RiseUpMay1.org). In the speech, the Congressman said Donald Trump relies on fear and bullying in numerous ways – both before and after taking office – and that the way to stand up to fear and bullying is “to stand up with your friends and allies and demonstrate your strength in numbers.” “If President Trump is going to enact his agenda of deportations, building a wall, and making it impossible for people to come to the United States with visas, he needs to use fear,” the Congressman said. “He got elected by creating fear about immigrants, Mexicans and Latinos, calling us rapists and criminals…creating fear about President Obama and “the blacks” and “thugs” and big cities…creating fear among Americans about the big scary world out there with threats from ISIS and Al Qaeda and Mexico…” But Trump is not just attempting to make America afraid of her immigrants; he is trying to make immigrants afraid of America. “Trump needs to use fear in another very important way. He needs to scare the immigrant community. Why? Because he knows he does not have the money, the manpower, or the time to drive 11 million men, women and children who are undocumented out of the country. He doesn’t have enough jails, ICE agents or airplanes to deport 11 million people. That is a population about as big as the state of Ohio, and such a mass exodus will not be easy. So they have to use fear…. he has to make them so afraid that they leave the country.” Standing before a “Rise Up May 1” poster, the Congressman explained that in America, we respond to fear and intimidation by standing up and standing together. “And how do Americans respond to fear? Do we hide in our homes and isolate ourselves and run? No, that is not what people do in the United States of America. And we never have. We stand up and we stand together when confronted with fear. So on May 1st, millions of Americans are going to stand up. We are going to stand together. We are going to Rise Up.” The Congressman concluded by saying: “This will be a day for all Americans to demonstrate our resistance to the mass deportation, mass discrimination, and mass deception policies of our President. The way you deal with fear is to stand up with your friends and allies and demonstrate your strength in numbers. That is why I will Rise Up on May 1.” A videotape of the Congressman’s speech to Congress this morning is here: https://youtu.be/bJ2uEIt7nis The text is below. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks, as prepared for delivery April 5, 2017 Mr. Speaker, If Donald Trump is going to be successful as a President – successful from his point of view, not from the point of view of the American people, or of history, or the rest of the world, or of the point of view of people who like peace and freedom – but from his point of view, then he is going to have to rely on fear. He got elected by creating fear about immigrants, Mexicans and Latinos, calling us rapists and criminals. He got elected by creating fear about President Obama and “the blacks” and “thugs” and big cities. He got elected by creating fear among Americans about the big scary world out there with threats from ISIS and Al Qaeda and Mexico – and, for some reason, he left out things like the fear of Russia or Putin, his friend. And if President Trump is going to enact his agenda of deportations, building a wall, and making it impossible for people to come to the United States with visas, he needs to use fear, as well. For example, he feels he needs to publish a list every week of the crimes that were committed by immigrants to scare Americans into fearing our community. And Trump needs to use fear in another very important way. He needs to scare the immigrant community. Why? Because he knows he does not have the money, the manpower, or the time to drive 11 million men, women and children who are undocumented out of the country. He doesn’t have enough jails, ICE agents or airplanes to deport 11 million people. That is a population about as big as the state of Ohio, and such a mass exodus will not be easy. So they have to use fear. Trump has to make immigrants scared to leave their houses. Trump has to make parents scared to take their kids to school. Trump has to make the doctor’s office, the court house, the police station and the fire department places that immigrants are afraid of. Trump has to make sure that undocumented immigrants who are raising children – most of whom are American citizens, by the way – in families who have lived in the U.S. on average more than a dozen years – who own homes, cars and businesses – he has to make them so afraid that they leave the country. It is a presidency and a presidential policy agenda that relies on fear and bullying to achieve success – or what the people who surround Trump define as success, at any rate. And how do Americans respond to fear? Do we hide in our homes and isolate ourselves and run? No, that is not what people do in the United States of America. And we never have. We stand up and we stand together when confronted with fear. So on May 1st, millions of Americans are going to stand up. We are going to stand together. We are going to Rise Up. May 1 is an international day to recognize the contributions of working people and it is observed as Labor Day in much of the world. And this year it will be a day to honor working people of all types, but there will be a special emphasis this year on immigrants working and living in the United States. In 42 cities in 33 states from Milwaukee, to Seattle, to Los Angeles, to Chicago, New York, and Boston, cities and towns will hold activities, marches, rallies and workshops to lift up immigrant communities and demonstrate the solidarity between Americans and immigrants. This is a campaign to galvanize the broad support for immigrants, so this is not going to be just a Latino thing or an immigrant thing. Churches, Mosques and Congregations are going to Rise Up. Unions, students, teachers, and working men and women are going to Rise Up. And let’s be clear. When we marched for women in massive numbers the day after inauguration, it was not just women marching. When we came to the airports to stand up for American values and against Trump’s Muslim Ban, it was not just Muslim’s standing up for American values, it was a lot of the rest of us too. So, if you care about justice, Rise Up with us. If you think a man should be able to use the men’s bathroom, even if his birth certificate says he was born a woman, Rise Up with us. If you think Global Warming is a thing and science is a thing and the planet earth is a thing to be protected, then go to Rise-Up-May-1 (dot) O-R-G to get more info about what is planned in your city or state This will be a day for all Americans to demonstrate our resistance to the mass deportation, mass discrimination, and mass deception policies of our President. The way you deal with fear is to stand up with your friends and allies and demonstrate your strength in numbers. That is why I will Rise Up on May 1. # # # Video of Rise Up May 1: The Antidote to Trump&amp;#039;s Fear and Bullying
03.31.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released two letters related to the proposed solid waste incinerator project in Arecibo, Puerto Rico: one a letter from the Congressman to the Acting Regional Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Region 2; and the response back to the Congressman. The purposed waste-to-energy incinerator in Arecibo, Puerto Rico has been criticized for several reasons, including its major impact on public health, the environment, its minimal impact generating energy, little economic contribution, and the manner in which the project has been imposed on the local population. In his original letter dated March 2, 2017, Rep. Gutiérrez asked Acting Regional Administrator Catherine McCabe to clarify the policy on extending environmental permits to Energy Answers, the company proposing the project, and asking EPA Region 2 to not extend the permits. If not granted an extension, the Prevention of Significant Deterioration of Air Quality (PSD) permit that would allow the project to move forward would expire if Energy Answers does not break ground by April 10, 2017. In her letter back to the Congressman on March 16, 2017, Ms. McCabe assures the Congressman that there has not been action to extend the PSD permit and that Energy Answers indeed has until April 10, 2017 to commence construction of the project. “I think this project is bad deal for the people of Puerto Rico and American tax payers. Public health, air quality and the environment will be significantly and negatively impacted if it is built,” said Rep. Gutiérrez, who has often been engaged in issues of concern to the people and environment of Puerto Rico, where his parents were born and where much of his family lives. “We are getting close to a deadline that is going to delay and hopefully kill this project and that’s good news for Puerto Rico, American tax payers and the planet,” the Congressman said. “I am very proud of the activists and plain, everyday residents who have made it clear that Arecibo does not want the project.” # # # Letter from Rep. Gutiérrez to Acting EPA Regional Administrator Catherine McCabe, March 2, 1017: 030217 EPA_Region2_Request_2017.pdf Letter from Acting EPA Regional Administrator Catherine McCabe to Rep. Gutiérrez, March 16, 2017: 031617 Gutierrez_PSD_Energy_Answers_031617.pdf
03.29.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) said he is calling for a full and fair investigation that includes the DHS Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties into the circumstances surrounding the shooting of a 53-year-old Legal Permanent Resident (Green Card Holder) in Chicago early Monday morning. The Congressman made inquiries with ICE headquarters in Washington and with the ICE Regional Headquarters in Chicago but has received very little information other than press statements that the incident is being looked at by the ICE Office of Professional Responsibility. “It has been hard to get information on this case. Both ICE in Washington, DC and ICE in Chicago are not talking,” the Congressman said. “The investigation should be conducted with the cooperation of the Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties to assess whether all rules of engagement were strictly followed and to determine if the shooting was an appropriate use of force. What we know is that the man who got shot had a green card because our office helped him with that process more than a decade ago. We also know that the Trump deportation force thinks it can raid someone’s home with weapons drawn at any hour of the day or night with very little oversight or accountability and that is just not right. That should not be the way ICE operates in the City of Chicago or anywhere else,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. It is not clear whether ICE showed up at the wrong address, because press reports indicate there were not undocumented immigrants in the home. The Congressman’s staff has attempted to speak directly with the family involved, but with no success so far. “Immigrant communities are scared enough as it is with all of Trump’s talk of mass deportations and going after ‘Bad Hombres,’ which in practical terms has meant going after moms and dads with no criminal activity,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “We don’t need gun fire and mayhem by federal officers in our neighborhoods in addition to everything else.” “The circumstances of this enforcement action should be brought into the light of day. My constituents deserve to know whether they are safe in their own homes under this President.” Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
03.29.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House about the words of President Trump and when it is acceptable under House Rules to repeat them. Yesterday in the Immigration Subcommittee (see https://youtu.be/ZGpJMSVStXY), Rep. Gutiérrez was reprimanded by Chairman Rep. F James Sensenbrenner (R-WI) for saying that Donald Trump had said that Mexicans are criminals and rapists. But the President said those things (see: https://youtu.be/TML2cApMueU) and Rep. Gutiérrez was simply repeating the President’s words. So the Congressman from Illinois came to the floor to deliver a rather sarcastic speech about when it is and is not acceptable to repeat the words of the President in the House of Representatives. “The Chairman of the Subcommittee said I was not following House Rules because I was ‘casting aspersions’ on the President because – apparently – I was saying what the President himself had actually said. And it was offensive to the Chairman and I agree. That was my point. So, is repeating the words of the President against House Rules? And if so, why?” Rep. Gutiérrez asked: “Maybe we cannot say things the President said because it is not appropriate for anyone to say some of the things he has said about people, the dehumanizing language he uses when describing which body parts he can grab women by, for example (see: https://youtu.be/tqN-TjhkypY?t=7s).” But, according to Congressman Gutiérrez, when he has referred to the comments of Donald Trump that are offensive, he has “cleaned up the language so it is safe for a daytime C-SPAN audience.” Rep. Gutiérrez went on to say: “So what is it about repeating the words of this particular President in the U.S. House of Representatives that the Gentleman from Wisconsin feels is a violation of House Rules? Maybe it is the lying…But clearly, repeating things that this President has said means you will be repeating lies. It just goes with the territory.” Rep. Gutiérrez then listed a number of lies the President has told, from the size of his inauguration crowd, to his Muslim Ban that is not a Muslim Ban, to the three million illegal votes cast on Election Day. The Congressman then turned to the definition of the verb “to lie” from Webster’s dictionary, which defines the word as “to make an untrue statement with intent to deceive” or “to create a false or misleading impression.” Congressman Gutierrez said: “By those definitions, I would say I am on pretty solid ground from a factual standpoint the President of the United States has told lies. Water is wet, dogs have four legs and President Trump tells lies. There may be exceptions, but basically, all three are truthful statements. Unless we are outlawing the truth in Congress.” Finally, the Illinois Congressman concluded that Republicans are offended by the repetition of the President’s words in official House proceedings for a different reason: “And then I figured it out. It is upsetting to Republican Members of the House to hear the words of the President of the United States because they know they have to defend him as the leader of their party…and I can understand why that would make any human being uncomfortable.” A videotape of the Congressman’s speech to Congress this morning is here: https://youtu.be/Yh49uwAVqUs The text is below. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks, as prepared for delivery March 29, 2017 Yesterday in the Subcommittee on Immigration, the Chairman, the Gentleman from Wisconsin, attempted to reprimand me by reminding me that House Rules prevent Members from [quote] “casting aspersions on the President of the United States.” And what did I say to get this reprimand? I said that the President of the United States had said that Mexicans were criminals and rapists. Well, as the sportscasters used to say, “Let’s go to the video tape.” Almost the first words out of Donald Trump’s mouth when he descended the golden escalator to launch his presidential campaign was this "When Mexico sends it people, they're not sending their best… They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists. And some, I assume, are good people." Well, I left out the part about “some, I assume are good people.” But the Chairman of the Subcommittee said I was not following House Rules because I was casting aspersions on the President because – apparently – I was saying what the President himself had actually said. And it was offensive to the Chairman and I agree. That was my point. So, is repeating the words of the President against House Rules? And if so, why? Because they are hateful and ugly things to say about our fellow human beings? I don’t think we should be barred from repeating the words of the President because they are hateful and ugly things to say about our fellow human beings. Because he said them. And he is the President and I respect the office. So maybe it is something else. Maybe we cannot say things the President said because it is not appropriate for anyone to say some of the things he has said about people, the dehumanizing language he uses when describing which body parts he can grab women by, for example. Now, Mr. Speaker, rather than saying, as I said earlier, “Let’s go to the video tape,” I think every single American has seen that video tape. And, when I have discussed the President saying these awful, hurtful things about where he can grab women, either here on the floor or in the Judiciary Committee, I have actually cleaned up the language so it is safe for a daytime C-SPAN audience. So what is it about repeating the words of this particular President in the U.S. House of Representatives that the Gentleman from Wisconsin feels is a violation of House Rules? Maybe it is the lying. I looked through the House Rules and I did not see a section that said “Thou shalt not lie,” Mr. Speaker. But clearly, repeating things that this President has said means you will be repeating lies. It just goes with the territory. There was the original lie as President, barely a few hours in office, saying that his crowd was the largest crowd in the history of Presidential inaugurations. Or the one about the Muslim Ban, which the President said was a Muslim Ban; his key advisor, the former Mayor of New York said was a Muslim Ban; and his other key advisor Stephen Miller said was a Muslim Ban, but which the White House tried to say was not, in fact, a Muslim Ban because it did not ban all Muslims. Several federal courts have agreed with the President that what he ordered WAS a Muslim Ban and disagreed with the President’s lawyers that it was NOT a Muslim Ban. But what about when the President said that he saw American Muslims celebrating in New Jersey on 9/11. We know that was a lie. Or that 3 million illegal votes were cast on Election Day causing the President to lose the popular vote, which he had walked back from the claim that 3 million undocumented immigrants had voted on Election Day. In either case, it is a lie. And then there is the illegal wiretapping ordered by the previous President of the United States on President-elect Trump, which certainly looks like a lie at this point. So, Mr. Speaker, I am starting to wonder if repeating a lie that the President told the American people is against House Rules. Or maybe, it is accusing the President of lying that is, in the words of the Subcommittee Chairman, “casting aspersions.” But let’s take a look. Here is the definition of the verb “to lie” from Merriam Webster’s dictionary: “to make an untrue statement with intent to deceive.” “to create a false or misleading impression.” By those definitions, I would say I am on pretty solid ground from a factual standpoint the President of the United States has told lies. Water is wet, dogs have four legs and President Trump tells lies. There may be exceptions, but basically, all three are truthful statements. Unless we are outlawing the truth in Congress. I think that pointing out lies told by our President is not only within the rules, it is our moral duty as elected leaders of a free nation. So I am left to wonder what it is about repeating the President’s words that so upset the Subcommittee Chairman, the Gentleman from Wisconsin. And then I figured it out. It is upsetting to Republican Members of the House to hear the words of the President of the United States because they know they have to defend him as the leader of their party…and I can understand why that would make any human being uncomfortable. # # #
03.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Chairwoman Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham, CHC Immigration Task Force Chair Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez, and 18 members of the CHC sent a letter calling on the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Committee. The signers ask the Appropriation’s leaders to reject the President’s proposed FY2017 supplemental budget request for an additional $3 billion to implement his executive orders on border security and interior immigration enforcement. “Immigrant communities are fearful and being harmed by the President’s misguided immigration policies at levels that will multiply exponentially if Trump fully funds his executive orders,” said Chairwoman Lujan Grisham. “In calling for the defunding of Trump Administration’s mass deportation force and border wall, we are sending a clear message that we will not be complicit in paying for policies that threaten public safety, tear families apart, undermine national security, and devastate our economy.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez added, “One of the most important lies that the Trump Administration tells is that immigrants and high crime go together. Trump and his guys tout measures that put a spotlight on immigrant criminals and are trying to cast themselves as standing between peace-loving Americans and the ruthless horde of outsiders. In fact, almost all of what the Trump Administration proposes will do damage to state and local police work that keeps us safe. It will water down police effectiveness by imposing federal responsibilities while driving a wedge between immigrant communities and the police in their communities, which is why so many police chiefs oppose these policies. Congress needs to act quickly over the purse strings so that the Trump Administration cannot damage public safety in the reckless pursuit of demagoguery.” The letter was signed by: Reps. Joaquin Castro, Ruben Gallego, Norma J. Torres, Albio Sires, Nanette Diaz Barragán, Darren Soto, Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan, J. Luis Correa, Juan Vargas, Filemón Vela, Ruben J. Kihuen, Salud Carbajal, Adriano Espaillat, Grace Napolitano, Raul Grijalva, Tony Cárdenas, Linda Sanchez and Nydia M. Velázquez. 032717 CHC Letter to Approps Re Trump EOs.pdf COPY OF LETTER March 27, 2017 The Honorable John Carter 2006 Rayburn House Office Building Washington D.C. 20515 The Honorable Lucille Roybal-Allard 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Carter and Ranking Member Roybal-Allard, As your Subcommittee begins consideration of the Department of Homeland Security’s FY2018 Appropriations bill, we respectfully ask that you include bill language that would defund President Trump’s executive orders on immigration; in particular, the executive orders titled “Border Security and Immigration Enforcement Improvements” and “Enhancing Public Safety in the Interior of the United States.” With his executive orders, President Trump has undermined our values and identity as an immigrant nation, and instilled fear and caused turmoil in American communities. The executive orders ramp up expedited removals, which deny due process to asylum-seeking individuals, among others. The orders instruct the Federal government to build a wall along our southern border at great cost to the American people. The orders threaten public safety and community trust in law enforcement by deputizing local police to enforce immigration law. The orders eliminate smart, targeted enforcement priorities geared toward serious criminals and instead place 11 million people at risk of deportation, including mothers, fathers, and students who are working hard and contributing to America. These policies will cost American taxpayers billions of dollars, wreak havoc on our economy, hurt key industries like agriculture and hospitality, and damage public safety by using critical, limited homeland security funds to go after strawberry pickers, teachers, nurses, babysitters, and dishwashers. Our immigration system is in chaos because of Congress’s decades-long failure to act. Instead of funding the President’s misguided priorities that will surely create more mayhem and harm, we should work in a bipartisan way to enact a bill to update our legal immigration system so that all who come to work, invest, and join family do so through legal channels and in a manner consistent with Americans’ best interests. Therefore, we ask you to reject the President’s proposed FY2017 supplemental budget request for an additional $3 billion to implement his executive orders on border security and interior immigration enforcement. We also oppose the President’s proposed FY2018 Homeland Security budget and respectfully request the inclusion of the following language in the FY2018 Appropriations bill to defund these harmful executive orders on immigration: No funds, resources, or fees made available to the Secretary of Homeland Security, or to any other official of a Federal agency, by this Act or any other Act for any fiscal year, including any deposits into the “Immigration Examinations Fee Account” established under section 286(m) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1356(m)), may be used to implement, administer, enforce, or carry out any of the policy changes set forth in Executive Order 13767 or 13768. Thank you for your consideration of this request and your hard work on the FY2018 Homeland Security Appropriations bill. Sincerely, # # # https://congressionalhispaniccaucus-lujangrisham.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/chc-calls-appropriators-to-defund-trump-s-immigration-executive-orders The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), founded in December 1976, is organized as a Congressional Member organization, governed under the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives. The CHC is dedicated to voicing and advancing, through the legislative process, issues affecting Hispanics in the United States, Puerto Rico and U.S. Territories.
03.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement after Republicans pulled the Trumpcare health care reform bill from the House floor: “Republicans could not even agree on how cruel they should be to the American people and how generous they would be to billionaires. So they surrendered before they were actually defeated on the House floor. “We have known for years that the only true health care reform that will work is a single-payer system where we take national responsibility for the health of our nation. The private market is good in many respects, but a single payer system would plug the holes that let too many people fall through the cracks or rely on very expensive care when preventive care is unavailable or unaffordable. I hope we are getting closer to the day when we measure our progress on health care reform by reducing the number of people who are left out to zero. But obviously the Republicans prefer to drop people from coverage, make coverage unaffordable, and make our communities less healthy. “Seniors, young people, families, working people, poor people, women and Latinos – almost every individual living in my District would have been be hurt by this measure. I have said consistently that any new health care reform has to make coverage available to those who already have it, extend coverage to those who do not already have it, and it should not include foolish measures to undermine Planned Parenthood which serves thousands of women, men and girls in my community. TrumpCare fails on all of my criteria and in so many other ways. Now that this vote is over, I hope we can return to a serious and sensible discussion of strengthening our health care system and the improving the health of all Americans.” Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) met with Senate Democratic Leader Charles E. Schumer to discuss ways to keep families together and protect immigrants from President Trump’s draconian immigration policies. “We are pursuing every opportunity to protect immigrants and families from President Trump’s misguided immigration policies,” said Chairwoman Michelle Lujan Grisham. “Caucus members oppose the President’s efforts to pay for a mass deportation force and border wall, both of which have resulted in mass hysteria and real harm in our communities. We count on Senate Democrats, led by Sen. Schumer, as important allies in our fight for a fair and effective immigration system that reflects our values as a nation.” “I was glad to meet with my colleagues from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus today to discuss what we need to do to protect immigrant families. I reiterated to them that Democrats in the Senate won’t support an appropriations bill that includes funding to build a wall or to further set in motion President Trump’s deportation force,” said U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer. “Senate Democrats have requested a meeting with DHS to get answers about interior enforcement, and we’ll continue working to ensure that we uphold our promise as a nation of immigrants and do everything in our power to keep families together and protect law-abiding immigrants from deportation.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez, a Member of the Judiciary Committee and Chair of the Immigration Task Force said, “I have confidence Senate Democrats are fighting against policies and the budget-busting billions of dollars that Trump and Bannon want to use to destroy immigrant families through deportation and separation. Senator Schumer is backing the Latino and immigrant community and we in the CHC have his back as well.” The following Members participated in the meeting: Senator Robert Menendez, Rep. Joaquin Castro, Rep. Ruben Gallego, Rep. Ben Ray Lujan, and Rep. Lou Correa. # # # https://congressionalhispaniccaucus-lujangrisham.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/chc-and-senate-leader-schumer-huddle-on-immigration The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), founded in December 1976, is organized as a Congressional Member organization, governed under the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives. The CHC is dedicated to voicing and advancing, through the legislative process, issues affecting Hispanics in the United States, Puerto Rico and U.S. Territories.
03.22.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives about the surge in the demand for citizenship and the American citizens stepping up to help immigrants apply. The Congressman held a day-long citizenship workshop in Chicago on March 11 at which 260 applications were completed. Such workshops have been a regular feature of his constituent services work since he was first elected in 1992, but what has changed is the engagement of people who are not immigrants who want to help immigrants get through the process. This has created a new opportunity for immigrants and natives to bond with each other by working together during the citizenship process. At the same time, some immigrants at risk of deportation are preparing for the worst. “I discovered something very important. People keep coming up to me and asking, ‘What can I do to fight back? What can I do to help immigrant communities who are under siege by President Trump, President Bannon, Jeff Sessions and all the rest of the people who want to drive immigrants out of the country?’ So, I told them they could help others apply for citizenship. And they came in droves. Hipsters with funky facial hair; women with pink knit hats they made for the Women’s March; environmental and LGBTQ activists, union members, and just plain old folks from my District who are not themselves immigrants, but who feel the solidarity with immigrants in their community.” By working together at the citizenship workshop, each group is learning from the other: “They formed a bond. They got to know each other. They were helping each other accomplish a mutual goal, which is standing up to xenophobia and racism and the Republican Party in this Trump/Bannon era. The citizens and the applicants to become citizens are both worried about Republicans taking away their health care and eliminating the environmental laws that have made the water we drink and the air we breathe much safer…Anyone who walked out of that workshop where 260 new citizenship applications were completed felt a sense of community and interconnectedness with one another.” Despite these connections, many immigrant families are spending time filing power of attorney and custody papers in case Trump’s deportation force knocks on their door and a parent or bread-winner is placed in deportation proceedings. “The 5 million U.S. citizens who have parents at risk of deportation know their government is a threat to their safety and security. Their own government could come to the door and upend their lives at any moment and their parents are preparing for the worst.” The Congressman concluded by saying that massive protests and marches expected across the country on May 1 will be a continuation of the alliances, bonding and mutual support citizens, immigrants and natives have been demonstrating since the Women’s March on Washington and throughout the efforts to resist Trump’s heavy-handed policies. “Mr. Speaker, you will see millions of Americans and aspiring Americans marching together in American cities on May 1st, and when you do, you will see this bond and this shared humanity coming to life.” A video of Rep. Gutiérrez’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/Hmv4uGpRjHI Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the 4th District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee, and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Text, as prepared for delivery: Mr. Speaker, I have spoken here before about the surge in demand for citizenship we are seeing in the Fourth Congressional District of Illinois. Thousands who are eligible are taking the step to become citizens because they feel threatened by a President and an Administration that does not seem to think of immigrants, refugees, Muslims or Latinos as human beings. So the one way to protect oneself and to protect one’s family is to apply for citizenship if you are eligible. Some days, they are lined up out the door at my office. So full are our daily appointments, we had to add a Saturday citizenship workshop to accommodate all of the people who wanted to apply and we will be adding additional workshops in the future to handle the overflow. At one workshop a couple of weeks ago, staff and volunteers worked with families to fill out the paperwork, assemble all the evidence and fees for the application, and in one day, we helped 260 people fill out their citizenship applications. And I discovered something very important. People keep coming up to me and asking, “What can I do to fight back? What can I do to help immigrant communities who are under siege by President Trump, President Bannon, Jeff Sessions and all the rest of the people who want to drive immigrants out of the country?” So, I told them they could help others apply for citizenship. And they came in droves. Hipsters with funky facial hair; Women with pink knit hats they made for the Women’s March; Environmental and LGBTQ activists, union members, and just plain old folks from my District who are not themselves immigrants, but who feel the solidarity with immigrants in their community. And you know what? This new group, after getting a little training, sat for hours with immigrant families, going over their histories, their stories, their reasons for being here and their reasons for applying for citizenship. And they were pretty good at filling out government forms. They formed a bond. They got to know each other. They were helping each other accomplish a mutual goal, which is standing up to xenophobia and racism and the Republican Party in this Trump/Bannon era. The citizens and the applicants to become citizens are both worried about Republicans taking away their health care and eliminating the environmental laws that have made the water we drink and the air we breathe much safer. They worry about where women and girls will get health care services in cities like Chicago if Trump and his buddies defund Planned Parenthood, and what happens after the courts are stacked with judges who are out-of-step with the modern era on gender, civil rights, consumer protections, women’s health, or any of the other issues people care about. Anyone who walked out of that workshop where 260 new citizenship applications were completed felt a sense of community and interconnectedness with one another. Now, it is sad to report that many of my constituents can’t spend a Saturday morning applying for citizenship. Many are at legal clinics or law offices filling out papers to address the very real fear that they will lose their homes, their savings and their families if Trump’s deportation force knocks on their door. They are filing power-of-attorney documents and child custody papers in case they are grabbed off the street, in their homes, or in their places of worship. It is heartbreaking. Moms and dads are making decisions about who their kids will go to live with if they get picked up and deported; which relative, neighbor, or older sibling will be in charge if mom and dad are taken away…And, believe me, their kids know what is going on. The 5 million US citizens who have parents at risk of deportation know their government is a threat to their safety and security. Their own government could come to the door and upend their lives at any moment and their parents are preparing for the worst. It is the humanity, the love, their striving for a better life that comes through in these parents who want what is best for their children and what was unavailable to them in some far off country. These are very real people who have no legal avenues to allow them to live and work here – who have no options other than to hide or leave – who have been cut off from fully integrating into our society as citizens because Congress has been fighting for 25 years over immigration reform. These are the people that Bannon and Sessions and Steve King have been working together for years to get out of [quote] “their” country so that our erratic new President can point to deportations and say he is making America great again. What is clear from the citizenship surge and all those who want to help is that America is not only great, not only kind, and not only dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal, but that there are Americans – and those who want to be Americans – willing to stand up and resist when leaders take us in the wrong direction. Mr. Speaker, you will see millions of Americans and aspiring Americans marching together in American cities on May 1st, and when you do, you will see this bond and this shared humanity coming to life. # # #
03.20.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement today in response to the Department of Homeland Security’s announcement that they would begin publishing the “Declined Detainer Outcome Report,” (https://bit.ly/2nsx1c7) a report designated by one of Trump’s executive orders to shame state and local police departments who do not routinely hold immigrant prisoners without a federal warrant. By enumerating crimes committed by immigrants who were not held in violation of the Fourth Amendment until federal authorities came to deport them, the Trump Administration hopes to further attack so-called “sanctuary cities” that draw a bright line between local public safety activities and federal deportation activities. “Trump’s presidency is based on a number of lies, but one of the most important to Bannon, Trump, and Sessions is to paint all immigrants as killers and rapists. Trump and his team incorrectly see Fourth Amendment policies that require warrants to hold prisoners for the Feds as a threat to public safety, but the reality is that in most cities, the police have found that acting as deportation police makes it harder to keep their cities safe. In Chicago and everywhere else, immigrants are part of our communities and need to know that when they witness a crime or have information the police can use, they can call 911 and not lose their children or their homes to deportation.” Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the 4th District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee, and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
03.16.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this morning in response to Tweets and comments by Rep. Steve King (R-IA) this week that caused a firestorm. The comments by King were widely seen as racists, xenophobic, inflammatory, and akin to White Nationalism – including King’s support for the explicitly White Nationalist (losing) campaign of Geert Wilders in parliamentary elections in the Netherlands. Rep. Gutiérrez said he understood why people like Steve King feel it is okay to say “hurtful, xenophobic things, calling essentially on black and brown people to join a race war,” and that is, “People like Representative King feel empowered; empowered by the presence of Steve Bannon, Stephen Miller, and Jeff Sessions in the White House; empowered by a President who wants us all to fear Muslims, to fear Mexicans and frankly, to fear all Latinos, even my American grandson.” Rep. Gutiérrez spoke in front of a poster with enlarged images of King’s Tweet on Wilders, a headline from CNN about King’s remarks, and a Tweet by KKK leader and former GOP candidate David Duke praising King and his message. Rep. Gutiérrez said: “In his tweet, Representative King says, ‘Wilders understands that culture and demographics are our destiny. We can't restore our civilization with somebody else's babies.’ Let that sink in. In context, what it means is that A) Steve King believes western civilization is under attack by ‘outsiders;’ and B) those outsiders can never be assimilated or be considered part of ‘our civilization.’” Rep. Gutiérrez called on Republicans to address Rep. King’s rhetoric, because, he said, “This is what happens when good men and women remain silent. When we do not stand up to the bully, the racist, and the nationalist, they get more and more empowered and their actions become more and more normal. “Well, saying that black and brown people will be fighting each other and saying that non-white people are somehow “somebody else’s children” and not our children – the children of a nation that believes all men are created equal – well that is NOT normal and the American people will NOT accept the silence of the Republican Party when one of their own speaks out in these ways.” A video of Rep. Gutiérrez speech is here: https://youtu.be/z1JlD-FS4_s Video of Gutiérrez on Rep. King &amp;quot;This is what happens when good men and women remain silent.&amp;quot; Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the 4th District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee, and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Text, as prepared for delivery: Mr. Speaker, I use Twitter and have about 65,000 followers, which is pretty modest by Trump standards. And my staff is smart enough to keep the launch codes secret from me. That way, when I want to say something, we find the right words to express what I want to say and occasionally, very occasionally, I have a chance to cool down before firing off a Tweet. But this week, we learned that one of our colleagues does not have a reasonable staff person who helps him think through his Tweets. On Sunday, Steve King of Iowa tweeted out his love and praise for the anti-Muslim nationalist candidate in Holland who is running on an explicitly White supremacist platform. Anti-immigration, anti-Islam, anti-refugee, and anti-people of color, this candidate is the full White Nationalist package and apparently, King and Geert Wilders are very good friends. In his tweet, Representative King says, “Wilders understands that culture and demographics are our destiny. We can't restore our civilization with somebody else's babies.” Let that sink in. In context, what it means is that A) Steve King believes western civilization is under attack by “outsiders”; and B) those outsiders can never be assimilated or be considered part of “our civilization.” God knows what Representative King would think of my grandson, who likes to tell me that he is 100% Puerto Rican in this arm and 100% Mexican in this arm, but here in my heart grandpa, I am 100% American. You know, I think my grandson is right and the Congressman from Iowa is wrong. I think my grandson is every bit as American as Steve King or as I am. I was born during Jim Crow, when separate but equal was the law of the land, but during my lifetime, we fought segregation and racism, and my daughters have been fighting it even more in their generation so that exclusion, segregation and racial hatred are no longer the law of the land. Now, at least as far as I am concerned, my grandson who was born in America is an American, whether Steve King likes it or not. Born in Illinois, he is not someone else’s baby, he is 100% American, he is part of our civilization and is the future of America along with Steve King’s grandchildren. Just to be clear, Representative King’s message was warmly received and retweeted by none other than David Duke, the Grand Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan who has been a proud Republican candidate on numerous occasions. Duke said, “Just in case you were thinking of moving, sanity reigns supreme in Iowa’s 4th congressional district.” And, “God bless Steve King.” Oh, but Representative King was not done. He is never done. He did an interview with Iowa talk-radio where he discussed, “the plan” of television anchorman Jorge Ramos to make white people the minority in America, causing King to respond that, “I will predict that Hispanics and the blacks will be fighting each other before that happens." So, what happens when a Member of Congress makes racist remarks? Is he censured? Are his remarks taken down or rebuked by the Speaker of the House or leaders in that person’s political party? If he traveled somewhere without getting permission or he accepted a gift like tickets to a game without the prior approval of the Congress, he would be punished. He might get censured or called-out in some way. But for making racist comments, for supporting a racist candidate in someone else’s election, or for saying things that receive the high praise of David Duke? Probably nothing. I have not heard leaders in the Republican Party scrambling to say that Steve King does not represent their views on race, religion, diversity, and the threat that “somebody else’s babies” pose to American civilization. A friend in Chicago asked me what I thought was going on when a Member of Congress says such hurtful, xenophobic things, calling essentially on black and brown people to join a race war… The answer is that people like Representative King feel empowered, empowered by the presence of Steve Bannon, Stephen Miller, and Jeff Sessions in the White House; Empowered by a President who wants us all to fear Muslims, to fear Mexicans and frankly, to fear all Latinos, even my American grandson. And this is what happens when good men and women remain silent. When we do not stand up to the bully, the racist, and the nationalist, they get more and more empowered and their actions become more and more normal. Well, saying that black and brown people will be fighting each other and saying that non-white people are somehow “somebody else’s children” and not our children – the children of a nation that believes all men are created equal – well that is NOT normal and the American people will NOT accept the silence of the Republican Party when one of their own speaks out in these ways. I am waiting for the censure, the denunciations, and the rebukes, but I suspect I will be waiting a long time. # # #
03.13.2017	Chicago, IL – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) led a delegation of about 22 advocates, attorneys, clergy, service providers and local and federal officials to meet with the Acting Regional ICE Director Glenn Trivline in Chicago to discuss deportation cases and the way ICE is conducting business under the Trump Administration. The Congressman and his colleagues made a series of demands, including reversing decisions to deport certain long-term immigrants with deep roots in the community. Unsatisfied by the response to these demands, the Illinois Congressman and a number of the others in the meeting decided to stay and are risking arrest until their demands are met. Specifically, the Congressman was there to ask ICE to reverse its decision to deport Francisca Lino, the mother of 6 children, four of whom were born in the US, and wife of one US citizen the Congressman has known for years who has come to ICE year after year to report as ordered and only a few days ago was told at her regular annual check-in that this time they were ordering her deported. The Congressman has long defended Mrs. Lino as someone who should not be targeted by ICE enforcement and had met with Mr. Trivline about her case at least once before in 2008. https://gutierrez.house.gov/press-release/gutierrez-meeting-ice-yields-progress-mother-facing-deportation We are now receiving multiple reports nationally that DREAMers who have signed up for, paid for, and been approved for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, are being detained or processed for deportation. Last week ICE began Tweeting out threats that people with DACA are not protected from deportation and could be detained. At the Congressman’s jam-packed Community Town Hall event a week ago, he heard from teachers in Chicago Public Schools who are distraught because they do not know how to console families and students who are living in fear of having their parents taken away from them. The Congressman joined the Congressional Hispanic Caucus in February asking for a meeting with the Acting Director of ICE, which was granted and then abruptly cancelled. That was shortly after the first round of Trump’s Muslim and refugee bans. A second meeting was scheduled in the US Capitol with Acting ICE Director Thomas Homan for February 17, but Republican Members of Congress acted as gatekeepers for that meeting. Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte asked Congressman Gutierrez and several Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and others to leave. There has been no dialogue, no transparency, no consultation, and no accountability – just like every other aspect of how this White House does business. It is heavy-handed government in secret all to make the new strongman President look tough and to satisfy the cravings of his coliseum audience for some immigrants to sacrifice. The reality is that Donald Trump, Jeff Sessions, Stephen Miller and Steve Bannon know they cannot deport 10 or 11 million people without getting more resources from Congress for officers, detention beds and foster care for displaced children, so they are trying to multiply the power of their anti-immigrant deportation activities by stirring up fear in immigrant communities. This is the strategy they have labeled “attrition through enforcement” or “attrition through fear” and it is an effort to get families with deep roots in the U.S. to self-deport, to leave this country and their lives and property here. Mass deportation is a nationwide crisis affecting non-citizens from coast-to-coast, but today U.S. citizens are acting locally to say “stop.” Congressman Gutierrez and 6 other U.S. citizens decided they are willing to risk arrest in order to make their position crystal clear – mass deportation is not going to happen without a fight. Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
03.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Chairwoman Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01), CHC Immigration Task Force Chair Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04), and CHC Education and Labor Task Force Chair Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03) sent a letter to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Acting Director Thomas D. Homan to express outrage at a series of tweets that ICE issued on March 9, 2017 regarding the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program for DREAMers. Chairwoman Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01): “It is shameful that ICE is ratcheting up fear and terror in young people who courageously stepped out of the shadows, got right with the law, and applied for DACA. These are young people who represent the best of America. For the Administration to behave in such a hostile manner toward them is unacceptable. Since the DACA program began, these young people have had an enormous effect on educational and employment outcomes and have been a major driver of economic growth—for individuals and families, as well as cities and states. We should strive for more sensible, fair, and compassionate immigration policies like DACA, not threaten to rescind them.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04): “President Trump and his people should keep their hands off of the DREAMers, period. Tweeting out that every DACA recipient is vulnerable to deportation is just another way this President is trying to create fear in immigrant communities, to make families and children think that their government could come after them at any time. It is disgusting behavior on the part of the Department of Homeland Security and the White House and it needs to stop.” Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03): “DHS’s recent tweets make clear what many of us have known for some time: Donald Trump and this administration are more interested in deporting immigrants than they are in protecting families or retaining talent for our workforce. The DACA program was a commitment between our government and bright young people all across this country who have never known another place as home. Instead of honoring that commitment, Trump and his administration continue to imply that they would rather punish DACA recipients for choices they never made. Trump should know that fear is not a substitute for leadership – he can continue trying to terrorize immigrant communities, but immigrants will rise above his hate each and every time.” Links to ICE Tweets: https://twitter.com/ICEgov/status/839908185381224450 https://twitter.com/ICEgov/status/839908094155100160 https://twitter.com/ICEgov/status/839908031936753666 https://twitter.com/ICEgov/status/839907967692648449 LETTER 031017 Letter to DHS on ICE DACA Tweets.pdf March 10, 2017 Thomas D. Homan Acting Director U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) 500 12th St, SW Washington, D.C. 20024 Dear Acting Director Homan; We write to you to express our concern and outrage about a series of tweets that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) issued on March 9, 2017 regarding the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. These tweets reveal the Administration’s contempt for our communities and ultimately undermine the DACA program. We oppose any policy and enforcement changes that will result in the deportation of DACA recipients. We believe that the purpose of these tweets, which stated that DACA could be “revoked anytime” and that “DACA recipients are typically a lower level of enforcement priority” are meant to create fear among DREAMers and to discourage them from applying to the program. ICE continues to perpetuate this fear by detaining and trying to deport DREAMers. As we have seen in the cases of Daniel Ramirez Medina and Daniela Vargas. We find ICE’s actions to be despicable and very concerning given that ICE Acting Director Homan recently stated in a meeting with several Congressional members that DACA recipients were not a priority and would not be targeted unless they had a criminal record. The DACA program allows young immigrants to be productive members of society by allowing them to continue their studies and join the workforce. As a result of DACA, recipients can legally work, contribute greater amounts in state, local, and federal taxes and help provide for their families. In addition, the DACA program has allowed recipients to work in fields where there are current labor shortages, such as education, community service and health care. 87 percent of DACA recipients are currently employed and have helped to broaden the payroll tax base and increased Social Security and Medicare contributions. Anything that undermines the DACA program and results in a loss of workers will hurt the American economy. For example the state of California, which has an estimated 187,972 DACA workers, would lose $11.3 billion dollars annually if it were to lose these workers. Efforts by this Administration to undermine and ultimately repeal the DACA program are disconnected from reality and are not in the best interest of America. We ask that ICE use its limited resources to target violent criminals and not to harass and deport young immigrants who are productive and engaged members of society. Sincerely, Michelle Lujan Grisham CHC Chairwoman Luis V. Gutiérrez CHC Immigration and Border Issues Task Force Chair Raúl M. Grijalva CHC Education and Labor Task Force Chair # # # https://congressionalhispaniccaucus-lujangrisham.house.gov/media-center/press-releases
03.09.2017	Washington, DC – Today on the floor of the House of Representatives, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) discussed the overwhelmingly successful town hall event he held in the Avondale neighborhood of Chicago on Monday and offered lessons on what this says about the national resistance to the Trump Administration’s agenda. An estimated 1200 people packed the Logandale Middle School gym and auditorium (see Facebook Live broadcast: https://bit.ly/2m6vpk5) for the 90-minute event, which was followed by an additional hour of Q&A with the Congressman in the parking lot. In his speech on the floor today, Rep. Gutiérrez said “there is a movement in the United States that is standing up to the fear, the racism, the lies and the divisiveness that comes from the President, his people and his Twitter account every single day.” The Congressman described stories he heard of the fear Trump Administration policies are causing in Chicago neighborhoods: “A public school teacher I have known for years asked me how she can help her students in the City of Chicago. Her kids are being kept out of school or are losing sleep or displaying signs of depression because of the fear they have that their parents will be deported. She wants to comfort them, but the reality is she cannot.” “This town hall was the mother of all intersectionality events – right there in Chicago in America’s heartland,” the Congressman said, adding that the turnout and resolve of those in attendance indicated that the community would not back down: “Women in hijabs and women in pink hats are standing together to fight attacks on Muslims and attacks on women’s health. Environmental activists are joining men and women who fly the rainbow flag of the LGBTQ community to resist the President’s agenda. The entire community will stand together as the mass deportation wave becomes a day to day reality in our communities and the message is clear. If you come for one of us, you have to go through all of us.” The Congressman has scheduled a day-long “Mega-Citizenship Workshop” for Saturday at the same location (March 11, 9:30 am, Avondale/Logandale School, 3212 W George Street, Chicago, IL 60618), and called for volunteers at the community town hall event. Pointing to a picture of the town hall event during today’s speech, the Congressman said: “So all day Saturday, we will have a small army of Family Defenders trained in citizenship helping their neighbors pursue naturalization. Just as you see the school packed with voters and constituents, you will see the room packed with people applying for citizenship and packed with Americans there to help them. That is what Chicago is all about and that is what the heartland is all about and that is what America is all about, Mr. President.” A video of the speech today is here: https://youtu.be/qqrGfLkXHfE Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks (As Prepared for Delivery) March 9, 2017 Mr. Speaker, there is no doubt in my mind that the resistance to this President and his policies is growing in America’s heartland. If the 1,200 people who came to my town hall in Chicago on Monday night are any indication, there is a movement in the United States that is standing up to the fear, the racism, the lies and the divisiveness that comes from the President, his people and his Twitter account every single day. The Logandale School auditorium and gym was packed. No, not like the National Mall on Inauguration day, with wide open spaces and the President’s imaginary crowd of 1.5 million people. No. My town hall was actually packed, like the Mall on the day after inauguration for the Women’s March. And it was a diverse crowd of people who care about America and defending their country. It was overwhelming. We had Ahmed Rehab, the inspirational leader of CAIR-Chicago talking about what was going on in Chicago to resist the President’s new and unimproved ban on refugees and Muslims. He was joined by Equality Illinois, Planned Parenthood of Illinois and the Little Village Environmental Justice Organization talking about how the people of Chicago are coming together to resist the President’s attacks on women’s health, on LGBTQ rights, on public schools and education, on women’s rights, and on the environment. It was the intersection between all of the communities and issues that are under attack by President Trump and co-President Bannon. This town hall was the mother of all intersectionality events – right there in Chicago in America’s heartland. No, they were not paid activists. They were ordinary people trying to get answers and defend their community against an unprecedented threat coming from the White House and Republicans in Congress. For more than an hour I answered questions and then I stayed in the parking lot for another hour and talked with people who still had questions. And some were heartbreaking. A public school teacher I have known for years asked me how she can help her students in the City of Chicago. Her kids are being kept out of school or are losing sleep or displaying signs of depression because of the fear they have that their parents will be deported. She wants to comfort them, but the reality is she cannot. Individuals asked me how they can protect families who are terrified that they will get deported. Just this week, a mother I have known for years, who has a stay of deportation and been regularly reporting to ICE officials for years was told she is being deported. She has a US citizen husband and 4 US citizen children and she has complied with the law and reported to authorities only to be told that under Trump, the rules have changed and she is now a top priority for deportation. Not because she should be deported, but because she can be deported. This fear is having an impact on families and children. But what came through to me at the town hall meeting is that families, vulnerable immigrants and millions of children with a birthright to live as Americans – they are not alone. There are thousands and thousands of allies who are joining together to defend families in Chicago and everywhere else. At the town hall on Monday I appealed for help because in the very same room on this coming Saturday, my office is holding a citizenship workshop. I asked those who already have citizenship to come help those who are applying for citizenship, and hundreds of hands went up saying they will help. We scheduled the citizenship workshop because we are unable to satisfy my constituents’ huge demand for citizenship information. Some days we have lines out the door at my office on Fullerton Avenue. So all day Saturday, we will have a small army of Family Defenders trained in citizenship helping their neighbors pursue naturalization. Just as you see the school packed with voters and constituents, you will see the room packed with people applying for citizenship and packed with Americans there to help them. That is what Chicago is all about and that is what the heartland is all about and that is what America is all about, Mr. President. Women in hijabs and women in pink hats are standing together to fight attacks on Muslims and attacks on women’s health. Environmental activists are joining men and women who fly the rainbow flag of the LGBTQ community to resist the President’s agenda. The entire community will stand together as the mass deportation wave becomes a day to day reality in our communities and the message is clear. If you come for one of us, you have to go through all of us. My constituents demanded I be a wrench in Trump’s cruel agenda and I will not disappointment them. # # #
03.06.2017	Chicago – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s latest executive actions on Muslims, immigration, refugees and asylum seekers. This is just the same stuff on a different day. If you called xenophobia a rose, would it not smell just as foul? Our President, who clearly has a hard time distinguishing facts from fiction, is continuing to take us down the wrong road, the road away from security, morality, and prosperity. As I said in January, the President should have faith in the strength of our own country and the vitality of her citizens and culture. A nation of 300 million people that has blazed a trail for the world for more than 240 years can withstand 50,000 or 100,000 moms, dads and children fleeing for their lives. We always have and we always should. The poem on the Statue of Liberty says “I lift my lamp beside the golden door!” not “We are scared of you, come back later when we feel better.” Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
02.28.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) responded to President Trump’s call for greatly reduced legal immigration and a “merit-based” admissions system to reduce the legal immigration of low-skilled immigrants. The President also restated the lie that immigrants are a source of higher crime in the U.S. and that a wall will be an effective immigration or border security measure. The President also expressed his support for mass deportation of immigrants regardless of how long they have lived in the U.S. and how much they have contributed to this country. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois and sits on the House Judiciary Committee and is the Chairman of the Immigration Taskforce of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The President is lying when he says he supports immigration reform in any meaningful sense. He spent most of his speech denigrating immigrants, tarring our community as criminals, drug-dealers, and killers and we cannot stand for it. He is dressing his mass deportation plans up in nicer language, but hearing every Republican applaud the President’s hateful words is very disheartening. The President sees Latinos and immigrants as threats, as criminals, and as killers. He highlights the crimes that some immigrants have committed in an effort to turn the American people against immigration. He envisions an immigration system where quotas for PhD’s are set in Washington and the multitude of immigrants who built this country and who keep it flourishing would not be welcome. The Latino community won’t forget and won’t let that happen. And the millions of allies we have who support immigration as a fundamental and integral aspect of America’s greatness will not forget either. The President’s speech was ripped from the pages of Breitbart and you could imagine Steve Bannon’s lips moving with every sentence. Bannon and Trump’s vision of an isolated and vengeful America, with a less diverse population and greater walls and moats is an ugly and fear-based vision. I also found his characterization of Chicago as a murderous hellscape unfair, especially because I do not believe for an instant that Trump wants to do anything meaningful for the residents of our great city, anything to invest in jobs or in safer streets. It was a gratuitous jab at our city and I resent it. The President has taken America around a sharp bend, veering towards a nation that is looking backwards and fearful of the future. # # #
02.23.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) announced today that his guest for the President’s address to a joint session of Congress on February 28 will be Ms. Fidaa Elaydi, a Chicago immigration attorney who works with a mostly Middle Eastern clientele – those most directly targeted by Trump’s Muslim Ban. Ms. Elaydi was born in the U.S. to parents who were refugees from Gaza in the Palestinian Territories. “If he looks up during the speech,” Rep. Gutierrez said, “I want Trump to see the face of a woman, the face of a Muslim, and the face of someone whose family has enriched and contributed to this country despite starting out as refugees. Trump needs to know that real people are hurt by his policies and Ms. Elaydi can make that point in so many ways. I am looking forward to it.” Rep. Gutiérrez is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # # [Note: An earlier version of this release misidentified the Congressman's guest. The correct name is Ms. Fidaa Elaydi.]
02.22.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement in response to measures taken by the Trump Administration that threatens to implement the most sweeping increase in deportations in sixty years. The Trump Administration has made almost every single undocumented immigrant the highest priority for deportation, vowed to undermine border security and community safety in several ways, and is taking actions to strip American residents and workers of basic due process and Constitutional rights. The following is a statement from Rep. Gutiérrez who is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus: Secretary of Homeland Security Kelly has come into office pledging to destroy millions of American families and implement the Bannon purge of immigrants from America. Just vowing to round-up and deport a population roughly the size of Pennsylvania or Georgia indicates that this Administration is unhinged and has a shaky grasp of reality. Bannon, Sessions and Trump know they don’t have the resources to round-up and deport ten million immigrants, so they are strategically injecting fear into immigrant communities and making the police, churches, and the courts danger-zones for immigrants. They want to turn the American people against immigration by driving home the lie that immigrants are a criminal element that detract from, rather than enrich, American life. The strategy is based on hostility, vengeance, and the fiction that millions of people who have lived here for decades will abandon areas of the country where they and their children feel unsafe. You could call it a strategy of attrition through terror, instituted at a time when illegal migration is historically low, crime is extraordinarily low, and the federal budget, courts, and workforce are all strapped practically to the breaking point. President Bannon and his spokesman Donald Trump will weaken the country and make our borders and cities less safe. We are seeing a huge surge in Chicago of people seeking citizenship for themselves and family members with lines stretching out the door of my District Office. Legal, long-term immigrants are seeking information on how they protect themselves and their loved ones. In Chicago and in communities across the country, Americans are also organizing to undermine the deportation force coming to break up families. We cannot sit by as our government comes for parents, puts children in foster care, and takes a meat axe to the trust built up over years between the police and the communities they protect and serve. # # #
02.16.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement in response to being excluded from a meeting in the U.S. Capitol with Acting Director Thomas Homan of ICE. Rep. Gutiérrez was asked to leave the meeting by staffers for Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) at the request of Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and Speaker Ryan. Several other Members were excluded from the meeting with the ICE official, including Reps. Nanette Barragán (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO), Lou Correa (D-CA), Ruben Kihuen (D-NV), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Norma Torres (D-CA), and Juan Vargas (D-CA). Rep. Gutiérrez was among the Members who requested the meeting with the Acting ICE Director in a letter on February 11 (https://bit.ly/2lYxChf). A meeting originally scheduled for Tuesday with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and other Democrats in the House was cancelled at the last minute by ICE. It was rescheduled to today and turned into a Republican-led meeting run by Chairman Goodlatte and was apparently made invitation-only. Members were told by Chairman Goodltte at the meeting that any further meetings with ICE officials would have to be cleared by the Republican Judiciary Committee Chairman. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez, who is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security and the Chairman of the CHC Taskforce on Immigration. He represents the 4th District of Illinois and is starting his 13th term. In 20-plus years, I have never heard of the Republicans controlling what meetings Democrats can have with officials of the Executive Branch and never had a staffer ask me to leave a meeting to which I am entitled to attend. My constituents have questions about who is being targeted by ICE, which DREAMers with DACA they are targeting for deportation, which victims of domestic violence ICE is deporting, which immigrants at church shelters are being targeted. We know the statements by Trump about targeting criminals is a lie, but we were hoping someone could give us the truth or any information at all. The new mass deportation executive orders are unprecedented, but so are the lengths to which the Speaker and Chairman Goodlatte are going to control the information being disseminated to Members of Congress. I expect such dictatorial shenanigans from the Trump Administration, but not from competent, compassionate legislators like Speaker Ryan or from legislators like Bob Goodlatte. Do they have ear pieces feeding them orders from President Bannon or the others making decisions in the White House? Speaker Ryan is not an emperor and does not control who I meet with. My colleagues and I asked for this meeting and we still have not been given details by ICE about who they are deporting, why, and how. We simply have hit a stone wall and now Republicans in the House are cooperating in limiting the information that we can provide to our constituents. Outside the meeting, an impromptu press conference took place, parts of which were broadcast by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus via Facebook Live (https://www.facebook.com/congressional.hispanic.caucus/videos/10154450226738261/). # # #
02.16.2017	Washington, DC – Hoy, el congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) habló de su proyecto de ley HR 900 en el hemiciclo del Congreso de los Estados Unidos. En su discurso, él hablo del debate entre los asimilistas quien favorecen la estadidad y los Puertorriqueñistas que quieren un debate sobre todas las opciones: libre asociación y independencia. Video: https://youtu.be/zuAob-AaMBU Texto: Mr. Speaker, I will speak Spanish to the people of Puerto Rico. The translation is at the desk. Señor presidente: Voy a hablar en español, el vernáculo de los puertorriqueños porque la democracia exige transparencia y claridad. La esencia del debate acerca del futuro de Puerto Rico es la diferencia entre el asimilismo, representado por el proyecto presentado por Jenniffer González, y el que yo presenté. Yo nunca he excluido la estadidad. Los asimilistas han excluido la independencia y la libre asociación. Lo que hace mi proyecto es sencillamente traer balance, corregir un desequilibrio. De aquí en adelante, el debate es entre los líderes asimilistas y el pueblo, los puertorriqueñistas. La asimilación ya no es la única opción ante el Congreso. Mi proyecto propone la libre asociación y la independencia. Eso es lo que proponen los puertorriqueñistas. ¿Qué nos motiva a los puertorriqueñistas? El amor a Puerto Rico; defender su herencia; creen que podemos ser autosuficientes; creen que podemos determinar nuestro futuro sin tener amos; creen en sí mismos. Están convencidos que podemos crear empleos, con una economía fuerte y vibrante de un pueblo innovador, creativo, y totalmente capaz de determinar su propio futuro. Los líderes asimilistas piensan que nos morimos de hambre sin los Estados Unidos. Los puertorriqueñistas no macanean a los estudiantes cuando levantan su voz en defensa de la democracia --- eso lo hacen los lideres asimilistas. Los puertorriqueñistas creen que primero hay que pagar las pensiones al pueblo mientras los asimilistas prefieren pagar los bonistas norteamericanos de Wall Street. Los puertorriqueñistas aman y protegen su tierra. Los asimilistas quieren destruirla construyendo un gasoducto. Los puertorriqueñistas entienden que la democracia debe florecer. La libre expresión del pueblo es sagrada. Los líderes asimilistas, cuando no les gusta lo que escuchan del pueblo, llaman a la fuerza de choque. Los líderes asimilistas no han atacado lo que propone mi proyecto. Ellos atacan al proponente. Los asimilistas quieren que los congresistas solamente escucharan su versión del futuro. Están molestos porque este congresista ha traído antes el Congreso las otras dos alternativas, que de hecho, se van a votar en el plebiscito de Puerto Rico. En Puerto Rico quieren una realidad, y los asimilistas en el Congreso quieren pretender que hay otra. No, con mi proyecto, aquí va a haber balance, verdad y transparencia: esa es la democracia, en eso creemos los puertorriqueñistas—el debate, la discusión y la libertad de ideas. Los líderes asimilistas, a través de la historia han perseguido y metido a los puertorriqueñistas en la cárcel, y si no en la cárcel, los llevan hasta Cerro Maravilla. Los asimilistas dicen que los puertorriqueñistas son antiamericanos. No y no. Los puertorriqueñistas son anticoloniales. Quieren para Puerto Rico la soberanía que tienen y disfrutan los norteamericanos. ¡Sí, así es! Los puertorriqueñistas quieren lo mismo que tienen los norteamericanos: vivir en una nación libre y soberana donde ellos mismos dictan su futuro y no tienen amo. Los puertorriqueñistas ven el sol y ven energía que podemos cosechar. Ven la tierra y ven alimentos que nos darán de comer. Los puertorriqueñistas están motivados por el amor a la patria y su herencia, y el conocimiento de que podemos ser grandes, que tenemos la inteligencia y la capacidad de innovar y crear. Desde mi infancia en el destierro en Estados Unidos escuché la canción “Preciosa” y vine a entender que el tirano, la negra maldad es el colonialismo norteamericano. Lo dijo Rafael Hernández, la conciencia cantada de mi pueblo. Los puertorriqueñistas recuerdan con añoranza su patria “En mi Viejo San Juan” la canción que dice “…esa extraña nación”, como decían los boricuas en Estado Unidos, “esta no es mi tierra,” cuando confrontaban el abuso, discriminación y racismo. Puerto Rico lo es. El puertorriqueño es su diáspora de Nueva York a Chicago, de San Juan a Ponce, todos somos puertorriqueños. Como escribió nuestro poeta nacional, Juan Antonio Corretjer, “Yo sería boricua aunque naciera en la luna”. Y, añado con todo el respeto, “sería boricua aun si viviese en la luna”. TRANSLATION (text as prepared for delivery): Mr. Speaker, I will speak Spanish to the people of Puerto Rico. The translation is at the desk. SPANISH: Mr. Speaker: I am going to speak Spanish, the language of Puerto Ricans because democracy demands transparency and clarity. The essence of the debate over Puerto Rico’s future is the difference between assimilation, represented in the legislation proposed by Resident Commissioner Jenniffer Gonzalez (HR 260) and the legislation I have introduced (HR 900). I have never excluded statehood. The assimilationists have excluded independence and free association from their proposals. What my legislation does is simply add balance and corrects a disequilibrium. From now on, the debate is between the assimilationist leaders and the people, the Puertoricanists. Assimilation is not the only option before the Congress of the United States. My bill proposes free association and independence as options. This is what the Puertoricanists propose. What motivates us? The love of Puerto Rico and defending our heritage; believing that we can be self-sufficient; believing that we can determine our own future without masters; believing in ourselves. The Puertoricanists are convinced that we can create jobs in a strong and vibrant economy with people who are innovative, creative and completely capable of determining their own future. The assimilationist leaders think that we’ll starve to death without the United States. The Puertoricanists do not arrest students when they lift their voices in defense of democracy. That is what the assimilationist leaders do. The Puertoricanists believe that first you pay the pensions of working people, while the assimilationists prefer to pay American bondholders on Wall Street. The Puertoricanists love and protect the land. The assimilationists want to destroy it by constructing pipelines. The Puertoricanists understand that democracy must flourish. The free expression of the people is sacred. Assimilationist leaders, when they don’t like what they hear from the people, call in the riot squad. Assimilationist leaders haven’t attacked what my legislation would do, they have attacked its proponents. Assimilationists want Members of Congress to only hear their version of the future. They are annoyed because this Member has brought before the Congress the other two options, which, in fact, are the options up for a plebiscite vote in Puerto Rico this year. In Puerto Rico, they want one reality and in the Congress they pretend there is another. No, with my bill we have balance, truth and transparency. This is democracy. In this Puertoricanists believe: debate, discussion, freedom of ideas. Assimilationist leaders throughout history have chased and jailed Puertoricanists, and when they did not jail them, they took them to Cerro Maravilla. Assimilationists say the Puertoricanists are anti-American. No, the Puertoricanists and anti-colonialists. They want for Puerto Rico the sovereignty enjoyed and celebrated in the United States. Yes, the Puertoricanists want the same thing the Americans have, to live in a free and sovereign nation where we determine our own destiny without masters. Puertoricanists see the sun and see the energy we can harvest; see the land and the food we can eat. Puertoricanists are motivated by love of country, love of our heritage and the understanding that we can be great, that we are intelligent and capable of innovation and creativity. From my infancy in exile in the United States I listened to the song “Preciosa” and came to understand that the tyrant – the dark evil – is American colonialism. So said Rafael Hernandez, the singing conscience of my people Puertoricanists longingly recall the song “En mi Viejo San Juan (In my Old San Juan)” where it says “…this strange nation,” just as Puerto Ricans in the U.S. say “this is not my land” – when they confront abuse, discrimination and racism. “Puerto Rico is.” The Puerto Rican is his diaspora, from New York to Chicago, San Juan to Ponce, we are all Puerto Ricans. As our national poet, Juan Antonio Corretjer, wrote: “I would be Puerto Rican even if I were born on the moon.” To which I would add, with a great deal of respect, “I would be Puerto Rican, even if I lived on the moon.” # # #
02.15.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement in response to news that an individual with a work permit and deferred action granted under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) initiative was arrested in Seattle, Washington. Daniel Ramirez Medina is still being held by immigration authorities at last report. The following is a statement from Rep. Gutiérrez who is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois, who is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus: Donald Trump has crossed a line and he should let Daniel go. Let him go. Immigration authorities have no reason and no right to hold someone who has been granted deferred action, holds a valid work permit, and is an asset to his family and his community. Just let him go. What does Donald Trump want with someone who is working above board, on-the-books, who has gone through an extensive criminal background check twice and is complying with the law, at home minding his own business? This is disgraceful. The Republican Leadership and the Chairman of the Judiciary Committee of the House of Representatives are all sitting on their hands as the new President rewrites deportation and immigration policy, arrests and detains innocent people who are authorized to be here, blocks and detains people with visas, all with zero oversight. ICE personnel refuse to meet with or provide information to Members of Congress on any of their activities and this is not the way democracy is supposed to work. If House leaders are not willing to use their gavel and do their job to protect the American people and the rule of law, something is seriously wrong. # # #
02.10.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement in response to news that immigration enforcement operations have been stepped up around the country including home and workplace raids. Reports from news media, attorneys and advocates in California, Arizona, Texas, North Carolina, Georgia and other states indicate a new initiative is underway. This could be a return to the failed raids and round-ups strategies of previous presidents, but based on reports (because official sources have not been forthcoming), it goes beyond targeting serious criminals who could pose a threat to public safety. The following is a statement from Rep. Gutiérrez who is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois, who is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus: The President wants to show off and it appears he has unleashed the Department of Homeland Security to kick-out large numbers of immigrants and anyone they encounter, without much oversight, review or due process. There is very little official information on what appears to be a new Trump deportation initiative. Homeland Security is deporting moms, dads and working men and women under the smoke screen of criminal or anti-terror actions. Like so much the President says, the idea that mass deportation is a tool for crime reduction or national security is a straight up lie. There is no law-enforcement or anti-terror motive for rounding up working-class immigrants in their homes, in the fields and workplaces, or taking random people off the street. The President is lying when he says deporting immigrants is about fighting crime. National attention has been on the Muslim Ban and the Wall of Hate, but sweeping, broad-based deportations of average people have begun. We are getting reports about the targeting of people who are complying with the law when they report to immigration authorities, people who are long-term residents with deep ties to their communities and no criminal activity, and people authorities just encounter when they say they are looking for someone else. The goal of such policies is to inject fear into immigrant communities, frighten families and children, and drive immigrants farther underground. It damages public safety and the fabric of American communities while putting a burden on local social services and the foster-care system. In cities, towns and states, we are organizing to fight back against the Trump deportation machine, slow the process so that every person’s due process rights are respected and make sure the summary deportations do not go unnoticed. But this is a very grim new chapter in American immigration history and I fear this is only the beginning. # # #
02.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Representatives Adriano Espaillat (D-NY-13) and Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL-04) led 62 House Democrats in sending a joint letter to Speaker Paul Ryan urging him to reverse course and take a stand against the implementation of President Donald Trump’s Muslim Ban executive order. “It is our hope that Speaker Ryan will take immediate action to reverse this course and oppose President Donald Trump's ‘Muslim Ban,’” said Rep. Espaillat. “We love our country and are saddened by the divisive and hateful actions that are being wrongfully taken in the name of national security and we are calling upon Speaker Ryan to oppose President Trump’s callous anti-immigrant, anti-American actions. This is a critical time for our country and these executive actions make us less secure and less safe by jeopardizing U.S. national security interests and endangering tens of thousands of lives around the world.” “This is a gut-check moment for the country, for the Congress, and for the Speaker of the House,” said Rep. Gutiérrez. “When policies from the President run so contrary to core American values, the American people look to leaders to speak out and we have not seen that from the Speaker or from many of the House Republicans. The policy- and rhetorical-attacks on immigrants, on refugees, on legal immigration, on Latinos, on Muslims, and on travelers to our country – these require a response from the Speaker.” Click here to read the letter in its entirety:Espaillat and Gutierrez Lead 62 Democratic Members Asking Speaker Ryan to Reverse Course on Donald Trump's Muslim Ban .pdf # # #
02.07.2017	In English: https://bit.ly/2lfA2vx Washington, DC – Hoy, el Representante Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04) presento un proyecto de ley (HR 900) que inicia el proceso para terminar el control del Congreso sobre Puerto Rico y el actual estatus territorial que fue rechazado por votantes en el 2012. “La soberanía siempre ha sido una opción para el futuro estatus de Puerto Rico, pero no hemos dejado que la gente Puertorriqueña se someta a una consideración amplia, un debate y a un voto para elegir la independencia o la libre asociación. Este proyecto de ley representa el comienzo de ese proceso,” dijo el Representante Gutiérrez, quien es nacido en los Estados Unidos de padres puertorriqueños. “La estadidad y la plena asimilación—en la que Puerto Rico entrega su nacionalidad, su cultura, su equipo olímpico, su idioma y la capacidad para determinar su propio futuro sin un dueño—no es la única opción y no es la mejor opción para los puertorriqueños. Este proyecto de ley someterá la determinación del futuro estatus de Puerto Rico a un debate completo, justo y honesto, que incluya todos los remedios para la subyugación colonial actual de Puerto Rico y que se le presente a todos los votantes.” La legislación llega en víspera de la preparación de otro plebiscito unilateral, introducido por los estadistas de la Isla, con fin de reforzar su reclamo por la estadidad. Sin embargo, el año pasado, encabezado por los republicanos y con mucho apoyo de parte de los demócratas, el Congreso de Estados Unidos asumió la toma de decisiones financieras del gobierno y el pueblo de Puerto Rico, formando una Junta de Control para dirigir la Isla. Durante el proceso de toma de control, el Congreso declaro inequívocamente que Puerto Rico es una colonia y que el Congreso tiene la soberanía del pueblo puertorriqueño. “La relación colonial con los Estados Unidos nunca ha sido más espantosa”, dijo el Congresista. “Es hora de devolverle la soberanía al pueblo puertorriqueño.” “Cada vez que un puertorriqueño compra algo con un billete de un dólar con la cara de George Washington, la ironía es inconfundible,” continuó el Representante Gutiérrez. “George Washington, Alexander Hamilton y los fundadores de Estados Unidos eran anticolonialistas feroces que lucharon contra la tiranía y los impuestos sin representación. Ellos copatrocinarían mi proyecto de ley si estuvieran vivos hoy. Puerto Rico está gobernado por los Estados Unidos, y en las manos de la Junta de Control, pero los principios fundadores de la autodeterminación estadounidense y el gobierno de los gobernados siempre han sido ignorados.” “Tengamos un proceso justo e honesto y dejemos que la gente puertorriqueña decida. Dejemos que la gente puertorriqueña decida si ahora es el momento para nuestra Declaración de Independencia.” Rep. Gutiérrez is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
02.07.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor this morning during the Morning Hour (approximately 10:00 am ET) to speak out against the President’s ban on travel for certain Muslim-majority countries and the cessation of the worldwide refugee program. He noted the American commercial brands – advertisers like Budweiser and 84 Lumber – who used air time during the Super Bowl to push back on the President’s attacks on immigrants and immigration. He also noted the efforts by Coca-Cola, Starbuck’s and other large American corporations to stand up to the President’s divisive Muslim ban and related policies. Standing before a poster with the Statue of Liberty and stills from the Budweiser and 84 Lumber Super Bowl ads, the Illinois Congressman said: Mr. Speaker, I am not here to advertise products or tell anyone what to shop for or who to buy from. But it is a pretty important moment in our history when America’s largest companies are going out of their way to say that this President’s anti-immigration agenda runs contrary to core values of their corporations and core values of this country. Rep. Gutiérrez said by restricting legal immigration, blocking travel by visa-holders and shutting down refugee admissions: The reality TV host in the White House, who is all about burnishing his own brand, has damaged the most important brand in world history – the American Brand, the Statue of Liberty and the Bald Eagle. He concluded by saying: Here’s my message, I am not handing over my money to people or companies that take that money and invest in hate; invest in bigotry; invest in discrimination; that destroy the reputation and the image of the United States. I’m not putting one dollar into those companies. I’m not going to use my money to support that. A video of the speech today is here: https://youtu.be/2x7hZbnomzY The Congressman’s previous statements on the President’s executive orders and other materials can be found here: https://gutierrez.house.gov/media-center and here: https://www.facebook.com/RepGutierrez/ Rep. Gutiérrez is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks (As Prepared for Delivery) February 7, 2017 As we all learned on Sunday, Adolphus Busch came to America from Germany to make the King of Beers. He didn’t have a visa; he had a boat ticket. And, of course, our country welcomed him. Well, not exactly. In the Super Bowl ad that aired, Mr. Busch was told “You’re not wanted here. Go back home.” But then the young man eventually reaches St. Louis, meets Mr. Anheuser, and Budweiser – one of the most unmistakably American brands around the world – is born. All of us assume that the President was watching the ad because it was, after all, the Super Bowl, and it was broadcast by the Fox Network, his favorite. But I wonder if the message sank in. To borrow a line from a different advertiser: Mr. Speaker, I don’t always drink beer, but when I do, I think next time it will be a Bud. Then there was the little girl and her mom who walked to America from Latin America in the 84 Lumber ad. They didn’t have a visa either because, well, we don’t generally allow visas to people from Latin America who are seeking a better life for their families. And if they did qualify for a visa, that girl would most likely be a grown-up by the time the visa was processed. We learned that Fox Television told the advertiser to edit out a border wall scene in the original version of the ad. I guess even Fox is worried about being attacked by the Tweeter in Chief. I’m not even sure what 84 Lumber sells, but I think I’ll go out and buy some. Mr. Speaker, I haven’t had a cup of coffee in 30 years. I don’t drink the stuff. But you can bet I am going to find my way into a Starbucks sometime soon because they just announced – in the midst of all this political turmoil – that they will hire an additional 10,000 refugees. The CEO of Starbucks said in a letter recently, “There are more than 65 million citizens of the world recognized as refugees by the United Nations, and we are developing plans to hire 10,000 of them over five years in the 75 countries around the world where Starbucks does business.” And this is in addition to a commitment that Starbucks made to hire 10,000 veterans and military spouses over the next 5 years. With less than 2 years to go, Starbucks has hired over 8,800 vets and spouses. Apple and Netflix were among the companies to strongly oppose the President’s ban on travel from certain Muslim countries and the halt to the refugee program. I know this because I Googled it – and Google is another company that has stepped up as a corporate citizen to say that restricting legal immigration by visa-holders is bad for their bottom line, bad for a nation built by immigrants and bad for a nation that is a leader of – and dependent on – the world economy. And Mr. Speaker, there is no more iconic world brand – no commercial symbol more associated with America and Americans around the world than Coke. Unlike coffee, Mr. Speaker, I enjoy a “Coke and Smile” several times a day. The company issued a statement recently that said [quote] “Coca-Cola Co. is resolute in its commitment to diversity, fairness and inclusion, and we do not support this travel ban or any policy that is contrary to our core values and beliefs.” Mr. Speaker, I am not here to advertise products or tell anyone what to shop for or who to buy from. But it is a pretty important moment in our history when America’s largest companies are going out of their way to say that this President’s anti-immigration agenda runs contrary to core values of their corporations and core values of this country. When the CEO of Uber has to resign from a corporate advisory council because the President’s policies are so toxic, it is costing his business – and the competition at Lyft is capitalizing on it – quite literally – well, then the President has probably made a mistake. The reality TV host in the White House, who is all about burnishing his own brand, has damaged the most important brand in world history – the American Brand, the Statue of Liberty and the Bald Eagle. Mr. Speaker, American consumers who drive our economy, the men and women who open up the businesses that feed our economy, and those who wake up every day to make the products – at this moment they are being asked to get involved and to let their choices be known. As the Starbucks CEO said recently, "If there is any lesson to be learned over the last year, it’s that your voice and your vote matter more than ever. We are all obligated to ensure our elected officials hear from us individually and collectively.” Here’s my message, I am not handing over my money to people or companies that take that money and invest in hate; invest in bigotry; invest in discrimination; that destroy the reputation and the image of the United States. I’m not putting one dollar into those companies. I’m not going to use my money to support that. Mr. Speaker, I am going to yield back the rest of my time because I am going to go buy whatever they have at Starbucks that is not coffee. # # #
02.07.2017	En español: https://bit.ly/2kJJF4O Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) introduced a bill (HR 900) that starts the process to end Congress’ control of Puerto Rico and its current territorial status which was rejected by voters in 2012. The legislation calls for a referendum where the Puerto Rican people determine the Island’s future political status by choosing between full independence or a compact of free association with the U.S. “Sovereignty has always been on the table as an option for the future status of Puerto Rico, but we have failed to allow the Puerto Rican people a full examination, debate and up-or-down vote on independence or free association. This bill represents the beginning of that process,” said Rep. Gutiérrez, who is the U.S.-born child of Puerto Rican parents. “Statehood and full assimilation—where Puerto Rico gives up its nationhood, its culture, its Olympic teams, its language and the ability to determine its own future without a master—is not the only option and I would argue, not the best option for Puerto Ricans. This bill is about making the determination of Puerto Rico’s future status subject to a full, fair and honest debate with all of the remedies for Puerto Rico’s current colonial subjugation put before voters. The legislation comes as the Island’s statehooders are preparing another one-sided plebiscite aimed at bolstering their case for statehood. Yet, just last year, led by Republicans but joined by many Democrats, the Congress of the United States took over the financial decision-making of the Puerto Rican government and people, forming a Fiscal Control Board (Junta de Control) to run the Island. In the process of taking control, the Congress declared unequivocally that Puerto Rico is a colony and that Congress holds the sovereignty of the Puerto Rican people. “The colonial relationship with the United States has never been starker,” the Congressman said. “It is time to return sovereignty back to the Puerto Rican people.” “Every time a Puerto Rican buys anything with a dollar bill with George Washington’s face on it, the irony is unmistakable,” Rep. Gutiérrez continued. “George Washington, Alexander Hamilton and the founders of the United States were fierce anti-colonialists who fought against tyranny and taxation without representation. They would co-sponsor my bill if they were alive today. Puerto Rico is under the rule of the U.S. and under the thumb of the Junta de Control, yet the founding principles of the U.S. – self-determination and government by the governed – have always been ignored.” “Let’s have a fair and honest process and let the Puerto Rican people decide. Let the Puerto Rican people decide if now is the time for our Declaration of Independence.” Rep. Gutiérrez is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # # Gutiérrez propone plebiscito entre la independencia y libre asociación | El Nuevo Día https://bit.ly/2kINmYH
02.01.2017	Washington, DC – After two weeks of lurching “from one fiasco to another,” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) said he would give President Trump his copy of the Constitution, signed by Gold Star father (and convention speaker) Khizr Khan, “who asked a question I do not think any one of us knows the answer to: has the President even read the Constitution?” Rep. Gutiérrez said we are in Trump’s “post ‘1984’ world of ‘new-speak’” where “Up is down and down is up.” And he said of the new President and his policies, “We can all see through the Emperor’s new clothes – and his Chinese-made tie – and the view isn’t pretty.” The Illinois Congressman discussed the actions the new President is taking to criminalize immigrants and the report mandated in one of the recent executive actions to provide a weekly tally of crimes committed by "aliens." Rep. Gutiérrez said “the new ‘immigrant rape report’ is ripped from the headlines of Breitbart and other right-wing websites, except that now, it is the basis of government policy.” He discussed Steve Bannon’s role on the “Nationalist Security Council” and the curious cabinet picks of the new “Dear Leader.” These include people who hired undocumented immigrants or failed to pay employer taxes for nannies and maids who will now be cabinet secretaries. People are nominated who have vowed to close the agencies they will run. And of Senator Jeff Sessions, the Congressman said: “If you have opposed every inch of progress for civil and human rights in this country with every fiber of your being – immigrants’ rights, LGBT rights, basic civil rights for people of color, basic protections to make sure that everyone’s vote counts equally – well in that case you get to oversee the Department of Justice, the agency ultimately charged with making sure everyone gets equal protection under the law.” A video of the speech today is here: https://youtu.be/vrMaQDuH5Z8 His previous statements on the President’s executive orders, his speech Tuesday on those executive orders, and a short video in English and Spanish can be found here: https://gutierrez.house.gov/media-center and here: https://www.facebook.com/RepGutierrez/ Rep. Gutiérrez is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks (As Prepared for Delivery) February 1, 2017, approx. 10 am ET So for the last 2 weeks, we have lurched from one fiasco to another, played out on a national and international stage. There were press briefings and Presidential statements filled with official lies. We have witnessed tragedies, late night firings, policy changes and “clarifications” – also known as back-tracking – and then we come back for another round of fiascos. We are told we will not have a National Security Council as we always have had– one with the top minds of the Intelligence Community and the head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. No, instead, we will have a Nationalist Security Council with Breitbart’s Steve Bannon and his personal experience as a former Navy officer…right there in the situation room. I’m not feeling safer already. The President has acted to criminalize immigrants and to make every immigrant an equal priority for deportation. Trump actually buried a requirement in his executive orders to count – every week – the number of crimes committed by immigrants and to have the government officially tally every single week the number of Mexican rapists, criminals and drug-dealers – the ones Donald Trump has been talking about since he launched his campaign. By law, the federal government and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention cannot conduct research into how many people are killed by guns or how we prevent gun violence. No, the NRA and its wholly owned subsidiary, the Republican Party has outlawed that. But the new “immigrant rape report” is ripped from the headlines of Breitbart and other right-wing websites, except that now, it is the basis of government policy. We are really getting a lesson in who is and who is not a criminal in this post “1984” world of “new-speak.” We all know that there are millions of undocumented immigrants from all over the world, but this Administration keeps whipping out that Mexican thing. Let’s face it, the people thinking up these policies think all Latinos are Mexicans and all Mexicans are immigrants – so if you are an immigrant from Mexico, except for “a few good ones,” you are a criminal, a rapist or a murderer. Millions and millions of people the President wants to deport are people with traffic violations. They drove without a license in many cases because the state in which they live and pay taxes does not issue driver’s licenses to them. They are moms and dads who came back after they were deported because moms and dads tend to want to be with their children and watch them as they grow up. And Trump’s targets include young people and teenagers who are listed on a quote/unquote “gang registry” because a local cop thought they dressed or acted like they might be in a gang. But if you hire maids or nannies and do not pay the proper amount of social security and FICA or if they are undocumented immigrants and you don’t pay the taxes, you are not called a criminal. No, you are called a cabinet secretary. In fact, we will put you in charge of the budget, including social security, or you can run the Department of Commerce. If your business engages in the shady business of foreclosing on grandmas and widows, you get to be Secretary of the Treasury. If you want to close down the Department of Energy, you get to run it. If you oppose public schools, you get the Education Department. And if you have opposed every inch of progress for civil and human rights in this country with every fiber of your being – immigrants’ rights, LGBT rights, basic civil rights for people of color, basic protections to make sure that everyone’s vote counts equally – well in that case you get to oversee the Department of Justice, the agency ultimately charged with making sure everyone gets equal protection under the law. Up is down and down is up. And it is only his second week. I feel our new President has some learning to do and a lot of that learning has to do with the three branches of government, like what the executive branch should do when a federal judge tells them to stop doing something that they shouldn’t be doing. I think the new President has a lot to learn about the freedom of religion and the separation of church and state and how our refugee policies work. I think the people of Chicago could teach him a lot about the 4th amendment and its ban on unreasonable search and seizure, and the illegality of holding immigrants in jail without a warrant. So I am offering to give the President my copy of the Constitution, autographed by Khizr Khan, the father of a U.S. army captain killed in Iraq in 2004, who asked a question I do not think any one of us knows the answer to: has the President even read the Constitution? I am proud I will be standing with Mr. Khan and other leaders of different faiths later today at a press conference on the actions taken by our new Dear Leader. We can all see through the Emperor’s new clothes – and his Chinese-made tie – and the view isn’t pretty. # # #
01.31.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor this morning about the Trump Administration’s bungled plan to block travel and immigration from seven countries and to halt the worldwide refugee program. The Illinois Congressman praised his fellow Americans for standing up to the President’s order, speaking out against discrimination, and holding the government accountable for following the Constitution, the Geneva Conventions, and complying with the orders of federal judges who called for a halt to parts of the President’s executive order. Saying “today, I am an immigrant,” and “today, I am a refugee,” the U.S.-born Congressman said: “Today, I am a student in the middle of my academic career at the University of Chicago who does not know whether she can come back to school and continue her education. Today, I am one of more than 67,000 refugees already approved for travel and certified by both the United States and the UN in a painstaking process that takes years to complete, who is stranded overseas. Today, I am gay or Jewish, Christian, Hindu, Shia, Sunni…and the United States is closed to me.” “By now, the entire world knows that the President of the United States screwed up bigly last week,” the Congressman said. Rep. Gutiérrez also commented on the midstream policy change regarding green card holders and the fact that “our government did not understand what the new President was doing…or what people already traveling should do.” He said: “On Sunday, the glaring bald spot of the President’s executive order was combed over by the Secretary of Homeland Security who said keeping out travelers who already live in the U.S. and have green cards is not in the interests of the United States. To which the entire world said sarcastically, ‘Ya’ think?’” Rep. Gutiérrez praised those who protested the President’s policies: “Today, I am an American and I am standing up. Today I am one of the millions of Americans who went to the airports, Trump hotels or the town square; who are marching peacefully, praying privately or preparing personally to act as advocates for immigrants and other families in our communities.” And concluded: “Women, Jews, gentiles, LGBT and every one of every color and shape – today, they did not come for us, but we could not be quiet, we joined arms and worked together as Americans. We pledged to stand up for those who are being targeted so that we can protect each other and stem the next wave of targeted attacks.” A video of the speech today is here: https://youtu.be/M5yVntD5zgw His previous statements on the President’s executive orders and a short video in English and Spanish can be found here: https://gutierrez.house.gov/media-center and here: https://www.facebook.com/RepGutierrez/ Rep. Gutiérrez is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks (As Prepared for Delivery) January 31, 2017, approx. 10 am ET Mr. Speaker, I am an American man, born in Chicago to parents who were born citizens of the United States. The ban on legal immigration from seven countries does not impact me or my family directly, but as an American, I am speaking up today and today, I am an immigrant. The proposed round-up of millions of immigrants will not hit my house directly, but as an American, I am standing up today and today, I am undocumented. I have not fled systematic persecution, but today, like a lot of Americans, I am speaking today out and today, I am a refugee. Today, I am an 81 year old man originally from Iran who traveled to the United States with a heart problem, a green card and his American family and he was detained at O’Hare airport. Today, I am a Fulbright scholar who was put on a plane back to Iran because our government did not understand what the new President was doing, how they were doing it, or what people already traveling should do. Today, I am a citizen of the United Kingdom with a green card who was blocked entering at O’Hare with his US citizen wife and child. Today, I am a student in the middle of my academic career at the University of Chicago who does not know whether she can come back to school and continue her education. Today, I am one of more than 67,000 refugees already approved for travel and certified by both the United States and the UN in a painstaking process that takes years to complete, who is stranded overseas. Today, I am gay or Jewish, Christian, Hindu, Shia, Sunni, from a tribe or ethnic group that is systematically targeted for persecution, or living in a country -- anywhere in the world – that cannot protect my basic safety and the United States is closed to me. Today, I am an immigrant who has a green card and followed all of the rules to the letter, but I cannot renew my green card or lawfully apply for citizenship here in the U.S. because I am from one of the seven mostly Muslim countries on Trump’s list, where, incidentally, there are no Trump hotels, buildings or golf courses. By now, the entire world knows that the President of the United States screwed up bigly last week and caused an international and domestic crisis and that his staff are lying when they say it was “a huge success.” When the German Chancellor has to lecture your President about the Geneva Convention, you have made a bad decision. When the Prime Minister of England is saying one day that the US and Britain have a “special relationship” but we are keeping her citizens out of our country the very next day – when they are green card holders – your country made a mistake. When Rudy Giuliani makes it clear that the President requested a Muslim ban and they dressed up the policy to make it look better – but still carved out exceptions to help Christians – you are probably acting in an Unconstitutional manner. That is what not one, but two, federal judges thought – that there are significant-enough Constitutional issues raised by recent executive actions to stop the President’s order from being implemented. And honestly, even at this hour, I am not sure they are fully complying with the orders or will reverse the actions of government officers at the airport who coerced or intimidated green card holders into signing away their rights and being deported. On Sunday, the glaring bald spot of the President’s executive order was combed over by the Secretary of Homeland Security who said keeping out travelers who already live in the U.S. and have green cards is not in the interests of the United States. To which the entire world said sarcastically, “Ya’ think?” Today, I am an American and I am standing up. Today I am one of the millions of Americans who went to the airports, Trump hotels or the town square; who are marching peacefully, praying privately or preparing personally to act as advocates for immigrants and other families in our communities. Women, Jews, gentiles, LGBT and every one of every color and shape – today, they did not come for us, but we could not be quiet, we joined arms and worked together as Americans. We pledged to stand up for those who are being targeted so that we can protect each other and stem the next wave of targeted attacks. # # #
01.27.2017	Chicago – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s latest executive actions on Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). immigration, refugees and asylum seekers. Man up, Mr. President. Have faith in the strength of your own country and the vitality of her citizens and culture. A nation of 300 million people that has blazed a trail for the world for more than 240 years can withstand 50,000 moms, dads and children fleeing for their lives. We always have and we always should. The poem on the Statue of Liberty says “I lift my lamp beside the golden door!” not “We are scared of you, come back later when we feel better.” The shutdown or slowdown of refugees is an unmistakable signal to the world that the U.S. is bowing to terrorism by insulating itself. It shows that the new President thinks that people from certain parts of the world are so dangerous that the United States with all of its power and resources cannot protect itself. We are a bigger nation, a better nation, a stronger nation than to let ISIS dictate our immigration and refugee policies. We should stand strong against terrorist threats, not recoil in fear and anxiety. It just isn’t American to run away and hide, to turn away people in need, to fear standing as a beacon of hope to the world. President Trump is still acting like candidate Trump, calling for utterly ridiculous policies regardless of how much they hurt America or our standing in the world, just for the applause of his base supporters. As if a wall could protect the country. As if shutting out families fleeing terror makes us stronger. As if picking and choosing which religions need protection is a valid way for the United States to act. As if starting a trade war with our neighbors and allies will not backfire on American wallets. It is embarrassing and this is only the first week. Rep. Gutiérrez is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. A brief video in English and Spanish: https://youtu.be/Onw7J3nfLyU # # #
01.26.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez issued the following statement in response to the cancellation of Mexican President Peña-Nieto’s U.S. trip and President Trump’s announcement that Mexican products would be taxed an additional 20% in order to pay for the border wall. "Ironically, Trump’s great border wall will actually be a new Great Wall of China, because it is going to push Mexico towards trade and commerce with China. Five or six million U.S. jobs depend on trade with Mexico, more than all the European countries combined, and Trump’s anger and short-sightedness is going to hurt America bigly. It starts with President Peña-Nieto’s cancelling his trip, but it is going to get a lot worse and we Americans are going to feel it in our wallets." Rep. Gutiérrez is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
01.25.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s series of executive actions related to immigration, immigrants and the border(s): Trump's executive actions are more about sending a signal to his voters that the new President will act on fears of Muslims and Latinos rather than put forward actual, thoughtful security policy. Local police have implemented policies on how to deal with the fact that they have large populations of immigrants who live and work in their communities but who are afraid to come forward. I don’t think Donald Trump knows more about policing in America’s cities then actual chiefs of police, but apparently Trump thinks he does. In the President’s world of alternative facts, immigrants are a threat and lead to higher, not lower crime. The factual data clearly show that immigrants commit fewer crimes than Americans born in the United States. But exploiting people’s fears is what this President does best. We will not have meaningful border security until we have a functioning immigration system that allows in people to work and live and keeps out threats and violent offenders. We want people coming with visas through ports of entry with our permission, not coming with smugglers, but so far the Republican Party has thwarted that. We are simply not going to deport our way out of our current immigration dilemma because the solution is not deportations; it is having a legal alternative and a way for people to get legal. The President should remember that three out of four Latinos are citizens, but when he attacks immigrant families, it reverberates through the nervous system of the entire Latino community. We are banding together with immigrant communities from other parts of the world, with faith and labor and business leaders and with allies from across the political spectrum to stand up to the President’s mass deportation plans. As far as the wall is concerned, I suspect that a lot of Trump supporters would be just as happy with a big statue of a middle finger pointed south, because both that and a wall are about equally effective as national security strategies. Rep. Gutiérrez is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
01.25.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s tweet last night (https://bit.ly/2jZJp19) about the City of Chicago. When the President wants to work with states and localities on public policies to reduce gun-violence, he will find partners in cities like Chicago, but I think he’d rather spend his time on Twitter. The President wants publicity and to be seen beating up on Democratic elected officials and appearing hostile to a big city like Chicago in the eyes of his suburban and rural voters. I get that. But I doubt he has any serious intention to solve the national problem of guns killing young people. I doubt that a Justice Department headed by Senator Jeff Sessions would seriously work with Chicago to address the gap between the local community and the Chicago Police Department. The Republican Party is a wholly owned subsidiary of the NRA, so I don’t expect this President to do anything constructive to get cheap handguns off of the streets of American cities. Chicago’s murder epidemic is more serious than a late night twitter threat from the new Tweeter-in-Chief. Rep. Gutiérrez is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
01.17.2017	Español Abajo Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) got news late today that Puerto Rican political prisoner Oscar López Rivera was granted clemency by President Barack Obama today and it will take effect, unconditionally, in 120 days. Mr. López of Chicago has spent 35 years in federal prison for seditious conspiracy in conjunction with his role in the Puerto Rico independence movement, but was neither charged with nor convicted of any crime harming anyone. Congressman Gutiérrez, a Puerto Rican born in Chicago, has been fighting for Mr. López’s release for as long as he has been in the U.S. Congress (he was first elected in 1992). The following is a statement from Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez: I am overjoyed and overwhelmed with emotion. Oscar is a friend, a mentor, and family to me and he and his brother José have been friends and mentors for my entire adult life. There were times when hope was hard to find but my wife Soraida always had faith that this day would come. Now it is clear that Oscar will rejoin his family and be able to walk free among the Puerto Rican people. Thank you, President Obama, thank you on behalf of millions of Puerto Ricans on the Island and around the world. Thank you from Oscar's family and friends in Chicago. The international campaign of religious leaders, elected officials, Nobel Prize winners, and ordinary people of faith and good conscience has led to this day. We have had our prayers answered. Releasing Oscar Lopez Rivera back to his homeland and his people is a step towards peace and reconciliation and is being celebrated by Puerto Ricans of all political stripes, classes, colors and geographies. He is a national hero no less significant than Roberto Clemente or any leader we have ever had. It will be a blessed day when I can walk and talk with my friend in the fresh air, far from prison walls, and I am so looking forward to that day. Rep. Gutiérrez is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # # Español: El Congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez sobre la liberación de Oscar López Rivera Estoy lleno de alegría y emoción. Oscar es un gran amigo, mentor, y miembro de mi familia; durante toda mi vida adulta, él y su hermano José han sido mis amigos y mentores. Tuve momentos en que ya no tenía esperanza, pero mi esposa Soraida siempre tuvo fe que este día llegaría. Hoy, está más claro que nunca que Oscar se podrá reunir con su familia y podrá caminar libremente entre la gente Puertorriqueña. Gracias, Presidente Obama, gracias de parte de millones de Puertorriqueños en la isla y por todo el mundo. Gracias de parte de la familia de Oscar y sus amigos en Chicago. La campaña internacional formada por líderes religiosos, oficiales electos, ganadores del Premio Nobel y de gente ordinaria de fe y buena conciencia nos ha traído a este momento. Nuestras oraciones han sido escuchadas. Liberar a Oscar López Rivera a su patria y a su pueblo es un paso hacia la paz y la reconciliación, la cual se está celebrando por Puertorriqueños de todas las opiniones políticas, clases, colores y geografías. Es un héroe nacional no menos significativo que Roberto Clemente o cualquier líder que hemos tenido. El día que pueda caminar y hablar con mi amigo al aire libre, lejos de las paredes de una prisión será para mí un día bendito. Un día bendito que he anhelado con todo mi corazón por mucho tiempo, y que por fin se hará realidad este mayo. # # #
01.17.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House on Tuesday, January 10, just as he does once or twice a week when Congress is in session. But this speech, about why he will not attend the inauguration of Donald Trump and will attend the Women’s March on January 21, has taken on a life of its own. The video of his speech on Facebook (https://bit.ly/2jvtmb6) has been viewed more than 6.1 million times, with 105,000 “shares,” 544,000 total reactions (likes, comments, etc.) and almost 68,000 comments. The Congressman’s office has received calls from as far away as Australia from Americans and others who support his family’s decision to attend the Women’s March instead of the inaugural ceremonies. “We usually get a lot of haters calling and trolling the Congressman on Facebook and Twitter because he is Latino and has been outspoken on immigration, guns, Planned Parenthood and other issues,” said Douglas Rivlin, the Congressman’s Director of Communication, “but the response has been overwhelmingly positive to his family’s decision to skip the inauguration. Congressman Gutiérrez apparently articulated what a lot of people are feeling with his comments that Trump’s rhetoric on women, people of color and people of different religions made it such that he did not want to attend the inauguration. So many people have called with their messages of support, especially women. Our phones are ringing off the hook.” In his January 10 floor speech (https://bit.ly/2jqSpJ6), Rep. Gutiérrez said: “When the new President denigrates Latinos or Mexicans or immigrants as drug-dealers and criminals, I want to be able to say I did not condone or allow that type of speech to go mainstream; That was not normalized on my watch. Because the future President said the American-born children of immigrants were not capable of being American judges, I cannot sit there at his inauguration as if that is OK and I forgive him.” Congressman Gutiérrez first announced he would not attend the inauguration ceremonies while speaking on CNN’s New Day on December 2 (https://cnn.it/2jGpotz and https://bit.ly/2jvBs3k). Since then, dozens of House Democrats have announced their plans not to attend the inauguration. The Congressman has more than 543,000 total page likes for his Facebook account, the most among all House Democrats, with 28,000 added since January 10. The Congressman and his wife plan to participate in the Women’s March (https://www.womensmarch.com/) on January 21. Rep. Gutiérrez is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
01.13.2017	Washington, DC – At a Washington, DC press conference today, Reps. Mike Coffman (R-CO) and Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) announced the introduction of H.R. 496, the Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy (BRIDGE) Act. They were joined at introduction by three Republicans and three Democrats as original co-sponsors, Reps. Jeff Denham (R-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Carlos L. Curbelo (R-FL), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), and Judy Chu (D-CA), and all but Rep. Denham spoke at the press conference. The bill is a companion bill to the Senate’s BRIDGE Act, introduced on a bipartisan basis by Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL) on Thursday (see joint press release from Graham, Durbin, Coffman and Gutiérrez: https://bit.ly/2jofbSI). The legislation would extend deportation protection and work permits to those who qualify for the DACA initiative (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) that started in 2012. The BRIDGE Act would sunset after three years, thus putting pressure on the Congress to act to protect DREAMers and other immigrants from deportation and to normalize their status in that time. (Summary of BRIDGE Act prepared by office of Sen. Durbin: https://bit.ly/2iouYyU pdf). Excerpts from Rep. Gutiérrez’s opening statement at the press conference: “The 750,000 people with DACA already, or the ‘DACA-mented,’ who are working and living above board, they shouldn’t be pushed back into an undocumented status. It does not serve this country to turn documented immigrants into undocumented immigrants. “And let’s be clear, I want the 750,000 DACA DREAMers to be in a safe place so they can work legally and avoid deportation, but I see them as key freedom fighters, people who are leaders in our community and will lead the fight to make sure their moms and their dads – their cousins, siblings, classmates, and neighbors are protected too. “The DREAMers are the start, but we have to remember that there are 11 million undocumented people here, living, working, raising families. Most of them have been here for more than a decade. Their lives are here. Their families are here. Almost all of them are working and paying taxes and living peacefully and constructively among us and we have to find a way to let them live here in the open, as part of our society, not floating outside in some separate, segregated limbo.” Rep. Gutiérrez is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # # Related: The Illinois Business Immigration Coalition (IBIC), released a letter signed by 94 CEOS and leaders in Illinois, Florida, and Colorado in support of the BRIDGE Act: https://illinoisbic.biz/IntheNews.aspx
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Dick Durbin (D-IL) today reintroduced bipartisan legislation to protect undocumented young people brought to the United States as children should the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program be discontinued under the next Administration. The Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy (BRIDGE) Act, which was first introduced in the Senate late last year, would provide temporary relief from deportation and work authorization to undocumented youth. U.S. Representatives Mike Coffman (CO-06) and Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04) are introducing companion legislation in the House of Representatives. “It’s my firm belief most Americans want to fix a broken immigration system in a humane manner,” said Graham. “In my view, the DACA Executive Order issued by President Obama was unconstitutional and President-elect Trump would be right to repeal it. However, I do not believe we should pull the rug out and push these young men and women -- who came out of the shadows and registered with the federal government -- back into the darkness. Our legislation continues to provide legal status to them for three years as Congress seeks a permanent solution. These young people have much to offer the country and we stand to benefit from the many contributions they will make to America. I’m confident that if President-elect Trump were to support this measure we can repeal the unconstitutional Executive Order and Congress will provide temporary legal status through the proper constitutional process.” “For over a decade, I’ve come to the Senate floor to share with my colleagues and the American people the stories of talented young undocumented immigrants, who have overcome the odds to give back to the only country they call home. Since the establishment of DACA, we’ve witnessed them realize their full potential - by opening businesses, becoming doctors and teachers, and serving our country in uniform. We cannot squander that talent and dedication and send them back to countries they barely know,” said Durbin. “The BRIDGE Act is an opportunity for supporters and critics of DACA to come together and address a compelling humanitarian issue on a bipartisan basis. I’m honored to work with Senator Graham, Congressmen Coffman and Gutiérrez, and other colleagues to ensure that DREAMers are protected from deportation until Congress is able to pass comprehensive immigration reform.” “Today’s introduction of the Bridge Act is only a first step in the long process of permanently reforming and strengthening our immigration laws,” said Rep. Coffman. “I believe children brought here at no fault of their own merit the opportunity to live, work and study in the United States. For the balance of Immigration reform, I am optimistic that we can fix our broken immigration system by enacting tougher laws, securing our borders, and implementing stricter enforcement, all while still keeping families together”. “We need to do whatever we can to protect DACA recipients who are already working on-the-books and not move backward to strip them of legal status,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “These young people are a lifeline for their families and leaders in our communities. We are starting with them, but I remain concerned about the millions of other immigrants who have no clear path to legal status and the millions who are locked out of legal immigration because our system is so out-of-date and backlogged. The DREAMers who have DACA are not competing with Americans for a slice of the pie, they are helping to bake a bigger pie for our country and our economy.” U.S. Senators Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), and Kamala Harris (D-CA) are original cosponsors of the Senate version of the BRIDGE Act. U.S. Representatives Jeff Denham (R-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Carlos L. Curbelo (R-FL), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), and Judy Chu (D-CA) are original cosponsors of the House version of the BRIDGE Act. The BRIDGE Act has broad support from the faith, business, higher-education, civil rights, and immigrant communities. This week, 88 business leaders from around the country sent a letter to President-elect Donald Trump and House and Senate leadership asking them to support the BRIDGE Act. Find out more about the BRIDGE Act: 011217 The BRIDGE Act Summary.pdf Summary prepared by Office of Sen. Dick Durbin
01.11.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor this morning about immigration, the Trump Administration and a series of pro-immigrant events taking place in Washington and around the country on or about January 14. The Congressman said while the new President himself is “a bit of an unknown because he changes his mind on some key issues about as quickly as his Twitter feed refreshes…it is Trump’s lieutenants who worry most of us.” He said of Trump’s advisors: They are the most clearly ideological and dangerous set of leaders ever assembled in American government on immigration and any number of issues we may care about. There is a vindictiveness coming to government—the likes of which we have never seen. The truth is that among the new President’s key advisors are some of the staunchest opponents of legal immigration. Because most Americans favor legal immigration and want the Congress to reform immigration to allow people with deep roots in the U.S. to live here legally, the Congressman is joining with advocates and allies who are holding a series of events around the country (details at www.togetherforimmigrants.com), including an event on Saturday, Jan 14 in Washington, DC, at which the Congressman is speaking (There is also an event at the Chicago Teachers Union on Saturday). He said: Leaders of the immigrant rights’ movement will stand alongside elected officials, faith, labor, education and LGBTQ leaders to say we will not allow mass deportation or immigrant round-ups; That we do not want endless delays that keep families waiting 10, 15 and 20 years for visas; […] That we are committed to defending immigrant communities if and when the new President and his henchmen develop Muslim registries or neighborhood sweeps or mass round-ups disguised as quote-unquote “fugitive sweeps;” We will fight attempts to criminalize immigrants and fight attempts to take away documents from people who are now in the system and working on the books, like the 750,000 young people who signed up for DACA. He went on to say: Let’s just be clear, 76% of the Latinos in this country are citizens. So three-quarters of us can vote or will soon be able to vote – and for those under 18, the percentage of Latinos who are citizens is 93%. So don’t think you can deport us into silence. Don’t think that deporting everyone and eliminating legal immigration – as some in the new President’s circle may fantasize – will suddenly make brown people disappear. We are here. We are joined by our allies of every color, shape, national origin, and segment of society. Information on the Washington, DC event, Saturday, January 14 at Metropolitan AME Church: https://bit.ly/2ijLJi4 The full text of the Congressman’s speech is below. A video from the House floor is here: https://youtu.be/pBSZ4ZMkrcA Rep. Gutiérrez is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks (As Prepared for Delivery) Mr. Speaker, as I have said before, we hope for the best from the new President, but we must prepare for the worst. Everyone who has looked at the record of key advisors to President-elect Trump on the issue of immigration has reason for very deep concern that the new President is going to follow the advice of some of the most extreme voices in the immigration debate. As for the new President himself, he is a bit of an unknown because he changes his mind on some key issues about as quickly as his Twitter feed refreshes. He says he has a plan for this and a plan for that, but they are secret plans and as far as we know, they are secrets even to himself. He knows more about computers and the Internet, ISIS and terrorists, Russia and NATO than all of the policy experts put together and he thinks of himself as the ultimate presidential advisor to the new president. But it is Trump’s lieutenants who worry most of us. They are the most clearly ideological and dangerous set of leaders ever assembled in American government on immigration and any number of issues we may care about. There is a vindictiveness coming to government—the likes of which we have never seen. The truth is that among the new President’s key advisors are some of the staunchest opponents of legal immigration. That’s right. While we all oppose illegal immigration and some of us have been working for years to upgrade the American system so that immigrants come with visas instead of smugglers, the people with access to the President’s ear disagree and don’t want immigrants to come at all. Look, we have made legal immigration extremely difficult for everyone and simply impossible for most people – and then we have been relying on deportation, walls, enforcement, and curtailing due process rights for immigrants – and that constitutes their immigration control strategy for the past 25 years. And it hasn’t worked for 25 years. But the American people want a humane, sustainable, secure, and effective legal immigration system and a way for people who already live and work here peacefully to be able to do so within the law. So, Mr. Speaker, this is why I will join a few thousand allies here in Washington on Saturday at the historic Metropolitan AME Church on “M” Street to send a clear message that immigrants and their allies are standing up for immigrant communities. And check out the website. The DC rally will be one of more than 50 public actions and marches across America on or about January 14th where leaders of the immigrant rights’ movement will stand alongside elected officials, faith, labor, education and LGBTQ leaders to say we will not allow mass deportation or immigrant round-ups… That we do not want endless delays that keep families waiting 10, 15 and 20 years for visas. That we do not want people to have to choose between 10 years in exile or the Green Card for which they qualify under U.S. law because our laws have been crafted to punish people by keeping them in an undocumented status even when they can apply to be here legally. That we are committed to defending immigrant communities if and when the new President and his henchmen develop Muslim registries or neighborhood sweeps or mass round-ups disguised as quote-unquote “fugitive sweeps.” We will fight attempts to criminalize immigrants and fight attempts to take away documents from people who are now in the system and working on the books, like the 750,000 young people who signed up for DACA. With the BRIDGE Act, we will fight so that DREAMers are protected from deportation and can lead the fight for millions and millions of other immigrants who have no options under our current law. And let’s just be clear, 76% of the Latinos in this country are citizens. So three-quarters of us can vote or will soon be able to vote – and for those under 18, the percentage of Latinos who are citizens is 93%. So don’t think you can deport us into silence. Don’t think that deporting everyone and eliminating legal immigration – as some in the new President’s circle may fantasize – will suddenly make brown people disappear. We are here. We are joined by our allies of every color, shape, national origin, and segment of society. We are men, women, children, straight, gay, trans, rich, poor, old and young and everything in between and we are locking arms with all of our allies to say that when you come for any of us, we will force you to come for all of us. We are here to stay and we stand together. # # #
01.10.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) took to the House floor this morning to explain why he is not going to attend the inaugural ceremonies on January 20. “The reason I am not going is that I cannot bring myself to justify morally or intellectually the immense power we are placing in that man’s hands,” he said of Donald Trump (standing before a picture of the Presidet-elect). Rep. Gutiérrez said he would join his wife Soraida in participating in the Women’s March on January 21 in Washington. Rep. Gutiérrez spoke during the morning hour in Congress (approximately 10 am ET), which was carried live on C-SPAN. The Congressman cited Trump’s caustic rhetoric and outrageous past behavior, saying: I could not look at my wife, my daughters or my grandson in the eye if I sat there and attended as if everything that candidate Donald Trump had said about The women, about The Latinos, or The Blacks, The Muslims or any of the other things he said in his speeches and Tweets – that any of that is OK or erased from my memory. We all heard the tape when Donald Trump was bragging – bragging! – about grabbing women by their private parts without their consent. It is something I can never un-hear… Sorry. That is never OK. It is never just locker room talk. It is offensive and, if he ever actually did it, it is criminal. He went on to say: I am calling on all of my progressive allies to come march with the women as well. If you care about a living wage, come join the women. If you care about the environment, come join the march. We know as a society, when women win, we all win, so I plan to be there. It is deeply personal and deeply patriotic to march, to make my opinions known by walking with my allies arm-in-arm. The full text is below. A video from the House floor of the Congressman’s remarks is here: https://youtu.be/0DYNCLHjed0 Rep. Gutiérrez is beginning his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois. He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks (As Prepared for Delivery) Mr. Speaker, let me tell you where I will not be on inauguration day. I will not be here or outside at the inauguration ceremony. I will be in Washington late that evening because the event I am going to is on January 21st. It is the Women’s March on Washington. You can get more information on Facebook which is how I heard about it. Or I should say, how my wife Soraida heard about it. I said to her a little after election day, I said, “You know honey, I don’t think I can go to DC and watch Donald Trump get sworn in,” and she said, “oh you’re going to Washington, just not for that” and she told me about the women’s march. She said you and I are going together. Now, I can already hear the phones ringing in my office with people calling to say, “Oh, you Democrats are sore losers and you just hate Republicans.” No. I went to two George Bush inaugurations and I work with Republicans all the time. Just read Breitbart which seems to write an article anytime I even glance favorably at a Republican colleague. But this is different. I knew that George W. Bush and I would disagree on many issues from trade to health care to the war in Iraq, but I never thought George W. Bush was trying to make my own country hostile to me, my wife, my daughters and my grandson. I never felt he was a threat to the nation I love so deeply and have served now for almost a quarter century. The reason I am not going is that I cannot bring myself to justify morally or intellectually the immense power we are placing in that man’s hands. I could not look at my wife, my daughters or my grandson in the eye if I sat there and attended as if everything that candidate Donald Trump had said about The women, about The Latinos, or The Blacks, The Muslims or any of the other things he said in his speeches and Tweets – that any of that is OK or erased from my memory. We all heard the tape when Donald Trump was bragging – bragging – about grabbing women by their private parts without their consent. It is something I can never un-hear. Bragging to that guy on TV that he would grab women below the belt as a way of hitting on them. Sorry. That is never OK. It is never just locker room talk. It is offensive and, if he ever actually did it, it is criminal. I hang out with Republicans - with Republican elected-officials…in an actual locker room in the Rayburn Building and if they ever started talking like that, I wouldn’t just walk away, I would tell them to their faces why they are wrong and I would not allow it to go unnoticed or be dismissed as normal or excusable. I don’t know a Republican Member of this body who would let that type of comment just slide by as if it were OK. So that’s why I will hold hands with my wife and march with the women on January 21st in Washington. And that is why I am calling on all of my progressive allies to come march with the women as well. If you care about a living wage, come join the women. If you care about the environment, come join the march. We know as a society, when women win, we all win, so I plan to be there It is deeply personal and deeply patriotic to march, to make my opinions known by walking with my allies arm-in-arm. I want to be able to look my two beautiful Latina daughters and my beautiful half-Puerto Rican/half-Mexican, 100% American grandson in the eye with a clear conscience. When the new President denigrates Latinos or Mexicans or immigrants as drug-dealers and criminals, I want to be able to say I did not condone or allow that type of speech to go mainstream; That was not normalized on my watch. Because the future President said the American-born children of immigrants were not capable of being American judges, I cannot sit there at his inauguration as if that is OK and I forgive him. I am deeply honored to return to the U.S. Congress, and I want to thank the people of the Fourth District for the trust and confidence they have placed in me. My constituents knew when they voted for me that I would be a fighter and I cannot let them down. If the new President comes for the Muslims, I will be a Muslim. If they come for Planned Parenthood, I will stand with Planned Parenthood. When they deny climate science, I will make my voice heard. I will use whatever peaceful means available to make sure the words and actions of our new President do not become the new mainstream. And that, Mr. Speaker, is why I will not be here for the inauguration and why I will be marching with women from across the country. # # #
01.03.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson delivered a response to a December 5th letter sent by 110 Members of Congress calling on President Obama to protect the private information of those who applied for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. The December letter, led by Reps. Judy Chu (CA-27), Zoe Lofgren (CA-29), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), and Luis Gutiérrez (IL-04), specifically suggests an Executive Order that would prohibit the use of DACA enrollees’ information for purposes other than originally intended, including for purposes of deportation. In his response, Secretary Johnson cited past DHS policy to use personal information in as limited a way as possible, but did not respond to the request for an executive order or prospects that precedent will be respected in a future administration. The authors of the letter released the following statements: “Secretary Johnson’s commitment to protecting Dreamers from deportation is admirable, as is the work done by DHS and this administration to protect and support immigrants,” said Rep. Judy Chu. “However, this letter unfortunately falls short on necessary assurances for the future. While, as the letter states, ‘long-standing and consistent procedure of DHS’ has limited the use of personal information submitted to the government, our concerns are with the actions of the incoming President who has expressly run against norms and precedent. That is why we specifically requested an executive order to provide greater security for undocumented immigrants who trusted us by explicitly preventing the personal information submitted by Dreamers to be used for their deportation. Without such a legal assurance, immigrants who believed our promise of security are left to the devices of President-elect Trump who has repeatedly promised to be a deporter-in-chief.” “It is good to know that under President Obama, DHS is protecting the private data of DACA enrollees,” said Rep. Repybal-Allard. “Unfortunately, the Obama Administration ends on January 20. That is why we asked President Obama to take action that would protect DACA recipients and prevent the new administration from using the recipients’ personal information for purposes not originally intended, such as deportation. Given the statements of the incoming Trump Administration, DACA enrollees are currently living in fear of an uncertain future. They fear being ripped from their home, their family, and the only country they know. My colleagues and I urge President Obama to take immediate action to protect these young immigrants and enable them to continue contributing their talents to America, their only home.” “It is good to see the Department of Homeland Security demonstrating a sense of urgency when it comes to the safety of DREAMers,” said Rep. Gutiérrez. “There is more action we would like the Administration to take before leaving, but this is a good way to start the New Year.”
12.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-Ill.) and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.) today issued the following statement regarding the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Homeland Security Advisory Council’s (HSAC) recent recommendation that DHS move away from the use of private prisons to detain immigrants. HSAC acknowledged DHS’s historical reliance on private prisons but concluded that the private prison model is inferior from the perspective of governance, and that a deliberate shift away from the private prison model is warranted. “We applaud the Homeland Security Advisory Council’s (HSAC) recent recommendation that DHS move away from the use of private prisons to detain immigrants. After extensive debate and testimony, HSAC voted overwhelmingly (by a vote of 17 to 5) to end DHS’s status quo reliance on private prisons. “While some may view the use of private prisons as a cost-cutting measure, private prisons often cost taxpayers exorbitant amounts of money while at the same time failing to provide safe, sanitary, and humane conditions. We believe that the private prison companies’ for-profit model combined with insufficient accountability mechanisms has created an environment whereby private prison companies are able to abuse immigrant detainees with impunity. “We understand that the HSAC decision, while powerful and groundbreaking, comes at the end of DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson’s tenure and the process to completely dismantle the private prison detention system will take years to complete. However, there are steps that Secretary Johnson can take immediately. First, he can enforce termination clauses in contracts with the for-profit private prison facilities, beginning with those with the worst records of abuse and neglect. Second, he can end family detention and expand alternatives to detention. Third, he can ensure that any new contracts require strong transparency provisions (including robust public access) and use ICE’s most recent detention standards to protect against future abuse of immigrant detainees. Lastly, he can work with the transition team to encourage the HSAC recommendations to be followed by the next Administration.” HSAC is a non-partisan expert council comprised of former high-level DHS officials, police chiefs, retired generals, business executives, law professors, national security experts, and academics. The HSAC Dissent is as follows: “Based on the review this subcommittee conducted, I respectfully dissent from the conclusion that reliance on private prisons should, or inevitably must, continue. I concede, as reflected in this recommendation, that overall enforcement policy, historical reliance on private prisons, and geographic concerns are presently driving reliance on private facilities. also acknowledge that any shift away from such reliance would take years, carry significant costs, and require congressional partnership. As a result, I understand the position adopted by the subcommittee, but I disagree that these obstacles require our deference to the status quo. First, in my estimation, the review undertaken by the subcommittee points directly toward the inferiority of the private prison model from the perspective of governance and conditions. To be sure, fiscal and flexibility considerations represented countervailing factors. However, on balance, my preliminary judgment, based on the evidence we actually gathered as part of this review, is that a measured but deliberate shift away from the private prison model is warranted. Second, as the body of this report acknowledges, the short time line and tools at our disposal necessarily limited the depth of our review. As such, I emphasize the preliminary nature of my judgment above. I believe, however, that recommendation (1) likewise should have acknowledged that process constraints rendered any firm conclusion on the appropriate mix of detention models premature. Third, a number of key issues that went beyond the scope of this review are too consequential and too integral to allow for a fully informed decision on federal versus private detention models. A meaningful determination on the best detention model in light of all relevant factors demands deeper investigation. Any such investigation should consider a broader set of questions regarding the most effective and humane approach to civil detention as well as whether alternatives to detention could lead to diminished reliance on physical incarceration. Absent that type of thorough review, I cannot, in good conscience, agree that status quo reliance on the continuation of the private detention model is warranted or appropriate. Aside from this fundamental question, I strongly concur in the remainder of the subcommittee’s recommendations regarding steps that should be taken immediately to improve the conditions, inspections, and oversight of extant facilities.” # # #
12.12.2016	Remarks Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) National Immigrant Integration Conference (NIIC) Omni Hotel | Nashville, TN December 12, 2016 The Congressman spoke at the National Immigrant Integration Conference (https://www.niic2016.org/) in Nashville, TN, a conference hosted and organized by the National Partnership for New Americans (https://partnershipfornewamericans.org/) and the Tennessee Immigrant and Refugee Rights Coalition (https://www.tnimmigrant.org/). Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. (Remarks As Prepared for Delivery) Not many Members of Congress get to be part of a movement. Not many get to help organize the nation for genuine, progressive social change. For that privilege, I want to thank all of you because working together, we are doing work that matters. Your work makes life for my constituents better and it makes fighting much easier when it is arm in arm with good people like you. There is no one I would rather share a fox hole with than Josh Hoyt [Executive Director of the National Partnership for New Americans] who is a national leader, a Chicago institution, and a personal friend. My biggest critics are at home in Chicago and so are my most stalwart friends. And outside of my family, the people who keep me going and keep me fighting are either in Chicago or they are here in this room or part of this movement. And this movement has now sent one of its own to Congress. So I want to say thank you to Seattle and to the pro-immigrant movement for sending Representative-elect Pramila Jayapal to us in Washington. We will take good care of her and I’m proud to know she is joining me in our fight for immigrants, for fairness and for justice. The new class in Congress – and the last several classes of young leaders who are coming to Washington to fight for immigrants – from Phoenix and Florida, Los Angeles, Nevada and New York – there are new leaders in the House who will join with us. I wish we had a better two or four years ahead of us, but Rep. Jayapal, thank you for stepping up and continuing the fight in your new role. I cannot sugar coat things, we are looking at a very dark time. Even when we had a President who said he was for immigration reform, we lost more than three-million people to deportation. So with all due respect to the topic of integration that brings us together at this conference, we know that we cannot integrate immigrants into our community if they have been deported and I think the next several years present a challenge like no other we have faced in recent memory. I’d like to talk about our three challenges right now inside and outside of Washington. We have to organize. We have to lock arms with our allies. And we have to keep our eyes on the prize. Let me explain what I mean. Right now, we need to organize ourselves and build the power of this movement to resist the onslaught of the Trump Administration and his army of flying monkeys opposed to legal immigration and legal status for immigrants – Ann Coulter, Jeff Sessions, Kris Kobach Numbers USA, FAIR and all the rest of them. We do not know for sure that they will pull the strings in the new Administration, but we have to prepare for the worst. We should assume they are coming for immigrants and our posture should be that if they try to come for DREAMers or their moms or their neighbors or try to register Muslims or put people in camps or criminalize immigrants, they will have to go through us. Trump says he wants to deport 2 or 3 million people starting on Day One and he claims that he wants to deport criminals. And we know that the idea that 2 to 3 million undocumented immigrants being serious, violent, or dangerous criminals – like a lot of things Trump says – is pure baloney. A mom who is picked up by ICE while driving without a license because her kid is sick and needs to go to the doctor…Trump would label her criminal, but we would not. If she came back after she was deported so that she could raise her family, Trump would label her a criminal, but no reasonable person would label her a criminal because every reasonable person who was in the same position would probably do the same thing. We have to organize ourselves to fight for that mom and all the others like her who live and work here and raise families – who work two jobs or pick garlic in the hot sun and contribute to strong communities in so many ways. In Chicago, the organizing work has already started. We are going to train people to help defend members of their own communities – and leverage the leadership of the Mayor, Senator Durbin myself and others to help prepare and organize a crew of community defenders. It is not enough to fund the downtown lawyers, although they will be a very important part of the effort. It is not enough to have very solid sanctuary policies that create a firewall between the City and ICE. We need to build the power of the community to defend itself. And guess what? Whatever we do in Chicago makes the Mayor in New York and Houston and Los Angeles and a lot of other people take notice because, in case you haven’t heard, politicians can be a bit competitive. So, Bill De Blasio, Jerry Brown, Governors, Mayors, City Council people – the competition is on to see who can be the most helpful in working with this movement to build the best, most inclusive and successful model for community defense. Even if we are on our own in cities and communities, every organization and congregation can play a role in getting ready. If every person targeted by Trump has a lawyer or a BIA certified defender – or both – they will have a much better chance of winning their case. Plus, dragging out the process for any individual deportation case will make it harder and harder to bring millions and millions of cases. Inside the Congress, we also need to organize, and that work has begun with Zoe Lofgren and Lucille Roybal-Allard as my partners and with a broad group of supporters – hopefully including Rep. Jayapal just as soon as she is sworn in. Inside Congress, the resistance is starting with the DREAMers because we cannot stand idle as Trump and his ilk try to take away one of our key victories under Obama. We fought so hard for it, we can’t roll over when there’s a move to take it away. So I am working to introduce a bill like the bill that Senator Graham and Senator Durbin introduced – The BRIDGE Act – and to identify a Republican leader to work with us so that it is truly bipartisan on both sides of the Hill. But that’s just the beginning. Because we can’t just defend the DREAMers. We have to move to defend the whole immigrant community… in coalition; A coalition that says if you come for the DREAMers, if you come to deport Moms and Dads, if you want to register Muslims, if you want to cut-off legal immigration, you have to go through us. And by us, I don’t just mean the immigrant and refugee and Asian, Latino, progressive coalition, but women, young people, environmental defenders, the LGBT community – whoever might have a target on their backs, we have to join arms with them. If they come after young people who have been organizing for Black Lives Matter, we have to lock arms with them so that if anyone is getting thrown under the bus, they must try to throw us all under the bus. When they come to shut down Planned Parenthood, we need to be on the picket line with our allies too. We can’t have this, “well, I feel bad for them but at least they are not coming for me,” stuff. They are coming for us, sooner or later and the more of “us” that there are – the more people who think of themselves as part of “us” – the harder it is for them to target any of us individually. I have told my colleagues in the CHC that we need to be walking arm-in-arm with the Black Caucus and the NAACP and the LGBT Taskforce and the Human Rights Campaign. And many of us already do that, but we have to be more intentional and more institutional and more conspicuous. So we organize, we link with our allies, and the last and most important thing we need to do is keep our eyes on the prize. The majority of the country – even if not a majority of the Electoral College – are with us and this is a minority President taking office. We cannot forget that and we cannot let others forget that. But while we fight against deportation and fight to protect those with DACA, we cannot lose sight of what we are for. It is good to introduce the BRIDGE Act, but it has to be a bridge to something, a bridge to somewhere. If we are able to protect the people who signed up for DACA, we need to have them work with us towards something. That’s why I am announcing today my intention to file a bill early next year that encapsulates our vision for legal immigration and legal status for immigrants. A bill that shows that we want people to come with a visa and not a smuggler and that says that we envision an America where immigrants are fully incorporated into society -- not left to float outside of society in legal limbo, here and working for decades but not fully part of the communities – not fully welcome in the country that our community is embracing with hard work, sweat and contributions. We have to have a vision of legal immigration that stands next to the vision that Jeff Sessions and Kris Kobach are selling which is walls and deportation and reducing or eliminating legal immigration. We need to show America that the choice is between a modern immigration system that makes people play by a common set of rules so that immigration works for and is controlled by the American people for the benefit of the American people and those who come to join us…. …Which stands in counterpoint to a system that encourages the black market to flourish, that keeps families waiting decades, that relies on criminalization, marginalization and deportation rather than inclusion and integration. Our bill must establish the functioning courts and appeals process we need for a modern immigration system, but unlike previous incarnations of comprehensive immigration reform, we do not need to craft all of the enforcement mechanisms. For two reasons: Number 1, the U.S. has already implemented a lot of the enforcement stuff we have proposed over the years in our comprehensive legislation already and we have nearly the lowest level of illegal immigration we have had in three- or four-decades. And secondly, Republicans will be coming up with all of the enforcement-only and deportation-only and militarization and criminalization bills they can think up… so we better be clear about what we want. You look on my Facebook or Twitter and you’ll see a lot of haters telling me to go back to Mexico, even though I am Puerto Rican and born in Chicago. And there are many, many people who are blessing me and encouraging me. But you get a lot of average folks who say – and probably really believe – that they are FOR legal immigration and AGAINST illegal immigration. They really believe that about themselves and we have to show them that we are on their side. That what we have been fighting for gives us more control at the border because people are coming on buses during daylight hours using their real names carrying a visa – not hiring a smuggler to risk their lives coming in the dark of night. That we are the side that wants to protect the labor rights of all working people because we want one set of labor laws for one labor market, not segmented into legal and illegal or above board and under-the-table. That we will update the visa system – which right now has people coming with visas that they applied for when Bill Clinton was President if they can apply at all – so it becomes modernized to regulate and facilitate immigration for families, for employers, for asylum seekers, for refugees or for people who want to build America up. That we are for immigrants putting down deep roots that benefit their own families, but that also benefit the communities they help make stronger and safer and healthier. We must articulate that vision and I look forward to working with you – all of you – in crafting that vision, introducing legislation, giving Democrats, fair-minded Republicans – if they have the courage – and most importantly, the American people and our community a place to stand and ideals and a vision to stand up for. Thank you very much. # # #
12.09.2016	Chicago – Today, Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Dick Durbin (D-IL) introduced the bipartisan BRIDGE Act to protect DREAMers with DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) by extending the program for three years. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement: I am going to do whatever I can to protect the children and young adults who signed up for DACA. Period. They came forward because the President and many other leaders, including myself, asked them to register, go through the process, and trust that by following the rules they would be rewarded with the opportunity to stay in the only country they have ever known. The DREAMers I know are worried about what a Trump Administration means for their future and their ability to work, study, and remain connected to their families. This bill is a start and I plan to work with colleagues in both parties to introduce a similar effort in the House of Representatives. Obviously, the young people who have complied with the DACA program have stepped up as leaders for the entire immigrant community. While this bill focuses on this specific group of DREAMers with DACA, the broader immigrant community deserves reassurance that the lives they have built in the United States – in most cases over decades – will not be erased. I am committed to resisting any attempts at mass deportation, mass criminalization, mass registration, or mass demonization of immigrants who work hard and have contributed so much to America. I am very proud of Senator Graham and my Senator, Dick Durbin, who once again have stepped up in the Senate to lead the way. There are dozens of men and women in the Republican Party in the House who have stepped up in the past and I expect to work with anyone who will join me and other Democrats in putting America’s immigrants in a safe place. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
12.07.2016	Video and Photo Links Below Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) was joined by more than a dozen of his House Democratic colleagues at a press conference this morning where a new letter to President Obama, signed by 64 Members of Congress, was released. The letter asks President Obama to “exercise your Constitutional authority to provide pardons to young people who are American in every way but on paper.” A presidential pardon for DREAMers with DACA, those brought to the United States as children who signed up for the President’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals initiative, could make it harder for President Donald Trump to deport them and could open up for certain DREAMers a path to legal status under current law. Last month, in response to a similar plea from Rep. Gutiérrez and his two key pro-immigrant allies – Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA) – the White House rejected the pardon idea by stating the President could not grant legal status and that pardons are primarily used for criminal violations, not civil violations of immigration law. But the three lawmakers, joined by scores of House colleagues, are pushing back, saying in the new letter: The Constitution specifically does not limit the pardon power to criminal offenses. We ask for the narrow reprieve of a retroactive and prospective pardon of categorical civil immigration violations for a unique group of young immigrants who have placed their trust in both you as their President and us as their lawmakers. To be clear we are not asking you to “create legal status.” In his remarks at the press conference, Rep. Gutiérrez said: We fought our own President for the [DACA] initiative and we fought hard. We have a responsibility to stand with the DREAMers and we feel the President has a responsibility to stand with us and with the DREAMers. The message [to President-elect Donald Trump] is simple, if you come for DREAMers, if you come for immigrant families, if you register Muslims, if you put in motion plans to deport millions and try to shut down or eliminate legal immigration, you will have to go through House Democrats and we are standing together. Reps. Gutiérrez, Lofgren and Roybal-Allard led the letter, which was signed by 64 Democrats in total. The full text of the letter to President Obama is here: 120716 Letter to Obama with Signatures.pdf In addition to Rep. Gutiérrez, Reps. Lofgren and Roybal-Allard spoke at the press conference. They were joined at the press conference by Democratic colleagues Joaquin Castro (TX), Judy Chu (CA), David Cicilline (RI), Raul Grijalva (AZ), Grace Napolitano (CA), Beto O’Rourke (TX), Jared Polis (CO), Mike Quigley (IL), Dina Titus (NV), Norma Torres (CA), and Juan Vargas (CA). Photos of the press conference can be found below. A video of the press conference is here (courtesy of the Democratic Caucus): https://youtu.be/DE2iJ22TPRY During the press conference, Rep. Gutiérrez was asked to respond to comments by President-elect Trump to Time Magazine apparently regarding the disposition of DREAMers after Trump takes office. The question and answer can be found here: https://youtu.be/DE2iJ22TPRY?t=37m37s Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
12.06.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke this morning on the floor of the House of Representatives about Middle East policy, Israel’s turn to hardline policies, and the jeopardy this poses for the “two state solution,” a path towards a Palestinian and Israeli state coexisting. Rep. Gutiérrez said: As the right-wing government of Benjamin Netanyahu consolidates power and becomes in many ways the one-party rulers of Israel, a number of things are changing that should be of concern to all Americans. Specifically, the increasing dominance of the Likud Party as the one-party in Israel jeopardizes the two state solution that I and many others in the United States and Israel feel is the only way to achieve long-term peace in the Middle East. Comparing Netanyahu’s leadership to that of a “strongman,” Rep. Gutiérrez cited moves in the Israeli Knesset to legalize settlements in the West Bank, destroy Palestinian homes, and restrict the Muslim call to prayer in Jerusalem as examples of recent actions, saying “strongman politics in Israel have the impact of making a long-lasting solution that brings peace to the Middle East harder to achieve.” He continued: The fundamental rights of Palestinians to have their own state, a state alongside the Israeli state where they have the basic rights and dignity to govern themselves and raise their families in peace – that is what many Israelis, many Palestinians, and many around the world have been fighting for. If we are ever going to achieve the permanent peace that allows Israel to exist without fear and Palestine to exist without occupation, we must continue to fight for the two state solution. He concluded: America has been a catalyst – a constructive influence from outside –a nation based on religious freedom and democracy that has served as a model for both Palestinians and Israelis – and we have worked towards helping parties continue to move in the direction of two separate but mutually respectful countries, two nations that are not at war with each other or subservient to one another. I fear…that Israel herself is moving away from the two state solution… The full text of the speech (as prepared for delivery) is below. A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/nFfjK9Yvx14 Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks December 6, 2016 Mr. Speaker, I am very concerned about what is going on in Israel and I think it has implications both for U.S. foreign policy and for domestic policy and for our great ally, Israel. As the right-wing government of Benjamin Netanyahu consolidates power and becomes in many ways the one-party rulers of Israel, a number of things are changing that should be of concern to all Americans. Specifically, the increasing dominance of the Likud Party as the one-party in Israel jeopardizes the two state solution that I and many others in the United States and Israel feel is the only way to achieve long-term peace in the Middle East. There is a retrenchment of hard line policies – aimed at solidifying alliances with smaller religious and hardline parties that keeps Likud in power -- that will make it harder for Israelis and their allies in America – and anyone who seeks a lasting peace – to maintain progress towards a two state solution. Right now, the Knesset is considering legislation to legalize all Israeli settlements in Palestinian territory on the West Bank, even those constructed on private Palestinian land. Boom, 400,000 people in settlements across the West Bank, it’s all legal because they say it is legal. But it’s not. And Israel is destroying Palestinian homes at a pace faster than we have seen before. It is provocative, sweeping, and designed to make it harder to ever reach an agreement with the Palestinians. The plan to restrict the Muslim call to prayer in Jerusalem has been revived, again to placate hardline religious constituents, by Prime Minister Netanyahu. There is no clearer statement to people of the Islamic faith that they do not matter, they do not belong, and they will not be tolerated than to restrict the Muslim call to prayer in Jerusalem, a city that has heard the Muslim call to prayer for thousands of years. I think what is going on in Israel with Prime Minister Netanyahu presents a cautionary tale about the consequences of following a political strongman. The strongman has to keep proving that he is a strongman over and over. Like other strongmen who ride fear into leadership – when you base your political career on injecting fear and resentment into political affairs – when you use the backdrop of terrorism and the understandable fear of the Israeli people as a political tool for years and decades – this is the kind of policy that results. There is an appetite for constant escalation of what you are doing to stand up to the enemy you have constructed – an enemy based on, but not the same as the enemies that fight against the state of Israel and tolerance and peace in real life. Strongmen construct a foil – in this case based on the Palestinians, but sometimes exaggerated beyond recognition – and they need to feed the thirst for more and more action to attack the caricature that has been constructed. But strongman politics in Israel have the impact of making a long-lasting solution that brings peace to the Middle East harder to achieve. The fundamental rights of Palestinians to have their own state, a state alongside the Israeli state where they have the basic rights and dignity to govern themselves and raise their families in peace – that is what many Israelis, many Palestinians, and many around the world have been fighting for. If we are ever going to achieve the permanent peace that allows Israel to exist without fear and Palestine to exist without occupation, we must continue to fight for the two state solution. When I was just a freshman, almost 25 years ago, we celebrated the accomplishments of Rabin and Arafat and President Clinton to build towards a peace that recognizes the rights and dignity of Israelis and the rights and dignities of the Palestinian people. For decades, the United States -- under different leaders in different parties from Carter to Reagan to Bush and Obama – have recognized that peace will only come with mutual respect and tolerance. That is what we have based our foreign policy on and should continue to base our foreign policy on. Having talked with average people and with leaders on both sides of the Palestinian/Israeli conflict – I am convinced that it is the only path to peace. America has been a catalyst – a constructive influence from outside –a nation based on religious freedom and democracy that has served as a model for both Palestinians and Israelis – and we have worked towards helping parties continue to move in the direction of two separate but mutually respectful countries, two nations that are not at war with each other or subservient to one another. I fear, Mr. Speaker, that Israel herself is moving away from the two state solution as a goal and that we as her closest ally must remind her – and ourselves – of what is at stake if we lose sight of this important goal. # # #
12.05.2016	Washington, DC – Today, 106 Members of Congress sent a letter to President Obama requesting that he take action to protect the names and private information of those who enrolled in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) programs. The letter, led by Reps. Judy Chu (CA-27), Zoe Lofgren (CA-29), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), and Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), specifically suggests an Executive Order that would prohibit the use of DACA enrollees’ information for purposes other than originally intended, including for purposes of deportation. The letter was endorsed by National Immigration Law Center (NILC), the Coalition for Humane Immigration Rights of Los Angeles (CHIRLA), and Immigrant Legal Resource Center (ILRC). The authors of the letter released the following statements: “When the government offered protection to immigrants if they worked hard, laid roots, went to school, and followed the laws, thousands acted on trust. Now that they’ve handed us names, addresses, birth certificates, and biometric information, we have to honor that trust,” said Rep. Judy Chu. “Further, President-elect Trump has said that his priority is to deport those who are a danger to our country. By qualifying for DACA or DAPA, these immigrants are by definition not a threat to our country, but rather assets. I urge President Obama to take immediate executive action to protect these Dreamers before he leaves office.” “The President, along with many Democratic Members of Congress, urged these young immigrants to come out of the shadows, and to register with the government on the premise that they may live without fear of deportation,” said Rep. Lofgren. “Now, with that assurance shattered, those of us who urged for and help implement the DACA program have a moral responsibility to do what we can to protect these young people from deportation under a Trump administration.” “To misuse personal DACA information to tear away young men and women from the only home they know, the United States, would be more than legally misguided: it would be categorically wrong,” said Rep. Roybal-Allard. “The DACA application, which recipients signed in good faith, clearly states that no information ‘can be shared for the sole purpose of removal.’ It would be unconscionable to remove young Americans covered under DACA from the U.S. I strongly urge President Obama to use his executive authority to protect them.” “We are going to do everything we can to protect the DREAMers who came forward to register under DACA, but that is only the beginning,” said Rep. Gutierrez. “If the new President is contemplating mass deportation of immigrants, he will have to go through us first.” The letter was signed by: Reps. Judy Chu (CA-27), Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), Lucille Roybal – Allard (CA-40), Mike Honda (CA-17), Danny K. Davis (IL-07), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Jerold Nadler (NY-10), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-AL), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Mike Doyle (PA-14), Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (FL-23), Sanford Bishop (GA-02), Susan Davis (CA-53), Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Xavier Becerra (CA-34), Bobby Scott (VA-03), Grace Meng (NY-06), Joseph Crowley (NY-14), Katherine M. Clark (MA-05), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Beto O’Rourke (TX-16), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), Tammy Duckworth (IL-08), Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Bill Keating (MA-09), Ted Lieu (CA-33), Marc Veasey (TX-33), Ruben Kihuen (NV-04) (Elect), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Jim Costa (CA-16), Lois Frankel (FL-22), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Karen Bass (CA-37), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Bill Foster (IL-11), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Jared Polis (CO-02), Mark Takano (CA-41), Juan Vargas (CA-51), Tony Cardenas (CA-29), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), David Price (NC-04), John Conyers (MI-13), Adam Schiff (CA-28), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Bennie Thompson (MS-02), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Al Green (TX-09), Lloyd Doggett (TX-35), Nydia Velazquez (NY-07), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Donna Edwards (MD-04), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Donald Payne Jr. (NJ-10), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Alma Adams (NC-12), Joseph Kennedy Jr. (MA-04), Don Beyer (VA-08), Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ben Ray Lujan (NM-03), Earl Perlmutter (CO-07), Kurt Schrader (OR-05), John Garamendi (CA-03), Elliot Engel (NY-16), Gene Green (TX-29), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Ted Deutch (FL-21), Yvette Clarke (NY-09), Albio Sires (NJ-08), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12), Peter Welch (VT-AL), Diana DeGette (CO-01), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Frank Pallone (NJ-06), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), John Lewis (GA-05), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Gregorio Sablan (N. Mariana-DD), Filemon Vela (TX-34), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Jim McGovern (MA-02), Dina Titus (NV-01), Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01), Cedric Richmond (LA-02), William Lacy Clay (MO-01), Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Brad Sherman (CA-30), Jose Serrano (NY-15), Adam Smith (WA-09), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Norma Torres (CA-35), Mike Quigley (IL-5), Sam Farr (CA-20), David Cicilline (RI-01), Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Bobby Rush (IL-01). The letter can be found here and is pasted below: The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: We write to express our concerns about the potential misuse of the personal information of enrollees in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. We urge you to consider taking executive action to prevent DACA enrollees’ personal information from being used for purposes other than originally intended, including for the purposes of removal. When your Administration first introduced the DACA program in 2012, it gave hope to many children of immigrants—commonly referred to as “Dreamers”—who were brought to this country at very young ages. Since the implementation of DACA, we have been able to see firsthand the profound effect that the program has had on the lives of the children and young adults it protects. Over 740,000 young Dreamers have been issued Social Security numbers and work permits, and many have used the benefits provided under DACA to seek job opportunities openly for the very first time. The DACA program allowed these individuals to enjoy many of the essential benefits, privileges, and responsibilities of American society that they had been denied for so long. Dreamers granted deferred action under DACA were freed from the constant fear of deportation to countries that many of them do not even know and do not call home; they responded by enriching their communities and becoming civically engaged in American life. As a condition of receiving the guarantees of DACA, these children and young adults submitted to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) numerous sources of information to verify identity, including fingerprints and other biometric data. They also underwent background checks and provided their home addresses, where family members may also reside. Other sensitive information, such as documentation of an arrest or charge of a misdemeanor in the United States or any other country, was also requested of applicants for DACA. In asking these undocumented youth for extensive personally identifying information, the Administration effectively asked them to place their trust in the government. Now many of those same Dreamers are wondering whether their trust was misplaced, fearing for their future in the United States, and questioning whether they can or should seek protection under DACA. Countless community advocates, organizers, and public servants have promoted the DACA program to Dreamers on the premise that the information they supply to DHS would not be used to deport them in the future. We cannot stand by and allow the Trump Administration to exploit the trust these young Americans placed in us and the government. We believe that when government makes promises it should keep them. We urge you to do everything within your power to safeguard the personal identifying information of DACA enrollees, including issuing an Executive Order prohibiting the use of DACA enrollee information for purposes other than originally intended. While this program is a significant part of the Administration’s legacy, it is more importantly a lifeline for hundreds of thousands of young Dreamers looking to lead productive and peaceful lives as members of American society.
12.01.2016	Note: Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) and several other senior Democratic Members led an effort to gather 51 House Democrats on a letter to President Obama asking him to dismantle the NSEERS system, a system crafted by Kris Kobach and used by the Bush Administration to call in and register immigrant men from certain countries. “Eliminating the regulatory framework for this awful program will make it harder for the new President to begin similar roundups based on national origin or religion,” Rep. Gutiérrez said, a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Co-Chair of the Task Force on Immigration of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The press release with the text of the letter is below. OVER 50 HOUSE DEMOCRATS CALL ON OBAMA ADMINISTRATION TO COMPLETELY DISMANTLE DISCRIMINATORY NSEERS REGISTRATION SYSTEM BEFORE NEW ADMINISTRATION BEGINS Washington, DC – In the wake of reports about the Trump Administration’s plans to create a special registration program for Muslims, House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Representatives Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Judy Chu (D-CA) and Keith Ellison (D-MN) today led over 50 House Democrats in calling for President Barack Obama to completely dismantle the regulatory framework behind the discriminatory National Security Entry-Exit Registration System (NSEERS) before his administration ends. The Obama Administration effectively ended the program in 2011; however, the apparatus remains. House Democrats are calling for the NSEERS regulatory framework to be eliminated. The letter was signed by Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Judy Chu (D-CA), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Grace Meng (D-NY), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Scott Peters (D-CA), Allen Lowenthal (D-CA), James A Himes (D-CT), Xavier Becerra (D-CA), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), José E. Serrano (D-NY), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Suzan K. DelBene (D-WA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Michael E. Capuano (D-MA), Joseph P. Kennedy, III (D-MA), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), David E. Price (D-NC), Donald S. Beyer, Jr. (D-VA), James McGovern (D-MA), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Raul M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Michael M. Honda (D-CA), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Mark Takano (D-CA), John Lewis (D-GA), David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), André Carson (D-IN), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA), Michael F. Doyle (D-PA). Full text of the letter is available here and below: Dear President Obama: We urge you to rescind the regulatory framework behind the National Security Entry-Exit Registration System (NSEERS) located at 8 CFR 264.1(f). While we commend your Administration for effectively ending the program in 2011, we believe that eliminating the apparatus of NSEERS is consistent with our country’s fundamental values of fairness and equality. The NSEERS program was announced in the wake of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. The most controversial portion of the NSEERS program involved a “domestic” registration system that targeted certain males who entered the United States on nonimmigrant visas from primarily Arab, Muslim-majority, African, and South Asian countries. The program was fundamentally flawed in its false assumption that people of a particular religion or nationality pose a greater national security risk and should be subject to racial profiling. The program is reminiscent of – and indeed has been compared to – the dark time in our history when innocent people were interned based on their Japanese ancestry. When instituted in 2002, the program caused widespread and palpable fear in affected communities, separated families and caused much harm to people affected by it. Boys and men were required to register with local immigration offices, were interrogated, and subjected to serious due process violation. Communities saw family members and neighbors disappear in the middle of the night, held in overcrowded jails and deported without due process. More than 13,000 people were placed in removal proceedings, businesses closed down, and students were forced to leave school with degrees uncompleted. In addition to the harm that NSEERS caused to communities, the program was ineffective as a counter-terrorism tool. A 2012 Department of Homeland Security, Office of Inspector General report found the program to be inefficient and a waste of resources, costing American taxpayers more than $10 million annually. The report characterized the data collected through the program as unreliable. No known terrorism convictions have resulted from the program. We stand together in opposition to policies that would target people based on their religion, race, ethnicity or national origin. We urge the Administration to immediately rescind the NSEERS regulation as a re-affirmation of its commitment to equal protection under the law. Sincerely,
11.18.2016	Washington, DC – It has been reported that President-elect Trump is considering reinstituting NSEERS, or “Special Registration” – a program that required people from certain countries with large Muslim populations to come forward and be registered with the federal government. A senior Trump advisor and a leader of the transition team, Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, designed the plan when he was a key lieutenant to Attorney General John Ashcroft in the months after 9/11. It was a moral, civil rights, due process, and law enforcement disaster. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement today in reaction to the news that Trump is considering reviving the failed and offensive policy. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He is a former Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. The roundup of men from mostly Asian, Middle Eastern and African countries was one of the darkest chapters of the George W. Bush years. It was a strategy to scare immigrants and yielded zero concrete terrorism leads that led to conviction. Racial, ethnic, religious, and gender profiling is exactly the wrong approach to law enforcement and counter-terrorism. President Trump is assuming office in 2017, not 1947 when red-scare hysteria gripped America. Whenever the United States has used fear of an outside aggressor to round up immigrants – every single time – it has been an embarrassment, a travesty, and a dark stain on America not to be repeated. # # #
11.18.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement today in reaction to the news that Senator Jefferson Beauregard Sessions of Alabama would be President-elect Trump’s pick as Attorney General. If you have nostalgia for the days when blacks kept quiet, gays were in the closet, immigrants were invisible and women stayed in the kitchen, Senator Jefferson Beauregard Sessions is your man. No Senator has fought harder against the hopes and aspirations of Latinos, immigrants, and people of color than Sen. Sessions. He is a staunch opponent of legal immigration and someone who has blocked every effort to improve, modernize, and humanize our immigration system, which is two or three decades out-of-date. He ran for the Senate because he was deemed by the Senate Judiciary Committee as too racist to serve as a federal judge. He is the kind of person who will set back law enforcement, civil rights, the courts, and increase America’s mass incarceration industry and erase 50 years of progress. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
11.17.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL) joined Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA) in releasing a letter they wrote to President Obama asking him to use his pardon authority to protect DREAMers with DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals). “We urge you to exercise your Constitutional authority to provide pardons to DREAMers both retroactively and prospectively,” the three lawmakers wrote. The full text of the letter is here: Ltr to President on DACA and Pardon Authority - 11-2016 FINAL.pdf They were joined at a press conference in the Capitol by Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA). In his opening statement at the press conference, Rep. Gutiérrez said: We are starting by calling on President Obama to provide relief while he is still in office for one particular group, DREAMers who came forward and registered with the government. We are asking the President to pardon them for their undocumented status, which by definition happened when they were juveniles. This would not give them a permanent safe place, but it is a start. This group has already been vetted by the federal government. They are more at risk because they registered and gave up their addresses and fingerprints. Rep. Gutiérrez went on to say: All we are asking is for the President to continue his commitment. To continue seeing in these young American children the same hopes as he sees in his daughters. To follow through on his promise to put them in a safe place where they can work hard and achieve everything they can achieve in life. The text of the opening remarks at the press conference (as prepared for delivery) is below. A video of the press conference is here (courtesy of the Democratic Caucus): https://youtu.be/aETbfQix82M?t=21m46s Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Opening Remarks We are here because we all need to take a stand. We need to stand up for what is right and make sure our communities do not despair or feel alone. There are 11 million undocumented immigrants in this country. There are 5 million U.S. citizen children who have a parent who is undocumented. And there are almost 750,000 young people who came forward, registered with the government and passed background checks as part of the DACA program. That is the group we are talking about today, but let us be clear, the entire community is vulnerable and this is just the first of many strategies we are evaluating and calling for to do what we can to help make sure everyone is in a safe place. Right now, immigrant communities are frightened, and by that I mean citizens, legal immigrants, and undocumented immigrants, most of whom have lived here for one or two decades. They are worried that their families will be destroyed, that they will lose their businesses and their livelihoods. They are worried that the education they worked so hard for for their children – almost all of whom are American citizens – will go up in smoke. They have no options to become legal in the United States or to leave and come back legally, and yet their lives and their children’s lives are here in this country. They are not the only communities that are frightened by the election of Donald Trump. Children in Muslim families, LGBT families, across communities of color, low-income families, even women who have been victimized by sexual assault and violence – there is very widespread fear among people who are worried they will be targeted with violence, punitive policies, discrimination and harassment. And the greatest impact is on children. This week I spoke at a press conference at Lurie Children’s Hospital in Chicago with officials from the state, county and city who have seen a 200% increase in calls to suicide prevention and counseling services in the City of Chicago and 250% nationwide. The fear is widespread and dangerous. We will be working over the coming months to identify as many ways as we can to help our fellow Americans protect themselves and make their families and their children safe. For us, action is a matter of life and death. We are starting by calling on President Obama to provide relief while he is still in office for one particular group, DREAMers who came forward and registered with the government. We are asking the President to pardon them for their undocumented status, which by definition happened when they were juveniles. This would not give them a permanent safe place, but it is a start. This group has already been vetted by the federal government. They are more at risk because they registered and gave up their addresses and fingerprints. And everybody knows that they are leaders and the line of first defense in immigrant communities. Their brave advocacy – by coming forward and declaring that they are here and are proud to fight for their community and their families – it has energized immigrant communities and lit a fire under old people like all of us in the U.S. Congress. They have become role models for rest of the community—role models for all of us, for the nation, really. When President Obama ran for reelection in 2012, he ran an ad in Spanish – maybe you remember it. In the ad he said he granted DACA to DREAMers because he saw the same values and aspiration inculcated in DREAMers as he saw in his own two daughters. All we are asking is for the President to continue his commitment; to continue seeing in these young American children the same hopes as he sees in his daughters. To follow through on his promise to put them in a safe place where they can work hard and achieve everything they can achieve in life. Look, in 2012, President Obama embraced the DREAMers, put them on in prime time at his convention, and Democrats continued to place DREAMers in prominent roles in the Clinton and Sanders campaigns. As Democrats, as parents, as leaders, as Americans, we simply cannot let those who trusted their government and came forward to now twist in the wind. We will fight for our community and not just the DREAMers. If you ask the DREAMers themselves, they will tell you it is not just about us, we need our families too and we agree with them. We need a broad, unified, multi-faceted plan to keep families together and push back on Donald Trump’s mass deportation plan. And let’s be clear, when Trump says 2 to 3 million immigrants are criminals and gangbangers, he is lying and it means he intends to do massive sweeps in immigrant communities. This is no different than when Trump during the campaign called Mexicans rapists and drug dealers. He wants to paint us all with the same brush. When he appoints Steve Bannon, Kris Kobach, Jeff Sessions, Jan Brewer or Joe Arpaio to senior positions, he means that mass deportation is coming. What we are saying is we will use every peaceful, political, and social means necessary to keep families together and stand up for fairness and justice. # # #
09.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor about the new Financial Control Board – or Junta de Control – that will oversee all aspects of Puerto Rico’s government and which meets on Friday for its first official meeting. The meeting is not in Puerto Rico, but in lower Manhattan close to Wall Street, which Rep. Gutiérrez said “is symbolic of the way la Junta de Control over Puerto Rico came about – and is a very bad omen for the future.” He said: “Holding the meeting in lower Manhattan confirms to Puerto Ricans that the Junta de Control is by, for, and all about the bondholders and corporate interests on Wall Street. So, I consider the Junta meeting on Friday a home-court game.” The Congressman, who was a staunch opponent of the PROMESA legislation that created the Control Board, also noted the apparent ties between the members of la Junta de Control and the bondholders and corporate interests on Wall Street “who traded and profited off of Puerto Rico’s $72 Billion in debt.” “And all of this raises the bigger problem of transparency. There isn’t any. Under law this group can meet in secret anywhere in the world and their proceedings can be conducted in “executive session.” The Board Members can receive unlimited and unreported gifts, meals, Hamilton tickets and anything else and we will never know.” He concluded: “As we leave Washington this week and head home for the great exercise in American democracy in November, I want all of us [in Congress] to keep in mind the Island of Puerto Rico, our colony in the Caribbean Sea, a place that now, more than ever, only dreams of true democracy.” The full text is below. A video of the speech is here: https://youtu.be/qUDqi8Sum1c Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, which has a significant Puerto Rican population. He was born to parents who left Puerto Rico for Chicago in the 1950s but returned to Puerto Rico, with the Congressman, in the 1960s. Rep. Gutiérrez is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks as Prepared for Delivery September 28, 2016 Mr. Speaker: On Friday, there is an important meeting in the Financial District of New York City. Right in the heart of the stock traders, the investment banks and the bond buyers and sellers who trade in the debt of companies, countries, and municipalities. Right there in the nerve center of our financial markets, they are holding a meeting. Is it a meeting about Wells Fargo opening thousands of accounts without the knowledge or consent of their customers? No. Nothing like that. Nor anything related to the financial meltdown that our country is still recovering from that started right there. Nope. This is the first meeting of the Puerto Rico Financial Control Board – the Junta de Control that has supreme power to rule over Puerto Rico. Now, in case there is any confusion with the geography, New York City has a lot of Puerto Ricans but it is not – in fact – the Capital of Puerto Rico. My staff checked. San Juan is the Capital of Puerto Rico, but no, the meeting of the Junta de Control that has dominion over all aspects of the Puerto Rican people is not meeting in San Juan. The meeting is taking place pretty close to Wall Street, which I think is symbolic of the way la Junta de Control over Puerto Rico came about – and is a very bad omen for the future. Let me explain. There are seven people – not elected, but appointed – who oversee every aspect of Puerto Rico’s governance. Four are Republican nominees, three are Democrats and there is one non-voting member of the Junta. Several of the members of the Puerto Rico Junta de Control appear to have deep ties to Wall Street where you can find many of the bondholders who traded and profited off of Puerto Rico’s $72 Billion in debt. Judge Juan R. Torruella, the first Hispanic appointed by Ronald Reagan to the prestigious U.S. First Circuit Court of Appeals summed it up pretty well. He told the Colegio de Abogados -- the Bar Association of Puerto Rico –that, “The principal purpose of PROMESA [the Control Board] is to establish a collection agency for bondholders.” And the person who is rumored to be the executive director of the Junta de Control – he is a big-time corporate energy lobbyist. He is former head of the Center for Liquefied Natural Gas – a trade association of energy producers – which makes everyone concerned about Puerto Rico’s environment nervous – with good reason. So holding the meeting in lower Manhattan confirms to Puerto Ricans that the Junta de Control is by, for, and all about the bondholders and corporate interests on Wall Street. So, I consider the Junta meeting on Friday a home-court game. The Board will elect their chairman on Friday. Kind of ironic, because they are electing the Chair to an unelected Board, because, well, democracy is good enough for some people, but not for the Puerto Rican people. And we have been told that members of the Control Board met secretly in Washington last week, so it is unclear whether this is actually the first meeting of the Junta de Control. And all of this raises the bigger problem of transparency. There isn’t any. Under law this group can meet in secret anywhere in the world and their proceedings can be conducted in “executive session.” The Board Members can receive unlimited and unreported gifts, meals, Hamilton tickets and anything else and we will never know. They are under no obligation to translate anything into Spanish – which, in case you forgot, is the language of people who have to live with the Junta’s decisions. I will say, to their credit, that after I wrote to each member of the control board and asked for a public commitment to transparency, a few of them wrote back. None made a public commitment to transparency, but a few acknowledged that keeping Puerto Ricans informed, making the meetings publicly accessible and translating materials in the language of the people being governed were good principles. It remains to be seen whether anyone on the Junta de Control really fights to inform the Puerto Rican people. Really steps up to be a champion for the school teachers and doctors and moms and dads who are struggling, the firemen and police and public-sector heroes who serve the Puerto Rican people. And unclear that this Control Board will step up on behalf of the Puerto Rican people and make creating jobs, creating more jobs, and creating more jobs the number one priority for the Junta. That is the way we create a tax base for Puerto Rico. That is the way we give puertoriqueños a viable option to live and work in Puerto Rico rather than moving to Florida or some other state. So, Mr. Speaker, as we leave Washington this week and head home for the great exercise in American democracy in November, I want all of us to keep in mind the Island of Puerto Rico, our colony in the Caribbean Sea, a place that now, more than ever, only dreams of true democracy. # # #
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Fifty Members of the House of Representatives signed a letter to President Barack Obama calling on the United States government to offer Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Ecuadorians living in the U.S. In April, Ecuador sustained significant damage from an earthquake and has sustained damage from numerous aftershocks since that time. TPS is an aspect of U.S. immigration law that defers deportation when a country – because of war, natural disaster, or other upheaval – would benefit from a temporary suspension of deportations. TPS would allow certain Ecuadorian nationals who are already here to remain in the U.S., work in the U.S. legally, and send money back to Ecuador to aid in the recovery process. The call for TPS for Ecuadorians from Members of Congress started in April and May, but a determination by the Obama Administration has not been announced. Copies of the new letter to the President were sent to Secretary of State John Kerry and Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson. The letter, dated September 22, reads in part: As steadfast advocates for TPS for Ecuador, we have communicated regularly with both the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of State which must collaborate in this process. Certain key steps must take place before DHS can designate TPS for a foreign country. Ecuador has already made the official request for TPS on May 18, 2016, and the Department of State has made and transmitted its evaluation of TPS for Ecuador to DHS in July. We now wait for DHS to make the final decision on this matter—it is the last step in this process. The nearly five months that have passed is already too long for the Ecuadorians facing heartbreak and uncertainty in the aftermath of a national tragedy. We urge you to act swiftly and compassionately in responding to the needs of our Ecuadorian constituents and grant TPS for Ecuador. It was circulated by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) and signed by: Reps. Xavier Becerra; Earl Blumenauer; Judy Chu; Tony Cárdenas; David N. Cicilline; Yvette D. Clarke; John Conyers, Jr.; Joseph Crowley; Danny K. Davis; Theodore E. Deutch; Lloyd Doggett; Tammy Duckworth; Donna F. Edwards; Keith Ellison; Raúl M. Grijalva; Luis V. Gutiérrez; Michael M. Honda; Steve Israel; Hakeem S. Jeffries; Barbara Lee; Sheila Jackson Lee; Zoe Lofgren; Michelle Lujan Grisham; Carolyn B. Maloney; Jim McDermott; James P. McGovern; Grace Meng; Gwen Moore; Jerrold Nadler; Grace F. Napolitano; Eleanor Holmes Norton; Frank Pallone, Jr.; Bill Pascrell, Jr.; Donald M. Payne, Jr.; Mark Pocan; Mike Quigley; Charles B. Rangel; Kathleen M. Rice; Lucille Roybal-Allard; Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan; Linda T. Sánchez; Jan Schakowsky; José E. Serrano; Norma J. Torres; Chris Van Hollen; Juan Vargas; Nydia M. Velázquez; Debbie Wasserman Schultz; Bonnie Watson Coleman; John A. Yarmuth. The full text of the letter is here: 092216 Sign On Letter POTUS TPS Ecuador FINAL SIGNED.pdf
09.21.2016	On the Floor of the House today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke about the case for the release of Oscar Lopez Rivera, the last Puerto Rican political prisoner held in a U.S. prison. A veteran in his seventies, Lopez Rivera has served more than 35 years in prison having not been convicted of a crime of violence. The Congressman is urging those who support the release of Oscar Lopez Rivera to join him in Washington on October 9 in Lafayette Park opposite the White House to urge President Obama to use his executive powers to commute Lopez Rivera's sentence before the President leaves office in January 2017. Rep. Gutiérrez also released a letter he wrote on September 15 to President Obama making yet another appeal for clemency: 091516 Obama Letter Follow Up on OLR.pdf A video of today's speech is here: https://youtu.be/xVMaqvBPhOU The following is the text, as prepared for delivery: Mr. Speaker: This past weekend, I visited four cities in four states to meet with Puerto Rican elected officials, leaders and members of the Puerto Rican diaspora about a very important campaign. I was in Hartford, Connecticut, Springfield, Massachusetts, New York, New York, and Newark New Jersey for activities, parades and discussions that were very successful. This week I will be back in Chicago with my fellow Puerto Ricans at the National Museum of Puerto Rican Arts and Culture (NMPRAC) to honor the organization and to recognize the talent and cultural contributions of Antonio Martorell and Lin-Manuel Miranda who make us all proud. But I’m not traveling on a campaign for President or for a political candidate; rather I was meeting with people all over about a campaign for the current President to take action before he leaves office in January to free Oscar Lopez Rivera, the last political prisoner from Puerto Rico who has been held for 35 years in an American prison. No one disputes that the President of the United States has the power to grant pardons, commute sentences, and grant clemency. It is a power the President alone possesses as our chief executive. Congress and the Courts can do nothing to override him in this case. And Puerto Ricans and allies all over the world are asking the President to grant clemency to Oscar Lopez Rivera. He was not convicted of committing a violent crime, rather he was convicted of seditious conspiracy – espousing the belief that that the Puerto Rican people are capable of, entitled to, and have an inalienable right to self-determination. This man, Oscar Lopez Rivera, who is now in his 70s and has spent half his life in prison – is no threat to the United States or Puerto Rico. He harbors no nefarious plot to harm anyone. He is simply a man who has served an inordinate sentence for the crime for which he was convicted and now, Puerto Ricans want their elder statesman to be allowed to live out his days in Puerto Rico. In fact, Mr. Speaker, there are few issues that unite the Puerto Rican people more than the united front that is assembling to call for the release of Oscar Lopez Rivera. Hundreds have already pledged to join with us on October 9 in Lafayette Park in Washington DC to make our unity and our commitment known. I know from my own experience that too often, Puerto Ricans are divided from each other along so many lines of politics and class and geography. But in this case, in this cause, in the united call – Puerto Ricans are united as never before. The House and Senate of the Island’s legislature, the candidates for Governor and major office, current and past elected officials, City Councils and municipal governments across the Island from San Juan to the smallest villages support the release of Oscar Lopez Rivera – across party lines, across lines that often separate Statehood advocates and Independence and Commonwealth advocates. Universities, faculties, civil and human rights groups, entertainers, and the institutions of civic society in Puerto Rico are united. Practically every Bishop, every denomination, every congregation, parish and church – almost the entire faith community on the Island have called for Oscar’s release. But it is not just a Puerto Rico thing, Mr. Speaker. It is a movement that has sparked followers across the United States as well. The AFL-CIO, AFSCME, SEIU, Communications Workers of America, and other allies in labor are standing up for justice and standing up for the release of Oscar Lopez Rivera. The ACLU, the Hispanic National Bar Association and religious leaders of all stripes are on-board. The City Council of New York City and the Newark, New Jersey Municipal Council passed resolutions. And my friends and colleagues on the Congressional Hispanic Caucus here in this Congress – despite Puerto Ricans being only a small minority of our Membership – has joined in the call for Oscar Lopez Rivera to be released and I thank them. Finally, Mr. Speaker, Oscar Lopez’ case and the call for him to be released has received international attention and validation. Presidents, Nobel laureates, leaders, artists, and activists the world over know it is time to let Oscar Lopez Rivera return in peace to his Island. Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the Archbishop emeritus of the Anglican Church in Cape Town – a true champion of justice across the globe – has expressed his unwavering support for the release of this prisoner. Mr. Speaker, based on the merits of the case, the outpouring of support, and the moral obligation and power that has been placed in his hands, I join freedom fighters, justice-lovers, Puerto Ricans, working people, and individuals across the globe in asking President Obama to use his pen to free Oscar Lopez Rivera. # # #
09.14.2016	Washington, DC – Standing before a poster of himself standing with Oscar López Rivera, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke this morning on the floor of the House about the campaign to free López Rivera, “the last Puerto Rican political prisoner still held in federal custody.” Using a mix of English and Spanish, Rep. Gutiérrez said he fears that there is no meaningful review of the López Rivera request for clemency being conducted “at the Justice Department, at the White House or anywhere else,” despite claims to the contrary. López Rivera, whom Rep. Gutiérrez described as “our elder statesman, our Nelson Mandela, our pride and our sense of nationhood,” has been in federal prison for 35 years. Rep. Gutiérrez has been traveling in Puerto Rico and across the United States to encourage people to attend a solidarity event on behalf of López Rivera in Lafayette Park, across the street from the White House, on October 9 in Washington, D.C. The Congressman will travel this weekend to events in Puerto Rican communities in Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York and New Jersey to spread the word about the October 9 event and to reiterate his message about clemency for Oscar López Rivera. In his speech on the floor of the House today, the Illinois Congressman discussed his interactions with Obama Administration officials and his conclusion that the case is not progressing as he and others had hoped. “There has been nothing from the Obama Administration. That is why I continue to call on Puerto Ricans and people of good conscience to come on October 9 to Washington as we join together to show our unity and resolve that Oscar López Rivera should be set free to return to Puerto Rico to live with his people.” Rep. Gutiérrez concluded his remarks in Spanish, speaking directly to Puerto Ricans on the Island and in the U.S.: “Si tienen que caminar, tomar un autobús, gatear o nadar para llegar a Washington el 9 de octubre, háganlo….No podemos dejar que nuestro hermano muera encarcelado. No podemos dejar que nuestra patria sea ignorada. “Debemos seguir unidos como Puertorriqueños – sin importar quienes somos, donde nacimos y donde vivimos ahora – y decirle al Presidente de los Estados Unidos y al gobierno aquí en Washington que 35 años es suficiente. Ya basta.” [Translation] If you need to walk, take a bus, crawl, or swim to get to Washington on October 9, you should do so….We cannot let our brother die in jail. We cannot let our nation be ignored. We must stand together as Puerto Ricans – no matter who we are, no matter where we were born, no matter where we live now – and tell the President of the United States and the government here in Washington that 35 years is enough. Enough. The full text of the speech (as prepared for delivery, with translation of the Spanish portion) is below. A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/uZGChHgLdi8 Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He has lived and worked in Puerto Rico previously and was born in Chicago to parents who were born in Puerto Rico. Floor Remarks September 14, 2016 Oscar López Rivera is the last Puerto Rican political prisoner still held in federal custody – now for more than 35 years. He never killed anyone or was charged with killing anyone, but he is still in jail. The man who shot President Reagan, John Hinckley, Jr. is no longer being held. Other high profile offenders get clemency or have their sentences reduced. All of us have seen in the past months that the Obama Administration commuted the sentences of hundreds of non-violent drug offenders and most of us have applauded the President for that action. And Oscar López Rivera is in jail for 35 years! 35 years! No matter what party or faction or class or race or walk of life you are from in Puerto Rico and in Puerto Rican communities all over the United States, you know about Oscar López Rivera and what he symbolizes for the Puerto Rican people. He is our elder statesman, our Nelson Mandela, our pride and our sense of nationhood. We all cheered for Monica Puig at the Olympics and heard our National Anthem played for the very first time. Yet there is still a piece missing from our national identity, a piece missing from our soul because Oscar López may be forgotten and may die in jail. It is with deep sadness that I say that it is looking more and more like there is no meaningful review of his case going on at the Justice Department, at the White House or anywhere else. I met with President Obama on June 8 in his office and I took the opportunity to ask him about the case of Oscar López Rivera. Lin-Manuel Miranda said that Oscar’s case was on the President’s desk when they met and everyone in Puerto Rico relaxed. But the President told me “no, his case is not on my desk, you need to talk to McDonough, my Chief of Staff.” Which I did and he said, “No, I don’t know anything about that case, but the Deputy Attorney General will meet with you and discuss the case.” And I tried and tried and tried to get information from her about where the case stood and how the process of clemency works under President Obama. Ten weeks later – ten weeks – I heard from the DOJ’s assistant to the assistant’s assistant in legislative affairs. He said “no, I don’t know anything about Oscar’s case.” And he went on to say that Deputy Attorney General Yates will not meet with me or anyone else. The reason is that they only make contact with outside parties when they initiate it – when they are reaching out for more information on a candidate to make a decision. Basically, they said don’t call us, we’ll call you. But no one I know – no one – has received any kind of contact from the DOJ. Which makes it pretty clear to me that they are not seriously reviewing the case. To recap, the President said it is not on my desk. The Chief of Staff said I don’t know anything about the case, talk to this person at DOJ and that person – more than two months later – told someone else to tell me we’ll call people about the case when and if we are seriously reviewing it. And there has been nothing from the Obama Administration. That is why I continue to call on Puerto Ricans and people of good conscience to come on October 9 to Washington as we join together to show our unity and resolve that Oscar López Rivera should be set free to return to Puerto Rico to live with his people. Mr. Speaker, I do not mean to be rude, but my message to Puerto Ricans about Oscar López Rivera is so important that I must deliver it in Spanish and I will provide you with a thorough translation. SPANISH: Me da tristeza decir que el optimismo y la confianza que el Presidente Obama liberará a Oscar López Rivera está en grave peligro. Cada vez que me he comunicado con el personal del Presidente me han indicado que la evaluación del caso de Oscar no está progresando; por eso tenemos que hacer nuestras voces perfectamente claras y trabajar juntos para mandarle el mensaje más fuerte posible al Presidente. Si tienen que caminar, tomar un autobús, gatear o nadar para llegar a Washington el 9 de octubre, háganlo. Estaremos reunidos con celebridades, líderes, y Puertorriqueños de todo tipo el domingo, 9 de octubre al cruzar la calle de la Casa Blanca, en Lafayette Park. No podemos dejar que nuestro hermano muera encarcelado. No podemos dejar que nuestra patria sea ignorada. Debemos seguir unidos como Puertorriqueños – sin importar quienes somos, donde nacimos y donde vivimos ahora – y decirle al Presidente de los Estados Unidos y al gobierno aquí en Washington que 35 años es suficiente. Ya basta. Queremos que nuestro hermano, Oscar López Rivera, camine entre nosotros y que sus pies toquen la tierra cálida de Puerto Rico una vez más. Demuestren que esto les importa, y que no se quedarán callados. Únete a nosotros el 9 de octubre. ENGLISH: Thank you Mr. Speaker. # # # TRANSLATION OF THE SPANISH: I am sad to say that our optimism and confidence that President Obama would finally set Oscar López Rivera free is in jeopardy. Every indication I am getting from the President and his staff is that the review of Oscar’s case is not progressing, so we need to make our voices perfectly clear and work together to send the strongest possible message to the President. If you need to walk, take a bus, crawl, or swim to get to Washington on October 9, you should do so. We will be gathering on Sunday, October 9, across the street from the White House in Lafayette Park with celebrities, leaders and Puerto Ricans of all kinds. We cannot let our brother die in jail. We cannot let our nation be ignored. We must stand together as Puerto Ricans – no matter who we are, no matter where we were born, no matter where we live now – and tell the President of the United States and the government here in Washington that 35 years is enough. Enough. We want our brother, Oscar López Rivera, to walk amongst us and to touch his feet on the warm land of Puerto Rico again. Show that you care and that you will not be silent. Join us on October 9. # # #
09.13.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the Floor of the House of Representatives about the need for Congress to approve funds to fight the growing Zika crisis that is already engulfing Puerto Rico. He also highlighted efforts by Puerto Ricans to create a mosquito vector control system and to ensure that family planning and contraception are more widely available on the Island of Puerto Rico. He criticized those on the right who are holding up Zika funding legislation so that the Congress can fight over funding for Planned Parenthood. “Congress has the same response [to Zika] it has to almost everything: ‘nothing.’ In this case, ‘nothing’ flavored with a little partisan posturing over abortion in an election year. The issue for some people seems to be that we can fund research, prevention and treatment as long as one of the most important, proven, and effective health care delivery mechanisms for women is excluded – because Planned Parenthood is on the Republican hit list.” He continued: “A generation of children – in Puerto Rico and in the United States – is counting on the U.S. Congress to protect them from the Zika virus and I hope this Congress puts politics aside and rises to the occasion.” The full text of the speech (as prepared for delivery) is below. A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/WHNBNTiwLgo The Congressman also wrote an article on Zika and Puerto Rico for The Hill newspaper’s Congress Blog, which was published Monday: https://bit.ly/2cTGoMO Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago to parents who were born in Puerto Rico and he has lived in Puerto Rico at various times in his life. Floor Remarks September 13, 2016 It is almost as if the majority would prefer to go into the final stretch of election season with fresh reminders of how dysfunctional things have become. No action on common sense gun control measures. No action on immigration or climate change. And no action on the Zika virus that is taking a huge toll in Puerto Rico and is poised to take a toll in the U.S. as well. Congress is still in denial that Zika is a real threat and that a generation of children could be exposed to the disease with dangerous and debilitating birth defects. It is so hard for me to articulate this out loud, but in just a few weeks, the first group of children born with brain-development and physical problems associated with the disease will be born in Puerto Rico. We are looking at more than 15,000 reported cases of Zika in Puerto Rico and more than 2,000 pregnant women. At its current pace, Zika will infect a quarter of the Island in the next year. This is the first mosquito-borne disease that successfully infects children in the womb through the placenta. It can be sexually transmitted. Humans can give Zika to mosquitos that then go on to infect other humans. And Congress has the same response it has to almost everything: ‘nothing.’ In this case, ‘nothing’ flavored with a little partisan posturing over abortion in an election year. The issue for some people seems to be that we can fund research, prevention and treatment as long as one of the most important, proven, and effective health care delivery mechanisms for women is excluded – because Planned Parenthood is on the Republican hit list. No matter that funding Planned Parenthood in Puerto Rico – or anywhere else – would be the prudent use of federal funds if our goal is to prevent the spread of the disease and prevent – that is prevent, not terminate – unwanted pregnancies during this crisis. Politics and elections always seem to trump good sensible policies, no pun intended. So, ‘nothing’ yet from Congress despite the pleas from the Obama Administration, the CDC, the medical community and the American people. But in Puerto Rico, some people may not be taking the disease seriously enough, either. Having spent time talking to people in Puerto Rico, too many of the people that I talked to are also complacent about Zika and the impact it will have. Many Puerto Ricans suspect it is all hype from Washington; yet another crisis to give the United States more control or to spray chemicals all over Puerto Rico. Given the Island’s history, this point of view is not unreasonable. This Congress just appointed an unelected Control Board or Junta to take control of the Island’s government and finances. For decades the United States used Puerto Rico and especially the Island of Vieques for target practice for our military. And for more than a decade the United States has been denying the health and environmental impact of that bombing, including cancers and other diseases that Islanders know are real because their relatives are dying. And back in my mother’s day, the “family planning” that came from the United States was forced sterilization. So I understand why some people are skeptical when – so far – it has been hard to demonstrate the consequences of the Zika virus and how it could make life any worse than it already is in Puerto Rico. But again, in just a few weeks, when we see children born with mental and physical impairments, it will become clear that Zika is real. Puerto Rico must rise to the challenge presented by Zika and bridge the deep ocean of distrust between the Puerto Rican people and the United States. That’s why I spent a lot of my time over the past month meeting with public health experts, doctors and scientists. And every one of them was Puerto Rican, not people sent from the U.S. Puerto Rico needs an integrated, comprehensive mosquito vector control center and Puerto Ricans are coming together to discuss how it can be created quickly. This is the mosquito-tracking and eradication that is deployed when a disease is detected so that resources can be concentrated on a neighborhood or city if an infectious disease like Zika is present. Puerto Rico does not have the access to contraception you would expect in the 21st century, but Puerto Rican doctors, gynecologists, scientists and experts are also strategizing about how to make modern, effective, reversible family planning more widely available so that women can delay pregnancy. But, while Puerto Ricans can drive the process of addressing Zika in Puerto Rico – and this will lead to much greater acceptance of those strategies by the Puerto Rican people and greater success in the long run – that does not get Congress off the hook. Puerto Rico, like the United States, needs this Congress to fund the President’s request for funding and also for the federal government to do the job it should be doing. In Puerto Rico, this includes the Environmental Protection Agency addressing the toxic landfills that dot the Island, which are breeding grounds for mosquitos but seem to have been overlooked by the EPA. A generation of children – in Puerto Rico and in the United States – is counting on the U.S. Congress to protect them from the Zika virus and I hope this Congress puts politics aside and rises to the occasion. Mr. Speaker I ask unanimous consent to enter my op-ed from The Hill newspaper yesterday on Zika and Puerto Rico into the record. (https://bit.ly/2cTGoMO) # # #
09.07.2016	Washington, DC – Today on the first full day back after recess, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke during Morning Business on the Floor of the House about the new Control Board overseeing Puerto Rico. Before Congress left for recess, they passed the PROMESA bill (Puerto Rico Oversight, Management and Economic Stability Act) to appoint an unelected Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico, known in Puerto Rico as the Control Board or la Junta de Control. Rep. Gutiérrez, a vocal critic of PROMESA and the Control Board, vowed to keep reminding Members of Congress about the situation in Puerto Rico, even though some Members would probably like to go back to not thinking about Puerto Rico very much. “I am not going to let this Congress forget about Puerto Rico or the board we have appointed to rule over the Puerto Rican people,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “We cannot just set it and forget it like one of those super-duper wonder machines they sell on the infomercials.” He went on: “An unelected Control Board, with no mechanisms for oversight, with no commitment to transparency, with no promise of bilingualism or inclusion, stocked with insiders and people with questionable links to the very problems the Board is supposed to resolve – this does not give me great confidence that this Congress will be alert when the people of Puerto Rico – our fellow citizens and more importantly, our fellow humans beings – are in need of our help.” The full text of the speech (as prepared for delivery) is below. A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/9TpFdAHSCpE Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago to parents who were born in Puerto Rico and he has lived in Puerto Rico at various times in his life. Floor Remarks September 7, 2016 Mr. Speaker, I want to talk about the beautiful, enchanted Island of Puerto Rico, the birthplace of my father and mother and my wife. Yes, the colony of the United States in the Caribbean Sea – where, in case you forget, everyone is born a citizen – is now even more of a colony of the United States now that Washington has appointed the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico. Or as most people call it, the Control Board or la Junta de Control. Seven members, four put forward by Republicans and three put forward by Democrats, were announced last week and I was not pleasantly surprised. I have made it clear in this Congress and elsewhere that I oppose the PROMESA legislation that created the Board that passed Congress before we left. And now I look at the Board and I see a mix of people, some with ties to the former Tea Party Governor’s regime, some with close ties to Wall Street, and most with experience examining the legal and administrative aspects of bankruptcy, not in governing an Island with 3.5 million actual living, breathing human beings. I was not surprised to see political insiders or those who are close to the bond holders. I assumed as much and I still assume until proven otherwise that most everyone on the Control Board or who lobbies, influences, or helps the Control Board is doing the bidding of the bond-holders who profit from Puerto Rico’s debt and economic hard times. The fact that four of the seven members are Puerto Rican does not make me feel any more optimistic. If you look at recent history in Puerto Rico, just having a majority of Puerto Ricans should not give you much comfort. Wasn’t it Puerto Ricans who beat and pepper sprayed demonstrators at the University and at the Legislature? Who have gone after journalists, unions, and lawyers in politically-motivated attacks? Who have put the needs of investors, big Wall Street fat-cats, and political insiders ahead of the people, the environment, and the future of Puerto Rico? The Control Board and its members – no matter who they are – start with a deep ocean of mistrust from the Puerto Rican people who question why a new layer of opaque, undemocratic, colonial oversight and control is being imposed. That is why I challenged the appointees to the Board to go the extra mile to make their deliberations, meetings, and decisions as transparent as possible. When they are governing the Puerto Rican people, will they do so in Spanish – the language of the Puerto Rican people? Will they make available logs of who they meet with? Who tries to exert influence? What Wall Street executives are spinning them or treating them to expensive meals or giving them gifts? When this Control Board is making decisions that close schools or hospitals, that threaten the environment, public institutions, and every aspect of society in Puerto Rico, will the Puerto Rican people even be given a minimum amount of information in their own language about who is influencing those decisions? The Junta de Control must make the extra effort to tell Puerto Ricans what their decisions mean, why they are being made, and how decisions were determined. As Members of Congress who have essentially grabbed the reins of self-determination from the Puerto Rican people and handed them to this Control Board – are we going to be afforded the level of transparency that we need to determine if what is happening is what we want to happen? I understand, Mr. Speaker, that some of our colleagues do not like to be reminded of policy issues that were already voted on, especially complicated policy issues that do not seem to impact them directly. They just want to vote on it and forget it. But I am not going to let this Congress forget about Puerto Rico or the board we have appointed to rule over the Puerto Rican people. We cannot just set it and forget it like one of those super-duper wonder machines they sell on the infomercials. Puerto Rico is ours, its people are ours, its land is ours, its bays are ours, its toxic landfills and lush forests, its schools and hospitals and health care clinics – these are all ours in the sense that we have been given a sacred duty to govern over Puerto Rico responsibly. An unelected Control Board, with no mechanisms for oversight, with no commitment to transparency, with no promise of bilingualism or inclusion, stocked with insiders and people with questionable links to the very problems the Board is supposed to resolve – this does not give me great confidence that this Congress will be alert when the people of Puerto Rico – our fellow citizens and more importantly, our fellow humans beings – are in need of our help. # # #
09.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Thursday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez wrote to each of the seven newly-appointed members of the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico, the Control Board or Junta de Control, that will oversee Puerto Rico under the PROMESA (Puerto Rico Oversight, Management and Economic Stability Act) legislation. A fierce opponent of PROMESA, Rep. Gutiérrez tried to amend the legislation so that meetings of the Control Board would be held in public, votes would be recorded, logs of experts, consultants, and lobbyists would be disclosed, and proceedings of the Control Board would be made available in Spanish, the language of Puerto Rico. His amendments were blocked by Republican leaders and were not given an up or down vote. So, the day after their names were announced, Rep. Gutiérrez wrote each member “to make a public commitment to the Puerto Rican people that you will conduct your work on the control board transparently and in the mother tongue of the people who will be deeply impacted for years to come by your decisions.” Text of Letter: 090116 Gutierrez Letter.pdf Rep. Gutiérrez said the members of the Control Board, appointed by the government in Washington, with members who have ties to the former Governor Luis Fortuño and ties to Wall Street investors, start with a deep deficit of trust when it comes to Puerto Ricans. “Just because many of the members of the Junta de Control are Puerto Rican does not inspire trust in Puerto Rico, because some of the worst injustices committed against the Puerto Rican people in recent years have come from officials who are Puerto Ricans themselves,” the Congressman said. “A lot of Puerto Ricans, myself included, start from the premise that the members of the Junta de Control are in the pockets of the bondholders, the partisan insiders who are responsible for the current mess, and those who have demonstrated time and again they do not put the needs of the Puerto Rican people first and foremost. So whatever the Junta does starts with transparency, respect for the majority of Puerto Ricans who speak and read Spanish, and going an extra mile or two or three to show that Puerto Rico comes before Wall Street.” Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, which has a significant Puerto Rican population. He was born to parents who left Puerto Rico for Chicago in the 1950s but returned to Puerto Rico, with the Congressman, in the 1960s. Rep. Gutiérrez is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
08.31.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, President Obama announced the seven members of the federal control board that will oversee Puerto Rico under the PROMESA (Puerto Rico Oversight, Management and Economic Stability Act) legislation, which became law this year. The board, three Democratic appointees and four Republicans, has sweeping powers to rule over Puerto Rico ostensibly to help the Island recover from a crippling debt crisis and bond-holder demands for repayment. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), a staunch opponent of the control board and the PROMESA legislation, issued the following statement: “Each and every appointee to the federal Junta must renounce secrecy and commit to transparent and open governance of Puerto Rico or this board will not be accepted by the Puerto Rican people and will fail in its mission. Each appointee will receive a letter from me demanding that they commit to recorded votes, releasing the names of everyone they meet with, holding public meetings and fully conducting and documenting all of their activities and pronouncements in English and Spanish so that the people they have been appointed to govern know what their governing body is up to. We expect nothing less in a democracy and last I checked, Puerto Rico is a colony, but still a democracy of U.S. citizens who deserve respect and the trust of this appointed body. This is especially important because the body skews towards appointees from financial institutions and those inclined to be sympathetic to bond-holders at the expense of the Puerto Rican people. “Rome appointed a Proconsul like Pontius Pilate to rule over the lands they conquered and the Proconsul had no obligation to tell anyone in any language what he was doing, but those days are over. Puerto Ricans are not conquered and are not slaves. They expect their government to be accountable, transparent, accessible, and comprehensible in their own language. My message is simple, if you join the Junta, promise to respect the Puerto Rican people, otherwise you are no better than an occupying force.” Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, which has a significant Puerto Rican population. He was born to parents who left Puerto Rico for Chicago in the 1950s. He has lived there at various times in his life. He is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # # CONGRESISTA GUTIÉRREZ PIDE QUE LOS MIEMBROS DE LA JUNTA FEDERAL SEAN TRANSPARENTES “Roma nombro un Procónsul como Poncio Pilato para gobernar las tierras bajo su conquista y el Procónsul no tenía obligación de divulgarle a nadie lo que hacía en ningún lenguaje pero esos días se han terminado.” Washington, D.C – El Miércoles, Presidente Obama anuncio los siete miembros de la junta federal que asumirá control de los asuntos fiscales en Puerto Rico bajo la “Ley de Supervisión, Administración y Estabilidad Económica de Puerto Rico” (PROMESA, por sus siglas en inglés) que se convirtió formalmente en ley este año. La junta, compuesta de tres designados Demócratas y cuatro Republicanos, tiene poderes amplios para gobernar sobre Puerto Rico con el pretexto de ayudar a la isla recuperarse de una crisis de deuda paralizante, y para llegar a un acuerdo de reestructuración de pago con emisores de bonos quienes demandan un reembolso. El Congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), un firme adversario de la junta federal y de la legislación PROMESA, emitió la siguiente declaración: “Cada uno de los miembros nombrados a la junta federal debe comprometerse a la gobernación transparente de Puerto Rico; si no lo hacen, la junta no contará con la aprobación de la gente de Puerto Rico y fracasará en su misión. Todos los designados recibirán una carta de mi parte demandando su compromiso a registrar sus votos, a que divulguen los nombres de todos con los que se reúnan, que abran todas sus citas al público y que todas sus actividades y declaraciones sean documentadas en Español e Inglés, para que la gente a la quien gobiernan sepa lo que hace el grupo que los gobierna. Es lo mínimo que se espera de una democracia; porque la última vez que yo verifique, aunque Puerto Rico es una colonia, sigue siendo una democracia compuesta de ciudadanos estadounidenses quienes merecen el respeto y la confianza de esta junta. Esto es clave, debido a que los nombrados a la junta son miembros de instituciones financieras y aquellos quienes tienden a simpatizar con los tenedores de bonos a merced del pueblo Puertorriqueño.” “Roma nombro un Procónsul como Poncio Pilato para gobernar las tierras bajo su conquista y el Procónsul no tenía obligación de divulgarle a nadie lo que hacía en ningún lenguaje pero esos días se han terminado. Los Puertorriqueños no son botín de conquista y no son esclavos. Esperan que su gobierno actué de forma transparente, accesible y en su propio lenguaje. Mi mensaje es claro, si te unes a la junta, promete respetar al pueblo Puertorriqueño, al contrario no eres mejor que una fuerza de ocupación. El Congresista Gutiérrez representa el Cuarto Distrito de Illinois, la cual contiene una población de Puertorriqueños significante. Es hijo de padres Puertorriqueños que llegaron a Chicago en los 1950. Ha vivido ahí durante varias etapas de su vida. Es miembro del comité judicial de la Cámara de Representantes y forma parte de un grupo de líderes especializados en asuntos migratorios del Caucus Hispano (CHC). # # #
08.30.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) wrote Secretary of State John Kerry asking that he make public the Department of State’s assessment and recommendation regarding granting of TPS (Temporary Protected Status) to citizens of Ecuador in the United States. A strong earthquake devastated areas of Ecuador on April 16 and there have been strong aftershocks since then. TPS would temporarily protect certain Ecuadorians already living in the U.S. from deportation, allowing them to work here and augment the country’s recovery through remittances sent back to Ecuador. Among the steps that must be completed is a recommendation by the Department of State to the Secretary of Homeland Security supporting TPS for Ecuadorians. While the Congressman has learned that the assessment was in fact delivered to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), it is not clear whether or not the Department of State recommended that TPS be granted. 083016 TPS Ecuador Letter II SecKerry.pdf “My constituents and I would greatly appreciate knowing what exactly the State Department recommended to DHS on this matter,” the Congressman wrote today to Secretary Kerry. “In the interests of transparency, especially for the numerous Ecuadorian nationals living in the U.S. and those U.S. citizens with strong ties to Ecuador, I urge you to make public the recommendation that was made by State to DHS regarding TPS… Citizens of Ecuador and citizens of the United States deserve to know how the U.S. government is deliberating – or failing to deliberate – a TPS designation.” There has been no word on TPS for Ecuador recently from the Obama Administration. The Congressman initially requested TPS for Ecuadorians in an April 25 letter to President Obama (letter and press release). Since then, Rep. Gutiérrez has personally followed up several times with DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson (press release) to make sure the process is moving along. On June 1, Congressman Gutiérrez asked Secretary Kerry to make TPS for Ecuador a personal priority (press release). The Government of Ecuador made a formal request for TPS, but there has been no official word from the U.S. government. “I am worried that if a decision is made not to grant TPS, no announcement will be made,” the Congressman said today. “People’s lives hang in the balance and they deserve to know if a decision has been made and if so, what it is. Their families and their country have gone through a huge trauma in this natural disaster that continues to impact their lives. The lack of information is disrespectful and needlessly multiplies and drags out the tragedy and trauma.” Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
08.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Reps. Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Jared Polis (D-CO), Judy Chu (D-CA), Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), and Xavier Becerra (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to the announcement by Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson that the Department will review its use of private contractors to operate immigration detention centers. This announcement follows the Department of Justice’s August 18th announcement that it will end its use of for-profit prisons. “We applaud the news that DHS will look into its use of privately-run immigrant detention facilities. The recent decision by DOJ was a recognition that privately-run prisons are not in the interest of taxpayers and fail to reliably provide humane and secure conditions for the incarcerated. We have those same concerns for privately-run immigrant detention facilities, particularly considering ICE currently houses almost 73 percent of detained immigrants in such facilities.1 “While we are pleased that DHS is taking steps to reconsider the role of private detention contractors, we continue to have grave concerns with the use of family detention and the detention of asylum seekers. Further, in those cases where detention is required, we encourage DHS to take steps to implement and enforce applicable detention standards and reassert its commitment to a system that ensures appropriate protections for individuals in its custody.” ### 1 Steven Nelson, “Private Prison Companies, Punched in the Gut, Will Keep Most Federal Business,” U.S. News & World Report, August 18, 2016.
06.15.2016	On DACA: “Our immigration policies should reflect our values and emphasize inclusion, integration and assimilation—not exclusion and deportation.” On refugees: “The basic U.S. strategy is flawed…These are refugees to be rescued, not immigrants to be deterred.” Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) participated in a telephonic press conference about the Central American refugee crisis, the asylum process, and family detention issues, which was hosted by the American Immigration Lawyers Association and included a spokesperson from the Latin American Working Group. During his opening statement, the Congressman noted that today is the fourth anniversary of the day that President Obama announced the DACA program (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) in 2012, which has allowed more than 700,000 DREAMers to apply for temporary relief from deportation. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. An audio recording of the press conference is here: https://www.aila.org/infonet/when-the-us-denies-asylum-seekers-due-process The following are the Congressman’s opening remarks on the conference call, as prepared for delivery. Remarks: I just want to note that this is the fourth anniversary of the announcement of DACA by President Obama, the deferred action program for DREAMers. Four years ago, we started putting people who are assets to our communities into a safe place so they would not face or fear deportation. Three-quarters of a million young people enrolled, they are contributing to our society and it demonstrates that we need more of the same. Our immigration policies should reflect our values and emphasize inclusion, integration and assimilation—not exclusion and deportation—and we should have a legal framework for immigrants who contribute so much to the United States that is not temporary, but a path to citizenship. The case currently before the Supreme Court and our fall election will determine whether DACA marked a turning point when America moved forward or whether opponents of immigration will take us backward. Also, I want to note that one year ago, I helped lead a delegation of Members of Congress to two detention centers in Texas. Zoe Lofgren, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Joaquin Castro, Steny Hoyer and several others – we went and talked to the women and saw the conditions that they and their children were being held in. And let’s be clear, what we learned on that trip a year ago was that these women and their children were refugees. They were fleeing war-like conditions, they were fleeing violence, they had witnessed and been threatened with violence. One woman told me and Steny Hoyer something that has stayed with me. She said we can live in our countries in poverty, but we cannot live in our countries in peace. They had to get out and they were, by any definition of the word, refugees. They are not economic migrants. They are not immigrants. They are not undocumented or illegal immigrants. They are following U.S. law, turning themselves over to the mercy of the United States and seeking safety for their children. The other thing we learned is that these were jails. They were nice jails, but they were privately run jails. Access to the outside world is limited. Access to counsel is limited. And the U.S. Government would rather we not know or think too much about what is happening there. I have worked closely with Zoe Lofgren and Lucille Roybal-Allard since then, as most of you know, to get as many of the women and children out of those jails as possible. Whether it is bond or ankle bracelets or pre-trial services to move their cases and get them through the process, I think we had been making progress, but I fear we are slipping as the attorneys and experts will point out on this call. But I think the basic U.S. strategy is flawed. Our government is making a determination that treating the women and children badly will prevent more from leaving the violence in El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala. Putting women and children in jail, making their asylum cases difficult, getting the women without lawyers or translators to the point of deportation as quickly as they can, going after children as soon as they turn 18 – and then leaking the news so that the deportations are reported on Univision and Telemundo and the word gets back to Central America – that appears to be the strategy. And fear of a lengthy court process or bad food in a jail is not a lot compared to what you went through crossing borders with criminal smugglers to get here and the violence that made you leave in the first place. These are refugees to be rescued, not immigrants to be deterred. When refugees flee the Sudan or Syria or another war zone, we don’t tell our allies, well, you guys should really be doing something to send those people back. We say, and rightly so, that we as the community of nations, as civilized members of the human race, must help. We must help change the conditions that are driving the violence and the evacuation in the first place, and I do not hear enough about what the U.S. is doing to help stabilize El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. And we tell other nations – and rightly so – that we must find a way to accommodate and care for refugees until they can be resettled in nations around the world. On a very basic level, I am saying that the United States should treat this refugee crisis in our own hemisphere – in the region that we used to control 100% for better and worse through the Monroe Doctrine – and work with our allies in the region and around the world to address this crisis as the crisis it is: a refugee crisis. This is the moment when we need the Secretary of State to step up. Secretary Kerry is working hard on Syria and other big problems, but we have a big problem close-by that needs his attention also. And if the President doesn’t step up and show leadership, the knuckleheads are going to exploit these refugees for political gain. Pictures of refugees at the border – that is a story tailor-made for Trump and Breitbart and Fox and House Republicans to exploit, lie about and fear monger about to scare people the way they did two years ago. The way that politicians are doing in Britain and Europe right now. I want our country to do the right thing, get ahead of this, and lead by example as we have always done – and should do now. Thank you. # # #
06.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Members released the following statements in response to this weekend’s shooting in Orlando, Florida. 49 people were killed and 53 more were wounded during an LGBT dance club “Latin Flavor” night. The attack is the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. CHC Chairwoman Linda T. Sánchez: “We are heartbroken, devastated, and also outraged with yet another mass shooting. We know that many of the victims in Orlando were young Latinos. This act of terrorism is an affront to everything we stand for as a country, for it is our rich diversity that makes us so special. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus mourns for the victims and their families, and stands with every LGBTQ brother and sister who is now fearful of being who they are. It takes an act of courage to live life openly and this LGBT Pride Month, we fight harder than ever before to ensure that love wins.” CHC First Vice Chair Michelle Lujan Grisham: "Like many friends and neighbors in New Mexico, my first reaction this morning was to question how this act of hate and terror in Orlando could occur just hours after we joined together in Albuquerque for a joyous celebration of love for one another. That celebration of love defines us as Americans, not the hate and terrorism that is meant to divide us. No doubt, we must grieve for the tragic victims of this mass shooting. They were our sons, daughters, brothers and sisters, probably celebrating just as we were doing Saturday along Central Avenue. They and their families are in our prayers. I will also take the time, as I continue to contemplate what happened, to reflect back on that celebration of love. I refuse to let terrorism win." CHC Second Vice Chair Joaquin Castro: “Yesterday, our nation suffered the loss of 50 innocent lives in an abhorrent attack. My prayers are with the families who lost loved ones, the city of Orlando, and everyone in the LGBT community. Love will always prevail over hate, and our freedoms will withstand any terror. In the wake of this tragedy, we must redouble our vigilance and resolve in defending against any threats to our safety and values.” CHC Whip Ruben Gallego: "I am shocked and horrified by this hate-filled and tragic shooting in Orlando. I stand in solidarity with the LGBT community during this difficult time. It is especially egregious that these men and women were attacked at a place they considered a safe haven, free of the hate and judgement some of them experience on a daily basis. There is no place for hate in America. My heart is with those who lost loved ones in this senseless act of violence. But I know that ‘thoughts and prayers’ are never enough and can't bring back those that were lost. It is time for Congress to take serious action to address the epidemic of gun violence that is plaguing our nation." Congressman José E. Serrano: “My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Orlando and the LGBT community in this difficult time, especially the victims and their families. Although all the details surrounding this tragedy are still emerging, one thing is clear: we have to do more to protect our country and communities from acts of terror and hate. But in the midst of mourning this senseless tragedy, we cannot simply resort to demonizing others. As the LGBT community reminds us: we can’t fight hate with hate. Lastly, we also cannot ignore the role that our nation's ineffective gun control laws have played in the tragic mass shootings that have shaken our nation in recent years. It is long past time for Congress to act to reduce gun violence.” Congressman Luis Gutiérrez: “There is anguish and deep sadness across the country when another group of people are lost too young and so senselessly. There are too many guns in too many hands, too much anger, hatred and division, and too much slaughter in Orlando, Charleston, Ft Hood, Sandy Hook, San Bernardino, Virginia Tech, and every single week in Chicago and cities and towns across the country. No one should have access to assault rifles, but Congress refuses to act.” Senator Robert Menendez: “My heart breaks for the families and the victims of this horrific tragedy. This targeting of our Latino LGBT brothers and sisters is an attack on us all, and we stand united condemning this senseless and monstrous attack. This was not just an act of terror, but an act of hate. It is too easy in this country for individuals who want to do us harm to get their hands on high-powered, military-style assault weapons. We need a frank, honest debate about our country's lax gun laws. We, as a nation, can no longer sit idly by while our loved ones are needlessly slaughtered.” Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard: “I join my fellow Americans in mourning this despicable act of terror. Orlando, the City Beautiful, is today a city shattered by unthinkable loss. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, the LGBT community, and everyone touched by this tragedy. As we mourn, we must resolve to meet this act of hate with unity, love, and strength. We must stand up for the dignity of every American, regardless of sexual orientation, race, or religion. And we must finally take sensible action to protect innocent Americans from the plague of gun violence.” Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez: “The attack in Orlando is an affront to our nation’s values of tolerance, inclusiveness and love for one another. We must all stand together with Orlando in condemning this act and making clear that we will not let hate win.” Congressman Rubén Hinojosa: “I wish to express my heartfelt condolences to the family, friends, and loved ones of the victims in the horrific shooting that occurred this Sunday morning in Orlando, Florida. This incident is the deadliest in U.S. history with 50 lives lost and dozens more wounded. I also want share my gratitude to local law enforcement and first responders who answered the call to action in order to prevent further loss and investigators who continue their due diligence to get to the bottom of this situation. No person regardless of their race, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, or partner preference should have to suffer or be targeted for who they are. Love is love, and love conquers hate.” Congressman Raúl Grijalva: “My heart breaks for the victims of last night's attack, for their families and for those in hospitals now facing a long road to recovery. This was an attack on the LGBT community during Pride Month at an iconic location for the community. Nothing could be more heinous. As our nation comes to grips with the fact that this was the single worst shooting attack in US history, I urge everyone to give law enforcement the time they need to do their jobs, and the families impacted the privacy they need in this unimaginably difficult time.” Congressman Ben Ray Luján: “Our nation grieves in the wake of a terrible act of terror that left 49 people dead and 53 people injured. As we continue to learn more behind the motivation for this heinous crime, there is no doubt that it was rooted in hatred. In a month when our country celebrates the contributions of the LGBT community, this attack is particularly distressing. My thoughts and prayers are with all those who were killed or injured, as well as with the people of Orlando and the LGBT community.” Congressman Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan: “The people of the Mariana Islands, like Americans everywhere, are horrified by this senseless act of violence and the loss of so many lives. We share the feeling that the easy availability of guns - especially guns designed for military combat - is part of the reason for what happened in Orlando and happens all too often around our nation.” Congressman Tony Cárdenas: “Those of us who love this country and welcome the differences of others; those of us who live our lives peacefully and work to make this nation a better place – WE are stronger than any act of hate will ever be. That is why now is the time for us to demand that something change. We can correct course from last night. We can combat the ignorance that pervades the minds of the elected Congressmen and women who don't believe this nation has a gun issue. We can overcome the heartache that targeted acts of violence and hate crimes bring to our communities. Congress must address these issues head-on and find a better solution now.” Congressman Raul Ruiz: “A terrorist attack against any community in the U.S is an attack against all Americans. This mass shooting is absolutely deplorable and I condemn it in the strongest terms. My heart goes out to the victims and their families. Together we mourn and send our prayers to the victims and their families. Together we thank the first responders in the front lines. Together we stand strong against hate crimes of any form, and together we will defeat terrorism and eliminate ISIS." Congressman Pete Aguilar: “Americans should feel safe in their communities and be able to live without fear that terrorists could strike their neighborhoods at any moment because guns are too accessible to those who want to kill. We can and we must do better – for Orlando, for San Bernardino and for us all.” Congresswoman Norma Torres: “We owe it to the victims and their families to have a serious conversation about why mass shootings like the one that took place in Orlando have become all too common in our country and what we can do to prevent them. If we truly want to honor those who lost their lives, we can’t be silent or turn to fear and division. We must respond with love, compassion, and action.” #### The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), founded in December 1976, is organized as a Congressional Member organization, governed under the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives. The CHC is dedicated to voicing and advancing, through the legislative process, issues affecting Hispanics in the United States, Puerto Rico and U.S. Territories.
06.02.2016	“As far as consumers are concerned, it’s like the Wild, Wild West, with minimal rules and even less enforcement when it comes to payday lending…” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) fought hard to curb the predatory practices of payday lenders and other types of money lenders through legislation over the past few years. As part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Effort in 2009-2010, when he served as Chairman of the Sub-Committee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and as a Member of the Conference Committee, Rep. Gutiérrez led the fight to rein in payday lenders charging exorbitant interest rates. Rep. Gutiérrez also introduced stand-alone legislation to regulate pay day lenders (see ‘background' below). These efforts were ultimately unsuccessful, with bills and amendments blocked by Democrats and Republicans. However, on Thursday, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) issued a proposed rule governing payday lenders and other predatory lending practices, which is now open for a 90-day comment period before a final regulation is ordered. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez: As far as consumers are concerned, it’s like the Wild, Wild West, with minimal rules and even less enforcement when it comes to payday lending, car note lending, and other lending that preys on people with modest incomes. The CFPB was created precisely to add transparency, accountability, and reliability to financial markets on behalf of American consumers, so I am glad they are addressing the payday loan arena and will rein in some of the excesses. These lenders are taking a big bite out of low- and medium-income borrowers, exploiting their lack of choices and shaking down hard-working men and women. I have tried to address this through legislation, but I was always up against a very powerful and well-funded lobby and they work on politicians at the state and federal level in both parties. I think the CFPB will be able to rise above the self-interested lobbying and be a fighter for average men and women who have gotten or could get fleeced by these lenders. It is great that CFPB is on the case. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He is on leave from the House Committee on Financial Services in order to serve on the Judiciary Committee. # # # Background: Chairman Gutiérrez hearing/statement on Payday Loan Reform Act (H.R. 1214), April 2009: https://gutierrez.house.gov/press-release/opening-statement-payday-loan-reform-act Rep. Gutiérrez on need for payday loan reform, March 2009: https://gutierrez.house.gov/press-release/financial-institutions-chair-emphasizes-urgency-payday-lending-reforms-protect Rep. Gutiérrez press release on payday lending industry lobbying efforts, March 2009: https://gutierrez.house.gov/press-release/financial-institutions-chair-takes-payday-lending-industry
06.01.2016	“I respectfully request all of the support you can give so that Ecuadorian nationals will be granted TPS.” Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) wrote Secretary of State John Kerry (link) asking for his help moving the process of granting Temporary Protected Status to Ecuadorians in the U.S. so that it is granted by the Department of Homeland Security as soon as possible. A strong earthquake devastated areas of Ecuador on April 16 and there have been strong aftershocks since then. TPS would protect certain Ecuadorians already living in the U.S. from deportation temporarily, allowing them to work in the United States and augment the country’s recovery through remittances sent back to Ecuador. Among the steps that must be completed before the U.S. government grants TPS is a recommendation by the Department of State to the Secretary of Homeland Security supporting TPS for Ecuadorians. “I spoke by phone with Secretary Jeh Johnson and he walked me through the process by which he will consider TPS for Ecuador and the State Department plays a role,” Rep. Gutierrez said today. “I have since then had conversations with State Department officials and the process is moving. My letter to the Secretary of State thanks him but also asks that he accelerate the process to address the uncertainty facing the Ecuadorian community. I want him to make sure the recommendation goes to the Department of Homeland Security as quickly as possible. It has been six weeks since the crisis started in Ecuador and TPS has to happen soon.” The Congressman initially requested TPS for Ecuadorians in an April 25 letter to President Obama (letter and press release). Since then, he has personally followed up with Secretary Jeh Johnson of the Department of Homeland Security (press release) to make sure the process is moving along. The Government of Ecuador has made a formal request for TPS, so now the pieces of the decision-making process are falling into place. In his letter to Secretary Kerry on Tuesday, Rep. Gutiérrez called the Secretary’s attention to this matter, saying that his “immediate personal attention” was needed “not in Africa or Asia or Europe, but right here in the Americas.” “I am appealing to you to make sure all necessary steps to prepare and transmit a recommendation to Secretary Johnson are completed as soon as possible,” the Congressman wrote. “I respectfully request all of the support you can give so that Ecuadorian nationals will be granted TPS to temporarily remain in the U.S. in safety.” Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The four Puerto Rican Democratic Members of Congress released a letter they wrote to President Obama asking for a meeting to discuss the “immediate release” of Oscar López Rivera, a federal prisoner for 35 years who is considered the last Puerto Rican political prisoner held by the United States. The letter, sent on February 24, 2016, makes the case for Mr. López Rivera’s release and appeals to the President’s sense of justice, saying: Mr. President, you have articulated a wise, healthy policy in support of giving people serving disproportionate sentences a second chance, recognizing that the constitutional power of pardon is the correct remedy. You have to date responsibly commuted many disproportionate sentences of drug offenders and others – and we have seen that public reaction has been favorable, and indeed critical only of the fact that you have not issued more such commutations. As we see it, there is no legitimate penological objective being served by the ongoing imprisonment of this 73 year old Puerto Rican, when his people and others who value human rights clamor for his release. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Rep. Jose Serrano (D-NY), Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Resident Commissioner Pedro Pierluisi of Puerto Rico all signed the letter, but so far, have not been granted a meeting with the President to discuss the matter. The letter is part of a broad, diverse, and sustained call for Mr. López Rivera’s release coming from all sectors across Puerto Rico and the Puerto Rican diaspora and allies. All four Democratic Puerto Ricans in Congress have been engaged in an extensive, quiet campaign over the past several years to build support for Mr. López Rivera’s release. The full text of the letter is here: https://1.usa.gov/1sRDRai # # #
05.25.2016	“I thought the campaign promise to bar Muslims from traveling here was a campaign promise that would never be realized unless your leader won the campaign.” Washington, DC – On Wednesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke about the latest anti-immigration and anti-immigrant actions of the Republican Party. He focused on a mark-up hearing today in the Judiciary Committee on a bill to severely restrict and slow down legal immigration – including special screening for Muslims – as well as the “onerous” dictates of Judge Andrew S. Hanen, a federal Judge in Texas. Rep. Gutiérrez said “deporting 11 million undocumented immigrants and banning Muslims from entering the country might not be the most radical anti-immigration ideas that the Republicans have come up with.” He spoke on the House Floor during the morning hour (approximately 10 am ET) in front of a picture of both Judge Hanen and Donald Trump. He went on to explain that Judge Hanen, the controversial George W. Bush appointee whose opinion on Obama immigration administrative actions is now before the Supreme Court (United States v. Texas), has ordered remedial ethics classes for every single Department of Justice lawyer in the 26 states that are suing the United States in the case, regardless of whether they have anything to do with the case. He said sarcastically: You’re not in any way associated with the case before the judge? Too bad! Never practiced law that is remotely related to immigrants or immigration? Sorry, the judge is ordering your punishment. Never been to the state of Texas in your life? Tough cookies, And the judge ordered the collection of 100,000 names and addresses of people who for and received Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) – the Obama Administration executive action in 2012 to make DREAMers the lowest priority for deportation – and possibly received a three-year (and not a two-year) work authorization document. He has indicated he wants to publish those names and addresses, sparking the Congressman to reply: Though you have made no mistake and have zero responsibility for the controversy, you--the applicant – could have your name and address published for every two-bit vigilante and Twitter troll to read. I thought Republicans were the ones who didn’t like activist judges? I thought they wanted as little government as possible and to leave the legislating – and I suppose the intimidating – to the politicians. The Congressman noted that the House of Representatives did not want to be left behind in this match of upping the ante on anti-immigration proposals. He pointed to the bill under consideration in the House Judiciary Committee today to require multiple evidentiary and administrative steps and interviews be added to the issuance of virtually every visa. Furthermore, it requires that certain Muslims and visa applicants from certain Muslim countries would get an extra layer of security screening. Rep. Gutiérrez argues that this is aimed at “shutting down LEGAL immigration as much as possible.” He went on to say: “I thought the campaign promise to bar Muslims from traveling here was a campaign promise that would never be realized unless your leader won the campaign.” Finally, Rep. Gutiérrez questioned the premise of the new bill: Don’t get me wrong. If I thought Republicans were proposing a process to make things more secure or give the U.S. a better immigration system, I would support it and I think we could pass something like that on a bipartisan basis in Congress today. But come on, guys? Do you really believe that House Republicans are trying to craft a sensible bill related to immigration in an election year? Do they think Americans are really that gullible? The text of the speech (as prepared for delivery) is below. A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/0dtka43sD10 Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks May 25, 2016 Mr. Speaker, as it turns out, deporting 11 million undocumented immigrants and banning Muslims from entering the country might not be the most radical anti-immigration ideas that the Republicans have come up with. There seems to be a sinister, anti-immigration arms race breaking out in the Party of Trump. Last week, a federal judge – Judge Andrew Hanen of Texas, pictured here – the same one whose judgment on immigration executive actions is being deliberated by the Supreme Court, ordered the punishment of every single lawyer in the Justice Department in 26 states. His claim is that some DOJ lawyers misrepresented to him whether they were complying with his injunction suspending the immigration executive actions announced by President Obama in November 2014. After his injunction, they were only supposed to issue two-year work permits under the old rules to immigrants who applied for and received – after an extensive criminal background check – the ability to be treated as the lowest priority for deportation. But the remedial ethics classes are for every single Department of Justice lawyer in 26 states. Um, what’s that you say? You’re not in any way associated with the case before the judge? Too bad! Never practiced law that is remotely related to immigrants or immigration? Sorry, the judge is ordering your punishment. Never been to the state of Texas in your life? Tough cookies, the Texas Judge knows best and is ordering you around as if you had argued cases yourself before his court. Overreach much? The newspaper La Opinion called Judge Hanen’s plan “onerous and absurd.” That’s an understatement. Judge Hanen is also using some good old-fashioned scare tactics to see if he can compete with Sheriff Joe Arpaio and the GOP presidential nominee for the title of who is most shamelessly anti-immigrant. Judge Hanen has called for the Department of Justice to turn over the names of 100,000 people who were possibly granted the three-year--not the two-year--work permits. So you come forward, pay hundreds of dollars and submit your paperwork and fingerprints, then 2 years later, a judge says – though you have made no mistake and have zero responsibility for the controversy, you--the applicant – could have your name and address published for every two-bit vigilante and Twitter troll to read. I thought Republicans were the ones who didn’t like activist judges? I thought they wanted as little government as possible and to leave the legislating – and I suppose the intimidating – to the politicians. So when the Republicans up the ante in one area, they have to up the ante in another. Nowhere is this crass political opportunism more apparent than right here in the House of Representatives. This morning we have a little hearing in the Judiciary Committee aimed at—get this – shutting down LEGAL immigration as much as possible. Your son’s fiancée, your mom’s doctor, your neighbor’s nanny, your grocery store’s janitorial crew – if they are coming legally, Republicans want to stop it, slow it down, and make it cost a lot more. The party obsessed with illegal immigration now has legal immigration firmly in its sight. And if you are from certain countries or are of a certain religion, you must have a special security review. You know, I thought the campaign promise to bar Muslims from traveling here was a campaign promise that would never be realized unless your leader won the campaign. Don’t get me wrong. If I thought Republicans were proposing a process to make things more secure or give the U.S. a better immigration system, I would support it and I think we could pass something like that on a bipartisan basis in Congress today. But come on, guys? Do you really believe that House Republicans are trying to craft a sensible bill related to immigration in an election year? Do they think Americans are really that gullible? No, the Party of Trump has launched an all-out radical assault on LEGAL immigration and hopes everyone is so scared of “rapey” Mexicans, sex-crazed Italians, and Vietnamese immigrants with Ebola in one hand and “Zeekee-Flies” in the other. Lock down the whole system. Lady Liberty, lower your lamp, cover up your poem and take a seat because terrorists got in once, which is enough reason to keep everyone out…from the computer programmer to the ski instructor to the refugee fleeing systematic violence. If you ask me, maybe it is not the hundreds of Justice Department lawyers who have nothing to do with Judge Hanen’s courtroom who need the “onerous” remedial ethics training classes. Maybe it is Judge Hanen’s allies here in the House and throughout the Republican Party who could use a mandatory lesson on right and wrong. # # #
05.24.2016	“If the genuine needs of Puerto Ricans are subjugated to the artificial privileges of wealthy speculators in the United States, this is not a bill I can support.” Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) told his colleagues that he would not support the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA) bill being marked up in the House Natural Resources Committee today. In a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member and all Members of the Committee, Rep. Gutierrez wrote, “In the last week I have examined the details and have found it comes up short.” The bill was drafted and redrafted by the Committee to address the financial crisis gripping Puerto Rico and Rep. Gutierrez had initially indicated he was hoping to support the legislation which was reintroduced last week. However, Rep. Gutierrez, one of five Puerto Ricans in the Congress, said in his letter that after closer examination, “I cannot support this legislation because it runs counter to basic values of democracy, fairness and justice.” Specifically, the Financial Oversight and Management Board, or control board, proposed in the legislation is too heavy handed for the Congressman and does not put the needs of the Puerto Rican above all other considerations. He wrote, “The profits and profiteering of investors are likely to be weighed as heavily or more heavily by the Board in its decision-making and that fails my test for what is needed for Puerto Rico.” He also pointed to reductions in the minimum wage, the exemption from overtime rules, questionable protections for pensions earned by Puerto Rican workers, and expedited permitting of energy and construction projects without environmental checks as reasons he opposes the legislation. “I did not come to Congress to take money out of the hands of working people and put in the pockets of investment bankers and bond-traders seeking an upper-class lifestyle,” the Congressman wrote. “If the genuine needs of Puerto Ricans are subjugated to the artificial privileges of wealthy speculators in the United States, this is not a bill I can support.” He concluded: “My father and his father were born in Puerto Rico and I intend to die there some day. It saddens me that the help the people of my beloved Island need has been laden with policies that rob the people, threaten the homeland, and weaken their ability to determine their own future as a nation.” Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee, a Member of the Democratic Platform Committee, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
05.23.2016	“I am asking the Secretary to take action as quickly as possible to lift the uncertainty facing Ecuadorians in the U.S.” Chicago – On Monday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) called on the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to grant Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to citizens of Ecuador living in the United States. The Government of Ecuador reportedly made the formal request for TPS to the United States last week, so “there should be no further delay,” the Congressman said. TPS, which under law is granted at the discretion of the DHS Secretary (see USCIS website and recent CRS report), would temporarily shield certain Ecuadorian citizens from deportation as the country recovers from the devastating earthquake on April 16 and its aftershocks. Rep. Gutiérrez is reiterating a request he made in a letter to President Obama on April 25, 2016, in which the Congressman said, “The United States Congress created TPS for exactly these types of dire circumstances in foreign countries, when those citizens cannot safely return to their country” (letter and press release). On Monday, the Congressman said he would call the Secretary to make clear the urgency of his request. “It has already taken longer than it should have to grant TPS – more than a month since the terrible earthquakes rocked Ecuador,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “I am asking the Secretary to take action as quickly as possible to lift the uncertainty facing Ecuadorians in the U.S. who might be deported. The situation in Ecuador is very serious and TPS allows Ecuadorians to help support the recovery effort through their remittances and TPS delays deportations until after the country is stable enough to accept returning nationals.” Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
05.19.2016	“This draft is an improvement, but I am still looking at the details.” Washington, D.C. – On Thursday, Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) commented on the introduction of a revised Republican bill to address the financial and debt crisis in Puerto Rico. The Congressman, one of five Puerto Ricans in Congress, has made it clear he could not support the legislation in its original form. (See “Gutiérrez, with King George III of England, Critiques GOP Approach to Puerto Rico Debt Crisis” https://1.usa.gov/263gklz.) “My hope is to support a bill that helps the people of Puerto Rico, that protects them from the vulture capitalist hedge funds that want to cash-in on the Island’s misery. At the same time, I am not willing to completely surrender the sovereignty of Puerto Rico or the environment or cause further hardship to education, health care, and criminal justice that are already deteriorating and driving people from the Island. I would like to get to ‘yes’ and at first glance, this draft is an improvement, but I am still looking at the details.” Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
05.17.2016	CONGRESSIONAL HISPANIC CAUCUS FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 17, 2016 Washington, D.C. – Today, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) released the following statements denouncing Rep. Paul Gosar’s (R-AZ) amendment to the 2016 defense funding bill, which would prevent undocumented young people brought to the United States as children – known as DREAMers – from serving in the military. Currently, select individuals can serve under special circumstances. Rep. Gosar is leading a group of far-right Republicans, including Reps. Steve King (R-IA) and Mo Brooks (R-AL) in an effort to remove bipartisan compromise language from the NDAA that confirms that the Secretary of Defense has the ability to use his broad discretionary power to enlist immigrants – including beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program – if he determines it is in the national interest. Rep. Gosar’s amendment would change current DOD policy by preventing DACA recipients with in-demand skills, including special language skills, from enlisting through the Department’s Military Accessions Vital to the National Interest (MAVNI) program. It would also prevent the Secretary from enlisting DREAMers with other critical skills in the future, even if he determines that doing so would be in the interest of national security. By contrast, CHC Member Congressman Tony Cárdenas has introduced an amendment that would guarantee that the compromised language will not be changed in the future. This means that DREAMers with in-demand skills – including special language skills needed in the fight against ISIS – would continue to be eligible to enlist through the MAVNI program. CHC Chairwoman Linda T. Sánchez: “Republicans continue to reach new lows with their endless attacks on the Latino community. These young men and women want to serve the only country many of them have ever called home. They should be honored and celebrated, not discriminated against. This latest attack on DREAMers puts our national security at risk. We need a diverse military workforce made up of dedicated men and women in uniform who hold different language and technical skills. Rep. Gosar’s amendment strips away what is already very limited in scope. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus denounces this Republican effort and urges support of Rep. Tony Cárdenas’ amendment, which would ensure that all DREAMers are able to serve our country.” CHC Second Vice Chair Joaquin Castro: “DREAMers willing to make the ultimate sacrifice for this nation, the home they love, should be celebrated not rebuked. The United States and our military are stronger thanks to the contributions of immigrants. If the Secretary of Defense determines DACA recipients can help keep our nation safe, he should have the authority to permit their service.” CHC Whip Ruben Gallego: “This shouldn’t be a controversial issue. This is about defense and what is in the best interest of our nation and our military. I fought in Iraq, and I know that on the battlefield what matters is the character, commitment, and skills of the people you serve with, not their immigration status. I look forward to a vigorous and open debate on this important issue on the House floor this week.” Congressman José Serrano: “America’s strength and capacity should not suffer because of anti-immigrant, partisan interests. The United States has a rich history of immigrants serving in our military. Dreamers that qualify to serve in the U.S. military under existing law possess unique skills and experiences that only strengthen our nation’s capacity abroad. Preventing DREAMers from serving is a disservice to our military and to our national security.” Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez: “For people that have gone through the process of applying for and being granted DACA, we should welcome their service and dedication. Republicans should not recoil in fear every time immigrants want to contribute to the strength, vitality and defense of the United States.” Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard: “Congressman Gosar’s amendment is completely unacceptable. Its attempt to stop DREAMers from serving in the military is an insult to the patriotism, courage, and talent of these young men and women. It robs our nation of many fine soldiers who could serve America with pride and distinction. And in depriving our military of these talented individuals, the amendment makes it more difficult for our military to preserve its status as the finest fighting force in the world, defending the finest democracy in the world. I strongly oppose Congressman Gosar’s damaging amendment.” Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez: “We’ve repeatedly seen that DREAMers are American in every way other than in their legal status. These immigrants have valuable skills our military could benefit from and this discriminatory amendment, which would preclude them from serving our nation, should be defeated.” Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez: "As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, I strongly believe we should allow our hardworking and patriotic DREAMers to honorably serve their adopted nation through the military. I’m incredibly disappointed that Rep. Gosar has introduced an unfair and close-minded amendment to the NDAA that would undo this important achievement and shut the door on a talent pool that’s already in our country. Denying motivated and talented DREAMers the opportunity to serve will be a disservice to our military and our country.” Congressman Raúl M. Grijalva: “Rep. Gosar’s mean spirited amendment to strip from DREAMers the right to serve in uniform is clearly not about the integrity or quality of our military, but instead an attack on young people who call this country home. Rep. Gosar continues to carry Arizona’s flag for intolerance, and he’s marking a new low by undermining young people willing to sacrifice for our nation. America became great by welcoming people from around the world, and our military is no exception. This amendment doesn’t just betray that important history – it goes against the grain of who we are as a people.” Congressman Ben Ray Luján: "This spiteful amendment weakens our national security in an attempt to demonize Dreamers and deny them an opportunity to serve the country they call home. With this amendment, Republicans are clearly putting their political interests ahead of the national interest with harsh anti-immigrant policies that take away the Defense Secretary’s authority to enlist Dreamers when it is in the national interest." Congressman Tony Cárdenas: "My amendment would ensure that DACA recipients would be able to serve in the military as part of the MAVNI program without the threat of it being taken away based off of one person's opinion in the moment. By taking out a few words that make the provision discretionary, we are ensuring that men and women who love this country and are willing to protect our constitution will be able to do so for as long as MAVNI exists. Making this slight change in language prioritizes the safety of Americans and those looking to prove their allegiance. It's a win-win for all." Congressman Pete Aguilar: “To deny brave men and women the opportunity to defend the only nation they call home is fundamentally un-American. This amendment is rooted in bigotry and opposes our country’s core values. If someone is willing to give their life to keep our country safe and free, then at the very least we owe that brave service member the dignity and respect to call him or her a United States citizen.” Congresswoman Norma Torres: “This amendment is petty, divisive, and damaging to our national security interests. Many of these young men and women know no other country and are willing to give their lives in defense of the United States. We should be commending this commitment and welcoming their skills, not demonizing them because of circumstances beyond their control.” #### The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), founded in December 1976, is organized as a Congressional Member organization, governed under the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives. The CHC is dedicated to voicing and advancing, through the legislative process, issues affecting Hispanics in the United States, Puerto Rico and U.S. Territories.
05.12.2016	MEDIA RELEASE CONGRESS of the UNITED STATES For Immediate Release May 12, 2016 House Dems React to News of New Immigration Raids Targeting Refugee Women and Children WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, reacting to a Reuters news story that the Obama Administration will launch a new round of immigration raids targeting Central American women and children, Representatives Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released a joint statement: “We believe deportation targets should be felons, not families. We have inquired both with the White House and the Department of Homeland Security to get more information on the news reports about a new set of raids targeting mothers and children. If the news is accurate it is a very bad sign that the Obama Administration has not listened to us after months of urging them to adopt a refugee approach with other Western Hemisphere nations. To conduct these types of enforcement actions against women and children who have fled violence and who will face violence if they are returned, it is not just hypocritical—it is plain cruel. “Our neighbors in the Northern Triangle countries of El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala are in a crisis of uncontrolled violence. Women and children from these countries are coming to our Southwest border in search of refuge. Essentially, no one is coming from Nicaragua, Belize and other countries in the region. This shows that it is push factors – the violence in the Northern Triangle – and not the pull factors from the U.S. that are leading to the increased levels of migration. “The people targeted for raids and deportation are most likely to be the ones who never had access to a lawyer or legitimate due-process for their asylum claims. If the raids conducted earlier this year exposed anything at all, it was that our immigration system is incredibly flawed when it comes to asylum. House Democrats are united in strong opposition to these raids with almost all of us (146) signing a letter calling for the Administration to end ICE raids this past January.” # # #
05.12.2016	“So, as we eat our taco salads today or have a sweet delicious strawberry, I hope my colleagues chew on the words and keep in mind the philosophy and values your leader is espousing…” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Gutiérrez marked the much-heralded visit of the new Republican Party leader and presidential nominee to Capitol Hill by noting that the cafeterias on the Hill had apparently selected a special menu for the occasion: Taco Salads and Strawberries. As we have learned from Twitter, eating a Taco Salad is a way for Republicans to show their love for The Hispanics -- and Strawberries are picked and packed almost exclusively by undocumented immigrants. This is a little ironic given that the GOP now wants to deport or remove 11 million undocumented immigrants, most of them Latino, from the country. The Congressman spoke during the Morning Hour on the Floor of the House of Representatives (approx. 10 am ET). The Congressman said: Any food you eat will have been touched by undocumented immigrant hands; immigrants that the Republican Party wants to remove from our country by the millions; 11 million people, their families, their businesses, their home-ownership, their consumer buying power, their U.S. citizen spouses and children, they have all got to go. Just 18 months ago, the Congressman was chastised by the Chairman in a Rules Committee hearing for suggesting that Republicans might support mass deportation. Now the Party is running on that platform behind the presumptive nominee. Now the standard bearer, the leader, the nominee, El Jefe Anaranjado (Orange Chief), who is leading the Party into the November election, is calling for the mass deportation or removal of 11 million people. In detail. Out loud. Rep. Gutiérrez said that all of the attention focused by Republicans on undocumented immigrants might be misguided later this year. Sure, as you chomp on your Taco Salad, Mr. Speaker, you could concentrate on the 11 million or so undocumented immigrants who are the daily targets of lies and slander on the campaign trail. But come November, the Latinos you will really have to worry about are the more than 27 million Latino citizens like me who are your constituents, who are eligible to vote, and are fired up to vote more and more with each passing day. The text of the speech (as prepared for delivery) is below. A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/wIEeWZn9znI Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks May 12, 2016 We understand that the Speaker of the House is receiving a special visitor today. The heavyweight, undisputed champion and leader of the Republican Party, the person who speaks for every single House Republican, the Presidential nominee of the Republican Party. And just so we are clear on how important this visit is, I hold in my hand the actual menu from the cafeteria today. This is the menu from the Senate Carry Out, and today’s special is…wait for it…taco salad! They even have little pictures, see? You cannot make this stuff up. The Republicans love The Hispanics soooooo much that they put taco salads on the menu so that we can honor the love and affection that their presidential nominee feels for each and every one of us, The Hispanics. And I am sure that love and respect extends to all the working men and women in our cafeterias, not just the ones who are part of The Hispanics, but the other working men and women who are part of The Blacks, or The Asians, or The Whites. They work hard every single day in the cafeterias of the Capitol and the surrounding buildings and – this is not something to be proud of -- but the reality on Capitol Hill is that they do not even make a living wage. Oh and look, it says here on the bottom, May is Strawberry Festival Month at the cafeterias. Now, let’s see if we can guess who picks the strawberries that will be served in the cafeterias, shall we, Mr. Speaker? I will venture to guess that every single strawberry that is served on yoghurt or a piece of pound cake to Members of Congress will have passed through the rough hands of an undocumented immigrant. Whether it was growing them, picking them, packing them, shipping them, unloading them, or some other part of the process, Strawberry Festival Month really means undocumented farmworker month. We are all complicit. Any food you eat will have been touched by undocumented immigrant hands. Immigrants that the Republican Party wants to remove from our country by the millions; 11 million people, their families, their businesses, their home-ownership, their consumer buying power, their U.S. citizen spouses and children, they have all got to go. Now, it was less than two years ago, upstairs in this building that the respected Chairman of the House Rules Committee said to me in a Committee hearing that he was unaware of anyone in the Republican Party –he said “there is no one in responsible Republican leadership” – who would suggest or support mass deportation. He said it was “inflammatory” for me to suggest otherwise, just 18 months ago. He said it was “extremely distasteful” of anyone to suggest Republicans would favor driving out 11 million immigrants. Now the standard bearer, the leader, the nominee, El Jefe Anaranjado (Orange Chief), who is leading the Party into the November election is calling for the mass deportation or removal of 11 million people. In detail. Out loud. So, as we eat our taco salads today or have a sweet delicious strawberry, I hope my colleagues chew on the words and keep in mind the philosophy and values your leader is espousing on the campaign trail on your behalf, the de facto head of the Republican Party. Just taste the immigrant labor, the hands of Mexicans and a lot of other people with and without papers that went into every morsel of food you taste today. And I also want you to think about the nearly one million American-born Latino citizens who have turned 18 in the last year and the half-a-million more who will turn 18 before November. Think about the 82,000 Puerto Ricans who have left the Island most of them moving to Florida – and tens of thousands still to come – who will be voting. And as you eat your last strawberry, please, please, please, Mr. Speaker, I hope you will think about the 25% increase we have seen in the first quarter of 2016 in citizenship applications, the 8.8 million eligible immigrants who can apply for citizenship today, and the thousands more who will be eligible this year. Sure, as you chomp on your Taco Salad, Mr. Speaker, you could concentrate on the 11 million or so undocumented immigrants who are the daily targets of lies and slander on the campaign trail. But come November, the Latinos you will really have to worry about are the more than 27 million Latino citizens like me who are your constituents, who are eligible to vote, and are fired up to vote more and more with each passing day. # # #
05.03.2016	“The new calculation is going to mean more of those who are already eligible can finally take the step and apply for citizenship” Chicago – Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez praised a new proposed rule to be published tomorrow in the Federal Register that announces new guidelines for fee waivers for naturalization applications. Under the proposed rule, applicants whose income is between 150% and 200% of the federal poverty level can apply for a fee waiver that reduces the fee in half. This proposed rule will make a reduced price accessible to many more applicants. The current full fee (including biometrics) is $680, an expense that prevents some eligible applicants from applying and going through the English, civics and biometric/background examinations required for citizenship. A 6.6% increase in the fee for naturalization applications is also included in the proposed rule, a $45 increase, but that compares favorably to an overall 21% fee increase across all services and applications in the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration (USCIS) proposed fee structure. “Citizenship should be attainable for those who are eligible because we want immigrants to become citizens and the fee waiver policy will help,” said Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez. “Citizenship says to America that you are all-in; that you are fully vested and a full partner; that you are willing to shoulder the responsibilities and enjoy the privileges of citizenship. Whether you can be a U.S. citizen should never be a matter of whether you are wealthy or not.” Over many years and in his advocacy for deportation relief and other administrative changes to how current immigration law is applied – advocacy that led to deferred action programs like DACA and DAPA – Congressman Gutiérrez has steadfastly fought for fee reductions and waivers to keep citizenship within reach of working-class immigrant families. Improved access to naturalization was among the administrative actions announced by President Barack Obama and Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson in November 2014. There are an estimated 8.8 million permanent residents – immigrants with green-cards who meet the other requirements – who could apply for citizenship today. “I am an evangelist for citizenship and civic participation in immigrant communities, so I am overjoyed that the Obama Administration is helping to keep American citizenship within reach of hard-working immigrant families with modest means,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “In Chicago, we have been fighting against the fee increases that create barriers to citizenship and looking for creative ways within the law to help people achieve their ultimate inclusion and integration into American society. This will really help.” The Congressman praised the National Partnership for New Americans (NPNA), the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights (ICIRR), and the City of Chicago as important advocacy partners, along with a range of local and national groups who have worked on the affordability and fee waiver issue. “Right now, a lot of immigrants face a difficult choice: pay $700 or so for the chance to take all the tests and apply for citizenship, or pay $450 to renew a green-card for five years,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “Now, the math is much better. You can apply for citizenship and a fee waiver and become an American citizen – with all the rights, duties and honor of citizenship – for a more attainable price or maybe even for free. The new calculation is going to mean that millions of those who are already eligible can finally take the step and apply for citizenship.” Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. His work on immigration reform in the 113th Congress (2013-2014) leading up to and including the President’s November 2014 announcement of executive actions on immigration, is captured in the PBS Frontline documentary “Immigration Battle,” which aired on PBS in October 2015. # # #
05.02.2016	“Citizenship and civic participation are just hot right now.” Chicago – Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez participated in a citizenship event hosted by the Mexican consulate in Chicago and by local organizations participating in the New American Democracy Campaign (https://bit.ly/NADCHomeENG | https://bit.ly/NADCHomeESP). The Congressman spoke to volunteers and prospective citizens who gathered for a half-day workshop on Saturday morning. “The national goal is to help 1 million eligible immigrants become citizens this year,” said Rep. Gutiérrez. “I am seeing first hand at events like this across the country that you could host a citizenship workshop every weekend in Chicago or in other immigrant-rich areas and still not keep up with the demand. Citizenship and civic participation are just hot right now.” Under the auspices of the “Stand Up to Hate” tour announced in January, Rep. Gutiérrez has participated in citizenship workshops hosted by the National Partnership for New Americans and other members of the coalition of organizations helping eligible immigrants become citizens this year. He has participated in events in Colorado, New York, Nevada, and Illinois (https://www.naturalizenow.org/ | https://www.hagaseciudadano.com/), with additional events planned in May, including Virginia. “People are hungry for citizenship, but that is just part of the Latino civic engagement story,” said Rep. Gutiérrez. “Latino citizens turning 18 and freshly engaged first-time voters, that is the bulk of the growth in the electorate we will see this year. Tsunami is the wrong term because tsunamis are usually a bad thing, but this is definitely a surge. It is energizing when you see so many people eager to participate in democracy.” Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
04.25.2016	“Given the magnitude of the destruction, Ecuadorians cannot safely return home.” Washington, DC – Today, in a letter to President Obama, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) called for Temporary Protected Status for Ecuadorians living in the United States as Ecuador recovers from a devastating April 16 earthquake. Temporary Protected Status, or TPS, is extended to nations facing severe crisis from natural disasters and conflict and is designated by the President without the need for approval from Congress. In his letter to the President, Rep. Gutiérrez cited the many Chicagoans and other Americans he has met in recent days who are concerned for loved ones in Ecuador and who have asked him to lead the effort to secure TPS for Ecuadorians. TPS, if granted, would protect certain Ecuadorian nationals in the United States from deportation and allow for their continued support for the country through remittances. “The United States Congress created TPS for exactly these types of dire circumstances in foreign countries, when those citizens cannot safely return to their country and are already living in the U.S.,” the Congressman wrote. He continued: “Given the magnitude of the destruction, Ecuadorians cannot safely return home. Extending TPS is the compassionate response that would provide the many Ecuadorians throughout our country with much-needed security and stability in this time of personal, familial, and national crisis.” The complete letter is here. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
04.21.2016	(This article originally appeared at The Huffington Post on April 21, 2016): A year ago, I introduced the “Put a Woman on the Twenty Act of 2015” (H.R. 1910) to urge the Secretary of the Treasury to put a woman’s portrait on American money. The bill didn’t pass, but it didn’t have to. After first announcing in 2015 that the ten dollar bill would be changed to include a woman or women, Secretary Jack Lew announced yesterday that Alexander Hamilton would remain on the $10 note, but abolitionist leader Harriet Tubman would grace the $20 note when it is redesigned. Also about a year ago, I gave a speech in Congress about why I though Harriet Tubman would be an excellent choice to replace President Andrew Jackson on the $20 bill. She had just won an on-line poll in which 600,000 people had cast votes as part of the “Women on 20s“ campaign. What follows is adapted from my speech in Congress on May 20, 2015: From my perspective, as we see women breaking barriers at every level of society — and, by the way, as we see people of color breaking barriers at every level of society — our money ought to more accurately reflect who we are as a nation in the 21st century. I am not saying that President Andrew Jackson or any of the men we honor on our money are not worthy. Many of our founding fathers made important contributions to this country which we continue to enjoy today in the United States and throughout the world by the spread of democracy. It is also true that part of our history includes practices and decisions that we certainly are not proud of. Let’s be straight, President Jackson was a war hero, a great defender of the young American Republic, and the first President and Founder of the Democratic Party. He oversaw our great nation as it came together and expanded west. But it is the expansion of this nation, the manifest destiny that pushed settlers west, that pushed the institution of slavery west, and that pushed the extermination and forced migration of Native peoples west — that is precisely the nexus of Andrew Jackson and Harriett Tubman and illustrates why putting a new face on our money makes sense. The forced removal of Native peoples from their land so that we could expand slavery is at the heart of Andrew Jackson’s legacy. It is the land-grab and the trail of tears that is key to contextualizing President Jackson and his era. It was when Harriett Tubman was about six years old that Jackson became President. She was born a slave in Maryland and eventually walked to freedom in Pennsylvania. But she went back. Again and again. At least 19 times, showing more than 300 black people how to follow the Big Dipper and the North Star to freedom in the North — as a conductor on the Underground Railroad. She was an agitator. She was a subversive. She used the tools of social change to improve America. She fought for the little guy against the strong guy. And she was willing to put herself at great risk to ensure justice for others. And she was a woman and she was black. In other words, she was an ideal American! Harriet Tubman — because she is a woman, because she is a woman of color, because she fought for freedom and for a better America in the face of this nation’s greatest — and still unresolved — sin of slavery and racism; Because she turned the tide of history for the better — she is a very, very worthy nominee for this honor. In a few years, maybe in a few months, when the idea of putting a woman on our money is considered a quaint, old-fashioned debate, and similarly when the idea of putting a person of color on our money no longer seems like such a remarkable step, we will wonder why it took so long.
04.20.2016	This article about the Supreme Court oral arguments in the case of United States v. Texas was written by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez and originally appeared at The Huffington Post on April 20, 2016 (https://www.huffingtonpost.com/rep-luis-gutierrez/immigration-case-texas-co_b_9743066.html): On Monday, I witnessed a part of our democracy that not many people get to see: oral arguments before the Supreme Court of the United States. And you know what? It reminded me of the importance of women’s equality. Let me explain. The case I witnessed was United States v. Texas, where the state of Texas first sued the United States to stop President Obama’s executive actions on immigration from taking effect. If the United States wins, an injunction will be lifted and immigrants with deep roots in this country will be able to come forward and pay for a rigorous background check. If approved, they would be allowed to stay and work legally for a period of years and they would have to reapply and be re-evaluated periodically in order to stay in the U.S. The reason I say that this case taught me a lesson about the importance of women’s equality is because the three women on the Supreme Court really understand this case and what it is all about. These justices asked tough, insightful questions, and I have to say, it didn’t sound like they were buying the arguments of the Texas Attorney General’s team, nor the lawyer hired by House Republicans to attack the President. Ruth Bader Ginsberg, Elena Kagan and my fellow boricua — of whom I am very proud — Sonia Sotomayor, were all very forceful in poking holes in Texas and House Republicans’ case, especially on the crucial point of whether the State of Texas has the right to sue the United States on this matter in the first place. We will see what happens, but when I left the court I was more confident than ever that — even with the court not at full strength — this was going to be a lopsided victory for the United States and the president. The crux of the argument that the State of Texas made is that they subsidize driver’s licenses to such an extent that a driver’s license in Texas from their point of view is a kind of welfare. Apparently, people in Texas do not pay full price for the cost of a license. If the U.S. Department of Homeland Security vets people through a background check and categorizes these long-term residents as the lowest priority for deportation allowing them to stay, then the federal government, following its regular procedures that date back to the 1980s, will issue applicants a work permit for a temporary period of time so they can work legally and support themselves. And if an individual now has a document issued by the federal government allowing them to stay and to work, they can usually apply for a driver’s license. And to the State of Texas, a driver’s license is a form of state-subsidized welfare. Note, the State of Texas did not argue that President Obama—or any president—lacks the power to grant temporary deferred action to groups of immigrants if each case is adjudicated separately. That’s right; the State of Texas has conceded what we already know: that the President is acting within the laws passed by Congress and the legal boundaries set by the Constitution, just as every President has done in modern times. Instead Texas said that that the federal government is injuring Texas because Texas does not charge full price for driver’s licenses. So, the key points of the oral argument went like this: Um, hey Texas—and I am paraphrasing here—couldn’t you charge more for the licenses? Clearly, immigrants would pay more if that is what was needed to make Texas happy, and having more drivers on the books, buying insurance, and having accountability is much better for everyone than the current system where some immigrants cannot get licenses but drive anyway. Texas said it had not really considered that option. And, um, hey, Texas—paraphrasing again—couldn’t you just refuse to issue the driver’s licenses? Like Arizona did with DACA for DREAMers in 2012? And Texas is all like, if we refused to issue driver’s licenses to people with deferred action, we would get sued, and in that lawsuit, we might lose just as Arizona did. Which begs the question, why were we here in the first place? And then it became clear to everyone in the courtroom why Texas, Republican Governors, and Republican Congressmen had chosen this path. They were making a political statement. They felt it was important to call the president lawless and a dictator and they used the Texas driver’s licenses as their excuse. And if you take a deeper look, Texas is really saying that people can stay and the President has the power to keep families together, but they just can’t drive or work if Texas has its way. Moms and dads would have to work in the underground economy, drive without licenses or insurance, not be fully covered by wage and safety laws, and always be subject to exploitation. That is the world Republicans in Texas envision. Well, as Doctor King taught us, the arc of the moral universe is long but it bends towards justice, and so it often is when it comes to the American courts. When a judge is selected in Texas to hear a case because he has already denounced this President; and then the case is appealed to the most conservative, least friendly circuit in the nation; and then the case is appealed to the Supreme Court, eventually you get to a venue that looks and thinks and rules much more like America in all her rich diversity and modernism. Monday, our highest court, led by its women, but likely to include another two or three justices in the majority, took a step towards justice. Now we wait until probably June to hear the outcome. And maybe, just maybe, the Senate will someday do its job and allow the ninth and final Justice to sit on the court. Follow Rep. Luis Gutierrez on Twitter: www.twitter.com/RepGutierrez
04.20.2016	“Women and men are equal partners in our nation’s success and our money should reflect that.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) reacted to news that Treasury Secretary Jack Lew will announce that a portrait of Harriet Tubman will adorn the U.S. $20 bill. POLITICO reports that Secretary Lew will also announce that Alexander Hamilton, the only immigrant on U.S. money, will remain on the face of the $10 bill. “There has been a lot of talk about putting a woman’s portrait on our money, but finally it sounds like Secretary Lew is putting our money where his mouth is,” said Congressman Gutiérrez who introduced the Put a Woman on the Twenty Act in Congress a year ago. “It is crazy that women have been mostly absent from our money up until now, with only a few exceptions. Women and men are equal partners in our nation’s success and our money should reflect that. Sure, it is only symbolic, but U.S. money is just about as powerful a symbol as there is in this world.” On April 30, 2015, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez introduced H.R. 1910, the Put a Woman on the Twenty Act of 2015 (link to bill, press release), which calls on the Treasury Secretary to convene a special commission to receive public input and recommend an appropriate woman to receive the honor of having her portrait on the $20 note. The bill has 19 co-sponsors, but the need for the bill seemed to have been overtaken when Secretary Lew announced last year that a woman’s portrait would replace Hamilton on the $10 note. Now, apparently, the fact that the Broadway show ‘Hamilton’ won a Pulitzer has changed the calculous. (Coincidentally, Rep. Gutiérrez commented on the Pulitzer win for the show Hamilton, written by fellow Puerto Rican Lin-Manuel Miranda, during a TV interview yesterday: https://bit.ly/1WDvolV). Congressman Gutiérrez gave several speeches on the House floor last year supporting his legislation and specifically endorsing Harriet Tubman as the best candidate after she won an online vote sponsored by the grassroots advocates at the “Women on 20s” Campaign. Floor speech, April 30, 2015 (text and video): The Almighty Dollar Speaks, What If It Had a Woman’s Voice? The Put A Woman On The Twenty Act https://1.usa.gov/1dLdJWn Floor speech, May 20, 2015 (text and video): Harriet Tubman, Andrew Jackson and the Campaign To “Put A Woman On The Twenty” https://1.usa.gov/1SvEXDF “This makes the legislation unnecessary, but that is just fine by me,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “We were ahead of our time in asking the Treasury to catch up with the times. All’s well that ends well and I can’t wait to spend a twenty with a woman’s picture on it. To celebrate, I’ll go with my wife, my daughters, or my mom as they spend a $20 bill with a woman’s face for the first time.” # # #
04.20.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Members released the following statements on the U.S. v. Texas oral arguments. The Supreme Court is hearing oral arguments on expanded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA). The Congressional Hispanic Caucus led the push for the immigration executive actions and together with House Democrats, has been fighting to protect them since the President’s announcement in November 2014. The case could affect millions of citizens and non-citizens, many of whom are Latino. CHC Chairwoman Linda T. Sánchez: “These immigration executive actions are a game changer for our community. DACA and DAPA are two simple but important actions that would allow young people and parents of U.S. citizens the ability to stay in this country, work, and pay taxes. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus remains optimistic that the Supreme Court will rule on the right side of history.” Congressman Joaquin Castro: “With this case, the Supreme Court has the opportunity to uphold DAPA and expanded DACA and provide peace of mind to millions of families who contribute to our nation and call America home. Until Congress passes comprehensive immigration reform, President Obama’s lawful actions bring some order to our nation’s broken system. I am confident that today’s arguments will prove that the President acted within his legal authority when he created these sensible programs that strengthen our communities, bolster our national security, and demonstrate our commitment to families." House Democratic Caucus Chairman Xavier Becerra: "My father was a construction worker most of his life. My mother, who came from Guadalajara Jalisco, Mexico to the United States, never had a chance to go to college either and became a clerical worker. But my parents did nothing but build this country. They worked very hard to make this a better land for so many people, and certainly for their four kids, who had a chance to go on to get a college degree. Does the Supreme Court want to be behind those who build this country and build dreams? Or do they want to support those who build walls? It is time for us to stand up. We are ready to work with the Supreme Court and make sure that we will continue to let Americans, including immigrants who have become Americans, build this country and build America.” Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez: “I will be inside the Supreme Court on Monday because the CHC and I kept pushing for executive action on immigration and I want to witness history. We started advocating for things like deferred action back in 2011, continued through the announcement of DACA in 2012, and up to the President’s big announcement in 2014 of DACA-plus and DAPA. We knew the President was on solid legal ground and recommended policy steps he could take to help alleviate the worst aspects of our out-of-date immigration system immediately, within current law, and already approved by Congress on multiple occasions.” Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard: “President Obama’s executive actions to expand DACA and implement DAPA are not only legal, they are humane. If these actions take effect, more qualified immigrants will be able to come out of the shadows and contribute to our nation. More families will be able to live in peace, free from fears of being torn apart. I am confident the Supreme Court will affirm that President Obama has every right to take these executive actions.” Congressman Rubén Hinojosa: ““As a son of immigrants and a former chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, I am proud to represent a district along the U.S.-Mexico border with a large population of immigrants who contribute to the vibrancy of our regional economy, job growth and rich culture. The Rio Grande Valley of South Texas is also home to the three undocumented mothers representing the struggles of millions of other undocumented immigrants for whom they will be fighting in court today. In the United States v. Texas case, the Supreme Court has an opportunity to uphold the ability of the President to faithfully carry out the discretion afforded to him by Congress and rule in favor of the implementation of President Obama’s Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA) and the expansion of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). We are a compassionate nation of immigrants, and we must continue to fight against misguided attempts to tear apart hard working families.” Congresswoman Grace Napolitano: "Today is an important day for all Americans in our great nation of immigrants. Together, our Hispanic Caucus has worked from day one with President Obama, encouraging him to act within existing law to offer relief from the fear of deportation for hardworking immigrant families. We fully affirm his actions to create DAPA and expand upon the successful DACA. It is critical to remember that these actions have not yet taken effect, so beware of notarios and others who may attempt to defraud. With our Democratic colleagues in the House and Senate we stand today with millions of immigrant families. We are confident the Supreme Court will embrace their contributions and reject the hatemongers who seek to rip families apart." Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez: “As co-chair of the Immigration Task Force for the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, I strongly support the expanded DACA and DAPA, and I am hopeful that the Supreme Court will recognize the constitutional authority of President Obama’s executive actions on immigration and reject Texas state officials’ harmful politically motivated challenge. The President’s executive actions on immigration enforce sensible priorities and have concrete legal precedent on their side. We are a nation of immigrants: uniting and keeping our families together is an integral American value. We should be protecting the stability of our hard-working immigrant families instead of tearing them apart. Comprehensive immigration reform is the moral imperative of our time and our hard-working immigrant families have waited long enough.” Congressman Raúl Grijalva: “President Obama’s executive actions to help millions caught in our broken immigration system have been stalled for too long. The expansion of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA) would ensure our limited enforcement resources are focused on the people who actually pose a threat to the public, and leave aspiring Americans to stay with their families and continue earning their place in our society. It’s time for the Supreme Court to end the uncertainty that this lawsuit created, and allow DACA and DAPA to provide the relief they were intended to.” Congressman Jim Costa: “By implementing Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA) and expanding Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), the President used his executive authority to act within existing laws, and it is my hope that after the Supreme Court hears today’s oral arguments, we will be one step closer to fixing our nation’s chaotic and broken immigration system. Let us never forget that the United States is a nation of hard working immigrants, and DACA and DAPA are commonsense policies that will enable individuals to live out of the shadows and make positive contributions to our society and economy.” Congressman Ben Ray Luján: “Just as presidents before him, including Reagan and Bush, President Obama took legal action to enforce our existing immigration laws. The President’s executive actions will allow DREAMers and the parents of U.S. citizens to continue contributing to our communities and our economy without fear that they will be separated from their loved ones. While the only way to fully address our broken immigration system is through comprehensive immigration reform, moving forward with the President’s legal authority to set enforcement priorities is good for our economy, our security, and reflects the contributions immigrants make to our country every day. I am confident the Supreme Court will follow the law and not extreme voices like Donald Trump Republicans.” Congressman Juan Vargas: “The US vs. Texas case is one of the most important issues the Supreme Court will hear this year. Millions of hard working Americans should be able to continue expanding their roots and contributing to our country through the DACA and DAPA programs.” Congressman Pete Aguilar: “I urge the Supreme Court to do the right thing and keep Latino and other immigrant families together instead of tearing them apart.” Rep. Pete Aguilar.” Congresswoman Norma Torres: “I am confident the Supreme Court will agree the President was within his legal authority to create a sensible process to prioritize the deportation of dangerous criminals and provide relief to the many families across the country and in my home state of California who are American in every way but on paper. These families have become integral members of our communities and should not have to live in constant fear.” ####
04.15.2016	“I will be in the court on Monday and I am confident justice and the rule of law will carry the day.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) joined Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) and the Democratic Caucus for a press conference in front of the Capitol to discuss the oral arguments in U.S. v. Texas on Monday at the Supreme Court. The case concerns the injunction against some of the President’s executive actions on immigration. Rep. Gutiérrez plans to attend the oral argument and a decision in the case could be announced in June. The Congressman’s remarks at the press conference – and a link to video – are pasted below. In addition to Rep. Gutiérrez, also speaking at the press conference were Rep. Linda T. Sánchez, Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus; Rep. Xavier Becerra, Chair of the House Democratic Caucus; Rep. Judy Chu, Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus; Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard, Chair of Congressional Women’s Working Group on Immigration Reform; Rep. Zoe Lofgren, Ranking Member of the House Sub-Committee on Immigration; and Jose Aguiluz, a medical professional, a DACA recipient, and soon to be graduate from the University of Maryland, who also serves on the Board of Casa of Maryland. A video of the Congressman’s remarks at the press conference: https://youtu.be/D4sO_rHyM8I?t=6m56s The Congressman’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are pasted below: Press Conference April 15, 2016 I am going to be in the Supreme Court on Monday, just like I was for the last round in New Orleans, because this is the culmination of a lot of hard work by me and by my colleagues. Since the earliest days of the Obama Administration, we have been trying to get Democrats and Republicans to move forward on immigration reform. Also from the beginning, we knew that under current law, there were steps the President could take to alleviate some of the worst, most harmful aspects of our out-of-date immigration system. With the Congressional Hispanic Caucus in February of 2011 – February 2011 – I crafted a memo to the President. It was adopted by the CHC and it outlined in detail things like “deferred action,” “hardship waivers,” “prosecutorial discretion,” “parole in place” and other elements of the current law that could be applied by the President – and have been applied by previous Presidents. Our goal was to keep families together and prevent mass deportation of DREAMers, people with US citizen family members, people with pending immigration petitions, and a range of other types of people with deep roots who face deportation or cannot legalize their status. It was never a substitute for immigration reform, but rather something that could be done immediately under the existing laws. That was February of 2011. We kept pushing for executive action even when the President said “no I won’t do it;” when advocacy groups said “no, it will never happen;” when groups of Latino celebrities and actors said “no, the President can’t do it;” and even when some Democrats in the House thought it was impossible. But we kept pushing. We kept fighting for relief now so that we were not deporting the very people that we are seeking to legalize through legislation. The people who can show they have lived here a long time, have no serious criminal record, have families, jobs, and mortgages here in the U.S. should be the lowest priority for deportation anyway. And what started in February of 2011 grew and grew and eventually we got a small piece of what we were asking for in DACA for DREAMers in 2012. More than 700,000 young people are protected, today, legally. And we kept on pushing. As we kept pushing together, it brought us closer together and now you can safely say that almost every single Democrat in the House and Senate are on the same page when it comes to supporting legal immigration, ending illegal immigration through sensible, passing smart regulations, and stopping the fantasy of mass deportation. In the summer of 2014, the CHC, Rep. Zoe Lofgren and I started a very serious, legal and policy discussion with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the President’s Legal Counsel on what the President could and could not do under current law. And the Administration did not agree with us on several points that we felt were well within the law. But the White House wanted to play it safe because, let’s face it, they knew Republicans would sue the government, as they did. So here we are, nearly two years later, the Democratic Party is unified and working closely with allies in the community, in the religious sector, labor and business, moderates and progressives and any conservatives who are still willing to work in a bipartisan fashion. The American people across boundaries of race and party are unified behind a policy to get immigrants into the system and on the books. Legal scholars are unified that the President is acting within the law. And millions of families are waiting to see if Justice and the Rule of Law will carry the day. I will be in the court on Monday and I am confident that Justice and the Rule of Law will carry the day. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
04.14.2016	“This Congress should reject the King George approach and free Puerto Rico so that its hardworking people can build the Island.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives offering his analysis of the Republican proposal to address the debt crisis in Puerto, with a little help from a portrait of King George III of England. The Congressman, whose parents were born in Puerto Rico, said “King George would be proud” of the GOP bill. Legislation, which is working its way through the Natural Resources Committee would create a federal Control Board that will have the power to “overrule the legislature and the Governor if it doesn’t like the budget and it can fast-track energy projects at the expense of the environment.” Mockingly, Rep. Gutiérrez asked the portrait of King George if that level of colonial power sounded familiar. Rep. Gutiérrez praised Governor Alejandro García Padílla and his staff for being “honest and tireless brokers, trying to resolve a crisis decades in the making.” But he criticized Congress for preventing the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico from declaring bankruptcy like any other “local government in crisis [when] bondholders are circling and demanding payment.” He said the proposed Control Board “is a new level of colonial rule on top of what Washington already has; what Washington already misuses; what Washington would usually rather ignore.” King George of England would be pleased to know that even after 250 years, the U.S. Congress – created to replace his tyrannical rule – has so fully embraced colonialism for distant territories. The Congressman concluded, “this Congress should reject the King George approach and free Puerto Rico so that its hardworking people can build the Island.” We should put them above all other creditors, bondholders, and profit-seekers. That ought to be our priority. The school children, the elderly, the working men and women, the police on the beat, they need us to stand up for them as fellow citizens and human beings. A video of the Congressman’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/zuXkIQ-yJWM The Congressman’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are pasted below: Remarks on Puerto Rico April 14, 2016 As we were reminded yesterday by the Speaker of the House, Puerto Rico is a U.S. territory and the Constitution explicitly gives Congress the power to “make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the U.S.” And treating Puerto Rico as property is just what is being proposed by the Republicans in addressing the Puerto Rico debt crisis. My friend here, King George of England, would be proud. I will say, the Governor of Puerto Rico has been working hard to help move a bill forward. He and his staff have been honest and tireless brokers, trying to resolve a crisis decades in the making. The Governor should be commended for his efforts. But what the Governor and the people of Puerto Rico need are the same protections that any U.S. citizen has when their local government is in crisis and bond-holders are circling and demanding payments. Puerto Rico needs the ability to restructure her debt so that the bond-holders get something instead of nothing on their investment, and the local government is not crippled, and the people are not faced with a collapse of basic services. Congress, the colonial power, took away the ability to declare bankruptcy, so that was never an option. A move worthy of King George himself! Yes, in the bill the Republicans put forward, there is a restructuring of Puerto Rico’s debt. There is even a temporary stay of debt payments for a short period of time. But at what cost? As I understand it, the debt restructuring for Puerto Rico would only take place if two-thirds of the bondholders on Wall Street approve. So Wall Street fat cats can literally veto what the Republicans are proposing. Wall Street the fat cats know their Maserati’s and yachts are safe, even if Puerto Rican school buses, hospitals, and roads fall further into disrepair. They will live like Kings, just like my buddy here. They even bragged about it at the hearing yesterday, saying that the market “responded positively” when the Republican bill was introduced, because it signaled that Republicans will have Wall Street’s back. I guess that is what Republicans mean when they refer to “New York values?” I simply do not see things in the Republican bill that justify relinquishing what little sovereignty Puerto Rico has left to an unelected federal Control Board. It is a new level of colonial rule on top of what Washington already has; what Washington already misuses; what Washington would usually rather ignore. King George of England would be pleased to know that even after 250 years, the U.S. Congress – created to replace his tyrannical rule – has so fully embraced colonialism for distant territories. As Speaker Ryan said yesterday, the fact that Puerto Rico’s government is “ceding…its authority to the financial control board is a huge, but necessary move that will ensure Puerto Rico will learn fiscal discipline from a board of experts.” Oh yes, those poor Islanders, the uncivilized Puerto Ricans will see how it is done. Up close and personal. The Board will have the power to reduce the minimum wage, block overtime rules, and block laws, regulations, and government contracts approved by the Island’s democratically elected government. It can overrule the legislature and the Governor if doesn’t like the budget and it can fast track energy projects at the expense of the environment. Does that sound familiar, Your Highness? Get this: Congress can impose a Control Board on Puerto Rico that can hire whoever they want at whatever salary they want and the people of Puerto Rico have to pay for it. Period. Punto. 100 percent. The Control Board is paid for by those it controls. If that is not colonialism, I don’t know what is. It is so good, King George would be jealous. As if to add insult to injury, the bill addresses Vieques – the Island off the coast of Puerto Rico that the U.S. Navy bombed for decades. It turns over the land with no conditions. Now, I am all for the people of Puerto Rico having control of the lands of Puerto Rico, in Vieques and everywhere else. But in the current crisis, without protections, we all know where this is going. Hotels, resorts, and businesses seeking to profit will be looking for bargain prices and will be out to profiteer – just like the Pirates who used to control those waters. Mr. Speaker, the Puerto Rican people want jobs and an economy that allows them to live on the Island and thrive, but so far, all the Republican Majority has offered is more colonial oversight, more austerity, and more misery. I say once again, this Congress should reject the King George approach and free Puerto Rico so that its hardworking people can build the Island. We should put them above all other creditors, bondholders, and profit-seekers. That ought to be our priority. The school children, the elderly, the working men and women, the police on the beat, they need us to stand up for them as fellow citizens and human beings. And I call on my colleagues to join me. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
03.29.2016	“The solution is not a tighter rein on self-determination, but a growing, dynamic economy that creates jobs for Puerto Ricans in Puerto Rico.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement in reaction to the release of draft legislation to address the debt crisis in Puerto Rico. The legislation is part of Speaker Paul Ryan’s effort to have the Republican-controlled House of Representatives address Puerto Rico’s financial situation this spring. On April 13, a hearing will be held in the House Committee on Natural Resources on Puerto Rico, and Rep. Gutiérrez and other Puerto Rican Members of Congress are expected to attend even though some are not Members of the Committee. The following is a statement from Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL): In Congress, the prescription for Puerto Rico’s financial problems is a new layer of colonial oversight from Washington through a Control Board. Puerto Rico’s problems stem from too much of the power to determine her destiny residing in Washington, a far-off Capitol. This Control Board proposal just adds to those vast powers and with little transparency or authentic involvement by the Puerto Rican people. The solution is not a tighter rein on self-determination, but a growing, dynamic economy that creates jobs for Puerto Ricans in Puerto Rico. That seems like an afterthought. Where are the jobs, the development of a high-tech sector, construction, tourism, and agriculture – the things the Island needs to thrive? I am glad proposals are finally being crafted, but as I feared, at first glance this proposal looks like it was crafted by people who care more about bondholders being paid than Puerto Ricans being employed in building their own economy. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago to parents who migrated from Puerto Rico and has lived in Puerto Rico at various points in his life. # # #
03.17.2016	“The debate has sunk to a level where people are actually throwing punches and worse…now, Republicans in the House are stoking anti-immigrant fears and mass deportation fantasies some more.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke during debate on a partisan vote in support of mass deportation and a resolution to authorize a “Friend of the Court” brief against the United States in a case on immigration to be considered by the U.S. Supreme Court next month. It was a remarkably fiery address. A video of the Congressman’s speech is here: https://cs.pn/1Mpqt03 The Congressman’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are pasted below (but his actual remarks diverge significantly at times). Immigration Remarks As Prepared for Delivery Why does the Majority Party not just say what they want? They want millions of immigrants deported. Out on the campaign trail on immigration we get lies and demagoguery from Republicans – plural. The debate has sunk to a level where people are actually throwing punches and worse. Two refugees from Southeast Asia and one gentleman from Puerto Rico were shot and killed in front of their children in Milwaukee because apparently, the gunman didn’t like that they spoke with an accent. The gunman reportedly said to the Puerto Ricans “You have got to go,” before he shot and killed the father of a teenaged son. Two students, a Muslim and a Latino, were attacked by a man who they encountered when he was beating an African-American man in Kansas this week. When he turned to them he shouted racist threats and said Trump would win and they would have to go. And the punches, the shoving, the shouts of “Go back to Africa,” the Hitler salutes -- it is all becoming more than we ever expected and yet, that is the reality we see in 2016. And now, the Republicans in the House are stoking anti-immigrant fears and mass deportation fantasies some more. No, they are not leading. They are not calling for calmer rhetoric – let alone more rational policies. They are playing politics with immigrants, plain and simple. If Republicans are so secure in the validity of their arguments, they should write the brief and submit it to the Supreme Court, just as 225 Democrats did last week. And as dozens of business leaders and state and local legislators and Mayors have done. The vote is a political stunt disguised as a legal brief because the Republican Majority sees a crass political opportunity to stand with the anti-immigration wing of their party. I guess the Speaker thinks, hey, why play it straight when you can force a purely political vote on immigration designed to deepen the partisan lines and validate angry voters. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. An op-ed related to immigration and the Supreme Court ran in the Boston Globe on Feb. 25: GOP politics of exclusion all but guarantee a Democratic decade. # # #
03.16.2016	“The message is clear from the Republicans: let’s double down on deportation and keep out people fleeing for their lives.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement as the Judiciary Committee meets today to reduce refugee admissions, the House prepares for a partisan vote tomorrow in support of mass deportation, and the President announces his nominee for the Supreme Court. At 10:00 am ET today, the House Judiciary Committee will mark-up a bill to slash refugee admissions and add new waiting times, restrictions, and delays for people fleeing persecution, a process that already can take years. Meanwhile, the House will vote Thursday on a Republican resolution authorizing a “Friend of the Court” brief in the case of United States v. Texas to be argued next month before the Supreme Court, aimed at making millions of individuals with U.S. citizen families and a decade or more of residence eligible for immediate deportation. This happens as Republicans say they will not even meet with the nominee the President puts forward today to fill a vacancy on the Court. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL): To say the immigration issue has run off the rails in the Republican Party is an understatement. Lies and demagoguery from Republicans on the campaign trail – plural – have heated the debate to a level where people are actually throwing punches and worse. Now Republicans are stoking anti-immigrant fears and mass deportation fantasies more by playing politics with immigrants and refugees, plain and simple. The message is clear from the Republicans: let’s double down on deportation and keep out people fleeing for their lives. Today in the Judiciary Committee, we are marking-up a partisan bill for refugees fleeing persecution that wraps itself in the rhetoric of security, but– as always – it is really just a campaign commercial designed to make the American people more suspicious of people seeking our help, desperate for the religious freedom this nation stands for, and the religious freedom Congress should defend. The vote on Thursday is a political stunt disguised as a legal brief because the Republicans see a crass opportunity to stand with the anti-immigration wing of their party. If Republicans are so secure in the validity of their arguments in an amicus brief for the Supreme Court, they should write the brief and submit it, just as 225 Democrats did last week and dozens of business leaders and state and local legislators and mayors have done. We all know the Republicans are fond of walls, but with the Supreme Court nominee, they are taking stonewalling to new heights. They say they will not even meet with the eminently qualified, Chicago-born nominee put forward by the President because that might focus press attention on the Republicans’ complete abandonment of their sworn duties under the Constitution. These are the same petty theatrics we have had on Capitol Hill for too long and any Americans who hoped for more from the Congress and our new Speaker of the House will be disappointed once again. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. An op-ed related to immigration and the Supreme Court ran in the Boston Globe on Feb. 25: GOP politics of exclusion all but guarantee a Democratic decade. # # #
03.09.2016	I am deeply saddened and angered by the senseless murder of Berta Cáceres. A human rights defender in the truest sense, Ms. Cáceres fought on behalf of the indigenous peoples of Honduras and for the environment at great peril to her own life. She continued to fight for justice despite the danger she was in—having faced along with family and colleagues at her organization, COPINH, death, rape, and kidnapping threats. Just as the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) mandated protection for Ms. Cáceres, the same is now urgently needed for the sole witness Gustavo Castro and Ms. Cáceres’ family. I also urge the Honduran government to allow an independent investigation to bring justice to Ms. Cáceres and to protect her fellow human rights defenders who will continue to fight. Letter from Members of the House of Representatives to the Secretary of State condemning the murder of Berta Cáceres. Spanish translation: Siento una profunda tristeza y enojo por el asesinato sin sentido de Berta Cáceres. Una defensora de los derechos humanos en el más verdadero sentido, la Sra. Cáceres luchó en nombre de los pueblos indígenas de Honduras y por el medio ambiente con gran peligro a su propia vida. Ella continuó luchando por la justicia a pesar del peligro que enfrentaba junto con su familia y sus colegas en su organización, COPINH, amenazas de muerte, violación y secuestro. Al igual que la Comisión Interamericana de Derechos Humanos (CIDH) ordenó protección para la Sra. Cáceres, la misma que ahora se necesita con urgencia para el único testigo Gustavo Castro y la familia de la Sra. Cáceres. También solicito al gobierno de Honduras que permita una investigación independiente para hacer justicia a la Sra Cáceres y para proteger a sus compañeros defensores de derechos humanos que continuarán la lucha.
03.08.2016	[En español abajo] “We need to move forward as a nation and get beyond fantasies of mass deportation and sending millions of consumers, producers, and hard-working families away.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) commented on the filing of an amicus brief supporting the U.S. government’s position in the United States v. Texas case about whether certain aspects of President Obama’s executive actions on immigration will be allowed to move forward. A total of 225 Democrats in Congress (186 in the House and 39 in the Senate) filed the brief with the U.S. Supreme Court and Democratic Leaders Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid issued a joint release earlier today (English and Spanish). Congressman Gutiérrez was instrumental in both urging President Obama to take executive actions on immigration to keep families together in the first place and in building support for those actions – and their defense in court – both inside and outside the Capitol. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez: The Democrats are extraordinarily united behind our leadership in favor of sensible enforcement priorities, but I wish we could leave the politics out of it. Republicans plan to ram through a partisan vote next week on their own pro-deportation amicus brief so they can appear to be relevant in the immigration fight we are hearing from the campaign trail in all its shrill vitriol. I don’t think Republicans would pull this legislative stunt unless they were worried about the outcome of the case on its merits before the Court. As a matter of law, the President is on solid ground, has acted in accordance with what previous presidents have done, and has acted within the clear parameters Congress has passed and affirmed on multiple occasions. We need to move forward as a nation and get beyond fantasies of mass deportation and sending millions of consumers, producers, and hard-working families away. The Supreme Court, not Members of Congress, will rule later this year and I am confident the nation will turn the corner towards rational deportation and detention policies. Ultimately, it is still on Congress to act to alleviate the great harm our current policies are doing to American families and our economic well-being. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. An op-ed related to immigration and the Supreme Court ran in the Boston Globe on Feb. 25: GOP politics of exclusion all but guarantee a Democratic decade. Representante Gutiérrez Sobre la Gran Cantidad de Demócratas que Firmaron el Escrito de Amicus Curiae (Amigo de la Corte) del Caso de Estados Unidos vs. Texas "Tenemos que avanzar como nación e ir más allá de las fantasías de deportación masiva y el envío de millones de consumidores, productores, y familias trabajadoras fuera del país." Washington, DC - Washington, DC - Hoy, el Representante Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) comentó sobre la presentación de un escrito de amicus apoyando la posición del gobierno de Estados Unidos en el caso de los Estados Unidos vs. Texas acerca de las acciones ejecutivas del Presidente Obama de inmigración y si serán permitidas a seguir adelante. Un total de 225 Demócratas en el Congreso (186 en la Cámara y 39 en el Senado) presentaron el escrito a la Corte Suprema de EE.UU. y los Líderes Demócratas Nancy Pelosi y Harry Reid emitieron un comunicado conjunto el día de hoy. El Congresista Gutiérrez fue instrumental al empujar al Presidente Obama a tomar acciones ejecutivas de inmigración para mantener unidas a las familias en primer lugar y en crear apoyo para esas acciones - y su defensa en los tribunales - tanto dentro como fuera del Capitolio. La siguiente es una declaración del Representante Luis V. Gutiérrez: Los Demócratas están extraordinariamente unidos detrás de nuestro liderazgo a favor de las prioridades de control migratorio sensible, pero me hubiera gustado que pudiéramos dejar la política fuera del asunto. Los Republicanos planean imponer una votación partidista la próxima semana por su cuenta con un escrito de amicus a favor de la deportación para poder parecer conectados a la lucha de inmigración que estamos escuchando de la campaña electoral en toda su malignidad ruidosa. No creo que los Republicanos elaborarían este engendro legislativo a menos que estuvieran preocupados por el resultado del caso en sus méritos ante la Corte. Como cuestión de ley, el Presidente está en tierra firme, ha actuado conforme a lo que los Presidentes anteriores han hecho, y ha actuado dentro de los parámetros claros que el Congreso ha aprobado y afirmado en múltiples ocasiones. Tenemos que avanzar como nación e ir más allá de las fantasías de deportación masiva y el envío de millones de consumidores, productores, y familias trabajadoras fuera del país. La Corte Suprema, no miembros del Congreso, decidirán este año y estoy seguro que la nación a su vez irá hacia políticas racionales de deportación y detención. Ultimadamente, todavía se requiere que el Congreso actué para aliviar el gran daño que nuestros reglamentos actuales están teniendo con familias estadounidenses y nuestro bienestar económico. # # #
03.03.2016	CHC Immigration Task Force Chairs Condemn Continued Republican Attacks on the Latino Community [En español abajo] Washington, D.C. – Today, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) released the following statements condemning Speaker Paul Ryan’s announcement that House Republicans will force a vote on a resolution authorizing the filing of a legal brief that supports halting the President’s immigration executive actions. The Supreme Court is hearing United States v. Texas this term and by filing the brief, Republicans want to block the immigration executive actions from taking effect. The statements come from the CHC’s Immigration Task Force Co-Chairs, Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez and Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez. “As a matter of law, the Supreme Court really has no choice but to rule in favor of the U.S. Government and the President because he has acted within the bounds of the law and consistent with how past presidents from both parties have acted. As a matter of politics, it is clear where the two parties stand when it comes to keeping families together and allowing immigrants to contribute to this country’s well-being versus the fantasy that we should deport 11 million people. As a matter of conscience, I am appalled the Republicans and Speaker Ryan are taking this step,” said Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez. “I'm hopeful that the Supreme Court will recognize the legality and importance of President Obama’s executive actions for our immigrant families. The President acted to keep hard-working immigrant families together and to ensure that DREAMERS can continue to live in the only country they’ve ever known. However, Congress must do its job and pass comprehensive immigration reform now. America deserves a fair and just immigration system, and our hard-working immigrant families have waited long enough,” said Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), founded in December 1976, is organized as a Congressional Member organization, governed under the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives. The CHC is dedicated to voicing and advancing, through the legislative process, issues affecting Hispanics in the United States, Puerto Rico and U.S. Territories. Traducido por la oficina del Congresista Gutiérrez El Caucus Hispano del Congreso (CHC) Sobre el Escrito de Amicus Curiae (Amigo de la Corte) de los Republicanos Contra Acciones Ejecutivas de Inmigración Miembros y líderes del Subcomité de Inmigración del CHC critican los continuos ataques Republicanos sobre la comunidad Latina Washington, DC - Hoy, el Caucus Hispano del Congreso publicó las siguientes declaraciones criticando el anuncio del Presidente de la Cámara, Paul Ryan, que los Republicanos forzarán una votación sobre una resolución que autoriza la presentación de un escrito legal que busca detener las acciones ejecutivas inmigratorias del Presidente Obama. La Corte Suprema escuchará el caso de Estados Unidos v. Texas este plazo y mediante la presentación del escrito, los Republicanos quieren bloquear las acciones ejecutivas de inmigración. Las declaraciones vienen de parte de los líderes del Subcomité de Inmigración del CHC, el Congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez y la Congresista Loretta Sánchez. “En cuestión de ley, la Corte Suprema realmente no tiene más remedio que decidir a favor del Gobierno de EE.UU. y el Presidente Obama porque él ha actuado dentro de los límites de la ley y consistente con la manera que Presidentes anteriores de ambos partidos lo han hecho. Como cuestión política, la posición de los dos partidos es clara cuando se trata de mantener unidas a las familias y permitir que los inmigrantes contribuyan al bienestar de este país en comparación a la fantasía de que hay que deportar a 11 millones de personas. Como cuestión de conciencia, me alarma que los Republicanos y el Presidente de la Cámara Ryan estén tomando este paso,” dijo el Congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez. "Tengo la esperanza de que la Corte Suprema reconocerá la legalidad y la importancia de las acciones ejecutivas del Presidente Obama para nuestras familias inmigrantes. El Presidente actuó para mantener juntas a las familias inmigrantes que trabajan duro y para asegurar que los Soñadores puedan seguir viviendo en el único país que han conocido. Sin embargo, el Congreso debe hacer su trabajo y aprobar una reforma migratoria integral ahora. Estados Unidos se merece un sistema de inmigración justo y equilibrado, y nuestras familias de inmigrantes que trabajan tan duro han esperado demasiado tiempo ", dijo la Congresista Loretta Sánchez. El Caucus Hispano del Congreso (CHC), fundado en diciembre de 1976, está organizado como una organización de Miembros del Congreso, que se rige por el Reglamento de la Cámara de Representantes de EE.UU. El CHC está dedicado a levantar la voz y avanzar, a través del proceso legislativo, las cuestiones que afectan a los hispanos en los Estados Unidos, Puerto Rico y territorios de Estados Unidos. ####
03.02.2016	“Journalists of color bring a different texture, a different perspective on what issues matter and what should be discussed and debated on television.” Washington, DC – In a floor speech on Wednesday during the Morning Hour (approx. 10 am ET), Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke about NBC and the appearance that people of color are disappearing from NBC News and MSNBC. He noted that three MSNBC hosts, Alex Wagner, Melissa Harris-Perry and Jose Diaz Balart, have all had their shows cancelled or been reassigned in recent months. The Congressman also noted “NBC’s racism flip-flop” last year when the network decided to invite Donald Trump to host Saturday Night Live and the on-going discussions NBC/Universal/Comcast have had with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus about diversity and hiring. The Congressman linked recent NBC News personnel decisions with the flap over the Academy Awards, saying he hoped these incidents would spark a broader conversation: “When NBC has a bad year when it comes to race or when the Oscars have a bad couple of years when it comes to people of color, these are moments to talk about and confront the emotions and ideas we all have about race and ethnicity.” He made the point that journalists with diverse racial and ethnic backgrounds bring diverse perspectives to the news, especially in a campaign season when race and ethnicity are major themes for candidates. “Journalists of color bring a different texture, a different perspective on what issues matter and what should be discussed and debated on television. The reality is that our nation has become more diverse and our television, our news media, and our political institutions – including the Democratic and Republican parties – have not kept up.” At one point in his remarks, the Congressman even used a small set of chimes to mimic the iconic NBC network identification, harkening back to his youth in Chicago watching The Wonderful World of Disney on WMAQ-TV, which was, as he recalled, “brought to you in living color.” Behind the Congressman on an easel during the speech was a poster of a 1950s-era TV with the famous NBC peacock logo. The poster also bore the hashtag “#NBCsoWhite,” in tribute to the widely used #OscarsSoWhite hashtag. The text of the Congressman’s speech (as prepared for delivery) is below. A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/qJ869pmya-0 Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks March 2, 2016 When we got our first color TV, it was a big deal in my family. We were working class, Puerto Rican, and not used to such luxury, so when we got a color TV, we had really arrived. Every Sunday night, me and my sister would watch the Wonderful World of Disney that always started with the same announcement: “The following program is brought to you in living color on NBC” and then you would hear the NBC chimes. [Play the NBC chime: Bong bing bong…] That was a long time ago. Now you turn on NBC and the farthest thing from your mind is color. What is going on at NBC? Last week, Wake Forest University professor and MSNBC television host Melissa Harris-Perry was abruptly pulled from the airwaves without even a chance to say good bye. NBC said they wanted a show that was more about politics. But I have to say, when I watched her show, Melissa Harris-Perry was talking about politics in a unique way – like few others on the airwaves. She brought diverse voices to the table to talk directly and unapologetically about the politics of race in America—a major theme among candidates and a critical conversation to include on the airwaves. I am sad to see her go, just like Alex Wagner before her, but I am even sadder because I do not think these are isolated cases. Anchorman Jose Diaz-Balart is another voice that seems to be disappearing from the English-language airwaves. You remember Jose? He is the Telemundo anchorman NBC would bring out to ask a question -- and only one question -- about immigration during the Republican Presidential debates in 2012. You may have met his brother Lincoln who used to sit over there or his brother Mario who still does. Jose had a two-hour show on MSNBC and did a very good job. But Jose is a lot harder to find these days. They cut him back and now it seems they are cutting him out. For example, MSNBC announced they were sending a team of reporters to Florida to report on the primary next Tuesday. But not Jose. One of the most respected and recognized journalists in America who happens to be from Miami and a Florida political dynasty – apparently he is not the right guy to report on politics in Florida. And let’s not forget, the great NBC racism flip-flop last year when NBC severed its ties to Donald Trump because of his racist remarks about Latinos, only to have him host their flagship comedy show, Saturday Night Live, last fall. Right about the same time last fall, NBC’s executives met with Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and NBC News President Deborah Turness told us “We love the Hispanic community,” as she updated us on the strides they were making on diversity and hiring. She made it very clear she has our community’s interests at heart when she said “Yo hablo español,” in her beautiful British accent. Most of the news coverage of this meeting was about when she used the term “illegals” to describe immigrants, which, in case you needed a reminder, is not a good idea when meeting with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Well, forgive me for not noticing just how much progress NBC was making on diversity when some of the most visible people of color at NBC like Alex Wagner, Melissa Harris-Perry and Jose Diaz-Balart are disappearing. But let’s be clear, this is not about quotas, window-dressing, or checking the diversity box. Journalists of color bring a different texture, a different perspective on what issues matter and what should be discussed and debated on television. The reality is that our nation has become more diverse -- and our television, our news media, and our political institutions – including the Democratic and Republican parties -- have not kept up. When NBC has a bad year when it comes to race or when the Oscars have a bad couple of years when it comes to people of color, these are moments to talk about and confront the emotions and ideas we all have about race and ethnicity. It is a good time to think about what the phrase E Pluribus Unum really means in America today. This is a discussion we should all be having -- all the time: here in this body, on news programs and in entertainment. And it is a discussion I hope every family is having at the dinner table. # # #
02.26.2016	Today, Rep. Gutiérrez participated in the press conference in the House to introduce the Fair Day in Court for Kids Act – a bill to ensure that children have legal counsel when they go before an immigration judge. There are two press releases below: 1) A joint release from the principal co-sponsors (Rep. Lofgren, Rep. Roybal-Allard and Rep. Gutiérrez) and 2) A joint release from three of the co-sponsors from Chicago (Rep. Quigley, Rep. Schakowsky and Rep. Gutiérrez). In addition, here is a quote from the press conference from Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL): “We are talking about children running for their lives in many instances. We need to make sure they have a lawyer, a translator, and a fair chance to navigate the American legal system so that they get justice if they qualify for asylum or are facing deportation. It is literally the least we can do.” “Estamos hablando de niños que temen por sus vidas en muchos casos. Hay que asegurarse de que tengan un abogado, un traductor y una buena oportunidad de navegar por el sistema legal de Estados Unidos para que puedan obtener justicia si reúnen los requisitos para el asilo o si se enfrentan a la deportación. Es, literalmente, lo menos que podemos hacer.” Here is a short video clip in Spanish (https://youtu.be/hFnfY9fC3qQ) and a photo from the press conference (https://bit.ly/1XPXBEM credit: Office of Rep. Gutiérrez). Link to bill text: https://1.usa.gov/24tfeyS CONGRESS of the UNITED STATES For Immediate Release: February 26, 2016 CONTACT: Peter Whippy (Rep. Lofgren): 202-225-3072 Douglas Rivlin (Rep. Gutiérrez): 202-225-8203 Ben Soskin (Rep. Roybal-Allard): 202-225-1766 House Democrats introduce Fair Day in Court for Kids Act WASHINGTON, D.C – Today, 54 House Democrats, led by U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D- Ill.), and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), introduced new legislation – a companion to similar legislation in the U.S. Senate – to protect children and other vulnerable groups in immigration proceedings by ensuring access to counsel, legal orientation programs, and case management services. The Fair Day in Court for Kids Act ensures due process for children and vulnerable individuals, and offers an alternative to ICE raids that risk sending individuals to dangerous countries where they face threats of violence, abuse, or even death. The members were joined by U.S. Representatives John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.), Alma Adams (D-N.C.), and Judy Chu (D-Calif.) at a press conference this morning to announce the new legislation (video in link). Under current law, there is no right to appointed counsel in immigration removal proceedings, even if the respondent is a child. Statistics show the overwhelming majority of children without attorneys are ordered deported while children with attorneys are five times more likely to be granted protection. Advocates assert that a child’s constitutional right to “due process” cannot be met without legal representation. The Fair Day in Court for Kids Act: Requires the government to appoint counsel to children, and vulnerable individuals, including those with disabilities and victims of abuse, torture, or violence. Requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Attorney General to establish procedures to ensure that legal orientation programs are available to all detained immigrants. Creates a case management pilot project to increase court appearance rates. Requires DHS to submit reports to Congress on the number of individuals identified in the Act who were represented by counsel and the number of individuals who received legal orientation presentations. # # # FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 26, 2016 CONTACTEmily Hampsten (202) 225-4061 (Quigley) Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 (Gutiérrez) Sam Avery (202) 225-2111 (Schakowsky) Quigley, Gutiérrez, Schakowsky Introduce Fair Day in Court for Kids Act WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representatives Mike Quigley (IL-05), Luis Gutiérrez (IL-04) and Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) introduced the Fair Day in Court for Kids Act, which will ensure that children and vulnerable individuals in immigration proceedings have access to counsel and receive legal orientation about their rights and responsibilities under immigration law. “According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), a majority of recently-arrived unaccompanied children are eligible for legal protection that would allow them to lawfully remain in the United States. Yet the ability to access these protections is almost impossible without an attorney to represent them in court,” said the members. “Under current U.S. law, there is no right to appointed counsel in immigration removal proceedings, even if the respondent is a child. But we know that attorneys matter. Nine out of 10 children without attorneys are ordered deported, while children with attorneys are five times more likely to be granted protection. These children and families deserve their fair day in court, and that is why we are proud to introduce this important legislation.” The Fair Day in Court for Kids Act ensures due process for children and vulnerable individuals by: · Requiring the government to appoint counsel to children, and vulnerable individuals, including those with disabilities and victims of abuse, torture, or violence; · Requiring the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Attorney General to establish procedures to ensure that legal orientation programs are available to all detained immigrants; · Creating a case management pilot project to increase court appearance rates; and · Requiring DHS to submit reports to Congress on the number of individuals identified in the Act who were represented by counsel and the number of individuals who received legal orientation presentations. The need for this bill is clear. The complex U.S. immigration system consists of hundreds of laws that can take lawyers and legal scholars years to understand. Complicated legal motions must be filed, oral arguments must be made, and appeals are routine. Yet children as young as toddlers, and other vulnerable individuals fleeing persecution, often have to make their case before an immigration judge without legal representation. Approximately 70 percent of families (women and children) and 50 percent of children are not represented in deportation proceedings. The bill currently has 39 House co-sponsors. Senator Harry Reid (D-NV) and several Senate Democrats introduced a Senate companion bill. To see full text of the bill, click here. ###
02.24.2016	“If you can vote, you should vote, and we should make sure the laws of our nation and our communities encourage rather than discourage the participation of every eligible citizen.” Washington, DC – On Wednesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke during the Morning Hour on the floor of the House of Representatives (at approx. 10 am ET), reflecting on what he observed during last weekend’s caucuses in Nevada. The Congressman stressed the hunger American citizens have for voting and the diversity of the electorate – and also the desire of eligible immigrants to apply for citizenship so they can participate in the process. The growing power of the immigrant vote and the growing size of the Latino electorate – as tens of thousands become eligible to vote each month – will be a factor in American politics for decades to come. The Congressman said: Immigrants are part of a growing coalition: of working class voters, women, straight people and LGBT, environmentalists, Latinos, Asians, Black, White, old and young, Muslim and Christian, Jewish and agnostic; they are coming together and mobilizing. Together, even as some politicians push them away and try to divide us with suspicions of our fellow Americans, together, their diversity and dedication to democracy is a beautiful thing to witness. The Congressman travels to Colorado on Saturday for a citizenship workshop hosted by the Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition and the National Partnership for New Americans and other groups, part of a national effort to help 1 million eligible immigrants apply for citizenship this year. The Congressman said: In communities like Denver and Chicago, there is a hunger for citizenship, despite all the barriers, despite the costs, and despite the anti-immigrant tone coming from our TVs and candidates. In fact, it is the anti-immigrant tone that people tell me – over and over – is what is motivating them to apply, study for the tests and better their English. It is that energy that gives me great confidence in our nation and the direction our nation is heading this year. The text of the speech (as prepared for delivery) is below. A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/WjC6QLM_P34 Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks February 24, 2016 Mr. Speaker, I am not here to give a political speech. This is not the right venue for that. But I would like to share some observations I have after visiting Nevada last week. The first observation is that among a broad and diverse segment of voters, there is a great deal of excitement about the political process. It almost doesn’t matter which candidate people prefer or even which party—there is so much enthusiasm to participate. In Nevada, the form of participation is the caucus and it requires a greater time commitment than simply punching a ballot at your local precinct. Yet, I witnessed thousands of people who were taking hours away from their jobs…at their own expense…to participate in the process. You cannot come away from that kind of activity and not be inspired that Americans are taking their right to voice their opinions about who should be the nominee of their party or the next President very seriously. It was remarkable. Still, there were some people I spoke with who could not afford to take hours away from their jobs -- some because they couldn’t get permission and others because they simply could not afford to give up a couple of hours of wages. Even when it means not having your vote count. Las Vegas -- where I was -- is a 24/7 working city and for many, a Saturday is the busiest work day of the week—especially for tips. This election year, as we travel around our own Districts or campaign in other states, I hope my colleagues in both parties will really examine how local governments and states are facilitating or disenfranchising American citizens who are eligible to vote. In Nevada, participation in a Caucus at a set time of day with little or no flexibility serves almost like a poll tax for hourly workers. Voters had to weigh the power of their vote against the dollars that would not be in their pockets if they exercised it. If you can vote, you should vote, and we should make sure the laws of our nation and our communities encourage rather than discourage the participation of every eligible citizen. Another striking observation I made over the weekend was the diversity of the American electorate. Women and men, straight and gay, U.S.-born and naturalized, old and young, working class, retired, students, military, and executives -- Nevada put on display just how much progress our nation has made in just a few decades. I saw the energy and the determination of new voters. Voters who are newly 18; who are newly citizens; or who are newly engaged in the political process. Everywhere I have travelled, including the high schools in my District in Illinois, I see 17 and 18 year-old Latinos anxious and eager to participate. They are motivated to register and vote, not just because they have been inspired by a candidate they support, but many have been inspired to vote against a candidate they do not support. Today, tomorrow, and every day for decades, about 2,000 US-born Latino citizens will turn 18 and be eligible to vote. Every day. And they are eager to get involved. There is a similar energy in the people I meet who are applying for citizenship. There are over 8 million immigrants with green cards who are eligible to apply for citizenship right now. And with fee waivers for those with limited funds, many of them can apply for free. And they are applying in droves. On Saturday, I will be at a workshop in Denver for people learning about the process and applying for citizenship. A coalition of groups led by the National Partnership for New Americans – but also encompassing Mi Familia Vota, a range of labor unions, and advocacy groups large and small across 30 states, have invited me to participate in this non-partisan activity to promote civic engagement and citizenship in immigrant communities. Their goal is to help 1 million eligible immigrants become citizens so that they can vote in primaries and elections this year and take their place at America’s table. In communities like Denver and Chicago, there is a hunger for citizenship, despite all the barriers, despite the costs, and despite the anti-immigrant tone coming from our TVs and candidates. In fact, it is the anti-immigrant tone that people tell me – over and over – is what is motivating them to apply, study for the tests and better their English. It is that energy that gives me great confidence in our nation and the direction our nation is heading this year. Immigrants are part of a growing coalition: of working class voters, women, straight people and LGBT people, environmentalists, Latinos, Asians, Black, White, old and young, Muslim and Christian, Jewish and agnostic; they are coming together and mobilizing. Together, even as some politicians push them away and try to divide us with suspicions of our fellow Americans, together, their diversity and dedication to democracy is a beautiful thing to witness. # # #
02.11.2016	In floor speech, Gutierrez says Washington “must find a way to get out of Puerto Rico’s way.” Washington, DC – On Thursday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke during the Morning Hour on the floor of the House of Representatives (approx. 10 am ET) to deliver “a simple message from the Puerto Rican people: Free Puerto Rico…so she can solve the problem of her crushing debt without being handcuffed by Congress, its distant and inattentive colonial master.” The Congressman said Washington must help chart a path forward so that “Puerto Rico is neither absolved of her obligations nor mortally wounded by them.” He urged his colleagues to look at a broader definition of “debt” when it comes to Puerto Rico, saying, “Mr. Speaker, when Congress talks about Puerto Rico’s debt, I say we look at the totality of the debt; the part owed to Puerto Rico, not just the part Puerto Rico owes to Wall Street.” The Congressman criticized the notion of a Federal Control Board, which would “Take away what little autonomy [the Puerto Ricans] have left and add a new layer of Washington control over the colony.” He said the debate over resolving Puerto Rico’s debt crisis should focus not on “government programs and further dependency on Washington,” rather: “We must make the conversation about jobs for Puerto Ricans; jobs that build the economy and the tax base and the self-sufficiency of the Island. Mr. Speaker, Puerto Rico’s problems were a long time in the making, but I have utter confidence in the Puerto Rican people’s ability to solve them, if we in Congress begin listening to them, working with them, and recognizing them as equal partners.” The text of the speech (as prepared for delivery) is below, along with a Spanish translation (traducción abajo). A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/UI5_JobBXlQ Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks February 11, 2016 (traducción abajo). Mr. Speaker, I come with a humble message from the Puerto Rican people to the House of Representatives: Free Puerto Rico. Free Puerto Rico so she can solve the problem of her crushing debt without being handcuffed by Congress, its distant and inattentive colonial master. Free Puerto Rico so that her hospitals can stay open for sick moms and dads and her schools stay open for children. Nobody should fear that their house will burn down because the firemen have not been paid. So far, the response to Puerto Rico’s debt crisis from Washington -- the one place that Puerto Rico is forced to rely on, has been very little. Greedy bond-holders and hedge-fund managers only care about Puerto Rico as a wager – a way to make money whether Puerto Rico sinks or swims. Right now, Puerto Rico needs serious, sustained attention from Washington to find a path forward such that Puerto Rico is neither absolved of her obligations nor mortally wounded by them. Because, Mr. Speaker, here is what it comes down to: When the US Supreme Court said that Puerto Rico belongs to, but is not part of, the United States, the responsibility to care for her and her people came along with that judgement. Congress must take responsibility for the fact that we expect Puerto Rico to pay its obligations, but we force her to play by a particular set of rules. Puerto Rico cannot declare bankruptcy because Congress passed a law saying they cannot. Puerto Rico is under the chokehold of the Jones Act – a law passed right here in this room without any consultation with the Puerto Rican people – that says, by law Puerto Rico cannot shop around for the best deal on shipping. No, they must buy the most-expensive, which means double the import costs and an estimated $500 million extra on Puerto Rico’s food bill alone. Oh, and when it comes to producing for themselves, a large chunk of the best agricultural land – the land that sustains and feeds a nation – that land is taken from them for military bases with no compensation -- 13 percent of the land - gone. Puerto Rico is a tropical Island, but a lot of its fruit and food and vegetables and almost all of its food is imported. We must allow Puerto Rico to create agricultural economy that allows Puerto Ricans to feed themselves. The economy produces goods the people do not consume and the people consume goods they did not produce. Even when the U.S. is caught red-handed stealing water from Puerto Rico’s fresh-water supply -- not paying a dime for it – what happens? The U.S. Government is not held responsible or made to pay. When the military pollutes Vieques or Culebra, does the U.S. government feel any obligation? Not really. So, Mr. Speaker, when Congress talks about Puerto Rico’s debt, I say we look at the totality of the debt; the part owed to Puerto Rico, not just the part Puerto Rico owes to Wall Street. Every soldier she has sent to war, every time the U.S. has stepped in to override her courts or her government – these debts add up but are not accounted for. And now, what is the solution that everyone in Washington is lining up behind? A Federal Control Board. Imagine that. An Island that cannot determine its own destiny, that has to play an economic game with a stacked deck and all the rules rigged against them – what is the solution in Washington? Take away what little autonomy they have left and add a new layer of Washington control over the colony. If Congress were smart, we would find a way to get out of the way. Free Puerto Rico’s people to unleash their inherent hard-working character, spirit, and dedication. Free Puerto Ricans to work and toil and build and create. Free Puerto Rico so that she can build a sustainable economy that keeps her people at home, in the land of their birth and their heritage. And we cannot get side-tracked by seeing Puerto Rico’s economic health exclusively through a lens of Food Stamps, Medicaid, government programs and further dependency on Washington. We must make the conversation about jobs for Puerto Ricans. Jobs that build the economy and the tax base and the self-sufficiency of the Island. Mr. Speaker, Puerto Rico’s problems were a long time in the making, but I have utter confidence in the Puerto Rican people’s ability to solve them, if we in Congress begin listening to them, working with them, and recognizing them as equal partners. We must free Puerto Rico so that the Puerto Rican people can free themselves. # # # Sr. Presidente, vengo con un mensaje humilde del pueblo de Puerto Rico a la Cámara de Representantes: Liberen a Puerto Rico Liberen a Puerto Rico para que pueda resolver el problema de su gran deuda sin estar esposada por el Congreso, su distante y desatento amo colonial. Liberen a Puerto Rico para que sus hospitales puedan permanecer abiertos para padres y madres enfermos y sus escuelas permanezcan abiertas para los niños. Nadie debe temer que su casa se quemara porque los bomberos no han sido pagados. Hasta ahora, la respuesta a la crisis de la deuda de Puerto Rico desde Washington - el único lugar al que Puerto Rico se ve obligado a confiar, ha sido muy poca. Y los codiciosos tenedores de bonos y los gestores de fondos especulativos sólo les interesa Puerto Rico como una apuesta - una manera de ganar dinero si Puerto Rico se hunde o nada. En este momento, Puerto Rico necesita atención seria, sostenida en parte por Washington para encontrar un camino hacia adelante de tal manera que Puerto Rico no sea ni absuelta de sus obligaciones ni herida mortalmente por ellas. Porque, Sr. Presidente, de esto es lo que se trata: Cuando la Corte Suprema de los Estados Unidos dijo que Puerto Rico pertenece a, pero no es parte de, los Estados Unidos, la responsabilidad de cuidar de ella y su pueblo llegaron junto con ese juicio. El Congreso debe asumir la responsabilidad por el hecho de que esperamos que Puerto Rico pague sus obligaciones, pero le obligamos a seguir reglas muy particulares. Puerto Rico no puede declararse en quiebra porque el Congreso aprobó una ley que dice que no pueden. Puerto Rico está siendo asfixiado por la Ley Jones - una ley aprobada aquí en esta sala sin ningún tipo de consulta con el pueblo de Puerto Rico – que dice que, por ley Puerto Rico no puede comparar precios para la mejor oferta de carga. No, ellos deben comprar de los comerciantes más caros del mundo, lo que significa el doble de los costos de importación y un estimado de $500 millones adicionales solo en la factura de la comida de Puerto Rico. Ah, y cuando se trata de producir por sí mismos, una gran parte de las mejores tierras agrícolas - la tierra que sostiene y alimenta una nación – les han quitado esas tierras, sin compensación, para las bases militares. 13 por ciento de sus tierras – despojadas. Puerto Rico es una isla tropical, pero una gran cantidad de sus frutas, vegetales y casi toda su comida es importada. Tenemos que permitir que Puerto Rico pueda crear una economía agrícola que permita que los puertorriqueños puedan alimentarse. La economía produce bienes que las personas no consumen y la gente consume bienes que no producen. Incluso cuando a los EE.UU. se le atrapa robándose agua del suministro de agua potable de Puerto Rico - sin pagar un centavo por ella- ¿qué sucede? El Gobierno de EE.UU. no se hace responsable ni obligado a pagar. Cuando el ejército contamina a Vieques o una bomba sin explotar se encuentra en Culebra, ¿siente alguna obligación el gobierno de EE.UU.? No. Por lo tanto, señor Presidente, cuando el Congreso habla de la deuda de Puerto Rico, yo digo que nos fijemos en la totalidad de la deuda; La parte que se le debe a Puerto Rico, no sólo la parte que Puerto Rico le debe a Wall Street. Cada soldado que ha enviado a la guerra, cada vez que los EE.UU. ha intervenido para anular sus tribunales o su gobierno - estas deudas se suman, pero no se contabilizan. Y ahora, ¿cuál es la solución que todos respaldan en Washington? Una Junta de Control Federal. Imagínate. Una isla que no puede determinar su propio destino, que tiene que jugar un juego económico con todas las reglas amañadas en contra de ella - ¿cuál es la solución en Washington? Quitarle lo poco que le queda de autonomía y añadir un nuevo nivel de control de Washington sobre la colonia. Si el Congreso fuera inteligente encontraríamos la manera de quitarnos del camino. Liberen al Pueblo de Puerto Rico para desatar su carácter trabajador, su espíritu y su dedicación interna. Liberen a los puertorriqueños para que puedan trabajar y construir y crear. Liberen a Puerto Rico para que pueda construir una economía sostenible que mantiene a su gente, en la tierra de su nacimiento y su patrimonio. Y no podemos distraernos y ver la salud económica de Puerto Rico exclusivamente a través de cupones de comida, Medicaid, programas de gobierno y aún más dependencia de Washington. Debemos hacer que la conversación sea sobre empleos para los puertorriqueños. Los trabajos que construyen la economía y la base tributaria y la autosuficiencia de la isla. Sr. Presidente, los problemas de Puerto Rico tomaron mucho tiempo para crearse pero tengo absoluta confianza en la capacidad del pueblo de Puerto Rico a resolverlos ... si es que- y solo si es que - el Congreso comience a escucharlos, a trabajar con ellos, y a reconocerlos como compañeros iguales. Hay que liberar a Puerto Rico para que el pueblo de Puerto Rico pueda liberarse a sí mismo. # # #
02.03.2016	“I can honestly say that I have not seen such fear and anxiety in immigrant communities” Washington, DC – On Wednesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke during the Morning Hour on the floor of the House of Representatives (approx. 10 am ET) about Central American refugees and immigration raids carried out to round them up. On Thursday, the Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing assigning blame for the refugees fleeing Central America to President Obama, while at the same time, the Obama Administration is saying raids in Central American communities in the US have substantially slowed the influx of asylum seekers and refugees. Lost in the politics is any serious attempt to legislate, to do something about the broader issues that drive migration, that feed the black market, or that trigger raids on family homes and school children. The Congressman said: I have not seen such fear and anxiety in immigrant communities, where mothers and fathers are keeping their children out of school because of the fear of being arrested by immigration authorities. The home raids announced by the Obama Administration around Christmas have struck a nerve. They have sparked rumors and panic and have multiplied as city after city have experienced raids or the rumors of raids. But Thursday’s Judiciary Committee hearing will not address anything of substance and “will continue to feed the hucksterism and red meat politics that Americans hate…” He concluded, For all of the Americans that want a legal and accountable immigration system and all of the families that fear a knock on their door, this Congress again seems to have nothing -- and to do nothing other than let the demagogues and fear rule the day. Mr. Speaker, that is a shame. The text of the speech (as prepared for delivery) is below. A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/FGFut1bLDOk Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Remarks February 3, 2016 On Thursday, Republicans in the House are holding a hearing blaming the Obama Administration because thousands of children and young adults are fleeing three countries in Central America seeking safety in the United States and other countries. The premise, as far as the Republicans on the committee are concerned, is that President Obama has not deported anyone or enforced any immigration laws. As far as they are concerned, the President’s executive actions – which, we should remember are for a different set of immigrants altogether and which Republicans have delayed until the Supreme Court decides on a lawsuit this Summer – but Republicans see them as a clarion call to everyone in these three particular countries to attempt to come to the U.S. It is not the rampant murders, the extortion, the forced conscription into street gangs, or the utter collapse of civil society and civil order that is driving people to risk their lives to seek safety here. No, it is that President that Republicans love to hate – he is to blame. I hope that at least a little time at the Judiciary Hearing on Thursday will be devoted to the problems our government faced over the past couple of years in handling young and unaccompanied asylum seekers from Central America. We know that some women were kept in lock-ups too long; that the term “humane family detention” is an oxymoron; that children were released to guardians who did not have the children’s best interests in mind and that some were forced into human trafficking situations that we should have been vigilant against. Those are the issues I hope we can focus on. We should be asking how can we remain a society that protects the innocent, cares for children who have put themselves in our care, and does so in accordance with the laws of this nation and the laws of basic decency. Unfortunately, at this point, we know what Judiciary Committee hearings are not about: they are not serious attempts to craft legislation that creates an immigration system that works for the American people. Hearings in this Congress are not about how the Congress can create legal and controlled immigration alternatives so that people do not try to come illegally or spend thousands of dollars on smugglers and traffickers. We will probably not discuss how a generation of Temporary Protected Status for certain immigrants has not created a long-term, sustainable situation in immigrant communities or sending countries so that immigration is safe, legal, orderly and voluntary. We will spend a lot of time discussing whether President Obama is to blame, but very little time actually discussing why people come in the dead of night, holding on to a freight train and running a gauntlet with smugglers, and not what can be done to have immigration where people come in the light of day, with visas, passports and a plane ticket. We simply will not discuss how we get from this broken reality to a feasible and sustainable future of immigration,. Rather, the Judiciary Committee will continue to feed the hucksterism and red meat politics that Americans hate -- and they hate it with good reason. In the years since 2007 or 2008 when George Bush started ramping up raids and deportations, right on through the 2 million deportations of President Obama, I can honestly say that I have not seen such fear and anxiety in immigrant communities, where mothers and fathers are keeping their children out of school because of the fear of being arrested by immigration authorities. The home raids announced by the Obama Administration around Christmas have struck a nerve. They have sparked rumors and panic and have multiplied as city after city have experienced raids or the rumors of raids. Children taken as they go to school – as they go to school!! – the government has stopped them and arrested them. The fear and anxiety has nothing to do with Donald Trump or the fantasy that he has of deporting millions of immigrants or barring people from this country because of their religion. The fear and anxiety is born of decades of congressional inaction and leaders in Washington hoping that the problem would just go away. But we will not be discussing that at the hearing on Thursday. The path forward that will allow the country to move beyond the legislative roadblock imposed by the opponents of legal immigration, we will again not discuss how we make progress but rather how we blame Obama. For all of the Americans that want a legal and accountable immigration system and all of the families that fear a knock on their door, this Congress again seems to have nothing -- and to do nothing other than let the demagogues and fear rule the day. Mr. Speaker, that is a shame. # # #
01.19.2016	Rep. Gutiérrez On Supreme Court Cert Decision Re: Immigration Executive Actions “The President’s actions are not a substitute for Congressional action; they are a coping mechanism for Congressional inaction.” Washington, DC – On Tuesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement reacting to the news that the Supreme Court would take up Texas v. United States, the lawsuit and injunction preventing implementation of the President’s executive action on immigration. Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) and an expansion of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) – two components of President Obama’s application of prosecutorial discretion to potential deportees – lie in the balance. The decision by the Supreme Court to take up the case means the legal fight delaying implementation of the President’s actions should be resolved later this year. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez: “We expected the Supreme Court to take up the case and we expect the President’s point of view will prevail. The law, the legal precedent, and the people are on the President’s side. “Opponents of immigration and the President’s executive actions have tried to run out the clock on his presidency and want immigrants to remain in limbo, living and working here but always under the threat of imminent deportation. Most Americans would prefer that long-term immigrants with families and lives in the US come forward to register, pay to be finger-printed, and submit to a rigorous background check. Then, if individuals pass that test and can renew it every so often, always on a case-by-case basis, most Americans believe they should be allowed to work and to raise their families here until Congress eventually summons the courage to fix our immigration laws. “We are not going to deport our way to law and order in immigration, nor build a big wall around America. What we need is a legal immigration system that works so that we do not have a large number of immigrants vulnerable to deportation, leaving them and their families and businesses to cope with the dysfunctional reality. The President’s actions are not a substitute for Congressional action; they are a coping mechanism for Congressional inaction.” Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations. He is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
01.14.2016	Lofgren, Roybal-Allard & Gutiérrez Statement on Central American Refugee Screening and Resettlement WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), and Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-Ill.) issued the following statement regarding refugee screening and resettlement for El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala: "The Administration’s recently announced recognition that many Central Americans qualify as refugees under international law is an important and constructive step towards a comprehensive regional refugee solution to address violence in the Central American region. “Our partnership with UNHCR and other non-governmental organizations with expertise in international refugee protection will help provide critical guidance regarding best practices for refugee care and management. We are cautiously optimistic that the use of third-country temporary processing centers will provide protection for those who are unable to remain in their home country during the refugee processing period. “However, we do not believe that this Central American refugee resettlement program should be used as justification to deny or deter refugees from seeking asylum protection under our immigration laws here in the United States. On Tuesday, 146 House Democrats signed a letter urging the President to immediately suspend deportation raids targeting Central American refugee mothers and children. We are concerned that many of these families did not receive adequate due process and some may have already been deported to countries where they will face persecution, torture or death. We do not believe that these deportation and deterrent tactics will dissuade desperate mothers and children from fleeing for their lives. “The U.S. must continue to be a beacon of safety and refuge for those seeking protection from persecution. This new Central American refugee program should be an expansion of our efforts to provide refuge – not a substitute for our existing asylum process." # # #
01.12.2016	Today, Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Steny Hoyer (D-MD), and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) joined Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL) to release a letter to President Obama signed by at least 145 Democrats in the House. The letter says in part, “We strongly condemn the Department of Homeland Security’s recent enforcement operation targeting refugee mothers and children from El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala.” The text of the letter is here
01.06.2016	“The nation is not turning back the clock to a time before Obama or a time before Roe v. Wade.” Washington, DC – On Wednesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement after voting against a Senate-passed, Republican-backed “reconciliation” bill that if signed into law would defund Planned Parenthood and revoke Obamacare. The President has vowed to veto the legislation. The following is a statement from Rep. Gutiérrez: Women’s health, the health care of American families, the freedom of women to control their own bodies – these are not issues to be trifled with or used as political playthings. This is serious business and the Republicans are still feeding red meat to their base. Most people try to turn over a new leaf at New Year, but for Republicans, it didn’t last a week. Republicans just cannot help themselves. No matter how hard they try to change their ways and legislate seriously on issues, they fall back into their pattern of partisan pandering to primary voters and symbolic bills going nowhere. The nation is not turning back the clock to a time before Obama or a time before Roe v. Wade. Get over it, Republicans, and move on with the rest of us. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and is a Member of the Judiciary Committee. He has been a vocal supporter of Planned Parenthood. # # #
01.06.2016	“Raids will not bring us order. Raids will only bring misery.” Washington, DC – On Wednesday, standing on the floor of the House of Representatives, in front of the iconic AP photograph of the April 2000 immigration raid in the home where Elian Gonzalez was living, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) denounced recent home invasion raids conducted by the Obama Administration and ICE targeting Central American families. Rep. Gutiérrez (D-IL) said “We do not want to repeat the scene from April 2000...That vision of terror is seared into America’s memory and should not be repeated.” But fear seems to be the point of the raids, the Congressman said. “The government is saying they could be coming to your house and they could be coming at any time. Already, we are seeing signs of panic. We hear that children are not going to school and parents are not going to work out of fear. Not even a week into the New Year and 2016 has turned into one of fear and hiding.” At least 121 children and adults were taken in raids that started over the weekend. Most are going to privately-run, for-profit family detention centers, the same centers used when asylum seekers from Central America come to the United States and that Rep. Gutiérrez and others have been trying to close down. “I have gone to the detention centers in Texas and met with the moms and kids who were detained there when they came in. One woman summed up their plight concisely by saying, ‘In Honduras, my family and I could live in poverty, but we could not live in peace.’ Raids will not bring her peace. Raids will not bring us order. Raids will only bring misery.” He said that the policy being carried out is not consistent with the values of the Democratic Party: “This is not the Democratic Party’s solution to immigration questions, nor should it be America’s. We expect heated calls for raids and deportation from the other side. We hear their calls for walls, bigger jails, and further restrictions on legal immigration. We will fight their efforts to erect religious or economic barriers to who can qualify for a chance to come to America. Our Party has rejected those calls, with good reason. Americans want order and legality in immigration, not deportations and families forcibly split apart or exiled.” A video of the Congressman’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/bqNBMoknJGE The text is below. FLOOR SPEECH 01/06/2016 (As Prepared for Delivery) Mr. Speaker: Over the holidays, the Obama Administration sent a very special Christmas greeting to immigrant families. They launched a series of home raids targeting Central American asylum seekers and immigrant families with children. As its New Year’s resolution, it is clear the Obama Administration is embarking on a new enforcement initiative to deport certain Central Americans who entered the U.S. in 2014. Last weekend, 121 children and adults were taken into custody and most were sent to family detention centers -- a kind of privately-run, for-profit family jail. They will probably be deported, just like the two million before them deported by President Obama. How they are treated and whether they get meaningful and true due process remains a question mark. What is undeniable is that such raids strike maximum fear in immigrant communities. The government is saying they could be coming to your house and they could be coming at any time. Already, we are seeing signs of panic. We hear that children are not going to school and parents are not going to work out of fear. Not even a week into the New Year and 2016 has turned into one of fear and hiding. But let us be very clear. Deporting families will not resolve the violence and corruption that push people from El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras to risk assault, rape, and murder to seek refuge in the United States. Deporting families will not weaken the gangs who terrorize and extort their own people in Central America. Deporting families will not solve America’s immigration problem. Deporting families will not strengthen border security. Deporting families will not create legal channels that allow immigrants to come with visas instead of smugglers. Deporting families will not reduce the insatiable demand in the United States for the drugs that fuel the gangs, the guns, the smuggling operations, and the ruthless violence in Central America. The raids by the Obama Administration on families from Central America must stop. They are a cruel reminder of a discredited policy. We do not want to repeat the scene from April 2000 when armed agents forcibly took Elian Gonzalez from his house in Miami. That vision of terror is seared into America’s memory and should not be repeated. But even the raid on the home of Elian Gonzalez was carried out after all peaceful means of negotiation were exhausted. Surely there is a better way to take action when people have exhausted all of their legal remedies than to send armed agents into neighborhoods, apartment complexes, and family homes. Those who are being deported are the ones most likely to have had no attorney, no understanding of the laws and the practices of immigration courts, and now could be vulnerable to attack and murder back in Central America. It is a fact that some of the people the U.S. government has deported in the past have ended up dead in days, weeks, or months after their return. We have to make sure that same tragic fate does not wait for the individuals and families the government is currently rounding up. Along with other Members of Congress, I am seeking answers from Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson as to why this policy is needed, why it was launched to instill fear in immigrant households over the Christmas, New Year’s, and Three Kings holidays, and why family detention centers I have been trying to close are now filling up with new families awaiting deportation. This is not the Democratic Party’s solution to immigration questions, nor should it be America’s. We expect heated calls for raids and deportation from the other side. We hear their calls for walls, bigger jails, and further restrictions on legal immigration. We will fight their efforts to erect religious or economic barriers to who can qualify for a chance to come to America. Our Party has rejected those calls, with good reason. Americans want order and legality in immigration, not deportations and families forcibly split apart or exiled. We do not need to repeat that scene – multiplied by hundreds or thousands of times across the country. What we need to do is not easy, but it is the right thing to do. We need to take steps to solve the problem of gangs, weak and corrupt governments, and people who have no hope for a brighter future – right here on our continent, not just half way across the world. And serious aid is more than giving more money to their police. It is more than putting U.S. personnel in their countries to tell moms and children “no, you cannot seek refuge in the U.S….” It is more than working with Mexico at its Southern Border. We need to give mothers and fathers and children a way to live in their own countries. I have gone to the detention centers in Texas and met with the moms and kids who were detained there when they came in. One woman summed up their plight concisely by saying, “In Honduras, my family and I could live in poverty, but we could not live in peace.” Raids will not bring her peace. Raids will not bring us order. Raids will only bring misery. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations. # # #
01.05.2016	“The best remedy for a do-nothing Congress is a do-something President who does what he can under existing law.” Washington, DC – On Tuesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement about President Obama’s announcement of a series of executive actions related to curbing gun violence. Throughout his career, Rep. Gutiérrez has been an outspoken advocate for gun control measures, including commonsense registration and regulation initiatives like those proposed by the President. The Congressman has spoken about the toll that gun violence is taking on Chicago in two recent hearings of the Judiciary Committee (see: https://youtu.be/4UUjFAQ-QrE and https://youtu.be/CfNKhR9Tvys) and on the House floor (see: https://1.usa.gov/1f2RMDg). He supports targeted measures to ban or prevent the sale of particular guns that injure humans most often, including assault weapons (see: https://1.usa.gov/1YliuX7) and junk guns often used in crimes (see: https://1.usa.gov/1Z6g1FE). The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez: When the Congress does nothing to prevent the death and injury of Americans by guns, the President is right to take action within his latitude of executive power. The Republicans and the NRA are already saying that this is the beginning of the end of America as we know it. They will scream, swear, and sue, but Americans are in a much more pragmatic place on gun violence prevention than the ideologues. They want the killings to stop and are willing to take reasonable steps to help. It is a lot like immigration. Policies favored by overwhelming majorities of Americans are opposed by hardliners in Congress – who oppose reflexively anything the President is for – and will try to stop these actions from taking effect. The best remedy for a do-nothing Congress is a do-something President who does what he can under existing law. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations. # # #
01.05.2016	“They are a cruel reminder of a discredited policy.” Washington, DC – On Tuesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement about the news of hundreds of children and adults detained in special deportation raids by ICE (Immigration and Customs Enforcement) conducted in recent days. The raids have reportedly been conducted in multiple states, including Illinois, targeting Central American families who entered the country after May 2014. The Congressman has requested a meeting with Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson and the Congressman and other Members of Congress will be seeking answers from the Obama Administration. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez: The raids by the Obama Administration on families from Central America must stop. They are a cruel reminder of a discredited policy. Along with other Members of Congress, I am seeking answers from Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson as to why this policy is needed, why it was launched to instill fear in immigrant households over the Christmas, New Year’s and Three Kings holidays, and why family detention centers I have been trying to close are now filling up with new families awaiting deportation. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations. # # #
12.18.2015	Washington, DC – On Friday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) voted against passage of the omnibus government funding bill for 2016 saying it fell short of his expectations on a number of different fronts. He gave five specific reasons for his vote against the package. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez: I voted against the omnibus because the ban on crude oil exports should not have been lifted and only increases our reliance on fossil fuels. I believe in science and facts, so I take global warming seriously and think both parties in the U.S. Congress should as well. Despite intentions to enact policies to restructure Puerto Rico’s debt next year, I voted against the omnibus because it does not guarantee schools, police, and hospitals will function for the U.S. citizens of Puerto Rico tomorrow and next week. It is a crisis that should have been addressed now, not next year. For 17 years we have prohibited research into gun violence, a self-defeating masquerade enforced by the gun lobby to keep our national head in the sand about the toll that guns take on society every year. It should have been stripped from this bill and was not. While I support the goal of sharing information between the private sector and the U.S. government to advance our national security goals, the cyber security act incorporated into the omnibus will fail to adequately provide safeguards to protect Americans’ private information and will lead to surveillance and searches without warrants. The H-2B visa provisions in the omnibus are piecemeal immigration changes that should not be legislated through the back door of an appropriations bill. Any immigration amendments should be debated in regular order with the rights of U.S. workers and the rights of immigrant workers considered simultaneously and given at least as much consideration as the desires of U.S. employers and this measure falls short. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations. # # #
12.18.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez on Puerto Rico and the Omnibus in English and Spanish Rep. Gutiérrez Sobre Puerto Rico y El Presupuesto Ómnibus en Inglés y Español [ENGLISH BELOW] Washington, DC – El viernes, el Congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) habló con el Presidente de la Cámara de Representantes Paul Ryan (R-WI) y discutieron disposiciones para ayudar al pueblo de Puerto Rico a enfrentar la crisis financiera de la isla, tanto en el corto como a largo plazo. La siguiente es una declaración del Representante Luis V. Gutiérrez: Tuve una conversación con el Presidente Ryan esta mañana y me reiteró que él se compromete a trabajar en un marco legislativo amplio de acción en el Año Nuevo en el que los Republicanos tomarán todas las mejores ideas de Puerto Rico y considerarán de manera honesta y justa formas para reestructurar la deuda de Puerto Rico. Doy las gracias al Presidente de la Cámara por su atención al pueblo de Puerto Rico y le deseo una Feliz Navidad con su familia. Sin embargo, no pude votar por el presupuesto general que fue considerado hoy, ya que no garantizó que los maestros estarán en las escuelas para los niños, que la policía estará en las calles protegiendo los barrios, y que los doctores y enfermeras estarán allí para ayudar al pueblo de Puerto Rico. A pesar de las buenas intenciones expresadas por acción el próximo año voté en contra del ómnibus hoy y estoy seguro de que otros comprometidos con el pueblo de Puerto Rico hicieron lo mismo. El pueblo de Puerto Rico necesita gente que luche por ellos. Este voto es un momento revelador acerca quién está con ellos y quién no. Rep. Gutiérrez representa al Cuarto Distrito de Illinois, es miembro del Comité Permanente Selecto de la Cámara sobre Inteligencia, es miembro del Comité Judicial y el Subcomité de Inmigración y Seguridad Fronteriza, y el Subcomité de Crimen, Terrorismo, Seguridad Interna e Investigaciones. # # # Washington, DC – On Friday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke with Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI) and they discussed provisions to help the people of Puerto Rico cope with the Island’s financial crisis both in the short- and long-run. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez: I had a conversation with Speaker Ryan this morning and he reiterated to me that he is committed to working on a comprehensive legislative framework for action in the New Year in which Republicans will take all the best ideas of Puerto Rico and consider in an honest and fair manner ways to restructure Puerto Rico’s debt. I thank the Speaker for his attention to the people of Puerto Rico and wish him a Merry Christmas with his family. However, I did not vote for the omnibus budget today because it does not guarantee teachers will be in schools for the children, police will be on the streets protecting neighborhoods, and doctors and nurses will be there to help the people of Puerto Rico. Despite the good intentions expressed for action next year I will vote against the omnibus today and I expect others committed to the people of Puerto Rico will have done the same. The people of Puerto Rico need people to stand up for them. This vote is a telling moment about who stands with them and who does not. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
12.17.2015	VIDEO: https://youtu.be/XfCRnLA_cUw Washington, DC – On Thursday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez delivered brief remarks in English and Spanish on the floor of the House of Representatives on Puerto Rico and why he plans to vote against the omnibus government spending bill. Washington, DC – El jueves, El Congresista Luis Gutiérrez dio un breve discurso en inglés y en español desde la Cámara de Representantes sobre Puerto Rico y porque planea votar en contra del presupuesto ómnibus del gobierno. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez: Mr. Speaker: I cannot vote for the omnibus deal because it does not give the people of Puerto Rico some hope for a better future. The omnibus does not provide a path forward amid budget cuts, cuts in services, growing unemployment and the greedy banks and bond holders who demand more and more even as the people of Puerto Rico have less and less. Puerto Rico is a colony of the United States. Its sovereignty rests here in the Congress of the United States and we will not do anything to help them. Asi que mañana le digo al pueblo de Puerto Rico, yo estaré con ustedes. Votaré en contra de este presupuesto porque si no hay escuelas en Puerto Rico, si no hay policías para defender a la gente en la calle, si no hay doctores o enfermeras para curar a los enfermos, tampoco habrá un voto para este presupuesto hasta que haya justicia para el pueblo. Y le digo a todo Congresista que vota a favor de este presupuesto, que le niega un futuro a Puerto Rico y le traiciona al pueblo de Puerto Rico. Gracias. Translation of Spanish Portion: So tomorrow I tell the people of Puerto Rico, I will be with you. I will vote against this omnibus budget because if there are no schools in Puerto Rico, if there is no law enforcement to protect the people on the streets, if there are no doctors or nurses healing the sick, there won’t be a vote on this budget until there is justice for the people. And I tell every Representative that votes in favor of this budget, you are denying a future for Puerto Rico and you are betraying the people of Puerto Rico. Thank you. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations. Rep. Gutiérrez representa al Cuarto Distrito de Illinois, es miembro del Comité Permanente Selecto de la Cámara sobre Inteligencia, es miembro del Comité Judicial y el Subcomité de Inmigración y Seguridad Fronteriza, y el Subcomité de Crimen, Terrorismo, Seguridad Interna e Investigaciones. # # #
12.16.2015	“Anyone who votes for the omnibus is complicit in the economic and social tragedy headed Puerto Rico’s way.” Washington, DC – On Wednesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) met with Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi along with Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) and Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) to discuss the omnibus government funding deal to be voted on in the House this week. In particular, Rep. Gutiérrez discussed what is – and is not – in the omnibus package related to Puerto Rico’s financial crisis. The Congressman thanked the Congressional Hispanic Caucus for standing up for Puerto Rico and raising the Island’s financial crisis as a major issue missing from the omnibus negotiated by key Democratic Leaders with their Republican counterparts. “Puerto Rico is a colony,” the Congressman reminded his colleagues in the meeting. “The sovereignty of the Puerto Rican people resides here in Congress and it is your responsibility whether you like it or not.” “I cannot face the people of Puerto Rico having voted for this bill because it should have included relief for Puerto Rico to keep schools, hospitals, and roads – the basic functions of government – open and functioning over the holidays and into next year,” Said Rep. Gutiérrez. “No one in Congress is taking the situation in Puerto Rico seriously enough and anyone who votes for the omnibus is complicit in the economic and social tragedy headed Puerto Rico’s way.” “Republicans don’t care if Puerto Rico floats or sinks as long as the bond-holders get paid,” the Congressman said. But I am disappointed that the issue has not risen to the level where Democrats are willing to throw down over it. So Puerto Rico continues to sink and needs either the dysfunctional Congress or the laissez-faire Obama Administration to take action.” Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations. # # #
12.16.2015	“Cualquier persona que vote por el ómnibus es cómplice de la tragedia económica y social dirigida hacia Puerto Rico.” Washington, DC – El miércoles, el congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) se reunió con la líder Demócrata Nancy Pelosi, junto con miembros del Caucus Hispano del Congreso (CHC), el Caucus Afro-Americano del Congreso (CBC), y el Caucus del Congreso Asiático del Pacífico (CAPAC) a discutir el acuerdo de financiación del gobierno ómnibus que será votado en la Cámara esta semana. En particular, el diputado Gutiérrez discutió lo que hay - y no hay - en el paquete de ómnibus en relación con la crisis financiera de Puerto Rico. El congresista agradeció al Caucus Hispano del Congreso por su defensa de Puerto Rico "Puerto Rico es una colonia", el congresista les recordó a sus colegas en la reunión. "La soberanía del pueblo de Puerto Rico reside aquí en el Congreso y es su responsabilidad, le guste o no." "No puedo mirarle en los ojos a pueblo puertorriqueño y haber votado por este proyecto de ley, ya que debería haber incluido un alivio para Puerto Rico para mantener al día las escuelas, hospitales y seguridad pública - las funciones básicas de gobierno - abiertas y funcionando durante estas navidades y el año que viene,” dijo el representante Gutiérrez. "El Congreso no está tomando la situación en Puerto Rico lo suficientemente en serio y cualquier persona que vote por el ómnibus es cómplice de la tragedia económica y social dirigida hacia Puerto Rico." "A los Republicanos no les importa si Puerto Rico flota o se hunde, siempre y cuando a los tenedores de bonos se les pague", dijo el congresista. “Pero estoy decepcionado de que el tema no se ha elevado hasta el nivel donde los Demócratas estén dispuestos a pelear. Así que Puerto Rico sigue hundiéndose y necesita ya sea que este Congreso disfuncional o la administración pasiva de Obama tome medidas". Rep. Gutiérrez representa al Cuarto Distrito de Illinois, es miembro del Comité Permanente Selecto de la Cámara sobre Inteligencia, es miembro del Comité Judicial y el Subcomité de Inmigración y Seguridad Fronteriza, y el Subcomité de Crimen, Terrorismo, Seguridad Interna e Investigaciones. # # #
12.16.2015	“How many children under 21 have we lost to guns in years since the Assault Weapons Ban of 1994 expired? Too many. In my city of Chicago, we lose a classroom full of young people almost every month.” Washington, DC – On Wednesday, Rep. David Cicilline of Rhode Island introduced the Assault Weapons Ban of 2015, a bill to ban the sale, transfer, production, and importation of certain weapons and ammunition feeding devices. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez is an original co-sponsor of the bill and has consistently supported such legislation from his earliest days in Congress. He voted for the assault weapons ban that was approved in 1994 and called for it to be strengthened, extended, and broadened in every Congress since then. The following are the remarks Rep. Gutiérrez delivered at a press conference today in the Capitol marking the introduction of the Assault Weapons Ban of 2015: Remarks As Prepared for Delivery: Here is the story from Medill News Service, May 30, 2003: Two Chicago congressmen pressured House Speaker Dennis Hastert on Thursday to take a greater leadership role in renewing the federal law prohibiting assault weapons. "The weapons that are banned under this legislation are the most deadly and dangerous types of guns on the market today," said U.S. Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Chicago. Such guns are "weapons of choice in Chicago for drive-by shooters in my congressional district and in every congressional district across the city," he said. That’s what I said when I co-sponsored the Assault Weapons Ban and Law Enforcement Protection Act of 2003 – a bill to extend and strengthen the 1994 Assault Weapons Ban. So more than a dozen years later, I am still fighting for an assault weapons ban – a ban first implemented 21 years ago. I am not saying this to be nostalgic or to take a walk down memory lane. I say it because this place is so stuck – so mired in partisanship and in entrenched lobbying groups like the NRA that we cannot even take action when everyone agrees. On immigration, on guns, on climate, on nothing. There is always one group who wants no action, who wants nothing to happen, who makes the other party so scared of taking any action that the Congress—year after year and decade after decade—takes no action. How many children under 21 have we lost to guns in years since the Assault Weapons Ban of 1994 expired? Too many. In my city of Chicago, we lose a classroom full of young people almost every month. And let’s be clear, it is not all assault weapons, but that is part of it. It is not all crime guns – the cheap guns that are brought into Chicago from Indiana, Wisconsin, Arkansas, and Mississippi to get around Chicago’s stricter laws – but that is part of it. And we all know that we are losing children – young people – at the hands of the police as Chicago grapples with use of force policies, transparency, and the basic trust needed between a community and its police force – a fundamental building block of democracy and liberty which has failed us in Chicago dating all the way back to 1968. An assault weapons ban does not solve all these problems, but it helps. It does not take guns and bullets off of the streets completely, but it would help. In the end, until we as Americans begin to see children at Sandy Hook, at Red Hook, at Back of the Yards, and the Southside and South Central as our own children, our own children being slaughtered by guns, by each other, by police, by drugs, and by our indifference – until that happens, we must keep raising our voice in their defense. Thank you. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations. # # #
12.09.2015	Congressional Immigration Leaders and Children Call for Ending Family Detention as “A Wish for the Holidays” Capitol Hill Press Conference Exhibited Children’s Letters to Families in ICE Custody Washington, DC – This afternoon, the Congressional Women’s Working Group on Immigration Reform and We Belong Together were joined by children at a Capitol Hill press conference to call for an end to America’s family detention system. Nine members of Congress spoke out about the need to end family detention, including Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), chair of the Congressional Women’s Working Group on Immigration Reform; Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (CA-19); Congressman Luis Gutiérrez (IL-04); Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (WA-01); Congresswoman Grace Meng (NY-06); Congresswoman Norma Torres (CA-35); Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38); Congresswoman Dina Titus (NV-01); and Congresswoman Judy Chu (CA-27). The press conference also featured Caritza and Alejandro, a mother and her five-year-old son who were previously held at the Dilley detention facility in Texas. They described the reasons for fleeing their home country and their experience in detention. In addition, the event displayed enlargements of handwritten letters that elementary school-aged children have written for delivery to children who will spend this holiday season inside detention facilities. The children’s letters, which are part of We Belong Together’s “A Wish for the Holidays” letter-writing campaign, express the children’s holiday wish that the families in detention be released. Noe, Fiorella, and Yazareth, children who wrote letters to families in detention, also appeared at the press conference, and Noe and Fiorella read their letters aloud. Other speakers included Sameera Hafiz, policy director at We Belong Together, and Wendy Cervantes, vice president of immigration and child rights at First Focus, a children’s advocacy organization. “While some changes have been made to improve conditions at these centers and reduce the length of detention, the fact is they remain jail-like settings,” said Congresswoman Roybal-Allard. “Detention of children is cruel and misguided, and the suffering and negative impact on these young developing minds is unacceptable. I echo the wish of the children here today to call for an end to family detention. We are a country of laws and a country of compassion. And it is that compassion that must be reflected in how we treat immigrant women and children who have sacrificed so much to escape violence and abuse. I will continue to fight with my colleagues for accountability in detention and for swift processing of families through Immigration and Customs Enforcement so these women and children can be placed in less restrictive settings as they await the adjudication of their cases.” “We have made some progress over the past couple of years, but we have not achieved our goal of stopping the practice of holding moms and kids in detention when there are more efficient, cost-effective, and humane ways to handle them,” said Congressman Gutiérrez. “People seeking asylum, fleeing violence in Central America or fleeing systematic oppression anywhere in the world, we are fighting for the government to treat families and moms and children with respect, to use tax-money as efficiently as possible, and to end the practice of family detention.” “It’s shameful that children will be spending the holidays in detention centers across the United States. I urge us all to remember the harrowing journey many took to come here seeking safety and pray that we stop tearing families apart,” said Congresswoman DelBene. “This is just one facet of our deeply flawed and broken immigration system that Congress has a moral obligation to address.” “This is an issue that is close to my heart,” said Congresswoman Meng. “I represent parts of Queens, NY and more than half of my constituents are foreign-born. I’ve had parents come and talk to me about the difficulties of separation when their kids are in other countries. I’ve had children whose parents are held in detention speak of their anguish over their fear of never seeing their loved ones again. Families belong together. We are here today because we want the release of mothers and their children from detention facilities. Our wish for the Holidays is for the Administration to release mothers and children from detention. It is the right thing to do.” “As a mother and as an immigrant who came to this country as a child, I join my colleagues in urging the administration to put an end to family detention,” said Congresswoman Torres. “We have more cost-effective and humane tools at our disposal to release families while ensuring they continue through the legal process. It’s time to put an end to family detention for good.” “I cannot accept that this country puts innocent women and children into detention facilities that resemble the cruelty of Japanese incarceration,” said Congresswoman Chu. “And worse, as a psychologist, I know that any amount of time in detention risks harming children’s development and retraumatizing women fleeing violence. I was so moved to hear these children’s stories today and will not forget their pleas as we continue our fight to end family detention once and for all.” “There are so many organizations that are fighting to close these detention centers and I just ask God that they achieve that,” said Caritza, the mother detained with her five-year-old son at Dilley. “The kids hate to be locked up. My son would ask, ‘When can we leave? When can we leave?’” “The bottom line is that we know family detention is a dangerous policy that directly harms children. The research consistently shows that children who are detained even for a short period of time face risks to their overall development, including long-term psychological trauma and declining health,” said Ms. Cervantes. “No child should have to spend the holidays behind bars, and we urge the Administration to grant the wish of every child in who wrote a letter as part of this campaign by ending family detention once and for all.” “I remain concerned about the troublesome confinement conditions, the breaches of due process and the serious physical and mental health costs imposed on women and their children during their time in these family detention centers. These practices are simply inconsistent with our nation’s values and our laws,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-13). “As we work to end these detentions, Congress must go even further. We must pass bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform to fix our broken system that cruelly tears families apart.” ###
12.09.2015	Reps. Kelly and Gutiérrez Invite Attorney General Lynch to Chicago as Part of CPD Investigation “We are certain that this investigation will be vital to rebuilding trust and fostering safety…and the people of Chicago should partake in this process.” FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 9, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Robin Kelly and Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez sent a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch inviting her to visit Chicago as part of the investigation she has launched into the patterns and practices of the Chicago Police Department (CPD) in the wake of Laquan McDonald’s murder by a Chicago police officer. They asked that the Attorney General meet with constituents and talk to stakeholders in each Congressional District in the City. “The AG ought to visit personally and see the neighborhoods and talk with people in all of Chicago’s diverse communities because we all interact with police and need to know they can be trusted,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “Ultimately, this is about building confidence in the police and getting them to work with the communities they protect and patrol.” “A visit from the Attorney General to meet with key stakeholders and constituents will signal to Chicagoans that the Department of Justice is making progress,” Congresswoman Kelly said. “People on the streets need to see that something is being done to help rebuild trust in law enforcement.” When he was Attorney General, Eric Holder visited Ferguson, Missouri as part of his inquiry into civil rights, police practices, and local government issues after Michael Brown was killed by local police. The two Congressional Representatives hope Attorney General Lynch will make a similar visit to Chicago to hear directly from Chicagoans and examine issues personally. Rep. Kelly stated, “Loretta Lynch has spent her entire professional life diligently working to bridge the divide between law enforcement and the communities they serve. I have full confidence that Attorney General Lynch actively leading the charge will allow for a robust investigation that is restorative for all of Chicago.” “I am confident the Attorney General and her staff are going to conduct a thorough and fair investigation,” Rep. Gutiérrez said, “but one important step towards healing and restoring trust will be her personal involvement.” Both Members of Congress pledged to cooperate with and monitor the Attorney General’s investigation and help her in any way possible. A copy of the letter from Reps. Kelly and Gutiérrez to Attorney General Lynch is here: LINK (pdf). # # #
12.09.2015	CHC ON EVENWEL V. ABBOTT Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressional Hispanic Caucus Members released the following statements on the Evenwel v. Abbott. The Supreme Court heard oral arguments for the case today and CHC Members led a press conference outside the Court earlier this morning. Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), and Thomas Saenz from the Mexican American Legal Defense Fund (MALDEF) spoke on the devastating effects the case would have on the Latino community. In Evenwel v. Abbott, the Supreme Court will determine whether voting districts should continue to be drawn by using census population data, which include noncitizen immigrants, or whether the system should be changed to count only citizens eligible to vote, as conservative challengers are seeking. The case would have enormous implications for the Latino community and Latino representatives at every level of government. CHC Chairwoman Linda T. Sánchez: “Evenwel v. Abbott is an attempt to erase the Latino community off the map. At 55%, Latinos stand to be the most affected – ironically – at a time when our community is growing. Less representation would mean fewer resources for already marginalized communities. The case before us goes against the Equal Protection Clause of the Constitution and simply doesn’t make sense. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus will not stand for these radical attempts to undermine Latinos.” Congressman Joaquin Castro: “This case is an affront to our democracy. It sends a message to millions of Americans in this country that they don’t count. We should encourage folks to participate in the electoral process, not strip them of their representation. Those pushing this case support changes that contradict the Constitution and the spirit of our democratic process. Everyone counts in this nation, and our election laws should reflect that.” Congressman Ruben Gallego: “This case was brought up because the American electorate is changing, and a growing Latino population is changing what we know about American politics. This case is an attempt by those who feel threatened to erase the Latino community off the map and it puts our community’s policy priorities at risk. The concept of ‘one-man, one-vote’ is an American ideal that has been enshrined now for nearly 150 years. For the Supreme Court or any group to arbitrarily try to wipe that away overnight goes against the core tenants of American democracy.” Congressman José Serrano: “Evenwel vs. Abbott seeks to make invisible millions of individuals in the legislative redistricting and democratic process – including taxpayers that contribute to our economy, young people that represent our future generations, and minorities that are an integral part of our communities. Every person living in America deserves to be counted, to be represented, and to be served in our democracy, even if they are not eligible and registered to vote. The court should uphold these principles, and reject arguments that would have a devastating effect on the Latino community after all the progress we have made in recent years. “ Congressman Luis Gutiérrez: “Our political system should respond to the many, not the few. The principle of ‘one person, one vote’ has served this country well and in the modern era, we should not make fundamental political and governance decisions based on race, ethnicity, age, or immigration status. It is simply the wrong direction to go.” Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard: “If the Supreme Court rules broadly for the plaintiff in Evenwel v. Abbott, it would have devastating effects for Latino communities across the country, especially in my home state of California. My Los Angeles-area district has the largest percentage of Latinos in the country, and is already in dire need of more federal resources. If voter registration were used to redraw district lines, California’s 40th District would be further stretched to include an additional 150,000 people at the minimum. For too many districts, the precedent set by the Evenwel v. Abbott decision has the potential to seriously set back our political system’s ability to represent all members of our society.” Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez: “Non-voters like children have a vital stake in how their government is run, but this case would essentially tell them their voices do not matter and they do not count. The Court should reject this brazen effort to undo fifty years of progress toward equality at the ballot box.” Congressman Raúl M. Grijalva: “American democracy belongs to everyone who calls this country home. Drawing lines for elected office based upon voter participation is a blatant and shameful attempt to disenfranchise and deny representation within our communities. Our nation learned first-hand that democracy for some is not democracy at all. The Evenwel case is an attempt to repeat that mistake, and I urge the Supreme Court to reject it outright.” Congressman Ben Ray Luján: “This case is an attempt to manipulate the redistricting process by denying representation to millions of Americans. Determining electoral districts on the basis of registered voters rather than the total population excludes non-voters, including children, and undermines our commitment to equal treatment for all people. Every person deserves to be represented by their elected leaders.” CHC press conference outside the Supreme Court this morning. From left to right: MALDEF’s Thomas Saenz, Congressman Ruben Gallego, and Congressman Joaquin Castro. #### The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), founded in December 1976, is organized as a Congressional Member organization, governed under the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives. The CHC is dedicated to voicing and advancing, through the legislative process, issues affecting Hispanics in the United States, Puerto Rico and U.S. Territories.
12.07.2015	“It is a vital step in making sure we prevent more murders and violence in Chicago.” Washington, DC – On Monday, the Department of Justice announced it was opening an investigation into the Chicago Police Department (CPD) after the murder of Laquan McDonald, a Chicago teenager shot by a CPD officer more than a year ago. Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez, who was among those who requested the investigation, said he was pleased with the news. The following is a statement from the Congressman: Anybody who has seen the videotape of Laquan McDonald being shot and killed can see that current practices of the Chicago Police Department need review both internally and externally. But even before the videotape was released, having grown up in the city of Chicago, I knew there were long-term issues of trust, accountability, use of force, and secrecy that have frayed the bonds between the CPD and the communities they are sworn to protect and serve. Last week I joined Senator Dick Durbin, Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan, the ACLU, and others in calling for the Department of Justice to investigate the Chicago Police Department to ensure that their policies and practices are in line with federal law and the Constitution. I think every level of government involved in the Laquan McDonald murder deserves investigation and accountability and the broader issues of transparency, trust, and community oversight must be examined. These are issues both the Justice Department and the newly-appointed commission working with former Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick will be looking at. It is a vital step in making sure we prevent more murders and violence in Chicago. Last week, Rep. Gutiérrez wrote to Attorney General Loretta Lynch asking for such an investigation. His letter is here: (pdf) Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations. # # #
11.17.2015	In Floor Speech, Gutiérrez Decries Illinois’ Rauner and other Governors, saying “ISIS could not have written a better script.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor (at approximately 10:00 a.m. ET) in response to Governor Rauner of Illinois and a dozen or more mostly Republican governors who said their states would refuse to take refugees fleeing terror and the Assad regime in Syria. Governors do not actually have this power, so their executive orders and pronouncements have overstepped their bounds, but Rep. Gutiérrez called their rejection of refugees “despicable and cowardly and exactly the kind of reaction ISIS wanted” in response to the Paris terror attacks. Rep. Gutiérrez said: When we sent Jews back to Germany and when we sent Japanese to internment camps, we regretted it and we will regret this as well. We have had candidates actually say that refugees seeking safety in the strongest nation in the world must first pass a test to prove they are from an ‘acceptable’ religion. In the United States of America, they said this. In the 21st century. Rep. Gutiérrez also said: Let us, as legislators, leaders and patriots, rise above petty politics, rise above sectarian fears, rise above the underlying layer of xenophobia that often surfaces in this country at moments like this throughout our history. And let us maintain America’s commitment to being a beacon of hope for those fleeing oppression, violence, and intolerance; A haven for the religiously persecuted, whether they are Buddhists from Tibet, Christians from Iran, or Pilgrims from Europe. That is who we are. A video of the Congressman’s floor speech is here: https://youtu.be/4f4FlVujVKY The text, as prepared for delivery, is below. The Congressman participates today in a hearing of the Judiciary Committee on Department of Justice oversight with Attorney General Loretta Lynch at which the subject of the Paris attacks, Syrian refugees and security will be discussed. The Immigration Subcommittee is also scheduled to hold a hearing on Syrian refugees on Thursday. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was one of the main subjects in the FRONTLINE PBS documentary “Immigration Battle,” that aired on Tuesday, October 20 and can be streamed online. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez Remarks 11/17/2015 We are shocked, horrified, and deeply saddened by the news coming from Paris. As a Member of the Intelligence Committee, I know that there is much to fear – both for our allies and for us. But in light of the attacks on our ally France last Friday, I urge my colleagues to keep a cool head and not react in exactly the way that ISIS and other terrorists hope we do: with fear, with chaos, and with lashing out. But sadly, that is what we have already seen Republican Governors, elected leaders, candidates, and media figures doing. I have been here long enough to know a thing or two about opportunism. Maybe it is too much to resist when you are one of 15 candidates for President. Politicians, pundits, and celebrities will be tempted to say whatever they can to get the news cameras pointed at them. The Governor of Illinois, my home state, could not resist saying our state was closed to Syrians fleeing the terror of ISIS and the Assad regime. The Governor of Louisiana, the son of immigrants running for President of a nation of immigrants said no to refugees. The Governors of a dozen other states did too. And Texans – the ones who say “don’t mess with Texas” – well, their governor says that they are terrified of refugees so Texas will not take them, either. This is despicable and cowardly and precisely the kind of reaction ISIS wanted. ISIS could not have written a better script. The free people of the world are turning their backs on people seeking safety and freedom. When we sent Jews back to Germany and when we sent Japanese to internment camps, we regretted it and we will regret this as well. We have had candidates actually say that refugees seeking safety in the strongest nation in the world must first pass a test to prove they are from an ‘acceptable’ religion. In the United States of America, they said this. In the 21st century. Now, of course the Governors of Illinois, Texas, Louisiana, and most of the other states that are scared of ISIS are Republicans. And, because it is a federal matter, they are overstepping their powers with executive orders, because they cannot actually stop refugees from resettling in their states. Instead they have instructed state agencies not to assist people fleeing terror. We are a better country than that. No matter how scared Republican leaders become, we must not abandon our commitment to being a nation without equal in the world; a nation that does not fear or shy away from any challenge. It is our commitment to religious equality and the freedom to worship-as-we-please that has made us a great nation and this is no time to abandon it. Our bravery, the bravery of our military, and the bravery of our commitment to freedom and equality have shown -- for almost 250 years -- what American exceptionalism is all about. It is not the time to lose sight of ourselves and say America is too weak; America cannot handle 20,000 or 200,000 refugees fleeing for their lives. It is not the time for America to consider raising the white flag and say to those waiving the black flag, “Yes ISIS, you are right, we dislike and fear Muslims and do not care if they perish or not.” A lot of us love this country too much to see it abandon core principles and values because religious extremists commit acts of terror designed precisely to terrorize us. On Thursday, the Immigration Subcommittee will hold a hearing on refugees from Syria and the Middle East. You can already imagine what we will hear. Republicans will most likely raise fears that Muslim terrorists, disguised as refugees, would somehow pass exhaustive criminal background checks because they have been lying in wait in these camps overseas for years on the slim chance they could do damage to America. They will raise suspicion, instill fear of Muslims, maybe even fear of a President they say is a Muslim, and it will probably be a pretty sad display. Let us, as legislators, leaders and patriots, rise above petty politics, rise above sectarian fears, rise above the underlying layer of xenophobia that often surfaces in this country at moments like this throughout our history. And let us maintain America’s commitment to being a beacon of hope for those fleeing oppression, violence, and intolerance. A haven for the religiously persecuted, whether they are Buddhists from Tibet, Christians from Iran, or Pilgrims from Europe. That is who we are. We are a nation that lives by the motto E Pluribus Unum – “out of many, one” – and we will not run in fear from that motto today or any day. # # #
11.12.2015	Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez submitted a public comment in opposition to the waste-to-energy incinerator proposed by Energy Answers Arecibo LLC, in Arecibo, Puerto Rico. The Department of Agriculture solicited public comments as part of the process to determine if tax-payer money should be loaned to the company to underwrite the project. See https://www.rd.usda.gov/publications/environmental-studies/impact-statements/arecibo-waste-energy-generation-and-resource for more information. Congressman Gutiérrez feels the building of this incinerator would be disastrous to public health, the economy, and the environment for residents of Puerto Rico. Read the Congressman’s letter to Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack expressing why he opposes the project.
11.10.2015	“The law and common sense are so clearly on the President’s side that it is only a matter of time before these deferred action programs are fully implemented.” Washington, DC – On Monday, in a 2-1 ruling, a panel of three judges upheld a lower court’s temporary injunction stalling implementation of President Obama’s two deferred action programs granting relief to certain immigrants with deep ties to the United States. The President announced an expansion of DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) and DAPA (Deferred Action for Parental Accountability) in November 2014 after Republicans in the House blocked bipartisan immigration reform. As many as 5 million people will be able to apply for protection under deferred action once the temporary injunction is struck down. In all likelihood, the case is now headed to the Supreme Court, which could act sometime next year. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) played a key role in advocating for immigration reform legislation and for the President’s executive actions once Congress failed to act. The following is a statement by Rep. Gutiérrez: The Supreme Court is on the clock and millions of American families are waiting. Whatever else the Obama Administration is working on today, I hope they are immediately appealing this decision to the Supreme Court so that we have swift resolution. In the meantime, how the United States prioritizes deportations is already protecting millions of families from being ripped apart by preventing the deportation of people with no criminal record and deep roots in the U.S. This will continue with or without a ruling from the Supreme Court. The foot dragging of the lower courts to try and run out the clock has delayed justice, but the law and common sense are so clearly on the President’s side that it is only a matter of time before these deferred action programs are fully implemented. As a country, we want millions of people who have lived here a long time to pay fees, submit to criminal background checks, and register with the government, and that will happen eventually, hopefully by next summer. Individuals want to protect themselves and their families from deportation, and as a nation, we need to get beyond the charade of mass deportation policies that waste time and money and injure real lives, but do not get us any closer to the rule of law. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was one of the main subjects in the PBS FRONTLINE and Independent Lens documentary “Immigration Battle,” a film by Michael Camerini & Shari Robertson, which aired on Tuesday, October 20.
11.04.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez: The Nation Pays the Cost of A Do-Nothing Congress “I will faithfully uphold and defend the principles of the do-nothing Congress and pledge allegiance to the do-nothingness for which it stands” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor (at approximately 10:00 a.m. ET) to offer his congratulations to the new Speaker of the House Paul Ryan of Wisconsin and to the Republicans and to House Republicans who are “lucky to have him.” But Rep. Gutiérrez said he was sad that the new Speaker had to promise not to address immigration reform as a condition of being elected. Standing on the floor off the House before a sign reading “Stop Doing Nothing,” the Illinois Congressman said: Maybe those on the other side of the aisle will come up with a new oath of office for leadership positions. Raise your right hand and repeat after me: ‘I swear that I will not let anything happen on my watch; That I will faithfully uphold and defend the principles of the do-nothing Congress, and pledge allegiance to the do-nothingness for which it stands; That I will ignore all cries for help, no matter how loud from the American people…And that party unity is more important than the United States of America, so help me Tea Party. Rep. Gutierrez said the problem the Republican Party consistently has is that their base forces them to take positions that are unpopular with the American people, and that it goes well beyond immigration. On funding for women’s health and Planned Parenthood, marriage equality, voting rights, equal pay and the environment, Republicans are forced to do nothing because they cannot win if the majority rules. Rep. Gutierrez said there is a cost to do-nothingness: It’s the cost of deported immigrants and businesses that cannot hire people legally. Of women who are denied life-saving health screenings; of honoring families as first class citizens no matter who heads them; of a cleaner planet and safer neighborhoods. He concluded saying there is a political cost to the Republicans of their oath of do-nothingness, but that he is optimistic that eventually, a majority of the majority would “let the majority rule in the people’s House.” A video of the Congressman’s floor speech is here: https://cs.pn/1RvvdEi The text, as prepared for delivery, is below. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was one of the main subjects in the FRONTLINE PBS documentary “Immigration Battle,” that aired on Tuesday, October 20 and can be streamed online. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez Remarks November 4, 2015 I would like to congratulate the House of Representatives, the Republican Conference, and my friend Paul Ryan for his election to be Speaker of the House. Those on the other side of the aisle are lucky to have him. It is sad that he had to promise Members of his Conference– in writing –to not address a national issue on behalf of the American people. He had to swear that he would not allow a vote on immigration reform as long as President Obama is President Obama. The new Speaker had to promise to put party unity ahead of national public policy in order to be elected Speaker. One of my colleagues from Alabama who is vehement in his opposition to immigration came to the floor last week to read Speaker Ryan’s pledge into the Congressional Record. So the Congress that did nothing on immigration reform for the last two years will do nothing for the remainder of the President’s term. It is really stunning. You must promise to do nothing in order to be Speaker of the Do-Nothing House. Maybe those on the other side of the aisle will come up with a new oath of office for leadership positions. Raise your right hand and repeat after me… I swear that I will not let anything happen on my watch. That I will faithfully uphold and defend the principles of the do-nothing Congress, and pledge allegiance to the do-nothingness for which it stands, That I will ignore all cries for help, no matter how loud from the American people… That I will not let public policy get in the way of party politics… And that party unity is more important than the United States of America, so help me Tea Party. Why would one faction within the Republican Party demand a promise from the new Speaker that he not bring any immigration legislation to the floor? Because the opponents of immigration and immigration reform would lose. They must demand from the Speaker that the majority not rule in the House of Representatives because the opponents of immigration know they are in the minority. This is a telling moment for the Republican Party and it is not confined to immigration. The majority of the country supports Planned Parenthood continuing to provide basic health services and contraception to women, but playing to a smaller segment of their base, Republicans threatened to close down the government in order to block its funding. They want the minority to rule and they want the tail to wag the dog. On the environment, in the wake of decades of scientific evidence that human beings have helped to cause climate change, what is the Republican response? Do nothing! It’s a liberal hoax. We can buy another beach house farther inland when the beach is, well, farther inland. Members on the other side of the aisle celebrate the antics of a county clerk who refuses to follow the law and do her job, which includes issuing marriage licenses to two men or two women who want to spend their lives together. Maybe House Republicans think they are standing on principle, but the majority of the country has been fighting against exclusion, second class treatment, and bigotry for decades. The rest of us have embraced equality. We support voting rights, the same pay for the same work, and police in communities that protect and serve, not just stop and frisk. Here in the Congress, as we saw last week with the discharge petition to preserve the Export-Import Bank, sometimes the majority can break the gridlock of this minority and take action. As we saw last week on the bipartisan budget and debt ceiling vote, sometimes Republican leaders take action for the good of the country despite the calls from the do-nothing caucus to do nothing. On all of these matters, do-nothingness comes with a cost. It’s the cost of deported immigrants and businesses that cannot hire people legally. Of women who are denied life-saving health screenings, of honoring families as first class citizens no matter who heads them; of a cleaner planet and safer neighborhoods. But there is a political cost as well. A colleague from South Carolina summed it up in the documentary “Immigration Battle” on PBS Frontline, which I also appeared in. Addressing a group of Republican voters in his district, Congressman Mick Mulvaney says, and I quote. At some point, we’re gonna have to figure out that if you take the entire African-American community and write them off, take the entire Hispanic community and write them off, take the entire Libertarian community and write them off, take the entire gay community and write them off, what’s left? About 38 percent of the country. He concludes by saying: “You cannot win with 38 percent of the country.” And he is right. We know from the environment, from the fight for marriage equality, the fight for civil rights and the fight to modernize our immigration system that taking no action is precisely the problem. I think the new Speaker understands this and someday, I hope my colleagues on the other side of the aisle agree with him and let the majority rule in the people’s House. # # #
11.02.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez on CHC Statement Calling on NBC to “Disinvite” Trump From Hosting SNL “Why can’t NBC hold their own TV shows responsible to keep an unapologetic racist from hosting a comedy show?” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) said he is glad the Congressional Hispanic Caucus voted to oppose the planned November 7 hosting of NBC’s “Saturday Night Live” by billionaire Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. The “Statement of Opposition” was approved by two-thirds of the CHC, which is comprised of 26 Latino Members of the House and Senate. “When a TV personality calls Mexicans and Latinos criminals and rapists, a corporate network should not give him 90-minutes of free air time in an entertainment venue without his first apologizing to the American people,” said Rep. Gutiérrez of Chicago. “Did I miss an apology? Did Trump do what Paula Deen or any other TV personality has to do after they make racist comments in public in order to get back on the air?” The CHC “Statement of Opposition” reads in part: [B]e it resolved that the Congressional Hispanic Caucus calls upon NBCUniversal, Broadway Video, and SNL Executive Producer Lorne Michaels to disinvite Mr. Trump from hosting Saturday Night Live because racism is not funny; and Be it further resolved, that the Congressional Hispanic Caucus urges NBCUniversal to stand by its earlier commitment to end its relationship with Mr. Trump because the values of “respect and dignity for all people” are more important than ratings and ad revenues. This comes as news that NBC is being dumped by the Republican National Committee in response to how the GOP candidates felt they were treated during last week’s CNBC debate. “So the RNC is dumping NBC because somehow asking questions about regulating gambling on fantasy football in a debate crosses a line but calling Mexicans and Latinos rapists and criminals does not,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “So why can’t NBC hold their own TV shows responsible to keep an unapologetic racist from hosting a comedy show?” Rep. Gutiérrez previously sent a letter to NBC and Comcast executives in which he said allowing Trump to host ‘SNL’ “is a level of endorsement that says to America that every hateful and racist thing Donald Trump has said…is acceptable and no big deal. Well it is a big deal.” He has also spoken about Mr. Trump on the House Floor on numerous occasions and has called on NBC to dump Trump from the show: · 10/27 Speech with video: Rep. Gutiérrez: Trump Is Motivating Voters, Just Not The Ones He Wants. https://1.usa.gov/1GvmKk4 · 10/21 Speech with video: Standing Before #racismisntfunny Sign, Rep. Gutiérrez says SNL, NBC, Lorne Michaels, “I’m Calling You Out.” https://1.usa.gov/1MTp712 · 9/17 Speech with video: Rep. Gutiérrez: Trump and GOP Driving Immigrants Towards Citizenship, Voting https://1.usa.gov/1Kjad1k · 9/9 Speech with video: Rep. Gutiérrez Calls Pope Francis “The Antidote” To Donald Trump’s “Venom” In House Floor Speech https://1.usa.gov/1KgcXMQ Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was one of the main subjects in the PBS FRONTLINE and Independent Lens documentary “Immigration Battle,” a film by Michael Camerini & Shari Robertson, which aired on Tuesday, October 20. # # #
11.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 2, 2015 Contact: Jasmine Mora CHC Communications Director 202-225-2410 CHC STATEMENT OF OPPOSITION TO DONALD TRUMP HOSTING SNL Washington, D.C. – Today, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus issued a statement of opposition to Donald Trump hosting Saturday Night Live. CHC Members issued the statement and follows an earlier statement made by the Chair on the inflammatory remarks made by Trump on the Mexican community. The statement of opposition adopted by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus reads: Whereas, Mr. Donald Trump has been invited to host Saturday Night Live on NBC on November 7, 2015; Whereas, Saturday Night Live is a flagship program on a national network; Whereas, on June 16, 2015, Mr. Trump denounced both the Hispanic and immigrant communities by saying, “When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best…They’re sending people that have lots of problems, and they’re bringing those problems to us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists…They’re sending us not the right people. It’s coming from more than Mexico. It’s coming from all over South and Latin America, and it’s coming probably…from the Middle East;” Whereas, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus responded on June 19, 2015 by denouncing Mr. Trump, expressing outrage at his divisive and hateful rhetoric towards Mexicans and Latinos alike, and by warning that such incendiary rhetoric can lead to violence; Whereas, numerous businesses, corporations, and individuals severed ties with Mr. Trump as a consequence; Whereas, on June 29, 2015, NBCUniversal also ended “its business relationship” with Mr. Trump because of “the recent derogatory statements by Donald Trump regarding immigrants,” and because, “[a]t NBC, respect and dignity for all people are cornerstones of our values;” Whereas, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus received assurances from Comcast, owner of NBCUniversal, during its intended merger with Time Warner that both Comcast and NBCUniversal were committed to both Latinos and diversity; Whereas, Mr. Trump’s racist remarks and his continued rhetoric demonizing Latinos and immigrants has created fear within these communities around the country, many of which are represented in Congress by Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus; Whereas, on August 19, 2015, two men in Boston, Massachusetts attacked and brutally beat a Hispanic man, and one of the perpetrators told the police that, “Donald Trump was right, all these illegals need to be deported;” Whereas, on September 12, 2015 in Ames, Iowa during a peaceful protest outside of an Iowa State University football game where Mr. Trump made an appearance, a woman ripped the sign of a Latino student that read, "Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about the things that matter;" Therefore, be it resolved that the Congressional Hispanic Caucus calls upon NBCUniversal, Broadway Video, and SNL Executive Producer Lorne Michaels to disinvite Mr. Trump from hosting Saturday Night Live because racism is not funny; and Be it further resolved, that the Congressional Hispanic Caucus urges NBCUniversal to stand by its earlier commitment to end its relationship with Mr. Trump because the values of “respect and dignity for all people” are more important than ratings and ad revenues. ####
10.28.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez Testifies Before Whip Steny Hoyer’s “Make It In America” Hearing “Immigrants are not here to take a slice of the pie away from us, they are here to build a bigger pie.” Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) joined House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD) and other House Democrats for the third “Make It In America: What’s Next?” hearing today in Washington. The Congressman testified on the role that immigrants play in the economy of Chicago and the nation. Rep. Gutiérrez’ remarks, as prepared for delivery, are pasted below. Video from the event was streamed live at: https://youtu.be/s5of10G2kDs Background on Make It In America: In 2010, House Democrats launched the Make It In America plan to spur the creation of high-wage, private-sector jobs here in our country so that more workers and their families can secure a place in our middle class. Since then, sixteen Make It In America bills have been signed into law. However, five years after Make It In America first launched, our economy has significantly changed, and we are facing a different economic landscape. This series of hearings provides an opportunity for Members to explore new ideas and solicit feedback as we work to update the Make It In America plan for 2015 and beyond. This will be the second “Member Day” hearing, featuring House Democrats testifying about ways we can update the Make It In America jobs plan to ensure that it reflects the challenges and opportunities of today’s economy. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was one of the main subjects in the PBS FRONTLINE and Independent Lens documentary “Immigration Battle,” a film by Michael Camerini & Shari Robertson, which aired on Tuesday, October 20. Testimony of Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04) Member of Congress “Make It In America: What’s Next?” Hearing Rebuilding America Panel October 28, 2015 Whenever I give a floor speech about immigration or if I go on Fox news, I always get a few predictable reactions. First, I am told to go back to Mexico, even though I was born in Chicago to a Puerto Rican family. And second, I am asked why I spend time working on immigration when I should be “helping Americans.” I understand the first one. Most people do not do a very good job of distinguishing between Mexicans, Puerto Ricans, or any other group, and frankly when I hear Donald Trump say most Mexicans are rapists and drug-dealers, I know he is insulting my family too. The second one is a little more complicated and it is why I am here today, because I think many people see both the politics and the economics of immigration as a zero-sum game. In many people’s minds, what you do for immigrants is necessarily something you are not doing for the people who were born here. But immigration is not a zero-sum game. Policies that promote legal immigration and legal status for immigrants actually make things better for everyone. As one advocate in Tennessee said, immigrants are not here to take a slice of the pie away from us, they are here to build a bigger pie. One of the best examples of this is in my home town, Chicago. Everyone knows about the Magnificent Mile, the section of Michigan Avenue that is the main street of the Midwest economy. What most people do not know is that the second biggest jobs and tax revenue-generating corridor of Chicago is 26th Street, in the heart of La Villita, or Little Village, the center of the Mexican-American community in Chicago and the economic engine of my District. If you take a drive down 26th Street on a Saturday, there will be stop-and-go traffic because it’s a bustling business district with limited parking. You will also see crowds of families shopping and running errands. They buy, the business owners sell, and the City’s tax receipts grow and grow. Today’s immigrants are simply a part of the pattern that has been repeating itself for as long as we have been a nation. Immigrants, often with few resources, build up congregations and parishes, then neighborhoods and business districts, and then businesses and corporations. Eventually they are so integrated into our society that we cannot imagine our cities without their contributions. Whether it was the Irish, the Italians, or the Polish, Chicago has given people opportunity and they paid it back by making the pie bigger. African-Americans who fled slavery and Jim Crow in the South, or my parents who fled poverty in rural Puerto Rico are a lot like immigrants today. We are usually treated with a great deal of skepticism and sometimes outright hostility at first, but eventually each group takes their place contributing to the community and the economy. They make the pie bigger. While immigrants have the highest workforce participation rates in America, they contribute to the economy not only as consumers and employees, but also as entrepreneurs, job-creators and business owners. A Pew Research Study released last week shows that immigrants are more likely to be self-employed than the native population. And that in turn expands the economy and workforce, for both the native born and immigrant workers. Not only did Sergey Brin found Google, but he and other immigrant entrepreneurs make native-born job-creators like Steve Jobs and Bill Gates improve their game because of the competition. Longitudinal studies show that when immigrant workers gravitate to sectors of our economy, they increase the productivity of the native born and have a positive impact on wages. That’s right, the evidence shows wages for native-born workers tend to improve when there are more immigrants. Despite everything the immigration naysayers believe, the reality is that immigrants tend to fill gaps in the economy and do not tend to compete directly with native workers for the same jobs, as shown by a new Urban Institute study. For example, there are plenty of capable American workers who could pick fruits and vegetables, but there are not many Americans who aspire to that job. The reality is that 90 percent of the workers in some sectors of agriculture are immigrants and many are undocumented because we do not have a functioning legal immigration system. So, despite all the rhetoric and simplistic answers we get from politicians trying to scare you into voting for them, the reality is that immigrants are not taking a piece of our pie. Instead, on average, immigrants are contributing and making a bigger pie. And as it turns out, they are also picking, washing, and packaging the apples, the cherries, and the blueberries we have in those pies. Thank you very much for letting me testify today. I look forward to your questions. # # #
10.27.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez: Trump is motivating voters, just not the ones he wants “Donald Trump is spurring youth voter mobilization like I have never seen.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor (at approximately 10:00 a.m. ET) about some of the Chicago-area high school students he has met with in recent weeks. In particular, he spoke of the sense he gets from them that they are being motivated to register and vote because of Donald Trump. Standing before a picture of the billionaire candidate, Rep. Gutiérrez said the students, who are mostly Latino U.S. citizens, all want to know if their families are in danger of deportation or if their own citizenship is in jeopardy because of Trump. Rep. Gutiérrez said: It is a very sad day when the first question a Congressman gets from American high school students are about how much they should fear their own government; whether their own government is going to break up their families; whether their own government is going to treat them not as citizens and equal partners, but as outsiders and pariahs in their own country. The Chicago Congressman noted that the students he has met with are not just griping about Donald Trump,. They intend to do something about the threat he poses to their families and communities. Rep. Gutierrez said: …When I ask these young Americans whether they plan to get registered and vote, every hand goes up. Donald Trump is spurring youth voter mobilization like I have never seen. Nationally, we know that 93% of Latinos under age 18 are citizens and that every 30 seconds a Latino citizen turns 18. That’s about 1 million per year for the next decade or more. If they are half as motivated as the young people I am talking to in Chicago, Donald Trump could have a tremendous impact on the youth vote in this country. “But it is not just young Latino voters in Chicago that are being motivated by Republican attacks,” the Congressman continued, describing the broader political consequences of the Republican Party’s tactics: When Republicans attack Planned Parenthood and block laws to guarantee equal pay for women -- that motivates women to register and vote. When Republicans celebrate people who will not issue marriage licenses to two men or to two women, a lot of people in the LGBT community get motivated to register and vote. When Republicans rail against unions, block increases in the minimum wage, block environmental standards and block sensible gun laws, a lot of working class and middle class Americans get motivated to register and vote. Together with those young people in Chicago, we are forming a very, very powerful coalition. A coalition so powerful that someday, even Republicans themselves will want to be part of it. A video of the Congressman’s floor speech is here: https://youtu.be/FvFFoqCNZ7I The text, as prepared for delivery, is below. Rep. Gutierrez, in a speech and a letter last week, called on NBC, Comcast and Saturday Night Live Executive Producer Lorne Michaels to dump Trump from the program that he is scheduled to host on November 7. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was one of the main subjects in the FRONTLINE PBS documentary “Immigration Battle,” that aired on Tuesday, October 20 and can be streamed online. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez Remarks 10/27/2015 Mr. Speaker, over the last several weeks, I have visited six high schools in my District to meet with juniors and seniors, about 2,000 students in total. Almost all of the students I meet are U.S. citizens, the majority are Latinos, some have immigrant parents, and most will soon be eligible to vote. And all of them have one question for me. It starts every Q&A. The questions are about Donald Trump. Is he is going to be our next President? Is it true that he wants to revoke our citizenship and deport us to the countries our parents came from? Is it true he wants to round us up and deport us? It is a very sad day when the first question a Congressman gets from American high school students are about how much they should fear their own government; whether their own government is going to break up their families; whether their own government is going to treat them not as citizens and equal partners, but as outsiders and pariahs in their own country. When they hear that Trump is [quote] “leading in the polls” – they think that means there is a pretty good chance that he will be President. When they see him on TV shows like Jimmy Fallon– not to mention CNN and Fox – they get the feeling that he is a celebrity that all of America admires. When they hear that Trump is hosting Saturday Night Live – not being a guest, but actually hosting– even after saying Mexicans are mostly rapists, criminals, and drug-dealers – they get the impression that calling whole groups of people rapists, criminals, and drug-dealers based on their ethnicity or national origin is basically OK with mainstream America. The real question these Chicago-area high school students have is “Hey, Gutierrez, what are you doing to defend us from Donald Trump? What are you doing to stand up for us?” This leads to an intense discussion about American politics and I ask them right back, “What are you doing to stand up for your community?” Look, motivating 17 and 18 year olds to do something is not always easy -- including motivating them to register to vote when they are old enough and to actually go vote. But when I ask these young Americans whether they plan to get registered and vote, every hand goes up. Donald Trump is spurring youth voter mobilization like I have never seen. Nationally, we know that 93% of Latinos under age 18 are citizens and that every 30 seconds a Latino citizen turns 18. That’s about 1 million per year for the next decade or more. If they are half as motivated as the young people I am talking to in Chicago, Donald Trump could have a tremendous impact on the youth vote in this country. But let’s be honest, do we really want to motivate civic participation through fear of deportation, racial profiling and families being broken up? These are American teenagers growing up to distrust the government that protects their safety and livelihoods. Trump wants to take us back to the good old days of race relations – which apparently means the 1950s – when President Eisenhower evicted millions of immigrants and U.S. citizens from the United States. And Dr. Carson -- who believes that human history is only 5,000 years old -- says of mass-deportation schemes, well, quote, “I think it’s worth discussing.” Here in the House we have considered measures to deport children more quickly, to make groups more distrustful of the police, and to delay Homeland Security funding. Testifying on one of these bills before the Rules Committee last year, I made the unfortunate but real suggestion that Republicans were gravitating towards mass deportation policies. Which provoked a response from the Chairman. He said, quote: There is no one in responsible Republican leadership… that has said we should deport 13 or 11 million people. And I find it extremely distasteful that people would come here and suggest things that we have not suggested. Well, now that people are suggesting mass deportation openly and are gaining in public opinion polls, I wonder why there is so much silence from Republican Members of this body. But it is not just young Latino voters in Chicago that are being motivated by Republican attacks. When Republicans attack Planned Parenthood and block laws to guarantee equal pay for women -- that motivates women to register and vote. When Republicans celebrate people who will not issue marriage licenses to two men or to two women, a lot of people in the LGBT community get motivated to register and vote. When Republicans rail against unions, block increases in the minimum wage, block environmental standards and block sensible gun laws, a lot of working class and middle class Americans get motivated to register and vote. Together with those young people in Chicago, we are forming a very, very powerful coalition. A coalition so powerful that someday, even Republicans themselves will want to be part of it. # # #
10.23.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez on Paul Ryan and Immigration “I do not doubt that Ryan supports sensible immigration reform, but some in the GOP will try to disqualify anyone who supports what the majority of Americans support.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) said he is sad to hear that a condition of Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI) seeking the support of his conference to be elected Speaker of the House was to pledge that there will be no votes on immigration reform as long as President Obama is in the White House. While there were no real expectations that a vote would occur during the 114th Congress, the fact that Rep. Ryan had to make that promise is, for Rep. Gutiérrez, a further sign of the depth of the Republican Party’s Latino voter and immigration problems. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez: I have worked closely with Paul Ryan for years on the immigration issue and I know he supports sensible, bipartisan reform, just like most Americans and most Members of the House. But in order to secure GOP unity, he has had to throw aside his personal views on immigrants and immigration to appease the most vocal and most animated opponents of immigration in his party. Immigration is an issue that still divides Republicans, as it once divided Democrats. What unites Republicans is being against President Obama and so such statements are an unfortunate necessity for GOP leaders. As a person of faith, a person of conscience, and a person who deeply believes in American exceptionalism, Paul Ryan supports legal immigration and getting immigrants already here into the system so we can improve enforcement and secure the rights of working people and employers. I do not doubt that Ryan supports sensible immigration reform, but some in the GOP will try to disqualify anyone who supports what the majority of Americans support. In a nutshell, this inability to support legal immigration and legality for immigrants is at the heart of the Republican Party’s national problem and why they will be shut out of the White House for the foreseeable future. The coalition of women, African-Americans, Asians, gays and lesbians, environmentalists, young people and Latinos that the Republican Party rejects has formed an ironclad majority that will keep them out of the presidency. And that goes well beyond the immigration issue to almost everything related to civil rights, women’s rights, and treating working people decently. In reality, Ryan has been 100% consistent, as the recent documentary on PBS FRONTLINE demonstrates, that border security must come first, that legalization not be amnesty, and that House Republicans will only move forward with approval of a majority of the majority; precisely what we had achieved in the House before Majority Leader Cantor lost his primary and threw the whole GOP into the turmoil we continue to live with today. It is a shame that House Republicans demand such pledges from their leaders, but not a surprise. The country needs immigration reform, the country favors immigration reform overwhelmingly, but House Republicans remain one of the only groups of Americans dead set against a functioning legal immigration system. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was one of the main subjects in the PBS FRONTLINE and Independent Lens documentary “Immigration Battle,” a film by Michael Camerini & Shari Robertson, which aired on Tuesday, October 20. # # #
10.21.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez To SNL, NBC and Lorne Michaels: “I’m Calling You Out” To Lorne Michaels: “I wonder if things might have been different if Donald Trump was calling all Canadians rapists, murderers and drug dealers.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) followed up on his letter yesterday to the Presidents of Comcast and NBC Universal about Donald Trump hosting Saturday Night Live in November. Today he spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives during the morning hour (at approximately 10:30 am ET) saying that NBC should rescind the invitation to Trump. Rep. Gutiérrez said, “When public figures cross certain lines, they should lose their privileges to host TV shows. At least until they have apologized for their unacceptable behavior.” Standing before a card with the hashtag #RacismIsntFunny, Rep. Gutiérrez of Chicago said, “Well, NBC, installing Trump as SNL host may be good for ratings, but it is a bigger deal than a cameo or a Tonight Show guest shot. And I’m calling you out.” He continued: I do seem to remember Comcast spending a lot of time on Capitol Hill when they had a merger deal with Time Warner and they wanted support from Members of Congress. Comcast said Latinos were so important to them and they had plans to do this, that and the other thing to support the Latino and immigrant community. What happened? The merger didn’t go through so you no longer feel that sense of corporate responsibility to 55 million Latinos. Giving free air time to people who insult and malign them is now part of your business model? At the end, Rep. Gutiérrez revealed a photo of SNL Executive Producer Lorne Michaels, a Canadian immigrant whose company, Broadway Video, runs SNL, The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon, Late Night with Seth Meyers and other programs, saying “I wonder if things might have been different if Donald Trump was calling all Canadians rapists, murderers and drug dealers.” A video of the Congressman’s floor speech is here: https://youtu.be/CbK2XecRLCo The text, as prepared for delivery, is below. A press release on the letter sent Oct. 20 to the Presidents of Comcast and NBC is here: https://1.usa.gov/1GnTQ5c Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was one of the main subjects in the FRONTLINE PBS documentary “Immigration Battle,” that aired on Tuesday, October 20. Rep. Luis Gutiérrez Remarks 10/21/2015 [CARD: #RacismIsntFunny] Mr. Speaker. Did you hear that Saturday Night Live has invited Donald Trump to host the show in November? Now, let me get the exact quote, from July when Donald Trump launched his “Make America Hate Again” campaign, he said: “When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best…They’re sending people that have lots of problems, and they’re bringing those problems to us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people! … They’re sending us not the right people. It’s coming from more than Mexico. It’s coming from all over South and Latin America, and it’s coming probably from the Middle East.” While much of what Donald Trump says is hilarious, intentionally or otherwise--bald-faced, racism for political gain isn’t funny. His statements should disqualify him from being able to take the stage in an entertainment venue and speak to the American people as if what he said was no big deal. It is not that I don’t get the joke. I haven’t been kidnapped by the Politically Correct police. But when public figures cross certain lines, they should lose their privileges to host TV shows. At least until they have apologized for their unacceptable behavior. To put Donald Trump on the air in American living rooms on the signature comedy show of one of the most important national networks – after saying that Mexicans are rapists, drug-dealers and criminals – that is a corporate blunder too big to be ignored. What happened, NBC and Comcast? Within a couple of weeks after Trump launched those racist bombs, you dumped Trump. You dumped his TV show on your network. You dumped his pageants and other ventures on NBC and Universal networks like Telemundo. In July, NBC said: "Due to the recent derogatory statements by Donald Trump regarding immigrants, NBCUniversal is ending its business relationship with Mr. Trump." NBC said "respect and dignity for all people are cornerstones of our values." And NBC, you were not alone in dumping Trump. Macy’s Department Stores dumped Trump’s clothing line. Serta dumped Trump’s mattresses. Chef Jose Andres pulled his new restaurant from a Trump hotel. And Univision dumped a Trump pageant. Even NASCAR and ESPN dumped Trump. Corporate America stepped up to the plate and dumped Trump. And we applauded. Let’s be clear, the goodwill that corporate America earned for dumping Trump didn’t just come from the Mexican-American community. No, when Trump says Mexicans are murderers, rapists and drug-dealers, Puerto Ricans know he is talking about us too. And Colombians and Salvadorans and pretty much every Latino community. Look, Americans are not very good at telling us apart, so when we are under attack by a tycoon running for the Republican presidential nomination, we can’t tell us apart either—we are family. What happened, Comcast, Universal, and NBC? Now, three months later, have Donald Trump’s words been expunged? Did I miss an apology on one of his almost nightly TV appearances? Has he confessed his racist and hateful call to action? Well, NBC…installing Trump as SNL host may be good for ratings, but it is a bigger deal than a cameo or a Tonight Show guest shot. And I’m calling you out. If Donald Trump had said gays and lesbians were murdering and raping Americans, would he get to host the show? It is every bit as much of a fiction and a lie… Trump has said some pretty awful things about women, individually and collectively – but what if he said most women were criminals? Would the writers be thinking up sketches for Trump if he had slandered an entire gender rather than an entire ethnic group? Trump says he wants to do away with the part of the Constitution that allowed freed African-American slaves to be treated fully as American citizens. Yes, Trump thinks we do not need the 14th Amendment. But what if he said black people were murderers, rapists and drug-dealers, would you still pitch skits with Donald Trump in some light-hearted banter? What if all of the Latino cast members all walked off the job? Oh wait, you don’t have any Latino cast members currently. I do seem to remember Comcast spending a lot of time on Capitol Hill when they had a merger deal with Time Warner and they wanted support from Members of Congress. Comcast said Latinos were so important to them and they had plans to do this, that and the other thing to support the Latino and immigrant community. What happened? The merger didn’t go through so you no longer feel that sense of corporate responsibility to 55 million Latinos. Giving free air time to people who insult and malign them is now part of your business model? [REVEAL PICTURE OF LORNE MICHAELS] I am not calling for a boycott. That would go too far. Besides, like most Americans I stopped watching SNL years ago, but I will say this to Producer Lorne Michaels. I wonder if things might have been different if Donald Trump was calling all Canadians rapists, murderers and drug dealers. # # #
10.20.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez Tells NBC To Dump Trump “If SNL is allowed to proceed, it would be a huge corporate blunder.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) wrote to the Presidents of Comcast and NBC Universal asking them to “disinvite” Donald Trump from hosting the November 7 broadcast of Saturday Night Live (SNL) on NBC. The Congressman also plans to speak about NBC and Trump on the House Floor on Wednesday and to approach colleagues of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus regarding a resolution to denounce NBC Universal and its parent company Comcast Corp. pdf of letter: Rep. Gutiérrez of Chicago starts his letter to the TV executives by saying: Having Donald Trump as a guest on every news and entertainment program is one thing, but allowing him to host Saturday Night Live is another. It is a level of endorsement that says to America that every hateful and racist thing Donald Trump has said since the moment he launched his campaign is acceptable and no big deal. The Congressman notes that NBC had acted swiftly this summer, along with other corporate partners of Donald Trump’s, to sever business ties with the billionaire candidate after he launched his campaign by saying Mexicans, Latinos, and other immigrants were rapists, criminals, and drug-dealers. In his letter, the Congressman says: Three months later, because he is a ratings and comedy bonanza, Lorne Michaels and Saturday Night Live (SNL) are giving the Trump campaign 90 minutes of free network airtime. I think I speak for a lot of Americans, especially immigrant Americans and Latino Americans, when I say that if SNL is allowed to proceed, it would be a huge corporate blunder. Over the past several weeks, Congressman Gutiérrez has met with groups of Chicago area High School students and they have expressed their fears that Donald Trump may revoke their citizenship or deport their family members. “Putting him on as host is a sign that Trump’s views are being accepted and that is exactly what these American teenagers are afraid of,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “I am taking their very real anxiety to heart and it is why I am taking issue with a comedy show.” The Congressman concludes his letter: Please disinvite him. Make a statement: Derogatory statements of the nature trumpeted by Trump about any group disqualifies someone from hosting shows on your network. Send a message that racism is not funny and that responsibility to your viewers and the public is more important than ratings. It is a chance for your company – again – to show you are committed to your audience in more ways than just the ad revenues they provide you. Please do the right thing and dump Trump. The Congressman plans to speak about Donald Trump on the Floor of the House – as he has done several times in the past – and specifically about the SNL invitation on Wednesday during the morning hour (approximately 10 am ET), and at this week’s meeting of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), he plans to present a resolution for the CHC to consider on Trump’s invitation to host the NBC comedy program. Numerous groups have already launched campaigns targeting NBC for the Saturday Night Live invitation, including NCLR, MoveOn.org and America’s Voice. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He is one of the main subjects in the FRONTLINE PBS documentary “Immigration Battle,” airing on Tuesday, October 20. Previous speeches by the Congressman related to Donald Trump on the Floor of the House are here: GOP candidates and the agenda to take America back to the “Dark Ages” (w/ video) https://1.usa.gov/1MgeRv9 Trump, GOP driving push for citizenship (w/ video): https://1.usa.gov/1Kjad1k The “antidote” to Trump is Pope Francis (w/ video): https://1.usa.gov/1KgcXMQ Let’s turn Trump’s words into something positive (w/video): https://1.usa.gov/1ZUl8ql “The Donald” misses the point (w/ video): https://1.usa.gov/1CrQVGy Text of letter to Comcast Corp and NBC Universal: October 20, 2015 Mr. Brian Roberts Chairman/President/CEO Comcast Corp 1701 John F. Kennedy Blvd. Philadelphia, PA 19103 Mr. Stephen B. Burke President/CEO NBCUniversal 30 Rockefeller Plaza New York, NY 10112 Dear Messrs. Roberts and Burke: Having Donald Trump as a guest on every news and entertainment program is one thing, but allowing him to host Saturday Night Live is another. It is a level of endorsement that says to America that every hateful and racist thing Donald Trump has said since the moment he launched his campaign is acceptable and no big deal. Well, it is a big deal. He said Mexicans are rapists, criminals and drug-dealers, and to be clear, when he said Mexicans are those things, he was tarring all Latinos and all immigrants. His exact words were, “They’re sending us not the right people. It’s coming from more than Mexico. It’s coming from all over South and Latin America, and it’s coming probably from the Middle East.” The reaction in July from NBC was swift and clear: “Due to the recent derogatory statements by Donald Trump regarding immigrants, NBCUniversal is ending its business relationship with Mr. Trump." And NBC said, “Respect and dignity for all people are cornerstones of our values.” Serta, Macy’s, NASCAR, Univision, and ESPN were among the others that also acted to dump Trump. Three months later, because he is a ratings and comedy bonanza, Lorne Michaels and Saturday Night Live (SNL) are giving the Trump campaign 90 minutes of free network airtime. I think I speak for a lot of Americans, especially immigrant Americans and Latino Americans, when I say that if SNL is allowed to proceed, it would be a huge corporate blunder. When Comcast sought a merger with Time Warner, I and a lot of my Congressional Hispanic Caucus colleagues heard from you about your commitment to the Latino community and the level of corporate responsibility you pledged to your diverse audience. I certainly hope that your commitment to “respect and dignity for all people” was not some hollow promise and is in fact a cornerstone of your values. Please disinvite him. Make a statement: Derogatory statements of the nature trumpeted by Trump about any group disqualifies someone from hosting shows on your network. Send a message that racism is not funny and that responsibility to your viewers and the public is more important than ratings. It is a chance for your company – again – to show you are committed to your audience in more ways than just the ad revenues they provide you. Please do the right thing and dump Trump. Sincerely, Luis V. Gutiérrez Member of Congress # # #
10.09.2015	Media Release CONGRESS of the UNITED STATES FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 9, 2015 House Members Introduce Resolution Calling for Children’s Bill of Rights WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Friday, October 9, Representatives Karen Bass (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA) and Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) joined DC area school children, children’s advocates and Bruce Lesley, President of First Focus Campaign for Children, to introduce a House resolution calling for passage of a Children’s Bill of Rights. The United States stands alone as the only nation not to ratify the U.N. Convention on the Rights of the Child and lacks a comprehensive framework governing the rights of children. This is a step in changing that. The resolution reads in part, “Resolved, it is the sense of the House of Representatives that every child is entitled to: physical well-being, social and emotional well-being, and educational and life skills.” Each of these areas has specific set of right delineated beneath them. For example, under “physical well-being,” the specific rights include protection from neglect and abuse, the right to safe schools and communities, the right to medical care, and the right to have the government care for a child’s basic needs if no parent or care-giver is caring for them. “Children’s rights are human rights,” said Rep. Karen Bass. “The United States needs to state unequivocally that all children have basic rights. While 197 countries have ratified the United Nations Convention of the Rights of Child, the United States has stayed on the sidelines. This is embarrassing, and it is beyond time for the United States to catch up with the world and support all our children.” “Children’s rights are human rights,” said Rep. Judy Chu. “No matter who your parents are and no matter where you are from, every child deserves a healthy and safe environment to grow up in. The Children’s Bill of Rights solidifies our commitment to all of the children in our nation. It gives a comprehensive framework that ensures children are free of abuse and neglect, have quality education and a healthy environment. I am so proud to join my colleagues in introducing a bill that makes the welfare of our nation’s children our priority” “This resolution will not wipe away poverty, or take guns off of our streets, or make our schools miraculously better, but it is a step,” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez said. “It puts the Congress on notice that we are watching how our actions impact the youngest and most important among us.” “The United States has no framework governing the rights of our children to ensure their basic needs are being met. That is shameful,” said Bruce Lesley, President of First Focus Campaign for Children. “The rights of the child should be our first thought every time we make a decision about their well-being. The Children’s Bill of Rights for the first time establishes standards to make sure children get the housing, nutrition, healthcare, and education they need.” Click here for the text of the resolution. Further background on the Children’s Bill of Rights and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child can be found at First Focus Campaign for Children’s link here: https://campaignforchildren.org/resources/fact-sheet/childrens-bill-of-rights/ # # #
10.08.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez on Planned Parenthood, GOP Candidates, and the Agenda to Take Us Back to the “Dark Ages” “That desire to turn the clock backwards, to undo the progress of our lifetimes, and to punish America for evolving over time is basically at the heart of the Republican Agenda” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke during the 10 am hour (ET) on the House floor about Planned Parenthood, Donald Trump, Ben Carson and the Republican agenda to take the United States back to the “Dark Ages.” The Congressman said: “For most Americans, Mad Men was a good TV drama set before racial integration, before the women’s movement really took hold, before gays and lesbians dared come out of the closet, and before we removed racial quotas from immigration. But some in the Republican Party see it as a reality TV show or something that we should aspire to turn into a reality TV show.” Speaking about his own daughters, his mother, and his wife’s health care and reproductive rights, the Congressman said: “It seems to me that we should not be looking for ways to limit choices women have, to force them into back alleys or across state lines for health care or to treat them as if only wise men in Washington can make their decisions for them. But that desire to turn the clock backwards, to undo the progress of our lifetimes, and to punish America for evolving over time is basically at the heart of the Republican agenda…” He concluded by invoking the phrase used by GOP Presidential candidate Jeb Bush, who said in reference to the recent massacre in Oregon that “stuff happens.” The Congressman said: “Stuff does happen. A lot of stuff has happened since the 1950s and 1960s. Our laws and our culture have evolved to become more inclusive and we are a more diverse and egalitarian society because of it. Many Republicans call that stuff the problem. Most Americans call that stuff progress.” Rep. Gutiérrez’ remarks (as prepared for delivery) are pasted below A video of the Congressman’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/LifwDwRHk7c Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Republicans and the Dark Ages Floor Speech As Donald Trump and Ben Carson have turned up the volume with more and more outrageous statements and policy proposals, Members of Congress have been trying to keep up. Now, Republicans in the House not only have to play to the small but extremely vocal segment of the electorate that feels Washington is quote “out of step with the American people” but they also have another audience to woo: each other – because a lot of our colleagues are currently running for leadership positions. But is it really Washington that is out-of-step with America or is it the most vocal, most active, and most vitriolic elements of the Republican base that are out of step with America? Last week’s NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll was pretty startling. It showed on issue after issue that on the positions adopted by the leading GOP candidates, vast majorities of Americans disagree with the Republicans. On abortion restrictions, immigration, LGBT equality, racial diversity, and reproductive health, some in the Republican base demand we go back to the dark ages. But it is not, in fact, the direction that most Americans want to go. For most Americans, Mad Men was a good TV drama set before racial integration, before the women’s movement really took hold, before gays and lesbians dared come out of the closet, and before we removed racial quotas from immigration. But some in the Republican Party see it as a reality TV show or something that we should aspire to turn into a reality TV show. The latest throw-down from the right has been over Planned Parenthood and reimbursing this respected organization for health services it provides to women across the country. In many cases, Planned Parenthood is the only source of affordable and accessible reproductive health care, contraception, HIV and STD testing, cancer screenings, and basic health care. Under federal law, our tax dollars cannot pay for abortions and there are no credible claims that this is being violated. And under law, abortion is legal in the United States despite all of the restrictions imposed and proposed by Republicans. But this goes farther than abortion rights and a woman’s right to control her own health care and reproduction. Some Republicans here and around the country are frankly not too comfortable with the whole family planning thing. In my family, I have two daughters who are brilliant and whom I trust to make decisions for themselves. They were born eight years apart and not by accident. My wife and I planned her pregnancies around her career as an investment banker and had our children when we were ready. That is an option that opened a world of opportunity and self-determination to my wife that my mother never had. Puerto Rican women in my mother’s day had one thing forced on them by the government and that was sterilization. Period. So when I hear talk about shutting down the government to appease the far-right on Planned Parenthood, I think of the progress we have made from my mother’s generation to my wife’s generation and now to the world in which my daughters live. It seems to me that we should not be looking for ways to limit choices women have, to force them into back alleys or across state lines for health care or to treat them as if only wise men in Washington can make their decisions for them. But that desire to turn the clock backwards, to undo the progress of our lifetimes, and to punish America for evolving over time is basically at the heart of the Republican agenda as driven by their most active and vocal base. Republicans run for office and legislate as if they want gay people back in the closet. As if they want Latinos and Asians to be invisible. As if they wish women were just in the kitchen or the bedroom. As if we could go back to those golden days before the Civil Rights Act, the Voting Rights Act, and Brown vs. Board of Education when everything was separate and some people were more equal than others. Well, with all due respect to Dr. Carson and Emperor Trump, every poll indicates that the American people are just not with them and that is especially true for young people. Dr. Carson must be nostalgic for the anti-Catholic days before John Kennedy was elected because he is now raising doubts that people of certain religions are qualified to serve their country as President. Senator Cruz must like the old days when we turned away refugees based on their religion as we did for Europeans in the 1930s and 40s when anti-Semitism gripped the country. Now he wants to send Muslims back to die in Syria. And then there is Donald Trump. He wants to deport about a quarter of the 50 million Latinos in the United States. If mass deportation was good enough for President Eisenhower, he feels, it should be good enough for us. But he leaves out the U.S. citizens wrongly deported in roundups because of racial profiling, not their actual immigration status. I will agree with one leading candidate – Governor Bush – who recently said that, quote, “stuff happens.” Stuff does happen. A lot of stuff has happened since the 1950s and 1960s. Our laws and our culture have evolved to become more inclusive and we are a more diverse and egalitarian society because of it. Many Republicans call that stuff the problem. Most Americans call that stuff progress. # # #
10.05.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez on Father Marco Mercado “I can’t say enough good things about him.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement in reaction to the news that Father Marco Mercado had been removed from his position at the Shrine of Our Lady of Guadalupe. The Father had been Rep. Gutierrez’ guest in the House Gallery when Pope Francis addressed a Joint Session of Congress in September. According to news reports, the Father was removed from his position at the Des Planes, Illinois Catholic Church by the Archdiocese of Chicago over allegations of an “inappropriate” relationship with an adult. “The Father Mercado I know is an incredible public servant who has built a very important and broad congregation in Des Plaines with a reach that goes well beyond the Chicago area. I can’t say enough good things about him. He was the perfect guest to join me during the Pope’s visit. I learned a lot from him and hold him in the highest regard. “I do not know anything about the allegations, but I hope this matter is resolved quickly. He is an important spiritual and community leader who has so much to offer and I hope he soon continues his service to others.” Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
09.30.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez’ New Bill expands Access to Obamacare to Undocumented Immigrants Congressman delivers floor speech and introduces “Exchange Inclusion for a Healthy America Act of 2015” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) introduced the Exchange Inclusion for a Healthy America Act of 2015 and spoke on the House floor about his new legislation during the 10 am hour (ET). The bill subjects everyone to the individual mandate to carry insurance and lifts restrictions in the Affordable Care Act – also known as Obamacare – that require individuals to be “lawfully present” in order to buy into the health care insurance exchanges. So those not covered by insurance through their employer, regardless of immigration status, would have to purchase health insurance through the exchanges provided they establish state residency and file taxes (which most immigrants already do). They would also have access to subsidies, if they qualify. “The goal is to make integration and inclusion real for millions of families that are locked out under current law,” the Congressman said in his floor speech. “As it stands right now, undocumented immigrants are not subject to the individual mandate and cannot buy into health insurance exchanges even if they use their own money. My legislation will change that. It says that we stand for inclusion.” He continued: “As a nation, we all benefit when we spread the risk, require younger, healthier workers to join our exchanges with the rest of us, reduce the costs of compensating hospitals for caring for the uninsured, and decrease the number of uninsured who live and work here.” Recalling the Pope’s message to Congress just last week – about adhering to the Golden Rule – the Congressman said, “Doing unto others as you would have them do unto you means moving forward with no restrictions on which brother and sister and neighbor we think of as ‘eligible’ or ‘deserving.’” A summary of the Exchange Inclusion for a Healthy America Act of 2015 is pasted below, as are the remarks from the Congressman’s floor speech (as prepared for delivery). A video of the Congressman’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/8pOB62zpGLM Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Text of Floor Speech: Exchange Inclusion for a Healthy America Act of 2015 The Pope visited America and he inspired a lot of people, even in cynical Washington, DC. For one, he inspired Speaker Boehner to wake up the next morning and announce his resignation. As I said last week, it must be hard for a decent man like Speaker Boehner to be the head of the New Know-Nothing Party of increasingly extreme measures to cut health care for women and to round up and deport millions of undocumented immigrants. It remains to be seen how Republicans in the House will conduct themselves without adult supervision, but the Speaker is going out on a high note. Having the Pope speak to America from the floor of the House of Representatives was a crowning achievement for the Speaker. But now that his job is no longer on the line, I hope he will see immigration reform as the jewel in that crown and act before he steps down. But we all know that is unlikely. The current hysteria on the campaign trail makes action by these Republicans or any Republicans unlikely Even though I still believe we have the votes – like we did for the last several years – to pass immigration reform in the House I don’t think the Speaker, even as a lame duck, will allow a vote. But the Pope’s visit certainly inspired me to think about the moral example he sets. Look, the Holy Father simply reminded Members of Congress about the Golden Rule – “Do unto others as you would have them do unto you” – and he could not even complete his sentence and he got a standing ovation. If we had a daily reminder of the Golden Rule, we could cut through a lot of the Bull in Congress and have a better country and a better world. And it is the Golden Rule that I am here to discuss. Treat your brother and your sister and your neighbor with compassion as you would like to be treated yourself. And in the case of health care and access to health insurance, it is not simply out of a sense of moral altruism, although that is a part of it. Rather it is out of the reality that treating our brothers and sisters and neighbors as we want to be treated when it comes to health care and access to care and access to health insurance is in our own self-interest, as well. That is why I am introducing the Exchange Inclusion for a Healthy America Act of 2015, a bill to give people complete access to the Affordable Care Act regardless of their immigration status. The Exchange Inclusion for a Healthy America Act or EIHA will extend health care insurance access to the millions of our neighbors and family members who live here, work here, raise families here, and will probably live here for the rest of their lives, but who lack legal immigration status. It gives them access to the health care exchanges in Obamacare under the ordinary rules of residency in the states in which they live and makes them eligible for subsidies if and when they file taxes – just like the rest of us. It also subjects them to the individual mandate that requires individuals to have health insurance The goal is to make integration and inclusion real for millions of families that are locked out under current law. Now, if I remember correctly, the President was standing right over there in 2009 talking about how his health care reform proposal would exclude undocumented immigrants and one of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle interrupted him by shouting “You lie” to the President of the United States of America, who, we should all note, was reelected comfortably in 2012. I do not expect that Member of Congress to join me as a co-sponsor, but in fact as we all know, he was dead wrong about the Affordable Care Act. In addition to “death panels” and a number of other fictions, the Republicans were wrong about undocumented immigrants being included in Obamacare. I am and have always been an advocate for the single payer approach to universal health coverage and I fought to include all of the people who live in this country in the Affordable Care Act, but they were written out. As it stands right now, undocumented immigrants are not subject to the individual mandate and cannot buy into health insurance exchanges even if they use their own money. My legislation will change that. It says that we stand for inclusion. It says that we understand the principle that if you are here, if you are working and caring for your family and contributing to society, you should be healthy. Not only that, but your health and your protection from diseases, injuries and preventable illnesses impacts my health care and the health care of my family. As a nation, we all benefit when we spread the risk, invite younger, healthier workers to join our exchanges, reduce the costs of compensating hospitals for caring for the uninsured and reducing the number of uninsured who live and work here. Doing unto others as you would have them do unto you means moving forward with no restrictions on which brother and sister and neighbor we think of as “eligible” or “deserving” or is in fact considered “my” neighbor or “my” sister or “my” brother. My Party and the vast majority of my country understands that getting immigrants on the books and into the system and integrating today’s immigrants into American society is the goal, just as we have done with every group of migrants throughout our history. And my legislation, the Exchange Inclusion for a Healthy America Act is step in that direction. # # # BILL SUMMARY Exchange Inclusion for a Healthy America Act of 2015 The Goal: Allow more individuals and families who are living and working in the United States to purchase health care in the exchanges created by the Affordable Care Act (ACA) so that they (1) have greater access to health care and preventative services and (2) further strengthen insurance markets, our economy, and the nation as a whole. What the Bill Does (1) Provide access to the ACA, the marketplace and subsidies to undocumented immigrants, including those with DACA/DAPA/Deferred Action, so long as they can provide proof of residency and tax-filings; (2) Subject everyone to the individual mandate; (3) Effective date is Dec. 31, 2015, during the next open enrollment period (2016). Key points about access to the exchange: · This bill would provide subsidies to undocumented immigrants, and would allow undocumented immigrants to purchase insurance plans through the marketplace with subsidies. · This bill would increase the number of individuals who sign up for coverage, which is good for public health, and helps maintain a healthy workforce and a strong U.S. economy. · This bill would increase the number of individuals covered, strengthening insurance risk pools. And since these individuals tend to be younger and healthier, their inclusion would help keep premiums lower for everyone. Reality check: · Undocumented immigrants are not neatly segregated away from the mainstream of American families the way some hope. Rather, most have lived here a long time and live in families that include citizens and other immigrants of various types of legal status. So we should account for the real nature of their integration into American society and include as many as possible in our health system. · What President Obama and most Americans understand is that getting immigrants into the system and onto the books and participating and fully integrating into American society is a much more desirable and realistic goal than pipedreams about mass deportation or “self-deportation.” · Immigrants who are undocumented today will inevitably be a part of our future workforce and tax base (especially once Congress passes sensible immigration reform), therefore it is in the interest of all of us to have as healthy a future workforce and strong tax base as possible. # # #
09.25.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez on Speaker Boehner “It cannot be easy for a decent man to be the head of what is becoming the New Know-Nothing Party of anti-immigrant policies and intolerance.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement in reaction to the news that Speaker John Boehner would be stepping down. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez: “First, I want to thank Speaker Boehner for his many years of service to his country and to the House of Representatives. He is a good and decent man and someone for whom I have a lot of affection. We do not agree on many issues and I disagree with almost everything his Caucus does, but the Speaker has been in a very difficult position for years. What his Caucus wants and what the Speaker and the country want are almost always in conflict. It cannot be easy for a decent man to be the head of what is becoming the New Know-Nothing Party of anti-immigrant policies and intolerance. “Receiving the Pope to speak to America from the House of Representatives was a crowning achievement in Speaker Boehner’s career, but he has left so much undone in the House. Despite Senate passage of an immigration reform bill last Congress, a small group of Republicans who oppose immigration were able to hold the rest of the House -- and the country -- hostage and prevent a House vote on immigration reform. There were sufficient House votes to get a bill to the President’s desk for signature, but they literally threatened Boehner's job if he called the vote. With Speaker Boehner stepping down and his job no longer on the line, there is no reason not to have a vote. He should call a vote on immigration reform, and I think in my heart that Speaker Boehner would stand with us, with his country, and with the immigrant and Latino community. Speaker Boehner now has the opportunity to respond to the Pope’s moral call and rise above the racism and the xenophobia that is gripping the Republican Party and call the vote.” # # #
09.24.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez: “Pope Delivered Message We Cannot” “If Congress had a daily reminder of the Golden Rule, this would be a better country.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement after listening to the speech of Pope Francis to a joint meeting of Congress. Rep. Gutiérrez was joined by Father Mercado as his guest in the Gallery. Father Mercado is a Catholic Priest at the Sanctuario de la Virgen de Guadalupe/Shrine of Our Lady of Guadalupe in Des Plaines, IL (see: https://www.santuarioguadalupe.org/) He is also delegate to Hispanic Ministries for the Archdiocese of Chicago. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez: “The Pope delivered a message that we in Congress simply cannot. He reminded us of the Golden Rule and the yardstick by which we will be judged. He reflected back to us the highest moral ideals of our nation. Without lecturing or preaching, he reminded us that our faith and our actions must be in sync. “I try to push back on Donald Trump and others who attack Latinos and immigrants or women or Muslims or the poor – sometimes on the floor of the House. But I cannot speak as simply and as powerfully as the Pope can. Today, someone stood up for the people in my community and the message will definitely sink in. I think every Member of Congress will have to think twice before calling all immigrants drug mules or denying climate change or cutting help for working families or labeling children seeking asylum as criminals. “If Congress had a daily reminder of the Golden Rule, this would be a better country.” # # # Previous speech by Rep. Gutierrez about the Pope’s visit on the House floor, Sept. 9, 2015 (video and text): https://1.usa.gov/1KgcXMQ
09.18.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez on Planned Parenthood Fight: “We Should Be Voting On Consequential Matters That Have A Chance Of Becoming Law, Not On Theatrical Message Bills.” Rep. Gutiérrez votes against defunding women’s health and for keeping the government open past October 1. Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) voted against measures to defund Planned Parenthood that House Republicans put forward and are using as part of a threat to shut down the government – again – on October 1. The Congressman is a strong supporter of keeping the U.S. Government open, a strong supporter of funding for women’s health services, and a strong supporter of funding for Planned Parenthood. The following is a statement from Rep. Gutiérrez: “This is a legislature, not a theater. We should be voting on consequential matters that have a chance of becoming law, not on theatrical message bills to mollify elements of the Republican base. The Republican Party’s agenda is so thoroughly disconnected from reality that they feel they must waste the nation’s time with these message bills. “The fact is that federal funds do not pay for abortions and that Planned Parenthood is one of the most important healthcare providers for women in our nation. We should be finding ways to make good health care policy for women and everyone else, not playing politics with people’s health.” Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # # Note: Rep. Gutiérrez was one of nearly 80 House Democrats who have asked Speaker Boehner to keep the House in session until a government shutdown is avoided: https://1.usa.gov/1KqPqpD
09.17.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez: Trump and GOP Driving Immigrants Towards Citizenship, Voting “The way to respond to racism is to vote.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives about the importance of citizenship and voting as the nation marks Citizenship Day, the anniversary of the Constitution’s ratification. There are approximately 8.8 million immigrants who qualify to apply for citizenship because they have held green cards for five years or been married to a U.S. citizens for three. Rep. Gutiérrez spoke during the morning hour (at approximately 10:00 am ET) about the citizenship workshop he has organized in Chicago for Saturday, September 19 – just one of the scores of events helping immigrants navigate the citizenship process that are being staged across the country. Rep. Gutiérrez started by recounting one of his favorite movies, the Oscar-nominated civil rights epic “Selma,” and tied it into the events of the day. What can Americans do when the tail that is wagging the dog of the Republican Party is saying that most Mexicans are murderers and rapists? … Well, in the movie “Selma,” Oprah Winfrey didn’t just get mad; she fought back by making sure she could register to vote. Rep. Gutiérrez said that there has been a surge of interest in citizenship and voter registration in his District: People are calling and coming into my office asking what they can do to push back on Trumpism and very specifically, those who are not yet citizens are asking how to become citizens and those who have not registered to vote are asking how to register. In Latino and Asian communities and in every community that thinks calling most Mexicans rapists is not the kind of political rhetoric that should go unchallenged, people are becoming citizens. The Congressman concluded: The way we respond to racism is by voting and in Latino and immigrant communities, we are getting that message loud and clear. The text of the Congressman’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, is below. A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/McC1j8UXpIk Information on Saturday’s citizenship workshop in Chicago is here: https://1.usa.gov/1gmEBgn Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Rep. Gutiérrez Floor Speech I re-watched one of my favorite movies recently. “Selma” tells the story of the fight to register voters in Selma, Alabama culminating in the march from Selma to Montgomery, led by Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in 1965. Spoiler Alert! After being turned around, threatened, beaten, tear-gassed and killed, black people got to vote in America. A young and handsome John Lewis is depicted in the pivotal role of the community organizer who helps lead the movement. Another Spoiler Alert! John Lewis is a Member of this body and serves with distinction from the State of Georgia. It is among the highest honors of my life to know John Lewis and work with him. In fact, I have marched with and gotten arrested with John Lewis outside this Capitol Building in our fight for immigration reform. I highly recommend the movie and I want every citizen -- and every person who lives here and hopes to be a citizen one day -- to watch and learn from the movie “Selma.” It is a moment in history when voting and citizenship were literally life and death struggles – and it was only fifty years ago. As the Congress drags its feet on renewing and improving the Voting Rights Act, it is important to remember these struggles. And just yesterday, the NAACP completed an historic 1,000 mile march from Selma to Washington to remind us of the main lessons we learned 50 years ago. How we must always stand up to bullies and official inaction using non-violence and community organizing and empowerment techniques. The way to respond to racism is to vote. I have been thinking a lot about that recently as the Republican presidential field of candidates has fallen in line with a bully who spews racism and is leading among his party’s primary voters. What can Americans do when the tail that is wagging the dog of the Republican Party is saying that most Mexicans are murderers and rapists? What can we do as a nation when candidates blame unrest in reaction to police violence in Baltimore and Ferguson on Mexican and Central American immigrants? What can we do when thousands of people cheer when a candidate proposes building a great wall of America on our Southern Border and the response from other candidates is to say we should build another wall opposite Canada as well? Well, in the movie “Selma,” Oprah Winfrey didn’t just get mad; she fought back by making sure she could register to vote. We have all learned what the Republican Party seems to be forgetting, that appeals to a narrow Republican electorate with over-the-top racism and below the belt immigrant-bashing will not get you to the White House. President Romney…err, uh… Governor Romney got more white votes than any candidate in history -- but he could not overcome the demographic reality that the country is more diverse and so are its voters. Appeals to racism and immigrant bashing are creating a predictable backlash in the neighborhoods of my District in Chicago. People are calling and coming into my office asking what they can do to push back on Trumpism and very specifically, those who are not yet citizens are asking how to become citizens and those who have not registered to vote are asking how to register. In Latino and Asian communities and in every community that thinks calling most Mexicans rapists is not the kind of political rhetoric that should go unchallenged, people are becoming citizens. My office in Chicago is known as a place to go if you want information on the citizenship process. In total more than 50,000 American citizens came to our office for help to figure out the process. The demand for information on citizenship has grown so much in my District that this Saturday, from 9:00 – noon, at the Instituto del Progreso Latino, I will join my staff and local advocates and the local office of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services for a free workshop on applying for citizenship. Not only will we help people understand the process, we will help them figure out if they qualify for fee waivers so that the $680 application fee that people have to pay is not a barrier. Think about it. There are roughly 8.8 million immigrants with green cards who have lived in the U.S. for five years or more or have been married to a U.S. citizen for three years or more and they could pass the background check and probably qualify for citizenship. So, what I am proposing is that instead of renewing a green card for 10 years for $450, you can apply for permanent citizenship with a fee waiver and become a citizen for free. That’s right, apply for citizenship and you can vote for whoever you want to vote for, and you could even vote against the guy who called your whole ethnic group rapists, murderers and drug-dealers. That kind of ugly, un-American attack is moving people to apply for citizenship and moving citizens to become voters. Mr. Speaker, today is Citizenship Day and there are hundreds of citizenship workshops and activities across the country. I am looking forward to meeting the hundreds of people who will be working towards their citizenship this Saturday in Chicago. The way we respond to racism is by voting and in Latino and immigrant communities, we are getting that message loud and clear. # # #
09.16.2015	Rep. Gutierrez’ Guest to Pope’s Address is Prominent Latino Priest from Des Plaines Father Marco Mercado of the Shrine of Our Lady of Guadalupe/Sanctuario de Nuestra Señora de Guadalupe will sit in House Gallery for Papal Address Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) announced that Father Marco Mercado would be his guest as Pope Francis addresses a joint session of Congress on Thursday, September 24 in the U.S. Capitol. Father Mercado is a Catholic Priest at the Sanctuario de la Virgen de Guadalupe/Shrine of Our Lady of Guadalupe in Des Plaines, IL (see: https://www.santuarioguadalupe.org/) He is also Archbishop Cupich’s delegate to Hispanic Ministries. Each Member of Congress was given one ticket for the House Gallery for the Pope’s address. An additional 50 tickets for viewing of the speech on the West Lawn of the Capitol Grounds via closed circuit television have been distributed by the Congressman’s office. In addition to the speech on Thursday, Rep. Gutiérrez will be attending a welcoming ceremony at the White House on Wednesday morning, September 23 and a Papal Mass at Washington’s Shrine of the Immaculate Conception on Wednesday afternoon. Representative Gutiérrez, who is Catholic, gave a speech on the House Floor last week in which he said he was “very much looking forward to the Pope’s visit and the Pope’s words because our nation needs a counter-balance, a counter weight to what has become the ugliest, most xenophobic, most anti-immigration [presidential] campaign in anyone’s memory.” [Video and Text: https://1.usa.gov/1KgcXMQ] # # # Note: Congressman Gutiérrez is holding a free citizenship workshop in Chicago on Saturday, September 19 which will include a press conference/media availability at 9:30 a.m. Details here: https://1.usa.gov/1gmEBgn
09.14.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez’ workshop will help qualified constituents with applications and fee waivers Videos: https://youtu.be/3RrafrDptCM (English) https://youtu.be/KNYnmsOQeTs (Spanish) Flyers: https://on.fb.me/1LtJSLL (English) https://on.fb.me/1KNTBlP (Spanish) Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) announced he would be holding a free citizenship workshop on Saturday, September 19 at the Instituto del Progreso Latino in Chicago to respond to a growing demand for assistance in applying for citizenship. Often, when rhetoric on immigration and Latinos turns ugly in the political world, the community responds with an uptick in applications for citizenship and a move towards voting. Rep. Gutiérrez said the focus on Donald Trump and the immigrant and Latino bashing of other candidates has coincided with an increase in people approaching his office for assistance with applying for citizenship. “More people who qualify are calling and coming into our offices asking how they can apply for citizenship and what the process entails,” said Congressman Gutiérrez. “We are responding with a free workshop because the demand for citizenship appears to be on the increase. We will fill out the application with the constituent, mail it, and apply for a fee waiver. So for many of the people we will see, the entire process will be free.” Over the years in his office, Congressman Gutiérrez has helped more than 50,000 qualified immigrants apply for and receive citizenship. Across the country, there are an estimated 8.8 million legal permanent residents who meet the requirements for citizenship but have not yet applied. The vast majority are Latinos. The citizenship workshop will include one-on-one counseling, reviewing the process and fees, an application for a fee waiver, and additional information from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service and Chicago area advocacy groups and service providers. Volunteer attorneys will be on-hand to advise constituents about their eligibility. For those who can complete the process, an application, along with an application for a fee waiver, will be mailed by the Congressman after the workshop. See the flyers (linked above) for greater detail on who can apply for citizenship and what documentation may be needed. In general, those who have been legal permanent residents of the United States (green card holders) for five years can apply, while it may be possible to apply after three years if you are married to a U.S. citizen. During the workshop, there will be a press availability with Congressman Gutiérrez, applicants, and special guests. It will begin at 9:30 a.m. EVENT 9:00 a.m. Saturday, September 19, 2015 Instituto del Progreso Latino 2520 South Western Avenue in Chicago SPACE IS LIMITED, so pre-registration is encouraged: Call (773) 342-0774 for more information or go to https://www.eventbrite.com/e/us-citizenship-workshop-tickets-18233372508 PRESS AVAILABILITY: 9:30 a.m. # # # El taller del Rep. Gutiérrez ayudará a constituyentes elegibles con sus aplicaciones y exenciones de pago Videos: https://youtu.be/3RrafrDptCM (inglés) https://youtu.be/KNYnmsOQeTs (español) Volantes: https://on.fb.me/1LtJSLL (inglés) https://on.fb.me/1KNTBlP (español) Washington, DC - Hoy, el Representante Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) anunció que organizará un taller de ciudadanía gratis el sábado 19 de septiembre en el Instituto del Progreso Latino en Chicago para responder a una demanda creciente de ayuda para solicitar la ciudadanía. A menudo, cuando el discurso sobre inmigración y la población latina es desagradable en el mundo político, la comunidad responde con un aumento en las solicitudes de ciudadanía y un movimiento hacia el voto. Rep. Gutiérrez dijo que la atención a Donald Trump y los ataques de otros candidatos hacia el inmigrante y los latinos ha coincidido con un aumento de personas que se acercan a su oficina solicitando asistencia para las aplicaciones de ciudadanía. "Más personas elegibles están llamando y visitando nuestras oficinas preguntando cómo pueden solicitar la ciudadanía y lo que exige el proceso", dijo el congresista Gutiérrez. "Estamos respondiendo con un taller gratuito porque la demanda de ciudadanía parece estar en aumento. Vamos a llenar la solicitud con el constituyente, enviarla por correo, y a solicitar una exención de pago. Así que para muchas de las personas que ayudaremos, todo el proceso será gratis". A través de los años, la oficina del congresista Gutiérrez ha ayudado a más de 50,000 inmigrantes elegibles a solicitar y a recibir la ciudadanía. En todo el país, se estima que hay 8.8 millones de residentes permanentes legales que cumplen con los requisitos para la ciudadanía pero que aún no la han solicitado. La gran mayoría son latinos. El taller de ciudadanía incluirá un asesoramiento personal, revisión del proceso y de cuotas, una solicitud de exención de pago, así como información adicional del Servicio de Ciudadanía e Inmigración de los EE.UU., grupos de defensa del área de Chicago y los proveedores de servicios. Abogados voluntarios estarán a su disposición para asesorar a los constituyentes acerca de su elegibilidad. Para los que puedan completar el proceso, una aplicación, junto con una solicitud de exención de pago, se enviará por correo de parte del Congresista después del taller. Vea los volantes (vinculados arriba) para más detalles sobre quién puede solicitar la ciudadanía y qué documentación es necesaria. En general, los que han sido residentes permanentes legales de los Estados Unidos (con permiso de trabajo) durante cinco años pueden aplicar, al igual que puede ser posible aplicar después de tres años si está casado con un/a ciudadano/a estadounidense. Durante el taller, habrá disponibilidad de prensa con el congresista Gutiérrez, los solicitantes e invitados especiales. Comenzará a las 9:30 am EVENTO 09:00 a.m. Sábado, 19 de septiembre 2015 Instituto del Progreso Latino 2520 S. Western Avenue en Chicago Cupo es limitado así que se recomienda la registración: Llame al (773) 342-0774 para más información o visite https://www.eventbrite.com/e/us-citizenship-workshop-tickets-18233372508 DISPONIBILIDAD DE PRENSA: 09:30 am # # #
09.11.2015	“Every security expert I trust - like Colin Powell - supports this deal and almost every former government official I deeply distrust - like Vice President Dick Cheney - opposes this agreement.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of the Iran nuclear agreement during the debate to symbolically approve or disapprove of the deal. Among other reasons for supporting the international agreement, the Congressman said, “Every security expert I trust - like Colin Powell - supports this deal and almost every former government official I deeply distrust - like Vice President Dick Cheney - opposes this agreement.” Rep. Gutiérrez, a Member of the Judiciary and Intelligence Committees, has been a vocal supporter of the agreement to curb Iran’s nuclear program and has been working to garner the support of other Democrats for the proposal. Rep. Gutiérrez went on to say: The power and position of the United States as a world leader brought our allies to the table. It achieved an outcome our country working alone could not achieve. It is not something the Europeans, the Russians, the Chinese, or even the United Nations could have achieved. It is not something sanctions alone could achieve. And not something that war alone could achieve. The video of today’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/tWO0lKJTOA0 The Congressman wrote an op-ed for The Hill newspaper in July with Rep. John Yarmouth of Kentucky, which was entered into the record: “Iran nuke deal is good for America and for peace,” The Hill, July 29, 2015, https://bit.ly/1DOvZEV The text of the Congressman’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, is below. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Rep. Gutiérrez Iran Speech 09/11/15 Mr. Speaker: I have a proud record, a record as strong as any Member of Congress in supporting Israel. And it is because of this support that I back the deal that the President and our allies have negotiated. If I thought that this agreement made the State of Israel more vulnerable, I would not support it, but that is not the case. Every security expert I trust - like Colin Powell - supports this deal and almost every former government official I deeply distrust - like Vice President Dick Cheney - opposes this agreement. This is one of the most detailed international agreements of its kind in memory and it was no small task of American diplomacy, statesmanship and good old fashioned negotiating that brought the deal to reality. The power and position of the United States as a world leader brought our allies to the table. It achieved an outcome our country working alone could not achieve. It is not something the Europeans, the Russians, the Chinese, or even the United Nations could have achieved. It is not something sanctions alone could achieve. And not something that war alone could achieve. The United States working with our friends -- and in some cases our rivals -- brought about this end to Iran’s nuclear weapons program with an agreement for verifiable, enforceable, effective curbs on Iran’s nuclear ambitions and it is in Iran’s interest to abide by the agreement. With this one step forward, the U.S. has helped erase our record of international shortsightedness. It gets us back on track as a leader who leverages our economic power, our military power, our powers to persuade and compromise and bring people together. There are not many times in a person’s congressional career -- or in the course of history, for that matter -- when a person can cast a vote literally for peace or war. Voting to support the Iran agreement is a vote to give peace a chance. Put diplomacy at the top of our agenda. Stand up for our men and women in uniform and their families and our nation by avoiding war. Let us support a deal that is good for Israel, good for America, good for peace, and good for the world. # # #
09.09.2015	“On one shoulder, we have a billionaire out there saying Mexicans are murderers… On the other shoulder is a man who is not afraid to touch the feet of the poor and recognizes their humanity even in their poverty.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) wasted no time in returning to the House floor to give a speech about the number one topic in Latino neighborhoods in America: Donald Trump. Speaking between enlarged photos of Donald Trump over one shoulder and Pope Francis over the other during the “Morning Hour” (approximately 10:10 am ET), Rep. Gutiérrez spoke of the arrival of Pope Francis in just two weeks and the need for “a counter weight to what has become the ugliest, most xenophobic, most anti-immigration campaign in anyone’s memory.” The Congressman said when the Pope addresses a joint session of Congress later this month, “we will see two paths in very sharp relief. Build a wall or build a bridge? Help our brother or turn our backs? Belittle our sister or share her heavy load? Incite distrust and division or foster unity to face our challenges because we are stronger together?” The Congressman concluded: For this Catholic American – for this man who has sometimes struggled with the Church and is not always welcomed because of my support for women’s health, a woman’s right to a legal abortion, LGBT rights – I am so looking forward to the Pope’s visit because I feel my nation needs him right now. The video of today’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/TOtHYi6Xfoo The text, as prepared for delivery, is below. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Rep. Gutiérrez Floor Speech | September 9, 2015 You know in the movies and the cartoons, when someone has to make a choice and the little devil and the little angel appear on their shoulder to give both good and bad advice? Well, that is what I feel America is going to feel like in a couple of weeks when His Holiness Pope Francisco comes to visit us – including an address in this very room. On one shoulder, we have a billionaire out there saying Mexicans are murderers, immigrants come to this country to get on welfare, our best days are behind us, and just getting tough and insulting people will solve all of our problems and make us great again. And almost everyone else in his party is scrambling to catch up so they do not miss out on the wave of populist anger he is tapping…and feeding with a mix of untruths, half-truths, and good old fashioned racism. On the other shoulder is a man who is not afraid to touch the feet of the poor and recognizes their humanity even in their poverty. He is a man who sees actual human problems like our environment and tries to bring us together to do something about it. He is a man who through deeds, declarations, and his own demeanor says in a clear voice: “Welcome the stranger” and “Come onto me.” He does not blame a nation’s problems on the strangers at the gate or say get the hell out. In many ways, Pope Francis represents the Anti-Trump. The antidote to his venom. I, like a lot of my Democratic colleagues and a lot of my Catholic colleagues – and frankly the majority of Americans of all faiths and political stripes across the nation -- are very much looking forward to the Pope’s visit and the Pope’s words because our nation needs a counter-balance, a counter weight to what has become the ugliest, most xenophobic, most anti-immigration campaign in anyone’s memory. You can also throw in large helpings of anti-woman, anti-environmental, and anti-poor attacks in there as well. Shortly after The Donald announced with great fanfare -- and extreme insult and unvarnished racism -- that he would inflict his campaign for the White House on the nation, I came to this well to address my colleagues on July 9. I discussed a reasoned approach to dealing with immigrant criminals who must be locked up and deported and distinguishing them from the vast majority of America’s immigrants who live peacefully and helpfully among us. They come here to work and make a better life for themselves and their families -- as my parents did when they left Puerto Rico in the 1950s to seek a better life, eventually landing in Chicago. It is the strength and the advantage of our nation that we come from everywhere but have put together the best nation on earth by working together. It is what defines us as a people. Most of our ancestors came to this land of their own free will, and some did not. Most came here seeking a dream or running away from a nightmare -- or sometimes both. Most of us came legally, sometimes waiting in lines that lasted years and some of us, when legality was not an option and there was no line to stand in, came anyway because work and freedom are so plentiful. But in the United States, we came together from our many nations and traditions and languages and religions and made the one nation that stands above all others as the defender of liberty, the engine of the world economy, and the beacon of freedom recognized in every corner of the globe. We are proud of our accomplishments as we should be, despite our humble beginnings when no one and no other nation thought we could survive to take our place among the world’s nations. As the Pope joins us this month to deliver his message of peace and inclusion, I urge us all to remember the many challenges we have faced as a nation and the many obstacles we have overcome. Just a few decades ago, the thought of a Catholic President was outrageous and the thought of a Pope addressing a joint session of Congress was far-fetched. Just about as far-fetched as a black President, a woman president, or a Latino Pope from the Americas. But over the decades – in fits and starts, marching forward, being pushed back, and marching forward again arm in arm – we have spent more time listening to our better angels and their advice -- taking us towards a brighter future -- and less time listening to our darker influences, who lament progress and seek to divide us from one another. I think in this Capitol Building, in this Chamber, when the Pope speaks to us, we will see two paths in very sharp relief. Build a wall or build a bridge? Help our brother or turn our backs?. Belittle our sister or share her heavy load? Incite distrust and division or foster unity to face our challenges because we are stronger together? For this Catholic American – for this man who has sometimes struggled with the Church and is not always welcomed because of my support for women’s health, a woman’s right to a legal abortion, and LGBT rights – I am so looking forward to the Pope’s visit because I feel my nation needs him right now. # # #
09.03.2015	Washington, DC – Hoy en día, el representante Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) le envió una carta al Secretario de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos, Tom Vilsack, expresando su fuerte oposición al proyecto de la incineradora de residuos a energía propuesto en Arecibo, Puerto Rico. El Congresista Gutiérrez también solicita una extensión de plazo para que el público pueda presentar sus comentarios en respuesta al aviso del Registro Federal de la Declaración de Impacto Ambiental y renueva la solicitud que hizo en una carta a principios de abril para una reunión con el Secretario para hablar más a fondo sobre el asunto. La carta enviada hoy está adjunta. El texto traducido de la carta en español está a continuación. La carta que el Congresista envió al Secretario Vilsack en abril también se adjunta. Rep. Gutiérrez representa al Cuarto Distrito de Illinois, es miembro del Comité Permanente Selecto de Inteligencia de la Cámara, es un miembro del Comité Judicial y del Subcomité de Inmigración y Seguridad Fronteriza y es el Copresidente del Equipo de Enfoque en Inmigración del Caucus Hispano del Congreso. [English Translation] Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack expressing his strong opposition to the proposed waste-to-energy incinerator project in Arecibo, Puerto Rico. Congressman Gutiérrez also requests an extension of the deadline for the public to submit comments in response to the Federal Register notice of the Environmental Impact Statement and renews a request for a meeting with the Secretary to discuss the matter that he made in an earlier letter in April. The letter sent today is attached. The translated text of the letter in Spanish is pasted below. The letter the Congressman sent to Secretary Vilsack in April is also attached. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # # El texto traducido de la carta en español El Honorable Tom Vilsack Secretario Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos Estimado Secretario Vilsack: Le escribo para expresar mi firme oposición a la incineradora de residuos a energía propuesto por Energy Answer Arecibo LLC en el Barrio Cambalache de Arecibo, Puerto Rico. Actualmente, el Departamento Servicios Públicos Rurales (RUS por sus siglas en inglés) del Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos (USDA por sus siglas en inglés) está considerando si debe o no proporcionar la financiación para este proyecto. Quemar basura emite mercurio, plomo, dioxinas y una variedad de otras sustancias tóxicas al aire. Sistemas de incineración de residuos también producen cenizas tóxicas y otros residuos que tendrán que ser desechados en el medio ambiente. Estos contaminantes afectarán la salud de los trabajadores de las plantas y a la gente que vive cerca y contaminarán la tierra y el agua afectando negativamente a los peces y la vida silvestre de la zona. Este no es el proyecto de energía alternativa que la "Isla del Encanto" necesita. También escribo para expresar mi disgusto hasta el momento con el proceso de investigación y el escaso alcance de parte del USDA / RUS a la comunidad local de Arecibo. Como ustedes saben, el 07 de agosto del 2015 se observó un proyecto de Declaración de Impacto Ambiental (EIS por sus siglas en inglés) en relación con el incinerador en el Registro Federal. El estudio de impacto ambiental y sus anexos son largos y muy técnicos. A pesar de esto, al público se le dio sólo 45 días para responder. Además, se realizó una audiencia pública sobre el estudio de impacto ambiental el 20 de agosto por RUS en Arecibo. Yo estaba profundamente decepcionado al saber que, dado que el pueblo de Arecibo habla español y el RUS habla inglés, no había traducción de español / inglés disponible durante la audiencia. El corto período de comentarios combinado con la incapacidad de RUS para comunicarse efectivamente con la comunidad local ha causado ansiedad comprensible y desconfianza en el proceso por todo Puerto Rico. Para darles a los residentes una oportunidad legítima y sincera de entender y opinar sobre el proyecto de Energy Answer, solicito que RUS conceda una extensión de al menos 45 días para ofrecer comentarios por escrito. Por último, como lo hice en abril a principios de este año, me gustaría solicitar una reunión con usted para hablar más a fondo sobre el incinerador propuesto de Energy Answer de Arecibo. Para programar una reunión por favor comuníquese con Julissa Santoy en mi oficina al 202-225-8203. Gracias por su consideración. Atentamente, Luis V. Gutiérrez
07.31.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a letter signed by 178 members of Congress today, House Democrats called on the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to end its controversial Family Detention Program. Congressman Gutiérrez said about this letter: “I am pleased that so many of my House colleagues including our top leaders are united in telling the President and Secretary of Homeland Security that putting moms and kids in detention just does not comport with our values as a Americans. We have been making progress towards ending family detention all year, but the court ruling and the unity of Democrats on this matter make it clear that family detention is almost over. And good riddance.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez has been working closely with Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA) in pushing for an end to family detention for women and children. Press releases (in ENGLISH y ESPAÑOL) with links to the letter are pasted below. The letter (pdf), led by U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), comes on the heels of a U.S. District Court ruling late last week that the detention of immigrant women and children violated terms of the 1997 Flores Settlement, and urges DHS to “take all necessary and appropriate steps to bring the Department's practices in line with the settlement agreement and the recent court ruling.” The letter notes the “strong evidence that such detention is detrimental to mothers and children and is not reflective of our Nation's values,” and that now “is long past time to end family detention.” Full text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary Johnson: In May of this year, 136 Members of Congress wrote to you to express serious concern regarding the Department of Homeland Security's detention of thousands of mothers and children in secure, jail-like facilities. The purpose of the letter was to alert you to the strong evidence that such detention is detrimental to mothers and children and is not reflective of our Nation's values. The detained population is largely comprised of refugees fleeing violence and persecution, many of whom have serious medical and mental health needs that have been inadequately addressed in custody. You were urged to end the use of family detention. Last Friday, a federal judge issued a ruling finding that the Department's family detention practices constitute a material breach of a Court-approved class-wide settlement agreement. Flores v. Johnson, CV 85-4544 (C.D. Cal. July 24, 2015). Judge Dolly M. Gee found that the Department's decision to house children in secure facilities that are not licensed by any State agency to care for dependent children violated the 20-year-old Flores settlement agreement. The court also rejected the Department's request to amend that settlement agreement in lieu of remedying the numerous violations. It is long past time to end family detention. In light of this recent federal court ruling, we urge you take all necessary and appropriate steps to bring the Department's practices in line with the settlement agreement and the recent court ruling. La Líder Demócrata de la Cámara de Representantes Nancy Pelosi y 177 Demócratas le enviaron la siguiente carta al Secretario de Seguridad Nacional Jeh Johnson. En la carta, los representantes Demócratas le piden que ponga fin al uso de detención familiar. La versión en inglés con las firmas de los representantes se encuentra aquí. Muchas gracias. *** 31 de julio de 2015 Estimado Secretario Johnson: En mayo de este año, 136 representantes del Congreso estadounidense le enviaron una carta expresando su preocupación sobre los centros de detención del Departamento de Seguridad Nacional donde permanecen detenidas miles de madres y niños. El propósito de esa carta fue alertarlo a la fuerte evidencia de los efectos severos y negativos que permanecer en custodia, en instalaciones que parecen prisiones, tiene sobre estas madres y niños. Y recordarle que esta práctica no refleja los valores de nuestro país. La mayoría de las personas detenidas son refugiados que vienen huyendo la violencia y la persecución. Muchos de ellos tienen necesidades médicas y psicológicas que no han sido adecuadamente examinadas o tratadas mientras estos han permanecido en custodia. Le exhortamos que ponga fin al uso de detención familiar. El viernes pasado, una Jueza Federal emitió una decisión encontrando que las prácticas de detención familiar del Departamento de Seguridad Nacional violan un previo acuerdo que fue aprobado por la corte en el caso de Flores v. Johnson. La Jueza Dolly M. Gee encontró que la decisión del Departamento de poner a niños en instalaciones de detención, que no están autorizadas por ninguna agencia estatal para cuidar de niños dependientes, viola el acuerdo Flores que ha existido por 20 años. La corte también rechazó la petición del Departamento de modificar ese acuerdo como manera de remediar las numerosas violaciones. Es tiempo para poner fin a la detención familiar. En vista de esta reciente decisión de la corte federal, le exhortamos que tome todas las medidas necesarias y apropiadas para asegurar que las prácticas del Departamento de Seguridad Nacional estén en línea con el acuerdo Flores y la reciente decisión judicial. Signed: U.S. Reps. Lofgren, Gutierrez, Roybal-Allard, Conyers, Adam Smith, Beyer, Norton, Brady (PA), Deutch, Chu, Lee, Langevin, Loretta Sanchez, Gallego, Ellison, Sires, Jackson Lee, Lujan Grisham, Quigley, Lieu, Cummings, Hank Johnson, Farr, O’Rourke, Capps, McGovern, Doggett, DeGette, Napolitano, Kennedy, Frankel, Van Hollen, Tonko, Sablan, Bass, Takano, Nadler, Richmond, Cardenas, Blumenauer, Titus, Engel, Larson, Grijalva, Wilson, Welch, Serrano, Kaptur, Edwards, Cohen, McCollum, Esty, Eshoo, Becerra, Grayson, Kilmer, Clark, Hinojosa, DeLauro, Vargas, Ruiz, Castro, Fattah, Carson, Linda Sanchez, Watson Coleman, Meng, Crowley, Swalwell, Danny Davis, Matsui, Norcross, Schakowsky, Brownley, Slaughter, Clarke, Al Green, Polis, Lujan, Cicilline, Capuano, Yarmuth, Hoyer, Gene Green, Aguilar, Honda, Murphy, Moore, Hahn, Corrine Brown, Rangel, Vela, Castor, Torres, Butterfield, Bishop, Clyburn, Connolly, Susan Davis, DeSaulnier, Fudge, Hastings, Huffman, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Kildee, Lewis, Lowenthal, Lowey, Maloney, McDermott, McNerney, Meeks, Neal, Nolan, Pallone, Payne, Pingree, Plaskett, Bobby Scott, Sewell, Thompson, Veasey, Velazquez, DelBene, Kind, Duckworth, Schiff, Dingell, Takai, Kelly, Israel, Wasserman Schultz, Carney, Ruppersburger, Jeffries, Sinema, Gabbard, Beatty, Garamendi, Bordallo, Clay, Keating, Bennie Thompson, Tsongas, Waters, Pascrell, Tim Ryan, Pocan, Scott Peters, Pelosi, Sherman, Foster, Adams, Kuster, Bishop, Bonamici, Bordallo, Costa, Bera, Lawrence, Levin, Rush, Spier, Cartwright, Loesback, Sarbanes, Doyle, Ashford, Pierlusi, Perlmutter. # # #
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Two leading House Democrats introduced a new bill this week to incentivize economic growth, stimulate entrepreneurship, and attract additional foreign investment to the United States with the goal of creating jobs. The EB-JOBS Act of 2015, introduced by U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-Ill.), provides much needed reforms to the EB-5 Immigrant Investor Program and creates a new green card category for entrepreneurs who establish start-up businesses, create jobs for American workers and benefit the American economy. “For generations, immigrants have flocked to our shores to build their dreams, and in turn they have grown our economy and provided hundreds of thousands of jobs to their fellow Americans,” said Lofgren. “In fact, immigrants are twice as likely to start businesses as native-born Americans, and immigrant businesses – including small non-tech businesses – have grown at 2.5 times the national average. Companies like Intel, Google, News Corp, Yahoo, and eBay were founded by innovative immigrants and now employ tens of thousands of people. According to new research, immigrants have created nearly half of America’s top venture-backed companies and those companies in turn have created an average of 150 jobs each. Immigration has historically made our economy stronger. This bill embraces that history and encourages the world’s thinkers and doers to join us.” “By failing to fix our legal immigration system, we only hurt ourselves,” said Gutiérrez. “We are closing off America at our peril. This bill is intended to address just one aspect: making the U.S. economy more attractive to job-creators and entrepreneurs. Our nation thrives on the injection of new ideas and ways of doing business – and always has. In Chicago, Silicon Valley and everywhere else in the U.S., this bill will help America compete on a global scale by making legal immigration attainable for people willing to invest in America’s success.” The EB-JOBS Act will: Promote innovation by entrepreneurs who establish businesses and create jobs in the United States, including provisions for venture capital-funded as well as self-sponsored start-ups. Promote investment in the American economy by permanently authorizing the EB-5 Regional Center Program. Provide sensible reforms to the EB-5 program to ensure program integrity. Provide additional certainty to investors and target investment in rural areas, areas with high unemployment, and other areas of interest. Permanently authorize the expiring Conrad 30 J-1 program and reauthorize the expiring E-Verify and Special Immigration Nonminister Religious Worker programs each for 5 years. Click here for the full bill text and a section-by-section summary. # # #
07.29.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez: “El pueblo debe decirle a Wall Street que Puerto Rico no es una tienda para ser pirateada y que el pueblo de Puerto Rico no esperará a morir de hambre mientras Wall Street cuenta sus ganancias.” [“The people must tell Wall Street that Puerto Rico is not some store to be looted and that the Puerto Rican people will not sit and starve as Wall Street counts its profits. If Wall Street is buying bonds at a discount, they should be paid at a discount.”] Washington, DC – Today, for the second day in a row, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor about Puerto Rico, the debt crisis, bond-holders, and the Puerto Rican status issue. In a mix of English and Spanish, Rep. Gutierrez said Puerto Rico must set the status issue aside in order to prioritize addressing the debt crisis gripping the Island. Whether Puerto Rico should be a state, an independent nation, or remain a Commonwealth is not the issue. If everyone leaves Puerto Rico, it will not matter what kind of Government is left behind… At a time when the people of Puerto Rico must be clear, precise and unified, the status issue divides Puerto Ricans. We should be working together to figure out how Puerto Rico is going to pay teachers and honor their pensions….A Statehood bill is not going to provide housing or create a job or heal a sick child. When Members of Congress ask me about Puerto Rico they ask which is it? Statehood? Bankruptcy? Medicare? We have to prioritize. We have to be clear and put aside the status issue. Please, we need to work together. He also called on the Governor to demand that bond-holders disclose what they actually pay for Puerto Rican debt and be compensated based only on what they paid. I say Puerto Rico should pay interest based on the price the billionaires actually paid and that they should disclose this amount – just Congressmen do every time we make an investment. Then Puerto Rico can service its debt based on what was paid to buy that debt. I came here to protect people, not billionaires on Wall Street. The Congressman switched to Spanish at the end to reiterate his points, saying: El pueblo debe decirle a Wall Street que Puerto Rico no es una tienda para ser pirateada y que el pueblo de Puerto Rico no esperará a morir de hambre mientras Wall Street cuenta sus ganancias. Si Wall Street está comprando bonos con descuentos, deben ser pagados con descuentos. [The people must tell Wall Street that Puerto Rico is not some store to be looted and that the Puerto Rican people will not sit and starve as Wall Street counts its profits. If Wall Street is buying bonds at a discount, they should be paid at a discount.] The video of today’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/IsmjKStoKv8 The text as prepared for delivery (with English translation) is below Text and video of yesterday’s speech: https://1.usa.gov/1KztxHk Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago to parents who migrated from Puerto Rico in the 1950s. He returned with his family to Puerto Rico to live in the 1960s. Rep. Gutiérrez on Puerto Rico July 29, 2015 Yesterday I spoke about Puerto Rico’s debt crisis and how there must be a sense of urgency because without action, bond-holders will be paid, but teachers, cops, nurses, and wont. I want to continue today and make two points. Number 1: Let’s not let the bond-holders bleed Puerto Rico at a discount. And number 2: Let’s work together on what unites us, not what divides us. Because the only way we will make any progress is if the Puerto Rican people come together to make a plan and demand that the Congress of the United States work with Puerto Rico on Puerto Rico’s plan. Without consistent and persistent pressure from Puerto Rico, Washington will do nothing – as both the Administration and the Congress are content to let the bond-holders on Wall Street call the tune. We all know Washington should start with H.R. 870, the bankruptcy bill. It is simply a bill that would allow Puerto Rico to declare bankruptcy and restructure its debt within the U.S. legal system. This would allow an orderly and fair restructuring of the debt in a court of law. It is an important step, but will not solve all of Puerto Rico’s problems. What Puerto Rico should do right now is demand to know what Wall Street vulture-capitalists are paying for their bonds. We hear reports that bonds are selling for 15 or 20 cents on the dollar, yet the bond-owners want a full dollar’s worth of interest. I say Puerto Rico should pay interest based on the price the billionaires actually paid and that they should disclose this amount – just Congressmen do every time we make an investment. Then Puerto Rico can service its debt based on what was paid to buy that debt. I came here to protect people, not billionaires on Wall Street. Secondly and most importantly, for the time-being, we must set politics aside and get away from the smokescreen of the status issue. Whether Puerto Rico should be a state, an independent nation, or remain a Commonwealth is not the issue. If everyone leaves Puerto Rico, it will not matter what kind of Government is left behind. Mr. Speaker, nobody should use the current debt crisis as an opportunity to score political points for their Party. At a time when the people of Puerto Rico must be clear, precise and unified, the status issue divides Puerto Ricans. I read in the New York Times the argument by the Resident Commissioner of the Statehood Party that the only solution to Puerto Rico’s problems is to make it a state… “Really?” That is going to solve the debt crisis? The power crisis? The pension gap? And the Medicare Advantage budget gap? We should be working together to figure out how Puerto Rico is going to pay teachers and honor their pensions. How we will make sure health care is delivered and bridges do not collapse. A Statehood bill is not going to provide housing or create a job or heal a sick child. When Members of Congress ask me about Puerto Rico they ask which is it? Statehood? Bankruptcy? Medicare? We have to prioritize. We have to be clear and put aside the status issue. Please, we need to work together. And I would like to use my remaining minute to restate my call to action in Spanish. [SPANISH] La política y las divisiones podrían destruir las posibilidades de obligar a Washington a ayudar a resolver la crisis de la deuda de Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico debe de tener un plan común que cuente con el apoyo de todos los partidos y sobre todo, a través de la Isla. El Gobernador debe encontrar una manera de trabajar con el Comisionado Residente y el Comisionado Residente no puede ver esta crisis como una herramienta en sus campañas para un puesto más alto. El Congreso sólo ayudará a Puerto Rico siempre y cuando haya un llamado constante y persistente de los puertorriqueños exigiendo que el Congreso cumpla. Y los puertorriqueños tienen que indicar lo que esperan de parte del Congreso. La Legislación de Bancarrota es sólo una parte. Pero si todavía tenemos la Ley Jones y la misma economía y perspectivas económicas que tenemos ahora no avanzaremos. El pueblo debe decirle a Wall Street que Puerto Rico no es una tienda para ser pirateada y que el pueblo de Puerto Rico no esperará a morir de hambre mientras Wall Street cuenta sus ganancias. Si Wall Street está comprando bonos con descuentos, deben ser pagados con descuentos. Pero sobre todo, tenemos que trabajar juntos por el bien de Puerto Rico. Y no podemos dejar que las divisiones políticas sobre la estadidad nos dividan. Me comprometo, como siempre lo he hecho, a poner a un lado mis propios sentimientos sobre la estadidad de Puerto Rico y a trabajar con otros puertorriqueños en el Congreso y otros líderes en los dos Partidos que estén dispuestos a ayudarnos. Pero primero tenemos que unirnos, empezar a ayudarnos a nosotros mismos, y tener un plan claro. [ENGLISH] Thank you. I yield back. -- END -- [SPANISH SECTION TRANSLATION] Politics and divisions could destroy the chances of forcing Washington to help resolve Puerto Rico’s debt crisis. Puerto Rico must have a common plan that has support across all of the parties, and most importantly, across the Island. The Governor must find a way to work with the Resident Commissioner and the Resident Commissioner cannot view this crisis as a campaign tool for higher office. Puerto Rico will only be helped by this Congress if and when there is a consistent and persistent call on Congress by Puerto Ricans to act. And Puerto Ricans need to specify what they expect Congress to do. The Bankruptcy Bill is only part of it if we still have the Jones Act and the same economy and economic prospects as we have now. The people must tell Wall Street that Puerto Rico is not some store to be looted and that the Puerto Rican people will not sit and starve as Wall Street counts its profits. If Wall Street is buying bonds at a discount, they should be paid at a discount. But most importantly, we have to work together for the betterment of Puerto Rico. And we cannot let political divisions over statehood divide us. I commit to putting aside my own passionate feelings about Puerto Rico’s status and working with other Puerto Ricans in the Congress and other leaders in both Parties who will help us. But we must first come together, begin helping ourselves, and have a clear plan. # # #
07.28.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez: “Cualquiera que sea el plan de Washington o de Wall Street no pondrá las necesidades de la gente de Puerto Rico primero- todos sabemos eso.” [“Whatever plan is invented in Washington or on Wall Street will not put the needs of the Puerto Rican people first – we all know that.”] Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor about Puerto Rico and the debt crisis it faces. His message was that Puerto Ricans must come up with a plan and make Congress act on that plan, otherwise Washington or Wall Street will develop a plan that does not take the needs of the Puerto Rican people seriously. In a mix of English and Spanish, Rep. Gutierrez spoke on the floor in front of a map of Puerto Rico and first introduced his colleagues to the Island: “We own it. It is ours and we are responsible for it. The Congress of the United States governs this island. It is our colony and we rule over it. And it is $73 billion dollars in debt. And apparently, the responsibility to govern Puerto Rico falls to the Congress and not to the Executive Branch, because for the last six-months or more, I have talked with Obama Administration officials at every level about Puerto Rico and their response has been that they cannot or will not do anything. The message I received loud and clear – anything to help Puerto Rico had better happen in Congress.” He went on to discuss the bond-holders, billionaires and hedge funds that are lining up to profit off of Puerto Rico’s problems: “The current situation favors the billionaires and the hedge funds because they will get paid before the cops on the beat, the doctors in the hospitals, and the teachers in the schools. Oh, we can’t investigate that crime or take down that drug dealer because we have to pay the bond holders first. Now the same people who cash in on debt in places like Greece and Argentina are lining up to cash in in the Caribbean by stepping up their demands for austerity measures, privatization of utilities, and restructuring on their terms that will make them very, very rich at the expense of the Puerto Rican people.” He closed with a call to action to the Puerto Rican people in Spanish (“in the language they speak around the dinner table”) calling on them to come up with a plan of their own: “Cualquiera que sea el plan de Washington o de Wall Street no pondrá las necesidades de la gente de Puerto Rico primero- todos sabemos eso. Entonces, ¿Cuál es el plan de Puerto Rico unido para seguir adelante? Los Boricuas deben involucrarse en este momento para que Puerto Rico tenga un plan de economía que pueda crear empleos y no seguir empujando a los jóvenes fuera de la isla para los Estados Unidos en Jet Blue.” [“Whatever plan is invented in Washington or on Wall Street will not put the needs of the Puerto Rican people first – we all know that. So what is a unified Puerto Rico’s plan to move forward? Boricuas must step up right now so that Puerto Rico has a plan for the economy that will create jobs and not just drive young people off of the island to the U.S. on Jet Blue.”] The Congressman said he planned to speak again on the House Floor tomorrow about Puerto Rico’s debt crisis. The video of today’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/BY5JpfmBDrU The text as prepared for delivery (with English translation) is below. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He was born in Chicago to parents who migrated from Puerto Rico in the 1950s. He returned with his family to Puerto Rico to live in the 1960s. Rep. Gutiérrez 07/28/2015 I want to make an introduction. Mr. Speaker and my colleagues, this is the beautiful Island of Puerto Rico. We own it. It is ours and we are responsible for it. The Congress of the United States governs this island. It is our colony and we rule over it. And it is $73 billion dollars in debt. The Supreme Court said, “Porto Rico is a territory …belonging to the United States, but not a part of the United States.” And apparently, the responsibility to govern Puerto Rico falls to the Congress and not to the Executive Branch, because for the last six-months or more, I have talked with Obama Administration officials at every level about Puerto Rico and their response has been that they cannot or will not do anything. The message I received loud and clear – anything to help Puerto Rico had better happen in Congress. But there is no sense of urgency in Congress or anywhere else in Washington for real solutions. Puerto Rico’s problems are complicated and I am here to say that the Puerto Rican people must begin putting direct pressure on this Congress for action because Puerto Rico’s problems are mostly the creation of…you guessed it…Congress. The Jones Act of 1917 made all Puerto Ricans citizens -- just in time for World War One when 18,000 new draftees were needed. The Jones Act also says that Puerto Rico – unlike any state – can issue triple-exempt bonds; Bonds that are free of federal, state and local taxes. Illinois can’t do that, neither can your state. But Puerto Rico was specifically written out of U.S. bankruptcy laws by Congress. They cannot declare Chapter 9 or anything else because a special exemption was made. So Congress creates a tax-free bond haven and Wall Street jumps in with everything it has to buy Puerto Rican debt decade after decade. Puerto Rico has more than 15 times the median bond debt of all 50 states and bankruptcy is not an option without an Act of Congress. And get this—the Puerto Rican Constitution says that bond holders must be paid before everything else. Right now, Wall Street is circling the wounded animal like vultures waiting to get their piece. And they are fighting against a bill that would allow Puerto Rico – like any other jurisdiction – to declare bankruptcy because that could move decisions about who gets paid and in what order they get paid into a U.S. court of law. You see, the current situation favors the billionaires and the hedge funds because they will get paid before the cops on the beat, the doctors in the hospitals, and the teachers in the schools. Oh, we can’t investigate that crime or take down that drug dealer because we have to pay the bond holders first. Now the same people who cash in on debt in places like Greece and Argentina are lining up to cash in in the Caribbean by stepping up their demands for austerity measures, privatization of utilities, and restructuring on their terms that will make them very, very rich at the expense of the Puerto Rican people. Tomorrow, I will discuss how the Puerto Rican people are being distracted by the promises of Statehood by every politician who travels to San Juan or needs the votes of Puerto Ricans in Orlando. But today, I want to make clear that the sooner the people here [in Puerto Rico] realize the people here in this Chamber are the ones who need to take action, the sooner we can make real progress and not get distracted by politics and pipedreams of statehood. So for my remaining minute I want to address the people of Puerto Rico directly in the language they speak around the dinner table. A united Puerto Rico must make this Congress Act. [SPANISH] Ya es hora de que todos pongan a un lado divisiones políticas. He hablado con la Administración de Obama y ellos no van a ayudar a Puerto Rico. Los dueños de bonos están haciendo fila para recibir sus pagos aun cuando el resto de Puerto Rico se derrumba. Wall Street está comprando la deuda de Puerto Rico para poder exigir medidas de austeridad, rebajes de impuestos, y la privatización de las industrias que llenarán sus bolsillos con más dinero. Cualquiera que sea el plan de Washington o de Wall Street no pondrá las necesidades de la gente de Puerto Rico primero- todos sabemos eso. Entonces, ¿Cuál es el plan de Puerto Rico unido para seguir adelante? Los Boricuas deben involucrarse en este momento para que Puerto Rico tenga un plan de economía que pueda crear empleos y no seguir empujando a los jóvenes fuera de la isla para los Estados Unidos en Jet Blue. El único lugar donde podemos buscar ayuda es aquí en el Congreso, tenemos que hacer que este Congreso cumpla. Voy a hablar más sobre esto y de la distracción de la cuestión del estatus de la Isla mañana. Pero por ahora quiero que los puertorriqueños pongan sus ideas en conjunto. Vayan a mi página de Facebook - Rep. Gutiérrez en Facebook - y empecemos a organizar un plan para hacer que este Congreso cumpla. [ENGLISH] Thank you. I yield back. [TRANSLATION OF SPANISH SECTION] It is time for everyone to put political divisions aside. I have talked to the Obama Administration and they will do nothing to help Puerto Rico. The bond-holders are lining up to get paid even if the rest of Puerto Rico collapses. Wall Street is buying up Puerto Rican debt so that they can demand austerity measures, tax-breaks, and privatization of industries that will fill their pockets with even more money. Whatever plan is invented in Washington or on Wall Street will not put the needs of the Puerto Rican people first – we all know that. So what is a unified Puerto Rico’s plan to move forward? Boricuas must step up right now so that Puerto Rico has a plan for the economy that will create jobs and not just drive young people off of the island to the U.S. on Jet Blue. The only place we can seek help is right here in Congress; we need to make this Congress act. I will talk more about this and the Island’s the distraction of the status question tomorrow. But right now I want Puerto Ricans to put their ideas together. Go to my Facebook page – Rep. Gutierrez on Facebook – and let’s begin working on a plan to get Congress to act. # # #
07.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Luis V. Gutiérrez (D- Ill.), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) today issued the following statement after U.S. District Judge Dolly M. Gee ruled late last week that the detention of immigrant women and children violated the terms of the Flores Settlement: “Friday’s ruling confirms that the U.S. Government is wrong to hold vulnerable women and children – regardless of their immigration status – in secure, jail-like facilities. Furthermore, Judge Gee rejected the Administration’s defense that family detention is necessary to deter future migration. We wholeheartedly agree with – and applaud – this decision. “During our recent visit to the Karnes and Dilley detention facilities in Texas, we spoke to incarcerated mothers and children who told us they endured insufficient medical care, spoiled food, and abusive treatment while in detention. We also spoke to child welfare experts who testified to the serious developmental damage that can occur when children are held in such deplorable settings – even for as little as a few weeks. “The Department of Homeland Security should comply with the Court’s ruling by promptly releasing the families currently in custody and beginning the process of shutting down the family detention centers. It is time for the Administration to finally put an end to this appalling and shameful practice of detaining mothers and children. ” # # #
07.27.2015	[WASHINGTON, D.C.] – U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) and U.S. Representative Luis Gutierrez (D-IL) today urged the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to work together to expedite the restoration of the South Fork of the South Branch of the Chicago River – known as “Bubbly Creek”. “It’s important for communities in and around Chicago that this cleanup of Bubbly Creek moves forward,” said Durbin. “In order to do that, we need the Army Corps and EPA working together to identify areas where work can begin without delay.” “We cannot delay the cleanup of Bubbly Creek any further,” said Gutierrez. “It is essential not just for our environment, but also for the economic well-being of the surrounding communities and the City of Chicago.” A recent report in the Chicago Tribune noted that plans for a $15.4 million restoration of “Bubbly Creek” stalled after the EPA discovered contaminated sediment near the site began conducting a cleanup. Following that report and discussion with local community leaders, Durbin sent a letter to the Army Corps asking that they suspend rather than cancel their plans for restoration. That letter can be accessed HERE. Text of today’s letter is below. July 24, 2015 Administrator Gina McCarthy The Honorable Jo-Ellen Darcy U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works 1200 Pennsylvania Ave NW 108 Army Pentagon Washington, DC 20460 Washington, DC 20310-0108 Dear Administrator McCarthy and Assistant Secretary Darcy: We write to urge the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to work together to ensure that the restoration of the South Fork of the South Branch of the Chicago River (known as ‘Bubbly Creek’) occurs as expediently as possible. The Corps has spent several years studying the restoration of Bubbly Creek, has dedicated funding to the project, and is ready to begin. The EPA discovered contaminated sediment near the site and is conducting a cleanup. It is our hope that the EPA is able to expedite its cleanup where the two projects overlap, thus allowing the Corps to begin restoration. If the Corps and the EPA work together you may be able to mitigate liability concerns without wasting the time and money that has already been invested throughout this decade-long study process. The Corp’s restoration project is strongly supported by the City of Chicago, the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District, and the surrounding community. The restoration activities would provide much-needed revitalization to an area with a history of industrial pollution. It would be a valuable step in moving the South Side of Chicago to a more environmentally sustainable neighborhood. This project is too important to be delayed. We encourage you to work together to see that the EPA cleanup and the Corps restoration is done without delay. Please give this request your immediate attention and I look forward to hearing from you.
07.27.2015	Proposed Obama regs will govern Gutiérrez’ Congressional employees regardless of whether Congress adopts them. Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) announced that proposed Obama overtime regulations would apply to his congressional employees in Washington and Chicago regardless of whether the U.S. Congress moves to adopt them when final. The rules, announced this summer and still in the comment period until September, would raise the cap from $23,660 per year to $50,440 per year at which employees could earn time-and-a-half for overtime. Congress generally does not abide by private sector or public sector standards, setting its own rules on employee compensation. For example, Congress still abides by the 1996 standard of $13,000 per year as the threshold to trigger overtime for salaried employees. “I applauded the President when he announced the new regulations so I plan to institute them in my own office, regardless of what the rest of the Congress does or doesn’t do,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “Like every Member of Congress, I am basically a small employer, with an average of 18 full-time, salaried staff. But if these regulations are good enough for American workers in the private and public sectors, they ought to be good enough for me and my colleagues in the House and Senate.” Congressional offices receive an annual lump-sum allotment to run their Washington and District offices, known as the Members’ Representational Allowance (MRA). The U.S. Congress sets overall personnel policies, but these are updated infrequently and are often out of step with the rest of the federal government and the private sector. The Congressman has 18 permanent employees and more than half of them would be covered by the new policy. “Congressional staffers are not paid a lot, they work incredibly hard, and they do it under pressure, but there is no reason my office should be different than any other business on West Fullerton Avenue or in D.C.,” the Congressman said. “It is about fairness and investing in the good work people do and I am proud to do it.” The Congressman said he would institute the new overtime structure in time for Labor Day and would encourage all of his colleagues to do the same. “Let’s put our money where our mouths are and follow the new overtime rules whether Speaker Boehner makes us or not,” the Congressman said. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. His Chicago District Office is located at 3240 W. Fullerton Avenue. # # #
07.23.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez: “Just a few weeks into his campaign and Donald Trump has a bill on the floor of the House. That is better than some of the Senators he is running against.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor in opposition to H.R. 3009, a bill to take funding away from state and local police departments who have certain community policing and community trust policies regarding immigrants. The video is here: https://youtu.be/VqXSZaJahlE The text as prepared for delivery is below. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Floor Speech in Opposition to the Donald Trump Act H.R. 3009 July 23, 2015 Just a few weeks into his campaign and Donald Trump has a bill on the floor of the House. That is better than some of the Senators he is running against. Donald Trump announces his campaign saying Mexican immigrants are mostly murderers, drug-dealers, and rapists, and what is the response from the Republican Party.? They don’t denounce him. They only denounce people when they go after war heroes who ran for President. I denounce Trump for that too. Some try to distance themselves from his comments. OK. But here we are in the House of Representatives passing a bill to jump on the Trump bandwagon, cynically exploiting a family’s tragedy in San Francisco to score political points. I have been very clear from Day 1 – despite efforts to smear me by the hardline advocates – that the person, this Lopez-Sanchez who pulled the trigger in San Francisco should have been deported and never turned over to San Francisco. I have no sympathy for him and I have said on this floor and I will say it again that murderers should rot in hell (https://1.usa.gov/1CrQVGy). The breakdown by the federal government – the federal government -- to deport a known criminal as they had done before or to keep him in jail was what lead to a young American woman, just about the age of my daughters to be killed. A tragedy -- and a preventable tragedy if the federal government had done what it was supposed to do. And preventable if this Congress had done what it is supposed to do and addressed immigration years ago, as my side has been pleading. But this Republican proposal is not a serious attempt at fixing this problem. Instead of piecemeal measures aimed at maximizing deportations, the long overdue solution is for Congress to enact comprehensive reform that combines smart enforcement at the border and the interior, with a clear plan of reducing the size of the undocumented population in America. We do this by having a modern visa system so people can come with visas and background checks, not with smugglers or overstaying visas and just blending in. We do this by telling millions of people who have never committed crimes, the ones who go to work every day and are caring for their own children and sometimes other people’s children too – we ask them to come forward, admit they are here illegally, go through a criminal background check and work their way to the right side of the law. Get the millions of immigrants inside the system and on-the-books so that they no longer need to worry about their local police working with or not working with the deportation system. If you get millions and millions of immigrants inside the law, then the ones who are criminals and cannot qualify to get inside the law will stick out like sore thumbs in our cities. It will allow state and local police to police their communities more effectively for criminals and threats – because they are passing over people who have proven they are not criminals and not threats. But this is very specifically the approach that the House of Representatives, and specifically the Republican majority, refuses to touch with a ten foot poll because they see demagogues like Donald Trump firing up frustrated voters and want to take the easy way out. # # #
07.21.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez: “The consumer protections, transparency, and accountability…give average Americans tools and information to navigate the complex world of financial transactions where the deck is always stacked for the big money interests.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement marking the fifth anniversary of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in 2010, known as the Dodd-Frank bill. I am extremely proud of the Dodd-Frank bill and the accomplishment of passing major legislation to address the country’s financial meltdown. It was in an era when the Congress actually passed major legislation to address national problems, an era that seems long ago. The consumer protections, transparency, and accountability in the Dodd-Frank legislation give average Americans tools and information to navigate the complex world of financial transactions where the deck is always stacked for the big money interests. It levels the playing field and gives people recourse when they are being preyed upon in loans, mortgages, remittances, credit cards, and a whole range of transactions. It also established one of the most successful and important federal agencies of recent memory, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which has done stellar work in its few years of existence. Congressman Gutiérrez was Chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit at the time the bill moved through the House Financial Services Committee and was part of the House/Senate Conference Committee that finalized the bill that was signed by President Obama. He has since taken a leave of absence from the House Financial Services Committee. Rep. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
07.20.2015	Reps. Schakowsky and Gutiérrez Discuss Optimism for Iran Nuclear Weapons Deal CHICAGO – On Monday, two Chicago-area Members of Congress, Jan Schakowsky and Luis Gutiérrez, met with reporters to discuss the prospects for the Iran Nuclear Arms Agreement as it heads to the Congress for approval, and express their optimism. They were joined by experts in international affairs and Middle East policy to discuss the deal and its implications for the US and Middle East policy. Alan Solow, Former Chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, and Dr. Rachel Bronson, Executive Director and Publisher of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists and Adjunct Professor of Global Initiatives at Kellogg School of Management, shared their perspectives as to why this is a strong agreement. "Over a decade ago, the United States decided to address the perceived threat of a 'mushroom cloud' coming from Iraq by going to war, a war that unleashed massive violence in the Mideast and a war that persists today. Today, the Obama administration, faced with the real threat of a nuclear weaponized Iran, has chosen instead the path of diplomacy, the path of peace. This historic negotiation holds out the hope of a more stable, nuclear weapon free region that makes all the world safer. I am proud to support it." Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky “Built into the agreement to keep nuclear weapons out of Iran’s hands are monitoring features that will give the US and our allies almost instantaneous alerts if they take actions to violate it. It will never be 100 percent, but it gives us the best chance of keeping our eyes on them. To everyone who complains that this deal is not good enough, I want to know what their alternative is. I don’t think those who are planning to vote against this agreement in the House have any realistic alternatives.” Congressman Luis Gutiérrez “The deal reached between the P5+1 and Iran will make the United States, Israel and the world more safe. It places severe restrictions on Iran’s nuclear program for an extended period and provides for unprecedented and intrusive inspections. As a Jewish communal leader, I have worked for years to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. This agreement is the largest step forward that we have ever been able to take in achieving this goal. There is no ‘better deal' available should Congress foolishly reject this opportunity to advance our defense. The rejection of this deal will lead to an Iran with no restrictions on its nuclear program and no international sanctions regime against it. That would be a mistake -- instead, we should welcome this agreement as substantially setting back the nuclear clock while leaving us with all options available should Iran seek to break out of its agreement not to produce a nuclear weapon.” Alan Solow “Like agreements between the US and Russia that came before, this arms control agreement has the potential to prevent the spread of the world's most dangerous weapons. With artful diplomacy and politics, it could create a more peaceful world.” Dr. Rachel Bronson # # #
07.15.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez: “Let’s turn Trump’s negative words into something positive. That is how you deal with bullies and bigots.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) addressed the House of Representatives during the morning hour (approximately 10:00 am ET), once again standing before a picture of Donald Trump, the Republican presidential candidate, TV personality and hotelier. Last week (video and text: https://1.usa.gov/1CrQVGy), Rep. Gutierrez focused on Trump’s claims that Mexican immigrants are drug-dealers, criminals and rapists. This week, Rep. Gutiérrez focused on the electoral consequences for the Republican Party of such anti-immigrant rhetoric from the likes of Donald Trump, which is heard in the Latino community as anti-Latino attacks. “Just so you understand, when Donald Trump says Mexican immigrants are criminals, what do I and other Puerto Ricans hear? I hear him saying all Puerto Ricans are criminals, too, as far as Republicans are concerned. And millions of others hear Hondurans or Columbians or Dominicans -- and it is clear to all of us that what he is really saying is that all Latinos are suspect, whether we were born here or not.” But this type of attack only fuels the hunger for citizenship and voting in Latino and immigrant communities. “There are more than 8.8 million immigrants who hold green cards, who meet the residency requirements, and are eligible to apply for citizenship. That includes around 4.5 million Latinos who can apply – today – for citizenship. And Mr. Speaker, let me fill you in on a little secret, with fee waivers for up to 20% of those applying, it is absolutely free. Becoming a citizen for free so you can make it clear that you are offended by Donald Trump. It is poetic and patriotic.” Another million Latino citizens turn 18 every year, so what Trump and others are doing is creating a potential citizenship and voter registration backlash in the Latino community. And Latino voters are, in turn, part of a larger “New American Coalition” of voters that the GOP rejects. “All the people they don’t want in their coalition constitute a majority of Americans. Together, we are the New American Coalition that will dominate politics for decades to come and together we will create a stronger, more inclusive, more egalitarian nation. Let’s turn Trump’s negative words into something positive. That is how you deal with bullies and bigots.” The text of the Congressman’s speech today, as prepared for delivery, is below. A video of his speech today is here: https://youtu.be/BaMBxZXDouU Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks as Prepared for Delivery July 15, 2015 A few weeks ago, I was on the HBO show “Real Time” with Bill Maher on a Friday night (https://youtu.be/tW0GowO_MaM?t=5m52s). And I had a chance to talk with Ann Coulter, who, as you might guess, I do not have on my speed dial for regular conversations. It was a couple of days after Donald Trump announced he was running for the Republican nomination because he thought Mexican immigrants were criminals, drug-dealers and rapists. So, when it was my turn, I told Ms. Coulter and by extension, Mr. Trump, that what they were saying about Mexican immigrants would serve as a voter registration machine to turbo-charge voter registration in the Latino and immigrant community. All because of their particularly mean and frankly, let’s be honest, racist attacks on Mexican immigrants. And it was particularly important that I was in California for the show because I watching the Republican Party make exactly the same mistake it made in the 1990s when it lost control of politics in the West. By supporting extreme anti-immigration policies to kick kids out of school and cut off families from being part of our society, California went from a purple state that had given the Republican Party important leaders like Richard Nixon and Ronald Reagan and in just a few years was transformed into a deep shade of Pacific Blue. Why? Because millions of immigrants became citizens, millions of immigrant-citizens registered to vote, and millions of registered citizens voted to punish the Republican Party for being mean, short-sighted, and for offering demagoguery, not real solutions to real issues. Which brings us back to Mr. Trump who trying to be the standard bearer of the anti-immigration wing of the Republican Party and trying to define the Party as one that will fight against immigrants it sees as murderers, drug-dealers, criminals, and rapists. Jan Brewer has endorsed Trump and there he was this past weekend, standing with Joe Arpaio in Arizona. Democrats could not paint a clearer picture if we tried. And just so you understand, when Donald Trump says “Mexican immigrants” are criminals, what do I and other Puerto Ricans hear? I hear him saying all “Puerto Ricans” are criminals, too, as far as Republicans are concerned. And millions of others hear Hondurans or Columbians or Dominicans -- and it is clear to all of us that what he is really saying is that all Latinos are suspect, whether we were born here or not. And look, Trump’s stereotyping is nothing new. Every single wave of migrants has met the same resistance. They say they are lazy, they are bringing crime and diseases, they are not like us, and they are coming to kill our sons and rape our daughters. Whether you came to Chicago from Mexico a decade ago or from Mississippi in the 1950s to escape Jim Crow, you heard the same thing. If you came to New York from Ireland or came from Sicily a century ago, it has always been the same. So I say that Latinos should do just what the Irish and the Polish and the Italians did. Become citizens and vote. To my constituents and anyone hearing me today who is offended by what Donald Trump stands for, I have a simple message << ¡Hazte ciudadano!>> Become a citizen. There are more than 8.8 million immigrants who hold green cards, who meet the residency requirements, and are eligible to apply for citizenship. That includes around 4.5 million Latinos who can apply – today – for citizenship. . And Mr. Speaker, let me fill you in on a little secret, with fee waivers for up to 20% of those applying, it is absolutely free. Becoming a citizen for free so you can make it clear that you are offended by Donald Trump. It is poetic and patriotic. Rather than renew that green card for $450, become a citizen for about $230 more, or zero if you get the fee waiver. Look, Mr. Speaker, almost all of the immigrants in this country are going to remain in this country until the day they die, let’s be honest. So for the millions who meet the requirements of citizenship I say: take the step. Learn the language, learn our history and how our government works and take the test. Every time you see Trump’s face on your TV, vow to learn a little more English or a few more history facts so you can take the test. Let’s turn the ignorance and hatred of a TV personality running for President and turn it into something that strengthens democracy for all Americans. And you know what, if millions of people naturalize, and we add that to a million Latino citizen who will turn 18 this year, plus all of our allies in the African-American community, and LGBT voters, and younger voters, and environmental voters, and women, and Asian voters, and working class voters that are being pushed away by the Republicans… All the people they don’t want in their coalition constitute a majority of Americans. Together, we are the New American Coalition that will dominate politics for decades to come and together we will create a stronger, more inclusive, more egalitarian nation. Let’s turn Trump’s negative words into something positive. That is how you deal with bullies and bigots. # #
07.14.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez: “With the agreement, we are giving peace a chance.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) responded to news that the U.S., Iran, and partner nations had reached an agreement to limit Iran’s nuclear ambitions. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The following is a statement by Rep. Gutiérrez: “This is a matter of war and peace. With the agreement, we are giving peace a chance. War is almost never the right answer to any question, but it is always an option. Skeptics and critics need to give this a chance to work because the consequences are so high and the prospects for a peaceful resolution of Iran’s nuclear ambitions are fragile. If actions by Iran invalidate the agreement and necessitate a different, aggressive, military strategy, there is nothing that prevents that in the future.” # # #
07.09.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez addresses House on immigration and Trump Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) addressed the House of Representatives during the morning hour (approximately 10:10 am ET) about Donald Trump and his claims that Mexican immigrants are mostly criminals, drug-dealers and rapists. Standing before a picture of the Republican presidential candidate, TV personality and hotelier, Rep. Gutiérrez started by saying, “For the record, I am not Mexican and I am not an immigrant. Given the rhetoric of the leading Republican candidate for President, it is important to point that out at the start before I am accused of being a criminal, a drug-dealer or a rapist.” Rep. Gutiérrez went on to discuss the vulnerability of immigrant women to sexual assault and crime and his call for “a modern immigration system based on common-sense, compassion, and the rule of law,” that would make us all safer. In the context of the recent murder of Kate Steinle in San Francisco, apparently by an undocumented immigrant who was previously in federal custody and who had been deported multiple times, the issue of which approach to immigration will give us more control and safety is important to discuss. The Congressman said. “When we have felons in federal custody or state and local custody with warrants for drug crimes who are deported multiple times and come back, this Congress has not done its job, unfairly leaving states and localities to cope with decades of inaction on immigration, criminal justice, and a range of other issues. I have no sympathy for the man accused in this crime.” He then discussed a vision for a modern immigration system, that he said, “would make it harder for murderers to hide and easier for honest hard-working folks to contribute to their communities without fear.” The text of the Congressman’s speech today, as prepared for delivery, is below. A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/75l07h_txIQ Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks as Prepared for Delivery July 9, 2015 For the record, I am not Mexican and I am not an immigrant. Given the rhetoric of the leading Republican candidate for President, it is important to point that out at the start before I am accused of being a criminal, a drug-dealer or a rapist. To be fair, Donald Trump did not say that all Latinos or all Mexicans are rapists. Just that the vast majority of Mexican immigrants are rapists, drug-dealers, and criminals. Clearly, if anyone has firsthand knowledge of Mexicans working illegally in the United States it is the owner of hotels, casinos, office buildings, and clothing lines. But Trump did not seem to be basing his opinions about Mexican immigrants on personal knowledge. To justify his claims, Trump said that most of the women coming from Central America to the U.S. through Mexico and other countries, report being sexually assaulted. On this, I think I probably agree with him. Women and children at the lowest rung of the economic and social ladder are incredibly vulnerable to sexual assault and rape. But the leap from saying most undocumented women are vulnerable to assault and saying most undocumented men are rapists is, as he might say himself, HUGE. The documentary on PBS Frontline: “Rape In The Fields” was a powerful exposé on how immigrant women toiling in our fields are regularly the victims of rape and abuse because perpetrators recognize how vulnerable immigrant women are. They are afraid to talk to the police, afraid they will be deported; and afraid they will lose their children. And this fear to report crimes makes us all less safe. Yes, the rape and abuse is sometimes perpetrated by other Latino immigrants, perhaps even Mexicans, but these crimes are also committed by men of all colors and national origins, including red, white and blue Americans. So when Donald Trump says on CNN: “Well, someone is doing the raping,” as further evidence that we should build a big wall, plaster his name on it, and keep immigrants out, I think it is pretty clear The Donald misses the point. The question is how do we create an immigration system that protects us from criminals and that allows people to come with visas and not smugglers so that their work is honored, safe and protected by our labor laws? How do we make sure these workers who contribute so much to America’s economy are not afraid to dial 911 and report wage theft or assault when someone – anyone – is threatening them or their families? Now the anti-immigration wing of the Republican Party in this body and on-the-air is saying that Trump may have a point. After all, an innocent woman was shot in cold blood by a Mexican immigrant in San Francisco just last week. Why wasn’t he deported? Why wasn’t he held in jail the last time? Why is – and you will actually hear this on Fox News – why is President Obama letting Mexicans kill beautiful young American women? As the father of two daughters about the age of Kate Steinle, the young woman who was shot and killed, I pray every night that no one of any racial or ethnic background ever does them harm and I can only imagine the grief that her family is feeling. When we have felons in federal custody or state and local custody with warrants for drug crimes who are deported multiple times and come back, this Congress has not done its job, unfairly leaving states and localities to cope with decades of inaction on immigration, criminal justice, and a range of other issues. I have no sympathy for the man accused in this crime. He should not be allowed to roam free. So, what if we had a system that allowed people who have lived here a long time, contributed productively to American society, and who have children and other deep roots in the United States…What if we allowed them to come forward? What if we made them pay for their own criminal background check, finger-printed them, made them prove their identity, and check-up on them every so often to make sure they are not gaming the system or committing crimes? What if we had a system where people could come legally in the first place, if they prove their identity and have no criminal background. I argue that such a system would allow us to reduce significantly the number of people who are in the country without legal status. It would shrink the size of communities where many people are undocumented, where people are afraid to call the police so that criminals find it easy to blend in, not stick out.. Such a system would allow us to concentrate our enforcement and deportation resources on real criminals who should be jailed, then thrown out and kept out. Such a system would make it harder for murderers to hide and easier for honest hard-working folks to contribute to their communities without fear. Unfortunately, that is exactly the system that some Republicans have been fighting against. So when a hotel and casino owner gets on his high horse about Mexican immigrants, about crime, rape, and murder, let’s think about who is standing between the United States and a modern immigration system based on common-sense, compassion, and the rule of law. # # #
06.26.2015	“I am extremely proud that my country is moving in the right direction.” – Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) reacted to news that the U.S. Supreme Court had ruled in favor of “justice and humanity” in the landmark decision about same-sex marriage. The following is a statement by Rep. Gutiérrez: “America is having a very good week. The Supreme Court came down on the side of justice and humanity and affirmed what is so great about our nation: our inclusiveness, our sense of equality, and our thirst for laws that honor and respect everyone. My support of the LGBTQ-plus community goes back to my earliest days on the City Council of Chicago when the city was on the cutting edge of recognizing gay rights. I was one of only 65 Democrats who voted against the Defense of Marriage Act in 1996 in the House of Representatives, and it was one of the most important votes I ever cast. Courts sometimes slow down the march towards progress as every major step towards inclusion is challenged using all the tools in the democratic arsenal, but that is what makes such achievements more momentous as they testify to the value of a thriving democracy. In the end, history and justice and fairness usually win out. With the President’s health care law, with the ruling on housing discrimination, and with this historic ruling on love and marriage, the Supreme Court is affirming what Dr. Martin Luther King taught us about the arc of the moral universe. It is indeed long and bends towards justice, sometimes in ways even he could not have imagined. I am proud that the Supreme Court and the rest of the nation have finally caught up with the American people by making the right decision. I expect to celebrate a similar common-sense ruling if and when the President’s immigration executive actions reach the Supreme Court because the law and history are clear and the underlying issues of justice and fairness are equally clear. I am extremely proud that my country is moving in the right direction.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
06.25.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) reacted to news that the U.S. Supreme Court had ruled in favor of maintaining President Obama’s signature health care law, the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which is helping millions of Americans find and afford health care coverage. The following is a statement by Rep. Gutiérrez: “The Supreme Court made the right decision based on the law and based on the needs of the American people. This takes away the uncertainty and anxiety that the constant attacks on the ACA have created with the American people. I am happy for consumers who will now not have radical changes to the ACA hanging over their heads. “We forget that every major policy to help the American people gets challenged by those who want to maintain the current dysfunctional system, on health care and across a range of other issues. President Franklin Roosevelt’s signature accomplishments on Social Security and programs to help Americans who are working and those who were unemployed, all had to be fought out in court. Needless to say, the law and the interests of the American people won out in the end. “This gives me confidence that the courts will eventually rule in favor of allowing the President’s legal and justifiable immigration executive actions to stand, but we continue to have to fight against opposition to change, opposition to immigration and opposition to President Obama coming mostly from Republicans. “This time on health care, the Republicans dodged a bullet because Republicans were almost put in the position of taking health care away from families, children, voters, and huge numbers of their constituents. But the U.S. Supreme Court saved the Republicans from being responsible for a national public policy disaster.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
06.24.2015	“The eight Members who traveled to Texas this week want the detention of moms and kids to end.” -- Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) and the other seven House Democrats who traveled to Texas this week to visit two privately-run family immigration detention centers, met with Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson in the Capitol. They discussed what the Members saw and heard during their two-day visit to the facilities where women and children are held awaiting disposition of their applications for asylum. The Secretary discussed the announcement he made earlier about certain changes in policy related to the detention of moms and children. The Members who met with Secretary Johnson were: Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA), Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX), Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), and Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA). This was the same group who held a press conference earlier in the day (see earlier release, pasted below). After the meeting, Rep. Gutierrez issued the following statement: “To a person, the eight Members who traveled to Texas this week want the detention of moms and kids to end and be replaced with other ways to monitor people waiting for their asylum cases to be heard. The Secretary is clearly not in a position to say he will end the practice of family detention and keeping kids locked up, but the dialogue is positive and productive.” “The policies the Secretary announced today are improvements and are welcome. We are making progress. The Members were clear that we want to work with the Secretary, but that our goal is to go further. After seeing so many children in jail-like conditions, we will continue to work to make sure children and mothers like the ones we met this week are not kept in detention the way they are now.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # # EARLIER PRESS RELEASE AND NOTE TO REPORTERS: Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke at a press conference in Washington this morning with seven of his colleagues who visited two family immigration detention facilities in Texas over the past two days. The Members who spoke at the press conference were: Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA), Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX), Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), and Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA). See below for links to audio from the press conference and video and photos that were shot by Members of Congress at the detention centers in Karnes City (June 22) and Dilley, Texas (June 23). Photos from today’s press conference in Washington here: https://bit.ly/1dgF3es (Credit: Office of Rep. Gutiérrez) A demonstration of hundreds of children and their moms took place at the facility at Dilley and the Congressman’s short video of what he saw is here: https://bit.ly/1GpEPKq Congressman Gutiérrez spoke to Jose Diaz-Balart this morning on MSNBC at 9:30 am ET about his trip to Texas (and today’s trade debate in Washington) and MSNBC aired the video shot by the Congressman of the children and mothers at the Dilley family detention facility. Video of MSNBC interview: https://bit.ly/1LC6njd News For Immediate Release June 24, 2015 CONTACT: Peter Whippy (Rep. Lofgren) House Democrats recap trip to family detention facilities Say conditions are inhumane and immoral, and newly-proposed DHS reforms are inadequate WASHINGTON, D.C. – A group of eight House Democrats recounted a trip they took this week to visit two private family detention facilities in Texas used to hold mothers and children awaiting disposition of their asylum claims. Listen to audio recording of the press conference here During this trip, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD), Joaquin Castro (TX), Judy Chu (CA), Raúl Grijalva (AZ), Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL), Sheila Jackson-Lee (TX), Zoe Lofgren (CA), and Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA) met with detainees at the Karnes County Residential Center in Karnes City on Monday, June 22nd, and at the South Texas Family Residential Center in Dilley on Tuesday, June 23rd, to discuss their experiences, living conditions, and more. During the press conference, members released videos and pictures they took during their visit, which show women and children pleading for their freedom. The Members are among the 136 House Democrats who recently signed a letter to DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson calling for an end to family detention. They plan to meet with Secretary Johnson later this afternoon to discuss what they observed at the family detention centers, and their concerns regarding the recently announced DHS policy changes to immigrant family detention. Video footage of South Texas Family Residential Center – Dilley, TX | June 23, 2015 Available for viewing and download at: https://bit.ly/1GpEPKq Additional Video Footage Pictures of South Texas Family Residential Center and Karnes County Residential Center | June 22-23, 2015 Available for viewing and download here ###
06.18.2015	Author of Put A Woman On The Twenty Act (HR 1910) says: “We may have been ten dollars off, but our advocacy was right on the money.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) reacted to news that Secretary of the Treasury Jack Lew will announce a process to put a woman’s picture on the new $10 bill by 2020, the 100th anniversary of women’s suffrage. On April 21, 2015, Rep. Gutiérrez introduced the “Put A Woman on the Twenty Act of 2015” (H.R. 1910), which called on the Secretary to develop a process for changing that currency. While the denomination may be different, the message clearly got through. “My message and the message from hundreds of thousands of people who have petitioned and organized and voted on the web was that it is time to put a woman on our money,” said Congressman Gutiérrez. “The message got through at Treasury. We may have been ten dollars off, but our advocacy was right on the money.” In a speech about his legislation on the House floor on May 20, the Congressman said: “In a few years, maybe in a few months, when the idea of putting a woman on our money is considered a quaint, old-fashioned debate, and similarly when the idea of putting a person of color on our money no longer seems like such a remarkable step, we will wonder why it took so long.” [text and video: https://1.usa.gov/1J2rcqH] “It happened a lot quicker than I expected,” said Congressman Gutiérrez. “I applaud the Secretary because putting a woman on our money advances the cause of justice and equality. By announcing he plans to select a notable woman to be featured on the new $10 note, he is bringing our money into the 21st – or at least allowing it to catch up with the 20th.” The Congressman added: “I am honored to foster inclusion and democracy on our currency and look forward to seeing the image of a talented, courageous woman on the new $10 bill as we celebrate the 100th Anniversary of the passage of the 19th Amendment." Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. See also: April 21: Press release on introduction of H.R. 1910 “Put A Woman on the Twenty Act of 2015 April 30: Floor speech (video/text) on H.R. 1910 “Put A Woman on the Twenty Act of 2015 May 20: Floor speech (video/text) on Harriet Tubman, Andrew Jackson and the Campaign to Put A Woman on the Twenty # # #
06.10.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez addresses House on violence in Chicago and elsewhere Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) addressed the House of Representatives during the morning hour (approximately 10:05 am ET) about police, young people and violence. Most of the country has watched video of police misconduct outside a pool party in Texas, but the Congressman doubts it has “sparked a more serious discussion about how teenagers and police interact or should interact,” which is urgently needed. “Almost every city in America is one bad incident, an overzealous policeman, or a videotaped moment of stupidity or hatred away from a riot,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. And he recalled a conversation with a Chicago teenager at Phoenix Military Academy who said he had taught himself strategies to de-escalate tensions with police. “We are apparently leaving it up to our teenagers to figure out ways to deal with the police -- which is precisely backwards from how things ought to be. What the video tape from Texas and the comment from my young friend at Phoenix Military Academy in Chicago have in common is that there does not seem to be any communication between adults on the police side and young people in the communities, who the police are sworn to protect. Instead of a cooperative relationship between teenagers and the adults who are there to protect them, there is an adversarial relationship.” The Congressman noted that during the same weekend as the videotaped incident in Texas, five people died of gunshot wounds in Chicago – two in the Congressman’s District – and at least 27 were wounded. And similar numbers of dead and wounded are common every weekend in Chicago. “At least 5 people were killed and 25 others were shot in and around Chicago the weekend before; twelve dead and 56 wounded over the long Memorial Day weekend. Knowing the names of Sandy Hook, Newtown and Columbine are not enough, when Baltimore, Chicago, and other cities are also losing young people at this rate.” The Congressman concluded by saying: “We must change the conversation so that we as a nation are working together to help make sure the next generation lives to adulthood. We need to stop talking so much about what protects us from those kids and start talking more about what we as adults are going to do to protect those kids from the world we have created for them.” The text of the Congressman’s speech today, as prepared for delivery, is below. A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/cNRPuQvgFUk Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks as Prepared for Delivery June 10, 2015 This past weekend -- and all day on cable news ever since -- we watched a police officer in McKinney, Texas wrestle with a 14 year old teenager after what was reported to be a pool party. He throws her to the ground, pulls his gun and points it at some other children, screams at her, and then sits on the teenager -- in her bikini --for a period of time. This is the latest installment of the hit cable television news story of the last year or more: “cops behaving badly caught on tape.” This version was not the most deadly, although there have been versions of this story that end in death. It has caused a lot of hot air on radio and TV -- some of it constructive, some of it offensive. But has it caused a more serious discussion of police and communities of color? Has it sparked a more serious discussion about how teenagers and police interact or should interact? I hope so, but I kind of doubt it. Recently, I met with a young man from Chicago who made a real impression on me. He is from Phoenix Military Academy, a smart teen who is going places. He said, “You know what, Congressman, I have taught myself strategies to de-escalate the situation whenever I come in contact with police.” Did you hear that? A teenager feels he needed to teach himself ways to de-escalate tensions with adult police officers. We are apparently leaving it up to our teenagers to figure out ways to deal with the police -- which is precisely backwards from how things ought to be. What the video tape from Texas and the comment from my young friend at Phoenix Military Academy in Chicago have in common is that there does not seem to be any communication between adults on the police side and young people in the communities, who the police are sworn to protect. Instead of a cooperative relationship between teenagers and the adults who are there to protect them, there is an adversarial relationship. A couple of weeks ago, I looked around while I was at a Judiciary Committee hearing on policing strategies in the 21st Century and all I saw were people who were 50, 60 and 70 years old. There were no young people there to tell us what they face, what they feel, and what we as adults can do to help. And law enforcement was only slightly more well represented. Very few of us are former or current law enforcement. And while all of us are former teenagers, still for most of us it has been a while. And our experiences may not be all that typical of what young people and police face today. I hope adults like me in places of influence and authority can be helpful in creating the conditions where avenues of communication are created, but a three-hour hearing with political undertones and more than a little grandstanding is not nearly enough. Almost every city in America is one bad incident, an overzealous policeman, or a videotaped moment of stupidity or hatred away from a riot -- or some tragedy that could lead to a riot. Michael Brown, Eric Garner, Walter Scott and Freddie Gray are names we know, but knowing their names is not enough. We need a sustained effort from Congress and from every institution in our society to address the chasm between young people, and especially young people in communities of color, and the police hired to keep them safe. And let’s remember, while the country was transfixed with the video of the cop, the teenagers, and the pool-party in Texas, two of my constituents were shot and killed this past weekend in Chicago. They were among five dead in Chicago and among 27 people shot from Friday to Monday. At least 5 people were killed and 25 other people were shot in and around Chicago the weekend before; 12 dead and 56 wounded over the long Memorial Day weekend. Knowing the names of Sandy Hook, Newtown and Columbine are not enough, when Baltimore, Chicago, and other cities are also losing young people at this rate. It goes beyond police practices and the easy availability of guns, but that is part of it. When legislators spend more time making guns easier to carry and stand-your-ground laws make murder raps easier to beat, our priorities are skewed. It goes beyond racial profiling, but that is part of it. When 84% of the sobriety check-points in Chicago are set up in black and Latino neighborhoods so that cops can stop anyone who drives by, that sends a message that is destructive. It goes beyond economic opportunity, but that is also part of it. But honestly, we do not spend much time in this Congress thinking about how we help 10 and 12 year olds know that a bright future is possible. We do not do much for children to help them achieve that future, but instead cut things like Head Start and spend more and more on jails. In America, we must change the conversation so that we as a nation are working together to help make sure the next generation lives to adulthood. We need to stop talking so much about what protects us from those kids and start talking more about what we as adults are going to do to protect those kids from the world we have created for them. # # #
06.03.2015	Rep. Gutiérrez addresses House in English and Spanish to urge supporters to not lose hope in wake of recent court decision. Announces Saturday immigration event in Chicago Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) addressed the House of Representatives during the morning hour about the recent Fifth Circuit split decision on a stay request related to Texas v. United States, the suit by 26 states delaying implementation of the President’s executive actions on immigration. The Congressman started by saying he would ignore the message of the famous bumper sticker that says “Don’t Mess With Texas” and proceeded to describe the role that Texas politicians and judges are playing in delaying the President’s “lawful and sensible executive actions.” So while most Americans no longer believe we should be trying to deport all 11 million undocumented immigrants – and especially not the ones with deep roots in the US with families – the politicians who run the State of Texas believe we should. Lived in the U.S. for five years? Driving to work anyway? Own a business that employs citizens? Too bad. The Republican leaders in Texas do not want you to be able to work on the books, pay your full share of local and national taxes, and pay for a drivers’ license. Reality and Texas should get to know one another. At the end, he switched briefly to Spanish – an unusual measure on the Floor of the House – to send a message to Spanish speakers, “speaking directly to the millions of families who are waiting for Texas politicians and judges to stop the delay tactics.” ¡No se rindan! Hay políticos republicanos en Tejas y en otros lugares tratando de bloquear nuestro camino hacia la implementación de DACA y DAPA y quieren hacernos perder la esperanza, perder la paciencia y perder nuestra determinación. [Don’t give up. There are Republican politicians in Texas and elsewhere trying to block our way towards implementation of DACA and DAPA and they want us to lose heart, lose patience, and lose our resolve.] The text of the Congressman’s speech, as prepared for delivery, is below. A video of his speech is here: Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks as Prepared for Delivery June 3, 2015 What does that bumper sticker say? Don’t Mess With Texas? Well, I’m about to not follow that advice. You see, Texas has put itself front and center in the national debate over immigration and is leading the way among the 26 states suing the federal government to stop the lawful and sensible executive actions introduced by the President. The court case that has gotten so much national attention is Texas versus United States. The 25 other states with Republican Governors or Attorneys General who are suing the country play second fiddle to Texas. A week ago, in the Fifth Circuit in New Orleans, a three-judge panel issued a split decision. They did not issue a stay to the injunction of the President’s executive actions imposed by a lower court in…you guessed it…Texas. Two out of the three judges ruled that Texas would likely be found to have standing to bring the lawsuit because Texas would have to issue more drivers’ licenses to long-term Texas residents. Now, please note that we are not talking about free driver’s licenses. We are talking about drivers’ licenses at the same cost that everyone else pays. They could even raise prices, for all I care. But somehow, having more licensed drivers who can drive legally is an “unreasonable burden” on the State of Texas according to the politicians who run the state. And so, Texas is holding up the implementation of the program around the country for as many as four million people who live in American families. Who would these licensed drivers be? They would be immigrants who have U.S. citizen children or children who hold green cards. They have lived and worked in American neighborhoods for years, shopped at the same grocery stores and taken their kids to the same parks and schools. They would have submitted their fingerprints for a criminal background check at their own expense. So while most Americans no longer believe we should be trying to deport all 11 million undocumented immigrants – and especially not the ones with deep roots in the US with families – the politicians who run the State of Texas believe we should. Lived in the U.S. for five years? Driving to work anyway? Own a business that employs citizens? Too bad. The Republican leaders in Texas do not want you to be able to work on the books, pay your full share of local and national taxes, and pay for a drivers’ license. Reality and Texas should get to know one another. Now, let’s remember, this is the same set of Texas politicians – including the Governor and some Republican Members of Congress – who are reluctant to tell some of their base voters that no, in fact, President Obama does not have a secret plan to use Wal-Mart department stores as internment camps for gun owners, which is the latest conspiracy theory promoted by Chuck Norris and others. We can all get a chuckle from the story about Operation Jade Helm – the alleged U.S. military invasion of Texas – but it’s not as funny when we begin to realize that for the Republican Party in Texas, crazy is a constituency that must be dealt with delicately. So I want to end by speaking directly to the millions of families who are waiting for Texas politicians and judges to stop the delay tactics. And I will use the language many of them speak and which God understands as well, or at least I assume he speaks Spanish because he named his only son Jesús. I will summarize my remarks first in English. The message is that we cannot give up hope and cannot stop pushing for the implementation of the President’s executive actions just because politicians have prevented something important from happening -- again. That is why I am inviting people in Chicago to join me on Saturday in Little Village so that we can renew our commitment to prepare ourselves for DACA and DAPA. ¡No se rindan! Hay políticos republicanos en Tejas y en otros lugares tratando de bloquear nuestro camino hacia la implementación de DACA y DAPA y quieren hacernos perder la esperanza, perder la paciencia y perder nuestra determinación. Pero hay que permanecer fuertes y preparándonos a nosotros mismos, a nuestros hermanos y hermanas y a nuestros vecinos para estar listos cuando la corte finalmente resuelva a favor del Presidente y de los inmigrantes en Estados Unidos. Voy a seguir luchando y necesito su ayuda. Si usted vive en Chicago venga y únase a nosotros el sábado en la mañana en la Iglesia de Santa Inés de Bohemia en La Villita. Y dondequiera que ustedes vivan, sigan luchando y preparando a sus vecinos y a ustedes mismos para mantener a nuestras familias unidas y asegurarnos de que no estemos deportando aquellos que son un gran valor a nuestro país. [TRANSLATION OF SPANISH SECTION: Don’t give up. There are Republican politicians in Texas and elsewhere trying to block our way towards implementation of DACA and DAPA and they want us to lose heart, lose patience, and lose our resolve. But we must stay strong and prepare ourselves and our brothers and sisters and our neighbors to be ready when – eventually – the court rules in favor of America’s immigrants. I will continue fighting and I need your help. If you live in Chicago come join us on Saturday morning in Little Village at Iglesia Santa Inez de Bohemia. And wherever you live, continue fighting and preparing your neighbors and yourselves to keep our families together and make sure we are not deporting those who are assets to our country.] Gracias, Mr. Speaker. I yield back. # # #
05.27.2015	“We believe the only solution to this problem is to end the use of family detention” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the overwhelming majority of Democrats in the House -- including Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD) – sent Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson a letter (link, pdf) saying the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) “has not fully grasped the serious harm being inflicted upon mothers and children” who are being held in “jail-like” secure facilities awaiting adjudication of their asylum and immigration cases. The letter (link, pdf), spearheaded by Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA) and Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL), says the practice is “detrimental to mothers and children and is not reflective of our nation’s values.” The letter calls particular attention to reports of poor or non-existent medical care for detainees, including those traumatized in their countries of origin and traumatized en route to the United States. “We cannot hear reports of serious harm to children in custody and do nothing about it,” the letter states. “Detaining mothers and children in jail-like settings is not the answer. We have an opportunity to do the right thing and are confident that DHS has the capacity to honor our Nation’s longstanding commitment both to the protection and well-being of refugee families and to law enforcement and public safety.” DHS dramatically ramped up the practice of detaining mothers and children in family detention centers a year ago in response to a surge of Central Americans seeking asylum from endemic violence, murder and rape. DHS claims the practice is necessary as a deterrent to other migrants and recently announced a series of measures to make conditions more humane. However, as the letter notes, a federal court has specifically disallowed the practice of detaining mothers and children as a form of deterrence and the Members of Congress who have signed the letter feel that the only humane way to detain mothers and children is to not do it. “We believe the only solution to this problem is to end the use of family detention,” the letter states. “Children require special protections and should not be placed in jail-like settings.” Last week, Reps. Roybal-Allard, Lofgren and Gutiérrez were joined by many House Democrats at a Capitol Hill press conference calling for an end to family detention. There have been many recent reports of lengthy detention, serious medical concerns and significant developmental delays in children. Opposition to family detention appears to be growing with the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops and several newspapers (e.g., New York Times, Seattle Times) highlighting the need to end to the practice. # # # Letter to Secretary Johnson from 136 House Democrats Says DHS “Has Not Fully Grasped the Serious Harm Bein...
05.26.2015	“I am confident millions of immigrants will eventually apply for DAPA and DACA” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) responded to news that the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals had refused to issue a stay of the injunction that has delayed implementation of some of President Obama’s executive actions on immigration, and specifically the expansion of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program begun in 2012 and the Deferred Action for Parental Accountability Program (DAPA) announced in 2014. DACA and DAPA will allow as many as four million immigrants to apply for deferred action, which, if granted, would allow them to work legally while temporarily protecting them from deportation. The case, a request for a stay of a previous temporary injunction, was denied by a panel of three judges. The programs, therefore, remain on hold until any subsequent appeal is resolved, perhaps going all the way to the Supreme Court. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez who represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “It is disappointing but not unexpected given the make-up of the Fifth Circuit and the panel hearing this preliminary case. I am confident millions of immigrants will eventually apply for DAPA and DACA, because the law is undeniably on the President’s side, as is public opinion. Meanwhile, I continue to work with Democrats and others who are preparing immigrant communities for the application process once the legal maneuvering is resolved and the courts reject the arguments of the Republican Governors and Attorneys General. The longer the court process takes, the harder it is to imagine a Republican candidate remains competitive in a bid for the White House, because increasingly, this will be the defining and decisive 2016 campaign issue.” # # #
05.22.2015	For first time in two decades major financial institutions admit to criminal acts, agree to pay more than $5 billion in penalties...but will they claim the write off? Washington, DC – This week the Department of Justice and state officials announced that five Wall Street banks will pay $5.6 billion for criminal activity that manipulated the currency market. In response, Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) and Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) reintroduced the Stop Deducting Damages Act of 2015 (H.R. 2486) to ensure that parties in this case and in any future settlements cannot shift the burden of their crimes to the taxpayer. Under current law, a corporation required to pay damages is typically permitted to write off the portion of the settlement not paid directly to the government as a penalty or fine for a violation of the law because damages are classified as an ordinary business expense. The Welch-Gutiérrez legislation would ensure that no corporation, including the five major banks that pleaded guilty to felony charges this week, could deduct any portion of their penalties or settlement under the tax code. The banks involved this week are: Citicorp, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Barclays PLC, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and UBS AG. This case is believed to be the first time a major financial institution has pleaded guilty to criminal charges in over two decades. “Allowing a financial institution found guilty of criminal activity and harming consumers the benefit of writing off related penalties is offensive and adds insult to injury to the taxpayer,” said Welch. “This legislation is a no brainer and Congress should act on it promptly to protect the American taxpayer.” “Either they did wrong and they should pay a price, or not, but you can’t have it both ways,” said Rep. Gutiérrez. “No company should be able to claim a tax benefit for committing crimes against consumers or the government. I commend the Attorney General and regulators for ensuring that justice is served. Now we must go one step further and ensure that no American taxpayer will shoulder the penalty for these crimes.” Rep. Peter Welch represents Vermont’s At-Large District, and is a Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and the Energy and Commerce Committee. He is also a Chief Deputy Whip for the House Democratic Caucus. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, and is currently on leave from the House Financial Services Committee. He is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C – Leading House Democrats joined former detainees and legal advocates today calling on the Department of Homeland Security to end its immigrant family detention program in a press conference Thursday morning. The lawmakers, led by U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-Ill.), and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), cited the inhumane and cruel conditions in detention centers, and the harmful impacts of incarceration on the psychological health and well-being of mothers and their children. “Vulnerable women and children fleeing violence and abuse in their home countries are not breaking the law – they’re seeking asylum in the United States,” said Lofgren. “That is a key tenant of our immigration laws. To throw them in jail – oftentimes with inadequate medical treatment, poor living conditions, and in some cases outright neglect and abuse – is not only unconscionable, but it’s un-American. It’s time we end this cruel detention system, and adhere to the Department of Homeland Security’s own policy to use alternatives instead of jail for mothers and children.” “We need to shine a spotlight on the harm that detention does to children,” said Gutiérrez. “We have seen studies on the long-term repercussions for children and heard reports of poor treatment in custody. We know how detention reduces the chances of ever talking to a lawyer so that the truth of your circumstances comes out. We all need to remember that these are our children and families. They could be our nieces and nephews and neighbors’ kids and we should not be in the business of jailing children.” "As Americans, we believe in fairness, we believe in decency, and we believe in the value of children,” said Roybal-Allard. “Let us not ignore those values or the devastating impact our nation’s family detention centers have on the mental health and development of these children. Instead, let us apply our American values and use alternatives to detention that are effective, less costly, and more humane, such as supervised release." The lawmakers were joined by Maria Rosa Lopez, a Honduran refugee and victim of violence and abuse who spoke of her time as a detainee for six months at the Karnes County Residential Center. Maria Rosa and her son Yoandri suffered so greatly due to the poor living conditions, undrinkable water, degrading behavior, and lack of access to legal representation, that she organized a hunger strike with other women at Karnes to protest their treatment and detention. Dree Collopy, a pro bono attorney and partner at Benach Ragland. LLP, recounted her experience working with women and children held in inhumane conditions. She spoke of dehydrated and malnourished children, abusive and humiliating treatment, sexual abuse, and beatings. Her clients – mothers and children – were often afflicted with severe PTSD and depression that will take many years to treat. Also in attendance to speak out against family detention were U.S. Reps. Rep. Linda Sánchez (D- Calif.), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Rep. Judy Chu (D- Calif.), Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, Rep. Jared Polis (D- Colo.), Chair of the Progressive Caucus Immigration Task Force, Rep. Loretta Sanchez (D-Calif.), Co-Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Immigration Task Force, Rep. Rubén Hinojosa (D-Texas), Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D- Texas), Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.), and Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-Texas). # # #
05.20.2015	“Our money ought to more accurately reflect who we are as a nation in the 21st century.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) addressed the House of Representatives during the morning hour about developments in the effort to put a woman’s face on the $20 bill. Rep. Gutiérrez is the author of the “Put a Woman on the Twenty Act of 2015” (H.R. 1910) to instruct the Secretary of the Treasury to convene a citizen panel to, in the Congressman’s words, “get it done.” Last week, the online advocacy campaign spearheading the effort – Women on 20s – announced the results of their online balloting and abolitionist and Underground Railroad conductor Harriet Tubman was selected over three other nominees. Rep. Gutiérrez’ bill, which has a dozen sponsors, does not put forward Tubman or any particular nominee. Still, in his floor speech this morning, the Congressman extoled Tubman’s virtues for the honor: She was an agitator. She was a subversive. She used the tools of social change to improve America. She fought for the little guy against the strong guy. And she was willing to put herself at great risk to ensure the justice for others. And she was a woman and she was black. In other words, she was an ideal American! The text of the Congressman’s speech, as prepared for delivery, is below. A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/8x6VvMz_2tw and here: https://youtu.be/VSPiXEvFGW0 Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks as Prepared for Delivery May 20, 2015 The voting was going on for months. Spearheaded by the “Women on 20s” campaign, a nominee was announced last week. “Women on 20s” is the campaign that has been agitating to have a woman’s portrait, the portrait of a great American woman, placed on the 20 dollar bill by at least 2020, the 100th anniversary of the U.S. recognizing a woman’s right to vote. The “Women on 20s” campaign narrowed down their nominees for this honor to four women. Wilma Mankiller, a trailblazer and the first woman chief of the Cherokees. Rosa Parks, credited with starting the Montgomery Bus Boycott by not relinquishing her seat and sparking the modern civil rights movement in 1955. Harriet Tubman, an abolitionist born a slave who became one of the most noted conductors on the Underground Railroad. And Eleanor Roosevelt, who redefined the role of first lady while being a noted civil rights and human rights activist in her own right. More than 600,000 votes were cast in an on-line poll and the winner, announced with great fanfare last week is… Harriet Tubman. And, I am overjoyed that this great American leader was selected. As the author of the “Put A Woman on the Twenty Act of 2015” – H.R. 1910 -- I think matching a specific person with a specific biography will sharpen the focus of this remarkable grassroots effort to put a woman’s face on our money. Now, my legislation does not limit the idea of putting a woman on our money to Harriet Tubman or any particular nominee. It instructs the Secretary of the Treasury to convene the citizen panel that will make recommendations and get it done. From my perspective, as we see women breaking barriers at every level of society – and, by the way, as we see people of color breaking barriers at every level of society – our money ought to more accurately reflect who we are as a nation in the 21st century. I am not saying that President Andrew Jackson or any of the men we honor on our money are not worthy. Many of our founding fathers made important contributions to this country which we continue to enjoy today in the United States and throughout the world by the spread of democracy. It is also true that part of our history includes practices and decisions that we certainly are not proud of. Let’s be straight, President Jackson was a war hero, a great defender of the young American Republic, and really the first President and Founder of the Democratic Party. He oversaw our great nation as it came together and expanded west. But it is the expansion of this nation, the manifest destiny that pushed settlers west, that pushed the institution of slavery west, and that pushed the extermination and forced migration of Native Peoples west – that is precisely the nexus of Andrew Jackson and Harriett Tubman and illustrates why putting a new face on our money makes sense. The forced removal of Native peoples from their land so that we could expand the practice of slavery is at the heart of Andrew Jackson’s legacy. It is the “land-grab” and the trail of tears of the Cherokee people that is key to contextualizing President Jackson It was when Harriett Tubman was about six years old that Jackson became President. She was born a slave in Maryland and eventually walked to freedom in Pennsylvania. But she went back. Again and again. At least 19 times, telling more than 300 black people how to follow the big dipper constellation that pointed to the North Star and the way to freedom in the North – as a conductor on the Underground Railroad. She was an agitator. She was a subversive. She used the tools of social change to improve America. She fought for the little guy against the strong guy. And she was willing to put herself at great risk to ensure the justice for others. And she was a woman and she was black. In other words, she was an ideal American! The other women honored as nominees by the “Women on 20s” campaign were also great Americans. They were also subversives, trouble-makers, agitators, and therefore exactly the kind of people I think we need on our money because they represent to me what this country is all about. But Harriet Tubman – because she is a woman, because she is a woman of color, because she fought for freedom and for a better America in the face of this nation’s greatest -- and still unresolved -- sin of slavery and racism; Because she turned the tide of history for the better – she is a very, very worthy nominee for this honor. In a few years, maybe in a few months, when the idea of putting a woman on our money is considered a quaint, old-fashioned debate, and similarly when the idea of putting a person of color on our money no longer seems like such a remarkable step, we will wonder why it took so long. Well it should not have taken so long and Members of this body, Mr. Speaker, have the ability to do something about it and speed the process along. Co-sponsor the “Put a Woman on the Twenty Act of 2015” – it is H.R. 1910. Join me in calling on the Secretary of the Treasury to do this, whether it is Harriet Tubman or anyone else that a fair and open process arrives at. Let us stand as a Congress to put a great American woman on our money. # # #
05.18.2015	Rep Gutiérrez first called for hearing in 2013 after Trayvon Martin’s death. Will discuss challenges facing Chicago teens when it comes to the police. Chicago, IL – In a truly bipartisan spirit, House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and Democratic Ranking Member John Conyers (D-MI) announced last week (https://1.usa.gov/1EeWBhb) that the House Judiciary Committee would hold a hearing on “Policing Strategies for the 21st Century” on Tuesday, May 19 at 10:00 a.m. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), a Member of the House Judiciary Committee, has been calling on the Chairman to hold just such a hearing since shortly after Florida teenager Trayvon Martin was killed by George Zimmerman and the local police failed to file charges (see press release, July 15, 2013: https://1.usa.gov/1Jt9yee). On Monday, Rep. Gutiérrez said he plans to use his participation in the hearing to ask questions he has gleaned from Chicago teenagers and young adults when it comes to handling interactions with the police. “Young Chicagoans know that interacting with the police can be a life or death matter and I have been struck by how many kids and young adults tell me they have to prepare themselves to come in contact with cops,” Rep. Gutiérrez said on Monday. “One high school student told me how he had trained himself in de-escalation techniques and strategies – something I would think cops should be trained in, not law abiding teenagers.” Rep. Gutiérrez asked students he has met with in the past several months to submit questions they would like asked of the experts at the hearing. He will ask questions he received from the Phoenix Military Academy (a Chicago public school, near Westside), at tomorrow’s hearing. Coming just a day after President Obama announced that his Administration would limit access to military grade materials, weapons, and vehicles for local police, the hearing comes among heightened tension over policing issues. The deaths of unarmed men in Baltimore, New York, North Charleston, South Carolina and Ferguson, Missouri, are just the most well-known examples. The militarization of police forces and eroding trust between police and local communities are widespread issues for every police force, including Chicago’s. The Judiciary Committee has recently passed bills to force state and local police to enforce federal civil immigrations laws, further undermining police/community relations and community policing strategies that have been shown to reduce crime and violence. “I am glad the Judiciary Committee is finally looking at how police around the country conduct their business and how effectively they are serving and protecting every person and neighborhood in their jurisdictions,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “The Committee up until now has essentially ignored one of the most pressing issues in the country as the body count of both civilians and peace officers rises. It is past time for this hearing and a serious look at violence and guns and police in our neighborhoods, so I thank the Chairman and the Ranking Member for the hearing and I look forward to getting some answers.” More information on the hearing and witnesses is available on the Judiciary Committee’s webpage (https://judiciary.house.gov/) or (https://1.usa.gov/1EeWBhb). Background: Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
05.14.2015	Gutiérrez tells GOP: “If you give the restrictionists a vote or a hearing on every crazy idea they come up with, you will be relegated to being a provincial party…” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) addressed the House of Representatives during the morning hour (approximately 10:00 am ET) about the latest amendments ruled in-order for today’s debate on the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). One amendment approved by the Armed Services Committee would authorize a study of immigrants in the military and the other expresses a sense of Congress for the Secretary of Defense to look at policies related to the service of DREAMers with deferred action – temporary protection from deportation. The amendments, approved by the Rules Committee last night for consideration today, would strip these two provisions. Rep. Gutiérrez used a popular children’s book to make his point about the appeasement strategy the Republican Leadership has taken with regards to its anti-immigration, nativist wing. The children’s book, “If You Give A Mouse A Cookie…” by Laura Joffe Numeroff (Harper Collins, see: https://youtu.be/Gyk55GYnGl0) says that if you give a mouse a cookie, he will probably ask for a glass of milk. The Congressman said, “Anything you give the little mouse is going to lead to a new and bigger request and that must be what the Speaker of the House feels like with his nativist wing.” He explained: If you give them a record number of deportations, they will ask the Speaker for a vote on quicker deportations of vulnerable children. If you give them the vote for quicker deportations for children, they will demand a vote to deport all DREAMers who have permission to work legally. And if you give them the vote on deporting DREAMers, they will ask for a hearing on amending the Constitution to eliminate birthright citizenship. And then at some point they will demand that every single reference to anything related to immigrants without papers – even a research project – be declared an amnesty and stripped from legislation. He concluded, “At some point, I respectfully suggest you cut off the mouse’s supply of cookies.” A video of the Congressman’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/rONbFbRoQ24 (C-SPAN: https://cs.pn/1PIvuS9) His remarks as prepared for delivery are pasted below. The NDAA bill and the amendments to strip the two mild amendments related to immigrants serving in the military, will be debated later today. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks as Prepared for Delivery May 14, 2015 Later today, the House will consider amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act, the bill that tells the military what to do with all the money we give them. In the committee of jurisdiction over the military -- the Democrats and Republicans whose job it is to examine these issues -- they voted to include two studies of how immigrants are – or are not – included in military recruitment. Republicans are in the majority, so on a Republican-led and Republican-majority committee, these two amendments won their votes and were added to the bill. But no matter how many times Republican Leaders have appeased the hardliners on the fringes of their right flank -- to disastrous consequence -- they have chosen to capitulate one more time and ruled last night that amendments to strip the bill of these reasonable studies will be go forward. It is another glaring example of why the Republicans – from their Presidential nominee all the way down to their local government candidates -- are in very, very deep trouble when it comes to the immigration issue. One amendment simply asked the Secretary of Defense to study the impact of letting immigrants who grew up for years in the United States, who have passed a criminal background check and who have a legal work permit -- it asked the Secretary of Defense to study whether including them in military recruitment would help diversify our military. The second did not call for any action, but simply stated that it is the “Sense of Congress” that the Secretary review whether recipients of deferred action for childhood arrivals be allowed to serve in the military. That is the program where 700,000 young immigrants came forward to get right with the law and got a work permit – after they passed a criminal background check. But do you know what the Secretary of Defense “reviewing” something is – when it comes to the hardliners? Do you know what “studying” something related to immigrants who have deferred action is to the nativists? Do you know what the contingent of hardcore anti-immigration guys in the Republican Conference started shouting? You guessed it: “The A-Word, Amnesty.” I have the language right here: “It is the sense of the House of Representatives that the Secretary of Defense should review…” Members of Congress from Alabama to Iowa to Texas began throwing around the amnesty attack. It’s a “backdoor amnesty.” We shouldn’t “reward” “illegal aliens” who want to risk their lives to defend their adopted country when there are red blooded Americans who want to fight. Breitbart, in one article a couple of days ago used the word “amnesty” 20 times in less than 1400 words while ticking off the Members who might lose elections to more anti-immigrant candidates if the two studies are allowed to be included in a Defense bill. It reminds me of the story of the Little Mouse that I read to my grandson, Luisito --the same story you probably read to your kids or grandkids. It goes: if you give a Mouse a Cookie, he is going to ask for a glass of milk. And if you give him a glass of milk, he’s going to ask for a straw. Anything you give the little mouse is going to lead to a new and bigger request… and that must be what the Speaker of the House feels like with his nativist wing. If you give them 30,000 more border guards, Mr. Speaker, they will ask for more deportations. If you give them a record number of deportations, they will ask the Speaker for a vote on quicker deportations of vulnerable children. If you give them the vote for quicker deportations for children, they will demand a vote to deport all DREAMers who have permission to work legally. And if you give them the vote on deporting DREAMers, they will ask for a hearing on amending the Constitution to eliminate birthright citizenship. And then at some point they will demand that every single reference to anything related to immigrants without papers -- even a research project – be declared an amnesty and stripped from legislation. If you give a mouse a cookie, he will want some milk. And if you give the restrictionists a vote or a hearing on every crazy idea they come up with, you will be relegated to being a provincial party with power in the House, but little ability to influence or even occupy the Senate, the White House, or the Supreme Court. At some point, I respectfully suggest you cut off the mouse’s supply of cookies. # # #
05.13.2015	Gutiérrez, Roybal-Allard, and Lofgren call for end to family detention program WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Luis V. Gutiérrez (D- Ill.), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) today issued the following statement calling on the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to end its family detention policy after a new set of actions was announced by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE): “We acknowledge that DHS is trying to address broad public disappointment with its policy of incarcerating vulnerable women and children. Unfortunately, today’s plan states that DHS will continue detaining women and children, and only consider methods of making the facilities better and more humane. “The United States government should not be in the business of holding mothers and children in detention, no matter how nice the facilities or how many stakeholder meetings the government has. “Jailing children and women is not the answer. It is detrimental to child development, and can have serious and long-lasting impacts on the psychological health and well-being of these families. Furthermore, we’ve learned of many women and children confined in detention centers who have severe medical needs, including intellectual disabilities, cancers, and various serious medical disorders. “We need to do the right thing, and we are confident that DHS can both honor our nation’s commitment to the well-being of children as well as our commitment to law enforcement and public safety. “The government should be releasing detainees on supervised or monitored release pending the disposition of their cases – not fighting the court orders, injunctions, and overwhelming evidence against family detention.” Rep. Gutiérrez is the Co-Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Rep. Roybal-Allard is the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations, and Rep. Lofgren is the Ranking Member of the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee. # # #
04.30.2015	“We all know that the Almighty Dollar speaks. But what if it had a woman’s voice?” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) addressed the House of Representatives during the morning hour on the bill he introduced this month to put a woman’s portrait on the twenty dollar bill. The bill, the Put a Woman on the Twenty Act (H.R. 1910), instructs the Secretary of the Treasury to convene a panel to nominate a woman whose portrait can adorn the $20 note. The Congressman notes that his staffer brought him the idea for the legislation after she learned about the “Women on 20s” campaign on-line, a grassroots effort that has garnered more than half a million votes in support of putting a woman on our money. The bill has five co-sponsors, so far, and students at Roosevelt University in Chicago are organizing a campaign in support of their school’s namesake, Eleanor Roosevelt, to be selected for the honor when a woman’s portrait is put on the twenty dollar bill. Excerpt: “Women led us out of slavery on the Underground Railroad, taught us what the phrase ‘all men are created equal’ really means by fighting for women’s suffrage and for civil rights, and have led in all sectors in society. When I go to the bank, when I use an ATM, when I travel overseas, the twenty dollar bill is already widely used and in the purses and wallets of hundreds of millions of people. We all know that the Almighty Dollar speaks. But what if it had a woman’s voice?” A video of the Congressman’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/D-_L1tc-uf8 The text, as prepared for delivery, is pasted below. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks (as prepared for delivery) April 30, 2015 Mr. Speaker, What would be like if this chamber and this government reflected the diversity of the American people? There would be a lot more portraits of women alongside all the portraits of the committee chairmen of decades past. In 2015, it wouldn’t be newsworthy when a competent and intelligent person, who happens to be an African American woman, is hired for a job for which she is supremely qualified, which happened this week when Loretta Lynch was sworn in as our 83rd Attorney General. And we wouldn’t still be talking about unequal pay for equal work. I believe that if this is a country that truly believes in equality it is time to put our money where our mouths are…literally, and express that sense of justice on the most widely used currency in international transactions. Last week I introduced the Put a Woman on the Twenty Act to build on a public grassroots campaign known as “Women on 20s” working to bring gender equality to our currency. Their public campaign has garnered more than a half a million votes in support of putting a woman on the twenty dollar bill. I loved the idea, brought to me by smart young women on my staff, because to me this isn’t just a women’s issue. It’s an American issue. My bill simply directs the Secretary of the Treasury to convene a panel of citizens to solicit recommendations from the public for a woman to be placed on the twenty dollar bill. Women have inspired generations of Americans for their courage, by challenging this nation to protect the civil rights of all Americans. Women who have advocated for voting rights and equal protection under the law and for programs that serve the most vulnerable members of our communities. Women led us out of slavery on the Underground Railroad, taught us what the phrase “all men are created equal” really means by fighting for women’s suffrage and for civil rights, and have led in all sectors in society. When I go to the bank, when I use an ATM, when I travel overseas, the twenty dollar bill is already widely used and in the purses and wallets of hundreds of millions of people. We all know that the Almighty Dollar speaks. But what if it had a woman’s voice? Consider for a moment the powerful message that will be sent to a young girl in Chicago if she saw a portrait celebrating Rosa Parks or Harriet Tubman when she reached into her wallet to make a purchase. And what about the young man in a country far away, who maybe is still hearing damaging messages about the role of women in his country? The portrait of Wilma Mankiller or Eleanor Roosevelt on the United States bill that represents power and success to him provides a new opportunity to share our common values about equality and inclusion in faraway places. The organization Women on 20s has put forward four exceptional female leaders for this honor: Rosa Parks, Wilma Mankiller, Harriet Tubman, and Eleanor Roosevelt. That’s a great list, but there is no reason to stop there. The initiative has sparked conversations about the many great women who have contributed in significant ways to strengthen our democracy and economy. I have certainly benefited from the passionate advocacy of women who fought for civil rights and equality, as have my daughters and my constituents in Chicago, many of whom are debating and weighing in on the candidates for this honor. Roosevelt University in Chicago has launched a campus-wide effort to champion Eleanor Roosevelt for the honor, and not just because they were named after her. As a result of the campaign, students are participating in a national dialogue about her work advocating for child labor laws to protect kids and all workers from unsafe conditions and long hours; For gender equity, and safe housing. Now I don’t know who will be chosen. She could be one of the women suggested already or one of many other talented and impressive women in our country’s history. My mother, who is an amazing woman, and who would probably get my personal vote, is out of the running because, thankfully, she is still alive. But I believe that the time has come to have our currency represent the contributions of women throughout our history to strengthen our democracy and economy. A woman’s place is in the boardroom, chairing the committee, in the laboratory, in the Oval Office, and yes, even on our currency. # # #
04.22.2015	“We need to do more to engage and strengthen our neighbors.” Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) addressed the House of Representatives during the morning hour (approximately 10:00 am ET) on the subject of migration in the wake of the tragic loss of life in the Mediterranean Sea this week. At least 700 people lost their lives, and possibly a considerable number more. Rep. Gutiérrez compared the migration issue experienced by our European allies and its asylum seekers fleeing from the south in Africa and across Asia to the U.S. migration experience with migrants coming primarily from the Caribbean and Latin America. And he admonished his House colleagues to heed the words of Pope Francis who reminded us in his comments about the Mediterranean tragedy that migrants are indeed our brothers and sisters. Excerpt: “The migrants fleeing violence and poverty and gang- and drug-lord infested communities in Central America, like those fleeing African and Asian countries, are willing to literally risk life and limb for the slim chance of a better life on the other side.” Rep. Gutiérrez went on to say: The reality is that we need to do more to engage and strengthen our neighbors; much more to make sure that the actions, trade and consumption of our people are helping, not hurting; and much more to make sure we have secure borders, while also remembering to put doors on those borders so that people can come with visas in a controlled way and not with smugglers risking their lives. Rep. Gutiérrez also noted that the bills voted out of the Judiciary Committee last month, while acting to make it easier for people who home-school their children to apply for political asylum in the U.S., at the same time are making it harder for those in this hemisphere to apply for asylum, including children fleeing violence and chaos in Central America. A video of the Congressman’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/OIQf9QywOxY The text as prepared for delivery is pasted below. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks (as prepared for delivery) April 22, 2015 Mr. Speaker, this past weekend we witnessed the most gruesome example of a story that is becoming ever more common. Hundreds of migrants are missing and feared dead – 700 or more – because the smuggling boat they were packed onto capsized in the Mediterranean Sea off the coast of Libya. It was on the front page of every paper around the world. An estimated 3,500 people died in 2014 making the journey from North Africa to the Southern Coast of Europe. Right now along our Southern Border illegal immigration is at historically low levels, but we too have a border that is known for smuggling, tragic loss of life, and smugglers no less brazen -- no less indifferent to the lives of their human cargo -- than those off the Libyan coast. With few legal options and with great opportunity for work and freedom on the other side, migrants throughout the world are risking their lives in hopes of surviving the journey to live a better life. During the peak of illegal immigration to this country a decade or so ago, one person died every single day on average trying to come to the U.S. They died of dehydration in the desert or died in trucks and boxcars in botched smuggling operations or perished as stowaways. And those are just the ones we know about. Now we hear of “La Bestia,” or “The Beast” -- the train carrying migrants from Southern Mexico to the border with our country. Think about hundreds of people, most of them children and teenagers, clinging to the outside of a moving train while they are preyed upon by smugglers, sexual predators, and every kind of criminal you can think of. The migrants fleeing violence and poverty and gang- and drug-lord infested communities in Central America, like those fleeing African and Asian countries, are willing to literally risk life and limb for the slim chance of a better life on the other side. Europe is responding to the migrant crisis by committing to more rescue operations. The right-wing anti-immigration parties across Europe see the crisis as validation for their call to build a big wall around “Fortress Europe.” There are a few people who work right here in this building that probably agree with them. But most people in Europe understand that building civil society and stable economies in the Southern Hemisphere is the best way to entice people to stay home. Foreign aid and international economic development are not dirty words in Europe the way they are here. In the U.S., the policies set in Washington directly relate to the instability of neighboring countries in Central America, the Caribbean and Latin America. Trade policies initiated in this country have had devastating consequences in rural areas across our hemisphere driving people from the land and driving people into drug cultivation. And it is our insatiable appetite for illegal drugs, funded with our dollar bills and enforced with U.S. guns that creates and maintains a lot of the instability and chaos that drives people from their homes. Yet almost every budget that is considered in this Congress cuts mental health and drug counseling, addiction treatment and prevention, and does little to address our role in fueling instability. And with specific regard to immigration and asylum, in this Congress we are debating laws to make it harder for children to apply for asylum. Laws to make it easier to deport children or put families into lengthy and expensive detention And to add insult to injury, the Judiciary Committee just approved a measure to allow those who want to home-school their children – but who are prevented from doing so by their own governments – they would constitute a special class of oppressed victims to be considered eligible to apply for political asylum. So people from Germany and Sweden who want to homeschool their children, that is the kind of oppression this Congress responds to. People from Central America whose governments are unable or unwilling to protect children from murder and sexual assault? Not so much. The reality is that we need to do more to engage and strengthen our neighbors; much more to make sure that the actions, trade and consumption of our people are helping, not hurting; and much more to make sure we have secure borders, while also remembering to put doors on those borders so that people can come with visas in a controlled way and not with smugglers risking their lives. And first and foremost, we must remember the message that Pope Francis reminded of us when he said of those who drowned in the Mediterranean: Quote: “These are men and women like us, our brothers seeking a better life, starving, persecuted, wounded, exploited, victims of war,” the pope said. “They were looking for a better life.” Let us not forget that migrants are human beings. ###
04.21.2015	“If this is a country that truly believes in equality, it is time to put our money where our mouths are, literally…on the most widely used bill in circulation.” Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) introduced the “Put a Woman on the Twenty Act,” a bill calling for the image of a woman’s portrait to be displayed on the twenty dollar note. As women fill more and more positions of leadership in United States and in U.S. economy, there remains one place they are not represented: on United States currency. This legislation will change that. Not since the 19th century, when Martha Washington’s portrait was briefly featured on the $1 silver certificate, has there been a woman on U.S. paper currency. And yet throughout our history, countless women have accepted the call to serve as the heads of cabinet departments, in the halls of Congress, as Presidents and CEOs of industry, and as activists and public leaders fighting for justice and rights and protections under the law. Women make up over 50 percent of our population and at least 50 percent of our patriots, leaders, and role-models as a nation. “Recognizing and celebrating the significant contributions of women throughout American history on U.S. paper currency makes a powerful statement to my daughters and to young women across this country and to people across the globe who look to America as an example of inclusion and equal rights,” said Rep. Gutiérrez. “As the most used currency in international transactions, billions will see our values and freedoms in the course of daily financial transactions in every corner of the world.” The Congressman was inspired by the great work of the grassroots campaign known as “Women on 20s” to champion the proposal. The campaign has brought attention to this issue and galvanized support from the public for a number of possible female candidates. Their leadership and continued efforts to expand the coalition of supporters will help ensure that this effort succeeds. The idea has sparked robust debate over the many women who have made historic and lasting contributions to the United States and whose portraits merit consideration for placement on the twenty dollar bill. Leaders like Rosa Parks, Harriet Tubman, and Wilma Mankiller have been among the women proposed and there are many others whose contributions merit consideration as well. Even President Obama has commented publicly that it is a “pretty good idea” to place a woman on U.S. currency after receiving a letter from a fourth grade student who was concerned about the absence of women on currency notes. The “Put a Woman on the Twenty Act” directs the Secretary of the Treasury to convene a special commission to receive public input and recommend an appropriate woman to receive the high honor of having her portrait on the United States twenty dollar note. The bill has not yet received an H.R. number. “If this is a country that truly believes in equality, it is time to put our money where our mouths are, literally, and express that sense of justice and fairness on the most widely used bill in circulation,” said Rep. Gutiérrez. “Throughout American history intelligent, courageous, and innovative women have struggled alongside men to fight for our rights, to expand opportunities, to build commerce. I am a beneficiary of the women who have fought for equality and for civil rights, as are my daughters and constituents. The ‘Put a Woman on the Twenty Act’ will honor not just the woman chosen, but also celebrate the contributions of all women to the strength of our economy and our nation.” # # #
04.15.2015	“Just like the decision not to allow a vote on immigration reform over the past two years will be seen as one of the biggest political mistakes of all time.” Washington, DC – Today (at approximately 10:00 a.m. ET), Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives about the lawsuit filed to block the implementation of the President’s executive actions on immigration. Standing before a picture of Judge Andrew Hanen of the Southern District of Texas, Rep. Gutiérrez warned his Republican colleagues that their strategy to block the President’s executive actions could have consequences in 2016. The Congressman said: “It might turn into a drawn out series of rulings and appeals that wind up in the Supreme Court, which could take us well into 2016…an election year, where Latino U.S. citizens – not the immigrants we are discussing, but their neighbors, cousins, spouses and co-workers who are citizens – are not likely to vote for the Party that is making sure their neighbors, cousins, spouses or co-workers are still a top priority for deportation. I have a feeling the citizens will support the candidates and the parties that support their communities.” The text of the Congressman’s remarks is pasted below and a video clip is here: https://youtu.be/gMpNOYleAgw Congressman Gutiérrez speaks later today at a rally and community education event in Langley Park, Maryland where he will be joined by Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and Maryland Democrats Chris Van Hollen and Donna Edwards, among others. Flyer (English): https://1.usa.gov/1FRRev3 (Spanish): https://1.usa.gov/1cw5T2F. On Friday (4/17), Rep. Gutiérrez will be in Tucson for an immigration and executive action event with Rep. Raul Grijalva (Flyer: https://1.usa.gov/1avVwtU), followed on Saturday by an event in Albuquerque with Reps. Ben Ray Lujan and Michelle Lujan Grisham. Additional immigration and executive action events are scheduled in Washington, Oregon and Texas later in the month. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. A video of his remarks at the Tuesday hearing of the Judiciary Committee with ICE Director Sarah Saldaña is here: https://youtu.be/ZPqduWuWaDs And the “Family Defender Toolkit” he developed for those preparing for the President’s immigration executive action is here: https://bit.ly/ToolKitEng and https://bit.ly/ToolkitESP. Remarks on the House floor as prepared for delivery: Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez April 15, 2015 The man pictured behind me will go a long way towards determining who lives in the White House for the next few years. No, he is not a pollster or a campaign spin-doctor. And no, he is not a potential Republican candidate. No, this is a federal judge for the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas, the honorable Judge Andrew Hanen. The lawsuit by 26 Republican Governors and Attorneys General seeking to block the executive actions taken by the Obama Administration on immigration was filed in his court. He has not ruled yet on the constitutionality of the case. He ordered a preliminary injunction saying he thought the states have standing to bring the suit – or at least that the state of Texas did. And that was enough for him to stop the implementation of the plan nationwide. And not surprisingly, just last week Judge Hanen refused the government’s request to lift his injunction and allow the plan to move forward. Here is the reality: Congress mandates that about 300,000 or 400,000 people will be deported this year out of a total of more tha 11 million undocumented. The Secretary of Homeland Security developed a plan to choose between hardened criminals and those immigrants who have lived here at least five years, have U.S. citizen children and can pass a criminal background check at their own expense. The plan also requires immigrants to renew their temporary status periodically to prove again that they have not committed crimes or fraudulently sought out services and benefits. It is that plan for parents of U.S. citizens – in American families – people who have been working and staying out of trouble for years -- that the Texas Judge believes will cause irreparable damage to the State of Texas and therefore must be stopped nationally. Just as they had hoped, Judge Hanen ruled that Texas might someday, in the future suffer irreparable harm because of driver’s licenses. In other words, people who qualify for driver’s licenses, and who take the test, and pay their fees for driver’s licenses -- if they live in Texas and apply for those driver’s licenses in Texas -- would be doing the state irreparable damage. I have a driver’s license. It’s right here. I had no idea I was causing irreparable damage to the State of Illinois just by applying for and paying for a driver’s license. And learning the rules of the road, and buying car insurance, but who am I to disagree? On Friday, the Department of Justice will argue before the 5th Circuit Court in New Orleans that the President’s executive actions should move forward. It is well-known that the 5th Circuit is among the most conservative. But look what happened a couple of weeks ago in that very same Circuit court. They ruled on a lawsuit related to the State of Mississippi, which, like Texas, felt it might someday in the future be dealt damage by the deferred action program announced by President Obama for DREAMers back in 2012. The panel of judges looked at the program, the evidence, and the cost to the State of Mississippi, and the 5th Circuit judges said Mississippi is NOT harmed and thus does not have the legal standing for this lawsuit. That bodes well for the country and the President’s executive actions. In the meantime, Judge Hanen still hasn’t ruled on the case. Maybe he is running out the clock. Trying to make immigrants in cities like Chicago and Houston lose hope or stop preparing to sign up – or maybe magically self-deport and give up on watching their children -- their U.S. citizen children – grow up. It might turn into a drawn out series of rulings and appeals that wind up in the Supreme Court, which could take us well into 2016. And 2016 is an election year, where Latino U.S. citizens – not the immigrants we are discussing, but their neighbors, cousins, spouses and co-workers who are citizens -- are not likely to vote for the Party that is making sure their their neighbors, cousins, spouses or co-workers are still a top priority for deportation. I have a feeling the citizens will support the candidates and the parties that support their communities. And I also have a feeling that the decision to drag this fight out in the courts will be one the Republican Party regrets from a political point of view. Just like the decision not to allow a vote on immigration reform over the past two years will be seen as one of the biggest and most consequential political mistakes of all time. How long does a vote last? 15 minutes? It might sound too much like a Geico commercial, but just 15 minutes could have saved the Republicans a great deal of heartache. The failure to take those 15 minutes for a vote might mean that there are no Republican Presidents for a very long time who would nominate judges like this one. # # #
04.06.2015	“Not too long ago, it was fair to say that the immigration issue divided both parties, but not anymore.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement on the amicus brief filed by 181 House Democrats in support of the President’s immigration executive actions at issue in Texas v. United States. Democratic Leader Pelosi and other key Democratic Leaders, including leaders on the Judiciary Committee, signed the brief calling on the court to end a temporary injunction against the President’s actions taking effect. [Text of amicus brief from 181 Members of Congress: https://bit.ly/1CMnoEk] At the same time, 74 cities and counties, including Mayor Rahm Emanuel and the City of Chicago, joined a similar amicus brief driven by the National League of Cities, and the U.S. Conference of Mayors on the same Fifth Circuit case. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. I am proud of the extraordinary unity among Democrats on the immigration issue. Not too long ago, it was fair to say that the immigration issue divided both parties, but not anymore. The immigration issue still divides Republicans but the Democrats are unified in seeking solutions to the fact that 11 million undocumented immigrants live here. The President’s immigration executive actions are about setting enforcement priorities and using our resources first and foremost to make us safer. Making millions of hardworking moms and dads and other immigrants with long-term roots in the U.S. the lowest priority for deportation is a part of that effort. In the end, the laws passed by Congress clearly support the President’s ability to direct how the Department of Homeland Security protects the nation and administers immigration law. It is only a matter of time before the courts resolve this and allow immigrants to apply for a review of their cases under the President’s deferred action executive actions. # # #
04.01.2015	Chicago, IL – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement on Sen. Bob Menendez (D-NJ). Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “Bob Menendez has never given me any reason to question his integrity, his dedication to honest public service or his commitment to the American people. As a leader in the House and in the Senate, he has been a key ally in fighting for sensible immigration reform and a touchstone for all matters related to Latinos in this country. He is a friend who is quick with advice, encouragement and good ideas. I am particularly proud of his leadership on foreign policy matters related to Latin America. My hope is that these legal matters are resolved quickly so he can go back to concentrating 100 percent on his service to the people of New Jersey and the United States.” Español: “Bob Menéndez nunca me ha dado ninguna razón para cuestionar su integridad, su dedicación al servicio público honesto o su compromiso con el pueblo estadounidense. Como líder en la Cámara y en el Senado, ha sido un aliado clave en la lucha por una reforma migratoria integral, y un punto de referencia para todos los asuntos relacionados con la comunidad latina de nuestro país. Él es un amigo que está siempre dispuesto a dar consejo, apoyo, y buenas ideas. Estoy particularmente orgulloso de su liderazgo en los asuntos de política exterior relacionados con Latinoamérica. Mi esperanza es que estas cuestiones legales se resuelvan rápidamente para que pueda volver a concentrarse 100 por ciento en su servicio a la gente de Nueva Jersey y los Estados Unidos.” # # #
03.27.2015	“His contributions have been immeasurable” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued a statement praising Senator Harry Reid (D-NV), the Democratic Leader in the Senate, who revealed today that he will not seek reelection in 2016. “Harry Reid is a leader, a mentor, and a friend. He has taught me a lot about tenacity and compromise. And he has taught me a lot about fighting for justice. His many contributions to the fight for justice for Latinos, immigrants, and all Americans do not get the recognition they deserve. His contributions have been immeasurable. When I have needed him, he was always there and I hope he feels that whenever he needed me, I was there. I know he is not leaving the Hill immediately and that he will continue to lead with steady persistence and resolve.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
03.26.2015	New “toolkit” will help families before applications are accepted Chicago, IL – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) was joined at a press conference about the continued efforts to educate individuals and families about the President’s immigration executive actions by a number of his House Democratic colleagues including: Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Karen Bass (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Al Green (D-TX), and Barbara Lee (D-CA). Dozens of workshops and orientation sessions related to the deferred action programs – known as DAPA and DACA – have been held around the country by Democratic House Members and many more are planned. Congressman Gutiérrez, for example, will join Democratic Whip Hoyer in Maryland for an event on April 15 and has events planned in Tucson, April 17, and Albuquerque, April 18. He recently held three events in California (March 20-21) with Reps. Zoe Lofgren (San Jose), Karen Bass (Los Angeles) and Tony Cárdenas (San Fernando Valley/Van Nuys). At today’s press conference, Rep. Gutiérrez unveiled a new “toolkit” he has created to help families gather the documentation they will need once applications for DACA and DACA are available – and which can be used now as a tool to fight deportation under revised deportation prioritization guidelines. The toolkit, a detailed pamphlet with a detachable wallet card, helps immigrants who meet certain criteria demonstrate they are a low priority for deportation should they be detained by immigration officials. Such defense against deportation is essential during this period when the courts are deciding when applications will be accepted for temporary protection from deportation. The “Family Defender Tool Kit” in English and Spanish is available on the Congressman’s website and short videos explaining how the toolkit can be used will be uploaded in English and Spanish. DOWNLOAD HERE: Family Defender Toolkit DESCARGAR AQUÍ: Manual para Defensores de Familia At the Press conference, Rep. Gutiérrez said: “We developed this ‘Family Defender Toolkit’ that is designed to help people organize the documents they will need when the court injunction is lifted – and it will be lifted, because the law is on the President’s side. If you are in the unfortunate position of getting put into ICE custody in the meantime and have committed no serious crime, you will have the ability to say that you think you qualify for DACA or DAPA for all of these reasons, my documents have been collected and I can prove it, and I should be a low priority for deportation. If the ICE and DHS officials are following the policy correctly, that should be enough to let you go or at least get your case reviewed.” Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD): “The immigration system is broken and needs to be fixed. We agree. The President has agreed and tried to do what he could under law to do so. Now it is time for us to bring a bill to the Floor. But in the interim, this packet allows people to understand their rights in this country, pursuant to the President’s order. If Republicans disagree with the President’s immigration policies, again, they have an alternative: bring a bill to the Floor to change that.” (more) Rep. Tony Cardenas (D-CA): “Rep. Gutiérrez has been an amazing leader in our fight for comprehensive immigration reform and I have been proud to work with him. Our event to help the undocumented community in the San Fernando Valley was amazing and I believe this toolkit that he has put together will be a great follow-up resource. Until we can convince House Republicans to supercharge our economy by passing a reform package to fully fix our broken immigration system, I will proudly stand beside my friend Luis Gutiérrez to protect the men and women who are working hard in our nation’s shadows.” Rep. Kathy Castor (D-FL): “Thanks to Rep. Gutiérrez, hardworking families and Dream Act students across America will have the knowledge and tools they need to stay safe and focus on the future. Across the Tampa area, Family Defenders, churches, schools, advocates and more are assisting families until a pathway is finally adopted through comprehensive immigration reform. Rep. Gutiérrez is an inspiration to me and the Family Defenders in Florida.” Rep. Al Green (D-TX): “I know that there is despair, but I also know that out of the ashes of despair there are embers of hope. I also know that hope, when properly kindled, can become an inferno of help. To those who are undocumented: Help is on the way. This toolkit will provide the help you need so that you will not only understand your immigration status; you will be able to communicate that status by passing a card, when necessary, to the appropriate person. This is important because it says to people that Members of Congress are taking a stand with the undocumented. We have decided that we are not only going to fight here in the halls of Congress for reform, but we are going to take it to the community and let the message go far and wide that we are here to help.” Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA): “I thank Congressman Gutiérrez for creating these important resources for those living in fear of having their family torn apart by our broken immigration system. While the President’s actions are a welcome first step, it’s past time that Congress pass bipartisan, comprehensive immigration reform. Juntos somos fuertes. Juntos nuestras voces son fuertes.” FAMILY DEFENDER TOOLKIT: Link to Immigration Executive Action Landing Page (English): https://gutierrez.house.gov/immigration-accountability-executive-action Link to Immigration Executive Action Landing Page (Spanish): https://gutierrez.house.gov/prepararte Link to “Family Defender Toolkit” (English): www.gutierrez.house.gov/rep-gutiérrez-announces-family-defender-toolkit Link to “Family Defender Toolkit” (Spanish): www.gutierrez.house.gov/congresista-gutierrez-anuncio-nuevo-manual-para-defensores-de-familia Link to toolkit video (English): https://youtu.be/qYuECmyn1iE Link to toolkit video (Spanish): https://youtu.be/hU6E_jD5Ams Video excerpts: ENGLISH: “I created this toolkit for you to protect yourself from deportation. Even though you cannot apply yet for the expanded DACA and new DAPA programs that were announced by the President on November 20, 2014, you can still prepare…You need to keep these documents in a safe place. Attach this toolkit to an envelope or folder so that you know where your important documents are. You should also provide copies of these important documents to a relative or friend that you trust and who can help you in case of an emergency.” SPANISH: “He creado este manual para que se proteja ante la deportación. Aunque todavía NO puede aplicar para la expansión de DACA o el nuevo programa de DAPA que fueron anunciados por el Presidente el 20 de noviembre del 2014, se puede seguir preparando…. Necesita guardar estos documentos en un lugar seguro. Agregue este manual a un sobre o una carpeta, para que sepa dónde están sus documentos importantes. También debería darle una copia de estos documentos importantes a un amigo o familiar de confianza que pueda ayudarle en caso de una emergencia.” Background: Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. In January, he launched a tour of more than a dozen cities to conduct workshops and community meetings in support of the President’s executive actions on immigration. See: https://gutierrez.house.gov/ for more. Rep. Gutiérrez’ op-ed in Roll Call, Tuesday, March 24: Democrats Will Protect Families Until Immigration Reform Happens: https://bit.ly/19iQsbR
03.24.2015	“I have complete confidence in Deputy Secretary Mayorkas.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement responding to an Inspector General report targeting Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “Alejandro Mayorkas has been an excellent USCIS Director and Deputy Secretary at the Department of Homeland Security. He is a tenacious champion for fair, legal and sensible application of our immigration policies, so it is no surprise to me that when individuals raised concerns with regard to the processing and adjudications of EB-5 petitions, he made it his priority to examine the program and ensure it was working the way it should. Deputy Secretary Mayorkas has consistently demonstrated a commitment to USCIS’ complete mission and to all its customers equally, from immigrants to employers to businesses, irrespective of their means or political affiliation. That is exactly what a smart and effective public servant should be doing and I have complete confidence in Deputy Secretary Mayorkas.” Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement responding to an Inspector General report targeting Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas. # # #
03.04.2015	“We know there is a sensible bipartisan majority that is willing to compromise and do what has to be done…” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to “congratulate” the Speaker and the Republican majority on – finally – passing a bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security, but admonished his Republican colleagues that the government shut-down crisis “should never have come to this.” He said that Congress “should not play around with the pay checks of our fellow government employees” to “score political points” and that attacking the funding for Homeland Security never made sense. “It is as if the Republicans were saying they are so upset about their obsession with border security and their conviction that the President is not doing enough about border security that they were willing to defund border security to make their point. Jon Stewart can’t write stuff that good. And he doesn’t have to.” Rep. Gutiérrez pointed out that the “sensible majority” that voted in favor of the DHS spending measure could have been enlisted at any time during the past two years to pass immigration reform and avoid the show-down – and the need for executive actions by the President on deportations – in the first place. “The coalition to pass reform – which is made up of almost all of the Democrats and about a third or more of the Republicans – the same coalition that enacted the bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security in yesterday’s vote – existed then and it exists today, if our leaders are willing to work together to address immigration reform.” A video of the Congressman’s speech today, delivered at approximately 10:00 am ET, is here: https://youtu.be/HBV-ODBGKS4 The text, as prepared for delivery, is pasted below. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez Floor Speech, March 4, 2015(As Prepared for Delivery) I would like to congratulate the Speaker and the Republican majority for coming to their senses and allowing the House of Representatives to pass a bill funding the Department of Homeland Security for the rest of the fiscal year. It seems odd that I would have to come to this well to congratulate the Majority for funding one of the largest and most important Departments in the U.S. government. And I cannot congratulate the Majority alone because the bill funding the Department of Homeland Security was passed largely on the strength of Democratic votes. The vote was strong -- 257 to 167 -- but 182 of those votes came from Democrats. In fact, every Democrat who voted, voted to keep the Department of Homeland Security open and protecting America until the end of the Fiscal Year. 100%. Only 75 Republicans supported paying our border security and airport security professionals. Mr. Speaker, it should never have come to this. On the one hand, it should never have come to this because Members of Congress should never play around with the pay-checks of our fellow government employees and threaten them with furloughs in order to score partisan, political points. The real people with real lives who work at O’Hare and Midway and at ports, airports and border crossings -- the real people with mortgages, car notes, and tuition bills who provide the security our democracy depends on do not deserve the way they are treated by this Congress. Lurching from funding crisis to shut-down show-down to last minute votes is no way to run the greatest democracy the world has ever known. We know there is a sensible bipartisan majority that is willing to compromise and do what has to be done to keep the basic functions of government operating – they voted yesterday – and the leadership should find a way to let that sensible majority govern despite those who take every opportunity to make governing next to impossible in this body. Secondly, it should never have come to this because the premise on which this funding and shut-down crisis rested was never logical or necessary. Those who oppose the President exercising powers granted to him by the Congress have filed suit in federal court. They picked a sympathetic judge and have won a temporary injunction on the implementation of the executive actions the President announced in November. If they really believe in the strength of their case, this threat of a partial government shutdown was unnecessary. Clearly they agree with me that their case is weak and that the courts will eventually overturn the temporary injunction. But the logic was always sideways. The very presidential actions that some in the Republican Party object to are not even funded by appropriations made by Congress. The criminal background checks and adjudication of each person’s application is paid for in full by fees of $465 for each immigrant. So this was never a logical funding matter. With or without funding for the Department of Homeland Security, the premise that the Congress could force the President to deport low-priority deportees who grew up in the United States or who are the parents of U.S. citizens never held water. Even if people cannot come forward to apply and pass a criminal background check and get to the back of the deportation line, the basic way the President and Secretary of Homeland Security prioritize deporting criminals, drug dealers and drunk drivers over moms, dads, and DREAMers would not change. Think about it. It is as if the Republicans were saying they are so upset about their obsession with border security and their conviction that the President is not doing enough about border security that they were willing to defund border security to make their point. Jon Stewart can’t write stuff that good. And he doesn’t have to. But here is the biggest reason why it did not have to come to a shut-down show-down. Republicans in the House could have taken action last year or the year before to fix a lot of what is broken about our immigration system so that we do not have to continue this fiction about deporting 11 million people. They could have had a vote to reform our immigration system so that people can apply for visas and come legally in the first place rather than being forced into the black market. They could have allowed a vote that put E-Verify in place, put serious sanctions and jail time for employers in place, and targeted our enforcement resources on felons and not families. I stood here nearly every week last year and said if the Republicans failed to act the President would be forced to act within the limits of current law to rescue American families and target our enforcement resources. I was right. And, for the record, I told you so…using a countdown right here on the House floor The coalition to pass reform – which is made up of almost all of the Democrats and about a third or more of the Republicans – the same coalition that enacted the bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security in yesterday’s vote -- existed then and it exists today, if our leaders are willing to work together to address immigration reform. It is not too late and I predict that the Republican Party will continue boxing itself into a corner until it addresses this priority American issue. # # #
03.03.2015	“What an embarrassment that it came to this.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement in reaction to the vote in the House of Representatives that approved spending for the Department of Homeland Security and avoids a partial government shutdown: “This is a huge victory for the United States and for American families. The minority within the Republican Party that forced us to the brink of shutting down the Department of Homeland Security has been overruled by more rational Members of Congress. What an embarrassment that it came to this. Let’s have a debate, let’s have disagreements, but let’s not allow Congress to toy with the pay-checks of border guards, airport security, and national security professionals to score points. “The courts should – and will – decide whether the Republican’s deportation lawsuit has merit. I think the case against the President’s immigration executive actions is weak and that the Chief Executive has powers of prosecutorial discretion that are well established in the law and precedent. “The courts will do their job to rule on the pending court case and the Congress must do its job to pass new immigration laws to fix our broken immigration system. But I am glad we have stopped playing these dangerous budget and shut-down games for the time being.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
03.02.2015	This article, written by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), originally appeared at The Huffington Post on March 2, 2015 (https://www.huffingtonpost.com/rep-luis-gutierrez/why-i-wont-be-at-benjamin-netanyahu_b_6787936.html): After consulting with my colleagues, my staff, my family, and my conscience, I will regretfully not be attending the address by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in the House Chamber on Tuesday. I do not expect this absence will be much noted or will change the course of history in any significant way, but it is important to me to be clear about why I feel my presence would send the wrong message. I will not attend Tuesday’s speech precisely because I am a strong supporter of the State of Israel and the Israeli people. I do not want to participate in a political stunt that may have short-term payoffs for partisanship and the conservative parties in both Israel and the United States at the expense of long-term damage to one of the most important international relationships the United States has — and the most important international relationship the Israelis have. With the far-right Conservative Political Action Committee conference in Washington last week, with AIPAC gathered this week, with Israeli elections just a couple of weeks away, and with the Majority Party in this Congress desperate to change the subject from the Homeland Security shut-down debacle this week, it is easy to recognize cheap political pandering. But the House Chamber that has welcomed Prime Ministers, Kings, Queens, and Presidents, is not a prop. It is not a backdrop for the partisan ambitions of those who control the gavel, whether they be Republicans or Democrats. It is not a set for a campaign commercial in Hebrew, English, or any other language. I think making support for Israel a partisan domestic political issue in the United States is dangerous for the United States and dangerous for Israel. In eleven terms in Congress, my position on the State of Israel and its security and sovereignty is crystal clear. The existence of the State of Israel is important to American security. My record is such that I am neither nervous nor self-conscious about it. Furthermore, as a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, I know that security cooperation between our two countries continues at a high level regardless of the political fabric the Republicans and the Likud Party layer on top. I agree with the Prime Minister of Israel who said Monday that U.S.-Israeli relations remain strong. So why jeopardize that by accepting an invitation by one political party in the U.S. as it attempts to paint the other party as weak on Israel? Why help them as they paint our duly elected President and Commander in Chief — duly elected twice — as weakly American, pro-Muslim or anti-Israel? It feeds right in to the silliness of Mayor Nine-Eleven, the former Mayor of New York, who has been on TV questioning the patriotism of our democratically elected Head of State. Maybe playing to the cheap seats on an issue as serious as Iran’s nuclear ambitions is not the most constructive use of the Prime Minister’s time. Will it help contain the threat of a nuclear Iran that we all worry about? I don’t think so. Will it help contain the threat we all face from ISIS and the terrorist ideology? Hardly. Will it bring peace, the rule of law, and moral conduct back to the West Bank, Gaza, Israel or her neighbors? I can’t see how it advances any of those goals. By loaning a finger to the Republican Party so they can stick it in the eye of the President, the Prime Minister weakens Israel’s place among nations in this country. And, honestly, the Prime Minister should think of his own reputation when he accepts invitations from the Republican Majority. These are the people who say they want “regular order” and demand following the originalists’ interpretation of the Constitution at every turn. Yet, somehow, they were unable to consult with the White House, the State Department or anyone on my side of the aisle when they invited the Prime Minister. Republicans stepped into foreign policy in a ham-handed way, dabbling in foreign electioneering in an astounding display of irregular order. Surely in Israel the agencies that handle homeland security, border protection, customs and airport security are funded for more than a week or even a couple of months. Having visited several times, I can say with some confidence that the Prime Minister and the Knesset do not regularly lurch from spending crisis to spending crisis on issues related to sovereignty and security in an attempt to score political points over there. So why does standing with the gang who cannot govern here in the House do anything other than tarnish the Prime Minister’s brand and the bipartisan love and support that Israel has enjoyed here for generations? Better to leave our political leaders in the U.S. alone until they figure out how to pay airport security workers and border guards and to not let the stink of the last few weeks of partisan brinksmanship with our homeland security rub off. I think it was a bad mistake to issue the invitation in the way it was issued, a bad mistake to accept it, and a bad idea to support the speech by attending it. I can only control what I do, so I have chosen not to attend. Follow Rep. Luis Gutierrez on Twitter: www.twitter.com/RepGutierrez
02.26.2015	"The Republican Party’s goal of forcing this President to deport all the non-citizens they want deported will simply never be achieved until the Republican Party elects one of their own to the White House. And the strategy of the Republican Party…pretty much guarantees that one of their own will not get to the White House any time soon.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the U.S. Congress. He discussed the President’s Town Hall on immigration and executive action on Telemundo and MSNBC last night and also discussed the consequences of the Republican Party’s continued efforts to make the President deport DREAMers and long-term residents of the United States who are the parents of U.S. citizens. Excerpt: “No matter how many lawsuits are filed, how many symbolic votes are held in Congress, or how many federal agencies are shut-down, there is nothing the Republican Party can do to force the President of the United States to deport DREAMers or go after the parents of U.S. citizens if they have no criminal record and have lived here a long time.” And: “This is what my [Republican] colleagues fail to appreciate when they stand alongside the hardliners and the opponents of legal immigration: in their zeal to deport non-citizens, Republicans are hurting themselves with citizens.” A video of the Congressman’s speech (delivered at approximately 10:00 am ET today) is here: https://youtu.be/P571_1DijMg The text of the Congressman’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, is pasted below. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. ### Rep. Gutiérrez Floor Speech February 26, 2015 Mr. Speaker, I am very proud of the President for speaking directly to the American people on immigration last night in a Town Hall on Telemundo and on MSNBC. He was very clear that he will comply with the dictates of the judicial branch even as he fights a federal judge’s temporary injunction in the courts and is prepared to appeal those rulings all the way up to the Supreme Court if necessary. The President will follow the law – as he has been doing -- and comply with the injunction. But let me be clear to my Republican friends and to the American families impacted -- for now -- by the court’s actions. Nothing about the injunction compels the President to deport anyone he has identified as a low priority for enforcement. No matter how many lawsuits are filed, how many symbolic votes are held in Congress, or how many federal agencies are shut-down, there is nothing the Republican Party can do to force the President of the United States to deport DREAMers or go after the parents of U.S. citizens if they have no criminal record and have lived here a long time. And the Republicans know there is nothing they can do to force the President to deport the five million people he has protected. For years Congress has only provided enough funding to deport 4 percent of the total undocumented population, or 400,000 people a year. Clearly we in Congress know that only a small percentage of people will be targeted by our limited enforcement resources, because that is the law that we made. For all the talk about a rogue or imperial President, he is actually doing the job we asked him to do: to spend the limited enforcement resources we appropriated on protecting the Homeland by deporting the worst of the worst. Not on DREAMers, not on the parents of U.S. citizens who have strong ties to this country and decades with no criminal background. And the DACA program for DREAMers announced in 2012? That is still in place and renewals are happening right now, as we speak. Six-hundred and forty thousand strong. So under the enforcement priorities and under the DACA program, it is clear to me -- and I want to make it clear to everyone at home -- that the President has no plans to deport DREAMers or the parents of U.S. citizens who have never been involved in crime. Now, I know firsthand after numerous efforts to negotiate across the aisle that the majority of the country and the majority of the Republican Party would like to have a functioning legal immigration system. BUT, the impression the Republican Party is leaving with the American people – the only solution the Republicans are offering -- is that they demand the deportation of DREAMers and the deportation of the parents of 5 million American citizens who would be protected by the President’s executive actions. This is what my colleagues fail to appreciate when they stand alongside the hardliners and the opponents of legal immigration: In their zeal to deport non-citizens, Republicans are hurting themselves with citizens. In my District in Chicago, just like the rest of the country, there is no caste system where people who were born in the U.S. never mix with people who were not. There are no differences between the people who came with visas, the people who overstayed visas, the people who never had a visa to begin with, and the people who were born U.S. citizens. When we celebrate the Fourth of July or Thanksgiving, believe it or not, we eat at the same table. The undocumented are a part of our families, live in our neighborhoods, attend our churches, and are in classrooms with our children. What the Republican Party fails to see is that when they call for the deportation of DREAMers and long-term residents, they are calling for the deportation of our family members, our neighbors, and our classmates. Don’t forget, most Latinos in America are not immigrants but are U.S. citizens. So it should come as no surprise that when the 1 million or so Latino U.S. citizens turn 18 this year, they will not think fondly of the Republican Party —the Party that is bent on deporting members of their families and their communities. Ninety-three percent of Latinos under age 18 are U.S. citizens. They will not have a warm and fuzzy feeling about the Party that fought tooth and nail to throw out their moms and dads. And the 5 million U.S. citizens whose parents are undocumented – who worry every day about whether their families will remain intact – they are going to remember which political Party was cruel to their moms and dads, using them as scapegoats and insinuating they are all criminals bringing diseases. The Republican Party’s goal of forcing this President to deport all the non-citizens they want deported will simply never be achieved until the Republican Party elects one of their own to the White House. And the strategy of the Republican Party -- forcing this President to deport all the non-citizens they want deported -- pretty much guarantees that one of their own will not get to the White House any time soon. # # #
02.17.2015	“We may be delayed, but we will not be deterred.” Chicago, IL – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement reacting to the temporary injunction issued by a judge in the case (Texas v. United States) related to the President’s immigration actions on immigration. “We may be delayed, but we will not be deterred. In our neighborhoods, this is about defending families and making sure that children who are U.S. citizens grow up with their parents. It is that simple. And there is a great deal of passion and determination in the fight to defend families. I am telling immigrant communities to keep preparing to sign up millions of families for protection from deportation. “There is no good legal case to be made by the President’s opponents and legislation the hardliners are putting forward in Washington is going nowhere. Politically and practically the idea of deporting or driving out 11 million people and their families is absurd. But a group of Republicans have not gotten the message that mass deportation and criminalization do not work and that getting people into the system and on-the-books is a more sensible approach. And to attach this to shutting down the Border Patrol, TSA, and Homeland Security when the threats are so real around the world is going to backfire big-time on Republican hardliners.” The Congressman speaks at a press conference on the President’s immigration actions at 10:00 am CT today in Chicago and will host a workshop on Wednesday for people eligible for expanded DACA, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals deportation deferral program. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Co-chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. This month, he launched a tour of more than a dozen cities to conduct similar workshops and community meetings in support of the President’s executive actions on immigration. See: https://gutierrez.house.gov/ for more. # # #
02.05.2015	This article, written by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), originally appeared at The Huffington Post on February 5, 2015 (https://www.huffingtonpost.com/rep-luis-gutierrez/gop-self-deportation-fant_b_6615516.html): Here we are again, just one month into the 114th Congress and Republicans in the House are recycling the same old immigration bills with no solution for the 11 million people living and working in the shadows as undocumented immigrants, no solution for other American workers and no solution for American employers. Yesterday’s hearing in the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security was the sixth hearing in four years on E-Verify — the electronic employer verification system designed to determine who is eligible to work legally. But without a plan to legalize workers, the Legal Workforce Act proposed (again) by Republicans, is just another ineffective, half-baked bill that won’t fix our immigration system. E-Verify is widely understood to be an important part of any top-to-bottom fix of our broken immigration system. Every serious comprehensive immigration reform proposal in the last decade has mandated the use of E-Verify or something like it by all employers. I know, because I worked with offices on both sides of the Hill and both sides of the aisle to write most of those bills. But E-Verify in the absence of broader reforms would destroy entire industries and weaken our economy. It would drive our current workforce — especially our undocumented workforce — farther underground and keep them off the books. And hundreds of thousands of U.S. citizens and Legal Permanent Residents would be falsely identified as ineligible to work because of flaws in the system and its data. When approximately one in 20 workers in the U.S. economy are in the country illegally, what will happen when you mandate E-Verify tomorrow and do not fix other aspects of immigration? The Republican fantasy is that 11 million people will leave the country. The Republican fantasy is that millions of people who work in the United States will suddenly decide that their prospects for economic advancement and the survival of their children would be better served if they went back to rural Cambodia, or walked back to the mountains of Central America. But how many will take their chances in the countries they fled because of war, murder, famine, and desperation? The fantasy that millions of people will simply disappear if we just have stricter laws, the old “self-deportation” theory and the lynchpin of the Romney campaign in 2012, did not work as a political strategy and is laughable as a policy. Democrats — and frankly, most Republicans and most Americans — do not believe that E-Verify in and of itself is a magic wand that will miraculously make 11 million people and their families disappear. We believe that we need three basic ingredients to get more control over immigration, to make sure that immigration is operating within the law, not outside of it. Number one is legal immigration. We do not hear the Republicans talk much about legal immigration because it deeply divides their party and a good third of the Republican Caucus in both Houses of Congress is opposed, by and large, to legal immigration. They want fewer immigrants in the U.S., which is precisely why we are stuck in a rut and unable to move forward on any immigration reform. The solution to illegal immigration is legal immigration and Republicans have just not figured that out. With legal immigration comes control. With legal immigration comes orderliness, vetting, and visas. We do not need an unlimited amount of legal immigration, but right now we are constrained by the levels that were agreed upon by Congress sometime in the 1990s. The black market flourishes when we restrict the supply of legal immigration too much. The second component of immigration reform is enforcement, including E-Verify. If people can go through our immigration system rather than around it and we have checks on employers, such as jail time and huge fines, and muscle and money behind our enforcement and adjudication systems — we can have an immigration system based on the rule of law. There is no reason we should have a 20th Century paper-based worker verification system in a 21st Century economy. Just as there is no reason to have 20th Century immigration quotas for a 21st Century economy. But the largest barrier seems to come from the third element of immigration reform, which is to recognize that millions of people have lived here for decades, raised children, and held jobs in this country but have no way to get legal or be fully protected by American labor laws. The Republicans want you to believe this fantasy: that the magic wand to get rid of all undocumented immigrants will work this time if we just pass the standalone E-Verify bill introduced by the Republicans several years ago. But that strategy has not worked for the past 25 or 30 years and those 11 million people are not magically disappearing. They are cornerstones of American communities like mine in Chicago. They have jobs, mortgages, car notes, careers and children, most of whom are U.S. citizens. With no way to get legal — and no way to leave and come back legally because Congress outlawed that too — we must offer a viable solution other than just hoping long-term immigrants in the U.S. will simply go away. Mass deportation has not worked. Even in places like South Carolina, where I traveled last week, people are not “self-deporting.” The slowdown in the economy did not drive massive numbers out of the country, and now that the economy is steaming again, we shouldn’t expel large numbers of experienced, capable working men and women. It would be hugely counterproductive. Even in the unlikely event that Republicans get their way in trying to make the Obama administration deport 600,000 DREAMers who have already come forward and passed criminal background checks — as the DHS funding bill passed by the House and under consideration by the Senate this week does — it will not actually give us more law and more order. Like recycled E-Verify proposals, the Republican majority is offering less law and less order and it all amounts to being a political stunt to reassure their most conservative supporters that they are standing up to the president; supporters who absurdly blame immigrants for crime and the measles outbreak and, in some cases, who still think the president is an undocumented immigrant himself. The show-hearings the Republicans are staging in the House Judiciary Committee this week and next do not make me optimistic that serious proposals to address border security and immigration reform are forthcoming. It is a shame because the American people want progress towards an immigration system that is safe, legal, orderly, and one that is worthy of their pride. Rep. Gutiérrez of Illinois is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security and is the Co-Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Follow Rep. Luis Gutierrez on Twitter: www.twitter.com/RepGutierrez
01.13.2015	“Democrats are going to protect American families” Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) was joined by eight of his Democratic colleagues at a press conference in the Capitol today to announce a tour of at least a dozen cities in the coming weeks. The tour will include public events, workshops and other activities to educate immigrants and the broader community about the President’s executive actions on immigration. The goal is to prepare families to apply for relief from deportation when applications are available later this year. “My Democratic colleagues and I want families who fear deportation to know that we have their back,” Rep. Gutiérrez said at the press conference that also included Reps. Karen Bass (CA), Judy Chu (CA), David Cicilline (RI), Alan Grayson (FL), Al Green (TX), Jared Polis (CO), Jan Schakowsky (IL), and Juan Vargas (CA). The first event in Rep. Gutiérrez’ tour is Wednesday evening (Jan. 14) in Providence, Rhode Island where he will join Rep. David Cicilline, Mayor-elect Jorge Elorza, and others for a community forum at the Providence Career and Technical Academy, hosted by the Diocese of Providence, Progreso Latino, and Dorcas International. “While Republicans are trying to sue the President or play legislative games with the budget of the Department of Homeland Security, Democrats are going to protect American families and get people ready to sign up,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. On Friday (Jan. 16), the Congressman will be in Elizabeth, New Jersey at the Comunidad Cristiana church at the invitation of Rev. Gabriel Salguero, President of the National Latino Evangelical Coalition (NaLEC). More than a dozen cities and dates for the Congressman’s tour have been announced so far during January, February and March, with additional events in formation. In addition, Members of Congress at today’s press conference announced that they are hosting workshops and townhall meetings – some with Gutiérrez and some not – in the coming weeks. President Obama announced on November 20, 2014 that he was taking certain actions to protect long-term immigrants who meet certain criteria from deportation and adjust the deportation priorities of the Department of Homeland Security using authority under laws set by Congress. It is expected that applications for the newly expanded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (DACA) will begin to be accepted in February. It will take until mid-May for a new initiative for the parents of U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents to begin accepting applications. Rep. Gutiérrez discussed his tour in floor remarks earlier this year (see: https://1.usa.gov/14apOPT). He has also discussed how in partnership with Mayor Rahm Emanuel and others the City of Chicago is creating a model for the rest of the country on how it will prepare residents for signing up when the time comes (see: https://1.usa.gov/1wbe0DL). TOUR DATES/LOCATIONS DATE CITY, STATE Wednesday, January 14 Providence, Rhode Island Friday, January 16 Elizabeth, New Jersey Saturday, January 24 Racine, Wisconsin Thursday, January 29 Charlotte, North Carolina Friday, January 30 Charleston, South Carolina Saturday, January 31 Chicago, Illinois Saturday, February 7 Houston, Texas Friday, February 13 Minneapolis, Minnesota Saturday, February 14 Des Plaines, Illinois Saturday, February 28 Tampa, Florida Sunday, March 1 Orlando, Florida Friday, March 20 San Jose, California Saturday, March 21 Los Angeles, California Additional events will be added, and events are in the planning stages in Tucson (AZ), Santa Fe (NM), Denver (CO) and Las Vegas (NV). Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
01.09.2015	“Three words describes the Republican approach to immigrants: deportation, deportation, deportation,” Rep. Gutiérrez says of Republican proposal to defund Obama’s immigration actions Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) responded to reports that Republicans will introduce legislation to remove deportation protections from the families of U.S. military service members and to make deportable “DREAMers” who have already passed criminal background checks. House Republicans are finalizing legislation to target the President’s executive actions on immigration announced on November 20, 2014, but GOP leaders in the House are apparently trying to nullify all executive actions taken by the President dating back to at least 2011. This would put in jeopardy the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, launched in 2012 for young people who arrived in the U.S. as children. It would also retroactively put the families of military service members back in line for deportation. Rep. Gutiérrez said he expected an over-the-top reaction by House Republicans to what the President announced last year, but was surprised they are going so far to propose a mass deportation strategy for all undocumented immigrants. “Only three words describe the Republican approach to immigrants: deportation, deportation, deportation,” said Rep. Gutiérrez. “The ‘deport them all’ contingent in the Republican Party has the pen and the gavel in the House. I know the Republicans will stop at nothing, but I didn’t think they would start with everything.” Since DACA was announced in 2012, more than 610,000 young people raised in the U.S. have paid fees and gone through criminal background checks in order to be made the lowest priority for deportation. Each case has been individually reviewed and evaluated and now Republicans are attempting to make each one deportable. “Republicans want to show their political base they are attacking President Obama, but a lot of innocent young immigrants are going to get caught in the crossfire if they succeed,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “Republican leaders say even young people raised in this country who have already gone through criminal background checks must be stripped of deportation protection.” In certain cases, the families of military servicemen and women have been granted “Parole in Place” by President Obama which allows them to stay in the country and apply for legal status if they qualify. Based on press reports on what the Republicans have proposed for a vote next week, even this limited protection for spouses and immediate family of active duty military will be targeted by Republican lawmakers. “Republicans want to make a statement that they want to deport every single undocumented immigrant they can get their hands on,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “They cannot put forward serious proposals that address the immigration issue because of the divisions in their own party, but they are united in opposing anything President Obama does, so if military families, DREAMers, or the entire budget of the Department of Homeland Security are put in harm’s way, that’s apparently OK with Republicans.” Congressman Gutiérrez said he was confident that if the GOP’s deportation-only legislation passes in Congress it will never become law because of the President’s veto pen and sufficient votes to sustain a veto. The Illinois Congressman is traveling on Wednesday to Providence, Rhode Island to join Congressman David Cicilline and others for a public workshop preparing the community to sign-up for the President’s executive actions when applications are accepted later this year. It is the kick-off event of a national tour Rep. Gutiérrez has announced that will take him to more than a dozen states in the coming months (see: https://1.usa.gov/14apOPT). “The Republicans know this will never become law, which makes it all the more cynical,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “They are trying to cast doubt and trying to scare immigrants into not coming forward and not going through criminal background checks, so we need to get accurate information out to immigrant communities.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
01.08.2015	“I Am Going From Town To Town and State To State” Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor this morning (approximately 10:00 am ET) about his efforts to get the country ready to sign up for various aspects of the immigration executive actions announced by the President in November. Rep. Gutiérrez said he will be traveling the country “doing outreach events to educate the community of immigrants and also to mobilize the multitude of allies at the state and local level who will help millions of our immigrant neighbors come forward and register.” He said that while Republicans are going to “play politics and play to the talk radio audience” on immigration, Democrats at “the White House and our side of the aisle are actually taking steps on immigration that will address the anxieties of the talk radio audience and not just enflame their frustrations.” The Congressman is travelling to Providence, RI on Wednesday, January 14, 2015 for an event with Congressman David Cicilline and local leaders and elected officials. It is the first stop on a tour that includes events in and around Chicago and events in a half-dozen states, so far. The video of the Congressman’s speech today is here: https://youtu.be/hkisyjkc210 The text, as prepared for delivery, is pasted below. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. REP. LUIS GUTIÉRREZ January 8, 2015 If you live in Rhode Island, Texas, New York, New Jersey or Florida, I am looking forward to seeing you in the coming weeks. And my friends in North Carolina and South Carolina, too. When I am not here or in my District in Chicago I have a half-dozen events lined up there over the next few weeks -- I am going to be going from town to town and state to state talking with people about the President’s immigration executive actions and what it means for them, their families and their communities. In congregations, in community centers and schools, and with local elected officials, I will be doing outreach events to educate the community of immigrants -- and also to mobilize the multitude of allies at the state and local level who will help millions of our immigrant neighbors come forward and register. And I will not be alone in this effort. Next week I will be with the distinguished gentleman from Rhode Island, David Cicilline, and with his Mayor in Providence holding an event to get people the information they need so they are ready to sign up. From Charlotte to Houston to Los Angeles, my colleagues here in the House are pulling together events to educate their own communities and I hope to attend as many as I can. Evangelical congregations and the Catholic Church and the Archdiocese in Chicago are stepping up to organize and host events and begin laying the groundwork for millions of the people who work and live and raise families in the U.S. to come forward and pay to be temporarily spared from deportation. Labor unions, corporations and small businesses that want to help families remain together are preparing too. And Mayors. Lots of Mayors! Apparently, when Mayor Rahm Emanuel of the City of Chicago steps forward to say he will help facilitate the enrollment of families and individuals with the federal government, other Mayors say “me too.” And good for them. We can all help by playing a role in implementing the immigration executive actions taken by the President that will help millions of people. Congress refuses to pass laws that channel people into legal immigration with visas and Congress refuses to address millions of people who have lived and worked here for a decade or more. And they refuse to address any meaningful enforcement like E-Verify or at the borders and ports of entry because they would rather play politics and play to the talk radio audience. But at the White House and on our side of the aisle, we are actually taking steps on immigration that will address the anxieties of the talk radio audience and not just enflame their frustrations with the current mess. Remember, not doing anything at all – the Republican strategy -- is the de facto amnesty. We are going to make sure that millions of American citizens can live with their family members and that we will not place American citizens in Foster Care by the thousands because we are deporting their parents. We are going to make sure that more of the employment and tax base of the country is on the books, working legitimately for employers who have to follow rules. And that employers will not get to pick between a legal job market and an illegal one that is not protected by labor laws, wage protections, safety regulations, and tax compliance. We are getting accurate information out to people to tell them that what the President announced is not immigration reform. It is not permanent but a small step in the right direction and it is within the confines of current law. As I said during the last Congress and I am repeating today, I will work with anyone in either party that has a legitimate idea on how to make our immigration system more secure, more legal and more orderly. Most of my fellow lawmakers in this body support legal immigration and to make progress we need to break with the group opposing legal immigration in the Republican Party. We need a modern visa system that takes America beyond the current system crafted in the 1980s and 1990s. We need modern enforcement with an electronic verification system that replaces a paper-based system of documentation. We need modern border security that works hand in hand with modern visa and enforcement systems so that we channel traffic through ports of entry where commodities, cargo and people are inspected efficiently. More militarization, more deportation, and narrower legal immigration channels have not given us greater control over the immigration process and has led to a number of problems. If you are serious about border security, legalization, enforcement and legal immigration, then my door is always open. Tell me what you need to move forward. More fences? More high-tech visas? More immigration judges? Tell me what it will take to get this Congress out of the current rut. In the meantime, I and a lot of my colleagues are going to be out there around the country protecting American families from destruction and protecting millions from deportation. # # #
12.22.2014	“Remembering is the only way to ‘never forget,’” Rep. Gutiérrez says of delayed 2010 appropriation. “It should have happened a long time ago, but I am pleased it is happening now.” Washington, DC – Buried in the “Cromnibus” budget bill (HR 83), Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) scored a legislative victory by securing language to authorize payment of $15 million the Department of State pledged to the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation almost five years ago (https://1.usa.gov/1w3uHk9). At the urging of Rep. Gutiérrez and dozens of other Congressional Representatives, the United States made a pledge to support the endowment of the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation, preserving the site of the Nazi death camp in Poland as a reminder to the world. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton responded in 2010 by pledging $15 million to the international effort and that money was appropriated by Congress and given to the State Department starting in 2010, but it was never transferred to the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation endowment because State did not feel it had the necessary authorization from Congress to make a grant to an endowment that would then fund preservation for future generations. “This month marks 70 years since the beginning of World War II,” Rep. Gutiérrez said in September 2009, when he first started urging Congress and the State Department to fund Auschwitz-Birkenau preservation (https://1.usa.gov/1z9tfnj). “And while time is taking its toll on this rapidly deteriorating historic site, it has not diminished violent ideologies of anti-Semitism and racism that still run rampant today.” Rep. Gutiérrez was part of a delegation that visited the Auschwitz camp in August 2009 and wrote the President (LINK) and Secretary of State (LINK) urging them to prioritize funding for the international remembrance effort. “The only way we can work toward the eradication of these painful and dangerous mentalities is to preserve, remember and teach others about the atrocities of the past. The United States must be a leader in the fight against hatred and bigotry by safeguarding an honest record of history, so that future generations may learn from it,” Gutiérrez said at the September 17, 2009, Capitol Hill press conference he called to release the letter to Secretary Clinton signed by 45 of his colleagues (https://1.usa.gov/1z9tfnj). Twenty-eight nations pledged $160 million to the effort, but as of this year, the United States was the only country not to have actually made good on its pledge. Until now. Quietly and mostly behind the scenes, Rep. Gutiérrez met with Members of Congress in leadership and with the committees of jurisdiction, asking them to insert the necessary language to authorize the funds and therefore empower the State Department to transfer the money. This included a sign-on letter to the House Appropriations Committee in 2014 signed 44 Republicans and Democrats (LINK) and an appeal was made directly to then-Majority Leader Eric Cantor, also in 2014 (LINK). “There was never any ill-will or resistance to fully fund Secretary Clinton’s 2010 pledge,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “But there were bureaucratic and political roadblocks that delayed the process. Congress has been funding the government from emergency to emergency to emergency with these short-term Continuing Resolutions to avoid government shutdowns, not budgeting to enact sensible or forward-looking policies– or addressing bureaucratic blockages like the $15 million pledge to the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation. It is a byproduct of the partisan bickering and the hardline approach of the conservatives who run this place. So good policies – even funding that everyone agrees is a good idea – gets sidetracked.” The “Cromnibus” bill that passed the House on December 11, 2014, was called a “Cromnibus” because it combined an “Omnibus” bill funding almost all of the government through the end of the Fiscal Year (September 30, 2015) with a “Continuing Resolution” or “CR,” to fund the Department of Homeland Security at current levels only through February 27, 2015. The Republican majority, prodded by the contingent that strongly opposes immigration – and especially the President’s recently announced executive actions on immigration – insisted that Homeland Security be treated separately and temporarily. It was for this reason -- along with a few other last minute policy changes – that Rep. Gutiérrez opposed (https://1.usa.gov/1wnLcg1) the “Cromnibus” bill and voted against its passage. “I don’t think Republicans should play games with national security just to make the anti-immigration wing of the GOP happy, but Members of Congress face these challenges all the time,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “I had to vote against the bill even though it finally fixed the Auschwitz-Birkenau preservation funding issue and I am relieved that the money will finally reach its destination. It should have happened a long time ago, but I am pleased it is happening now.” The U.S. funds pledged to the endowment for Auschwitz-Birkenau are expected to be transferred in early 2015, hopefully in time for the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the concentration camp that will be commemorated on January 27, 2015. “When I visited Poland and the Auschwitz-Birkenau site in 2009, I was deeply moved and it was clear that this location, where so much brutal history and inhumanity took place, must be preserved for everyone to see and feel,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “The site cannot be allowed to disappear because it should be seared into the consciousness and conscience of every generation. It is more than a memorial to millions of innocent lives. It is a touchstone for avoiding genocide, injustice, and war. Remembering is the only way to ‘never forget.’” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He has temporarily given up his seniority on the House Committee on Financial Services in order to serve on Judiciary. Background Materials and Links Press Release: Gutiérrez Calls on President, Secretary of State to Step-Up U.S. Participation in Holocaust Remembrance Aug 13, 2009 - Office of Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez https://gutierrez.house.gov/press-release/Guti%C3%A9rrez-calls-president-secretary-state-step-us-participation-holocaust-remembrance Letter from 45 Members of Congress to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton September 16, 2009– Office of Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez LINK Letter from 45 Members of Congress to President Barack Obama September 16, 2009– Office of Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez LINK Press Release: 45 Members of Congress to Call on Secretary of State to Step-Up U.S. Participation in Holocaust Remembrance Sep 16, 2009 – Office of Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez https://gutierrez.house.gov/press-release/45-members-congress-call-secretary-state-step-us-participation-holocaust-remembrance Press Release: U.S. State Department's $15 Million Contribution to Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation in Poland Helps Make "Never Again" A Reality August 11, 2010 – Office of Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez https://Gutiérrez.house.gov/press-release/us-state-departments-15-million-contribution-auschwitz-birkenau-foundation-poland Chicago Sun-Times: Gutiérrez, Quigley, Schakowsky to mark Auschwitz-Birkenau grant at Illinois Holocaust Museum ceremony August 10, 2010 – Lynn Sweet https://blogs.suntimes.com/sweet/2010/08/Gutiérrez_quigley_schakowsky_t.html Jewish Journal of Greater Los Angeles: Congressman pledges to end delay to U.S. gift for Auschwitz-Birkenau preservation December 26, 2013 - by Jonah Lowenfeld https://www.jewishjournal.com/bloggish/item/congressman_pledges_to_end_delay_to_u.s._gift_for_auschwitz_birkenau_preser Letter from Rep. Gutiérrez to Majority Leader Eric Cantor (Not Previously Released) January 24, 2014– Office of Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez LINK Bipartisan Letter from Rep. Gutiérrez and 43 House Members to House Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs requesting inclusion of authorizing language in FY15 appropriations bill (Not Previously Released) April 4, 2014 – Office of Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez LINK Orange County Register: Rep. Issa joins effort to fulfill $15 million pledge to Auschwitz January 31, 2014 – by Matthew Fleming https://www.ocregister.com/articles/issa-599818-million-birkenau.html Press Release: Rep. Gutierrez Urges Colleagues to Vote Against Spending Measure December 11, 2014 – Office of Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez https://gutierrez.house.gov/press-release/rep-guti%C3%A9rrez-urges-colleagues-vote-against-spending-measure Authorizing language for U.S. contribution to the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation for preservation of the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp Sec. 7034 (e)(2) of H.R. 83 – Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015: (2) Funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' may be made available as a contribution to establish and maintain memorial sites of genocide, subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations. # # #
12.11.2014	On GOP Approach to Border Security, Rep. Gutiérrez says: “It is an absurd and dangerous stunt.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) called on his fellow Democrats to oppose the funding bill being considered in the House. The so-called “CROmnibus” that combines a Continuing Resolution (CR) and Omnibus spending bill funds most of the government through September 30, 2015 but only funds the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) through February 27, 2015. Keeping DHS funding levels flat for now -- and ambiguous after February -- hampers the agency’s ability to plan, expand, or modernize its activities. Rep. Gutiérrez pointed to four specific reasons why he opposes the bill and is urging his colleagues to vote against it. 1) The Department of Homeland Security is funded at last year’s levels for two and a half months in order to symbolically and cynically stand against immigrants and the President’s executive actions on immigration; 2) CROmnibus cuts Pell Grants 3) It guts important Dodd-Frank financial reforms Rep. Gutiérrez fought for as a Member of the Financial Services Committee; and 4) It cuts multi-employer pension programs. On funding for Homeland Security, Rep. Gutiérrez said: “Republicans are willing to play political games with border security so they can say to the anti-immigration wing of their base that they are being tough on border security. It is an absurd and dangerous stunt. When the nation needs responsible leadership, Republicans are undermining homeland security. They are having a tantrum because the President chose to take targeted actions that help the country by prioritizing the deportation of criminals and leaving American families alone.” On cuts to Pell Grants, Rep. Gutiérrez said: “When the American economy needs new energy, new leaders, and new ideas, the Republicans want to make it harder for young Americans to attend college. That is the definition of un-American in my book. And to cut Pell grants for strivers and young leaders while rewarding bankers by changing Dodd-Frank is unconscionable.” On changes to the Dodd-Frank financial reforms, Rep. Gutiérrez said: “I am appalled that Republicans are caving to Wall Street banks to remove oversight and regulations we enacted to ensure that future taxpayers never again have to bail out big banks for their risky bets. I stand behind the Dodd-Frank bill I worked so hard to pass and the taxpayer protections in that law. I don’t want to see us go back to reckless swaps that threaten our nation’s financial security and could harm millions of Americans.” On changes to multi-employer pension systems, Rep. Gutiérrez said: “People who work hard should know that when they paid into the pension plan, it will be there when they retire. Don’t tinker around with workers’ retirement. Don’t rob retirees and the working family of its investment and security in their older years. Keep your hands off of people’s pensions.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He has temporarily given up his seniority on the House Committee on Financial Services in order to serve on Judiciary. # # #
12.11.2014	On GOP Approach to Border Security, Rep. Gutiérrez says: “It is an absurd and dangerous stunt.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) called on his fellow Democrats to oppose the funding bill being considered in the House. The so-called “CROmnibus” that combines a Continuing Resolution (CR) and Omnibus spending bill funds most of the government through September 30, 2015 but only funds the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) through February 27, 2015. Keeping DHS funding levels flat for now -- and ambiguous after February -- hampers the agency’s ability to plan, expand, or modernize its activities. Rep. Gutiérrez pointed to four specific reasons why he opposes the bill and is urging his colleagues to vote against it. 1) The Department of Homeland Security is funded at last year’s levels for two and a half months in order to symbolically and cynically stand against immigrants and the President’s executive actions on immigration; 2) CROmnibus cuts Pell Grants 3) It guts important Dodd-Frank financial reforms Rep. Gutiérrez fought for as a Member of the Financial Services Committee; and 4) It cuts multi-employer pension programs. On funding for Homeland Security, Rep. Gutiérrez said: “Republicans are willing to play political games with border security so they can say to the anti-immigration wing of their base that they are being tough on border security. It is an absurd and dangerous stunt. When the nation needs responsible leadership, Republicans are undermining homeland security. They are having a tantrum because the President chose to take targeted actions that help the country by prioritizing the deportation of criminals and leaving American families alone.” On cuts to Pell Grants, Rep. Gutiérrez said: “When the American economy needs new energy, new leaders, and new ideas, the Republicans want to make it harder for young Americans to attend college. That is the definition of un-American in my book. And to cut Pell grants for strivers and young leaders while rewarding bankers by changing Dodd-Frank is unconscionable.” On changes to the Dodd-Frank financial reforms, Rep. Gutiérrez said: “I am appalled that Republicans are caving to Wall Street banks to remove oversight and regulations we enacted to ensure that future taxpayers never again have to bail out big banks for their risky bets. I stand behind the Dodd-Frank bill I worked so hard to pass and the taxpayer protections in that law. I don’t want to see us go back to reckless swaps that threaten our nation’s financial security and could harm millions of Americans.” On changes to multi-employer pension systems, Rep. Gutiérrez said: “People who work hard should know that when they paid into the pension plan, it will be there when they retire. Don’t tinker around with workers’ retirement. Don’t rob retirees and the working family of its investment and security in their older years. Keep your hands off of people’s pensions.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He has temporarily given up his seniority on the House Committee on Financial Services in order to serve on Judiciary. # # #
12.09.2014	“Too many have faced profiling, subtle and explicit…and… potentially dangerous when the profiler has a badge and a gun,” said Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Constitution, Civil Rights and Human Rights, chaired by Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois. The hearing, “The State of Civil and Human Rights in the United States (link to streaming video),” also included testimony from Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey and Rep. Keith Ellison of Minnesota on the panel with Rep. Gutiérrez. A second panel included Dr. Cedric Alexander, President, National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives and Public Safety Director of DeKalb County, Georgia; Wade Henderson, President and CEO of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights; and Laura Murphy, Director of Washington Legislative Office of the ACLU. In Rep. Gutiérrez’ testimony, he discussed racial profiling and the “vicious cycle” that has played out on a national stage where people, especially young people of color, are killed by the police, but the judicial system does not appear to respond adequately. He said, “Too many have faced profiling, subtle and explicit, annoying, and yes, potentially dangerous when the profiler has a badge and a gun.” The Congressman also commented on newly released Department of Justice guidelines on racial profiling saying “I am disappointed they did not close significant loopholes, especially as they pertain to the Department of Homeland Security… also perplexed and disheartened that the new guidance applies only to federal agents, but exempts local, county, and state law enforcement.” The Congressman’s complete testimony as prepared for delivery follows. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. TESTIMONY CONGRESSMAN LUIS V. GUTIÉRREZ Thank you, Chairman Durbin, for inviting me to testify at this hearing regarding the current state of civil and human rights in the United States, and thank you for advocating for justice and equality. I have always valued your advice and counsel. Your leadership on the Judiciary Committee and as Chairman of this Subcommittee has contributed greatly to our nation and to protecting the civil rights of all of us. Before I begin, I want to extend my heartfelt condolences to the families and friends of Michael Brown and Eric Garner. I think we can all agree that the loss of life is a grave tragedy. As a parent, I especially want to say to the parents, that I am so sorry for your loss. In the wake of the grand jury decisions to not indict the officers involved in the deaths of Michael Brown and Eric Garner, communities throughout the country have taken to the streets to protest. Many are deeply dissatisfied with the decisions not to prosecute the police officers in Ferguson and Staten Island and transparently examine their actions and the circumstances that lead to the deaths of two unarmed black men. The protests also expose an equally disturbing issue—that the killings of Brown and Garner are not isolated incidents. I believe the visceral reaction around the country is because these cases represent the countless young men who are treated unjustly by the police and many question their ability to receive justice through the courts. These deaths exposed gaps in our criminal justice system, in particular, the grand jury process and the inherent conflict in bringing charges against law enforcement. Clearly we have more work to do to build trust between communities and law enforcement and our system of justice. African Americans and Latinos are disproportionately impacted by the criminal justice system overall. Racial profiling, condoned officially and unofficially by some in law enforcement, forces blacks and Latinos to contend with the criminal justice system more frequently and in a completely different way than many others in society. Minority communities have a higher prosecution rate, and at the post-conviction stage sentencing orders tend to be harsher among minority defendants. All too often, Latinos and blacks are victims of excessive use of force at the hands of rogue police officers. The issue is only exacerbated when local and state police departments are equipped with military equipment, as was the case in Ferguson, Missouri this past summer. The cycle continues, as we saw just last week, when Grand Juries, guided by prosecutors who work on a daily basis with the police, fail to even call for a trial in open court. It is not surprising that the system breeds mistrust. This vicious cycle not only affects individuals but also harms our African-American and Latino communities as a whole. When we see children like Michael Brown and Eric Garner and Trayvon Martin, we see our own families and loved ones. Ask any Latino or African-American parent – whether they live in a suburb or in a housing project – and they will tell you they fear for their children’s safety every time they leave the house. Rather than thinking of the police as public servants who will protect the safety of their children, too often they think of the local police as one of the hazards their children face. I think of when my daughter was stopped because she was driving in “too nice a car” with her friends in her own neighborhood or when I was stopped coming into the Capitol complex earlier in my career because I didn’t “look like a Congressman.” Too many have faced profiling, subtle and explicit, annoying, -- and yes, potentially dangerous -- when the profiler has a badge and a gun. I respect and appreciate the hard work that law enforcement officers do to keep our communities safe. We have worked to get more cops on the streets, to invest in violence reduction programs, to reduce the number of guns in our communities that often target cops and to make sure we honor and pay police officers for the dangerous and often thankless work they do. I am also a proud original cosponsor of the End Racial Profiling Act, which I think is clearly and sorely needed. With regard to the revised profiling guidelines issued yesterday by the Department of Justice, I am disappointed they did not close significant loopholes, especially as they pertain to the Department of Homeland Security, which will allow whole sections of America’s largest law enforcement entities, including Customs and Border Patrol and the Transportation Security Administration, to continue to profile many innocent Americans. I am also perplexed and disheartened that the new guidance applies only to federal agents, but exempts local, county, and state law enforcement. Civil and human rights today in America continues to be a work in progress. Thanks to the leadership of Chairman Durbin and many of my colleagues, including those seated with me today, we are able to celebrate the strides we have made to create a more equal and just nation for all, and chart the course for continued progress in the future, but it is tempered by knowing that we cannot rest in the pursuit of justice and fairness, especially in the face of the tragic and needless loss of life. Thank you again for the opportunity to testify. # # #
12.03.2014	As House Prepares To Attack President Obama, Rep. Gutiérrez Discusses “Myth…That The United States Should, Would Or Could Deport 11 Million” Immigrants Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) testified before the House Rules Committee this evening as the Committee debated a bill to attack the lawful executive actions President Obama has announced in terms of immigration, deportation and enforcement priorities. The so-called “Executive Amnesty Protection Act of 2014” is scheduled to come to the floor of the U.S. House as soon as Thursday, but Rep. Gutiérrez suggested the 113th Congress could use its last few hours in a more constructive manner. “Look, if you [Republicans in the House] are serious about the rule of law, then we should have spent yesterday’s Judiciary [Committee] hearing marking-up an immigration reform bill and we should have spent today’s Rules Committee hearing determining which amendments would be in order,” Rep. Gutierrez said. That is what is going to give us border security. That is what is going to establish E-Verify in every workplace. A video of the Congressman’s testimony is here: His remarks, as prepared for delivery, follow below. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Testimony, before the Rules Committee, as prepared for delivery: This is the second time in the last 3 or 4 months that I have testified before the Rules Committee because the subject of immigrants is being brought to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Not immigration reform, not expanding border security or making sure people who come to this country come with visas and not smugglers, not E-Verify or temporary worker visas, not making sure every undocumented immigrant is registered with the government. No, what we are sending to the floor of the United States Congress is yet another symbolic and superficial bill supporting the fantasy that every single undocumented immigrant should be deported. The Republican majority is planting its flag firmly on a myth. The myth is that the United States should, would or could deport 11 million people. And that it would be a good idea for our economy, our security, and our sense of humanity as a leader among all the other civilized nations of the world. Imagine the consequences of this fantasy... First, let’s round up 11 million people -- roughly a population the size of Georgia or Pennsylvania or Ohio -- and let’s round up their children too. The children who are U.S. citizens -- that’s about 5 million American children -- let’s put them in foster care or hope some relative will treat them well. Next, when hundreds of thousands of homes come on the market all at once, the US government would cope with massive bankruptcies and cries to bail out the U.S. farmers whose crops are rotting in the fields of this nation from coast to coast. Then, let’s detain and house all of those people we arrest before they are deported and let’s just assume for the sake of argument that we have court cases for all 11 million. That means our immigration court system does nothing else for probably decades. Sorry murderers and rapists, you have to wait your turn for deportation because we want to arbitrarily round up and kick out all the moms and dads who were working at the car wash and playing ball with their children, and now the courts are full, so you will just have to chill. Oh and don’t forget we will have to hire and buy fuel for 55,000 airplanes, pack them with 200 immigrants each and fly them out. Let’s just consider the impact that would have on the Tea Party and the Birthers who oppose everything the President is for. . . When the economy takes a severe hit because the government is removing roughly 5 percent of the American workforce - that’s 1 out of 20 working and consuming and taxpaying people in the U.S. economy – how is the Tea Party going to feel about a government bail out? How much is the Republican majority willing to raise taxes to pay for deporting 11 million people? Yes, the Republican Party is betting the farm on the idea that the American people think deporting all 11 million people is not only realistic, but desirable. And in this case, when I say betting the farm, I mean it quite literally – the entire American farm and agricultural industry and millions of farm workers, grocery stores and families at kitchen tables are going to be turned upside down because the Republican majority is suggesting that the status quo and doing nothing is somehow upholding the Rule of Law. But when the Republicans insist that we cannot fix our immigration system and restore the rule of law legislatively the alternative they leave is chaos. That is what we are left with when every effort to address the problems and the hardship that our broken immigration system causes for American citizens is rejected. Even something as sensible as when the Department of Homeland Security says we will make the deportation of the parents of U.S. citizens our lowest priority if they pay for and pass a criminal background check at their own expense. Look, if you are serious about the rule of law, then we should have spent yesterday’s Judiciary hearing marking-up an immigration reform bill and we should have spent today’s Rules Committee hearing determining which amendments would be in order. That is what is going to give us border security. That is what is going to establish E-Verify in every workplace. That is what is going to defend the American worker from the current system with two separate but unequal labor markets where only some of the American workforce is covered by American labor laws. That is what is going to get millions of our neighbors and friends who have lived here for years to come forward and register with the government, give up their finger-prints, prove they are not a threat, and prove that they will support their families and pay their taxes. That is the way forward and all the rest of this is incredibly wasteful theater that makes the American people say “What are those people in Washington doing because they sure are not taking action to help Americans and their families?” I urge you to schedule the Rules Committee hearing on immigration reform -- for real this time -- and invite me back when you are serious. # # #
11.25.2014	Mayor Rahm Emanuel today welcomed President Obama to Chicago and announced that the City is working with community partners and City departments, including the Department of Business Affairs and Consumer Protection (BACP), Chicago Public Library and Chicago Public Schools (CPS), to disseminate information about the President’s recent executive actions on immigration, protect consumers from fraudulent immigration service providers, and assist tens of thousands of people to take advantage of administrative relief. “Today we welcome President Obama to Chicago and applaud him for taking executive action that will not only bring relief to families across the Country and Chicago, but will also provide many individuals the opportunity to pursue their dreams and continue to contribute to our city and economy,” said Mayor Emanuel. “For months now we have been preparing for administrative relief and are committed to making Chicago the gold standard that achieves record numbers of relief, ensuring that as many residents as possible take advantage of this opportunity.” “We are proud of the diversity of our immigrant community from hundreds of nations across the globe and of their contributions to Chicago’s unique culture and work ethic,” said Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez. “From the Mayor on down, we are committed to making the President’s immigration actions work in the City of Chicago and we have been engaging clergy, colleges, universities, schools, business and community groups to get ready. While he is here, I bet the President will get a sense for how hungry we are for the changes he announced and how hard we are going to work to make them a success.” For the past few months the Emanuel Administration has been working with immigration leaders from community based organizations, legal service providers, colleges and universities, as well as labor, government, faith-based and business institutions to discuss how the City of Chicago would prepare to help tens of thousands of people take advantage of administrative relief. Now that President Obama has announced a series of executive actions that modify immigration policy, the City has been working with Departments to help implement these new programs. Through a partnership with Chicago Public Libraries, government entities such as U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), and various community organizations, the City of Chicago has built an infrastructure that allows staff and City departments to respond to the immigrant community’s needs. Many of the same organizations that are gearing up to provide services on administrative relief already counsel the immigrant community and provide information and workshops on the naturalization process, as well as the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, at Citizenship Corners at select Chicago Public Library locations. The City is working to amplify existing efforts to ensure these organizations continue to have access to City spaces, such as libraries and schools, and other resources they need to better support the immigrant community in taking advantage of administrative relief. To ensure that members of the immigrant community are not taken advantage of by fraudulent activity, the Department of Business Affairs and Consumer Protection (BACP) is strengthening its immigration fraud enforcement campaign. For the past two years, the City has cracked down on fraudulent immigration assistance providers by launching sting operations targeting businesses accused of deceptive and predatory practices. Since President Obama announced his executive actions on immigration, the Mayor and Commissioner of BACP have issued a letter to licensed Immigration Assistance Providers listing their responsibilities as licensees and reminding them that the City enforces the law. BACP has also created and distributed flyers informing residents of their rights as consumers and important information they should know before paying for immigration services. A critical part of ensuring that people can take advantage of Administrative Relief includes providing the documentation to establish one’s identify, family ties, and presences in the U.S. When Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) was first announced, cities across the country were inundated with requests for school transcripts to prove that children had been in school. The City of Chicago has since worked with the Chicago Public School Systems, local legal service providers and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to streamline this process, train staff who produce the transcripts to get them out faster, and draft a one-page document explaining how to read and understand the transcripts for legal service providers and USCIS. The City is part of the IL is ready Campaign, which convened community organizations, government partners, and legal service providers and immigrant advocacy organizations for several months to create the infrastructure necessary to quickly and accurately disseminate information, conduct trainings, and coordinate legal services for those that may benefit from the President’s executive actions. “We look forward to partnering with the Mayor's office in educating and referring those eligible to the services they need,” said Lawrence Benito, CEO ICIRR. “As we continue to fight for permanent solutions in Congress and for those immigrants left out of the President's executive action.” To educate communities about administrative relief, the City’s Office of New Americans website has been updated to include content on President Obama’s Executive actions, and various City departments have disseminated this information on their social media platform. 311 City Services and Chicago Public Libraries are also prepared to answer questions regarding the President’s executive actions on immigration from local residents. On November 20, 2014, President Barack Obama announced a series of executive actions that would modify immigration policy by focusing the enforcement resources of the federal government on criminals and allow certain undocumented immigrants to temporarily stay in the U.S. without fear of deportation. For more information about Administrative Relief, please visit: https://www.cityofchicago.org/city/en/depts/mayor/supp_info/information-about-president-obamas-immigration-accountability-ex.html ###
11.25.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Reps. Jan Schakowsky, Luis Gutierrez, and Mike Quigley sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy in support of the Agency’s consideration of a stronger standard for ground-level ozone (smog) pollution. Smog pollution poses serious risks to public health, including asthma. Children, the elderly, and those who work outdoors are most vulnerable to its impacts. The EPA is considering a standard ranging from 60-70 parts per billion – an improvement from the 75 parts per billion (ppb) standard that exists today, which experts say is inadequate to protect public health. The members urged a 60 ppb standard, which could extend life for four to five times as many people compared to weaker 70 ppb standard. “We hope that you will follow the long tradition of the EPA to set a protective standard that will build upon those decades of public health and technological progress,” said the members. “Doing so would have a lasting and positive impact on our home state of Illinois, where 1.2 million adults and 13 percent of children suffer from smog-related asthma.” The full letter is attached.
11.20.2014	“President Obama is using his pen to help the country and we celebrate his courage.” Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) will join President Obama on his trip to Nevada on Friday as the President announces a series of executive actions he is taking on immigration, enforcement and deportations. The Congressman was briefed by the President and his staff last night and by Secretary Jeh Johnson today on the scope of the actions the President will take. “President Obama is using his pen to help the country and we celebrate his courage,” Rep. Gutierrez said. “I am going sign up the families that are covered, keep fighting for the families that are not covered, and we are going to make the City of Chicago a model for the rest of the country. We all must recognize that no executive action is a substitute for legislation, so the fundamental challenge of getting legislation through the Republican-controlled House remains the same.” Congressman Gutiérrez is working with Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights (www.icirr.org), and leaders from across the City of Chicago to begin preparations for implementing what the President announces tonight. Rep. Gutiérrez and Mayor Emanuel will join ICIRR and hundreds of Chicagoans at Benito Juarez High School in Chicago on Saturday, November 22 at 9:30 a.m. CT. to celebrate the President’s announcement and to help launch the Illinois Is Ready campaign (www.ilisready.org). The Congressman also recorded two video messages (ENGLISH: https://youtu.be/EX9KIIM6xRg and SPANISH: https://youtu.be/AUVkIFxqB6o) for his supporters about the President’s announcement encouraging people to celebrate this momentous occasion and to gather information about what the President is announcing so that they can make informed decisions about whether this series of policy adjustments will apply to them and their families. The videos are posted on the Congressman’s Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/RepGutierrez), YouTube channel (https://www.youtube.com/user/RepLuisGutierrez), and on his website (https://gutierrez.house.gov). Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
11.18.2014	“Truman said the ‘Buck Stops Here’ and he was right then and he is just as right today about the current occupant of the White House.” Washington, DC – This morning during the 10 a.m. hour (ET), Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL-4) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives on immigration and the President’s decision to take executive actions on deportations and other immigration matters. Standing before a portrait of President Harry S. Truman, Congressman Gutiérrez described how the Midwestern Democratic President had bucked members of his own party to desegregate the U.S. military via executive order after World War II. Congressman Gutiérrez said of Truman: “He used his pen and we celebrate his courage today. But here is one big difference between what Harry Truman did and what President Obama is considering. President Truman never asked Congress for legislation or gave them 2 years to act. But President Obama, as he contemplates taking executive actions to keep families together and spare certain immigrants from deportation, knows that he did ask Congress to act and he did give us time, repeatedly, to act.” Rep. Gutiérrez concluded that after President Obama takes action on immigration as expected, “it will be time for the Congress to catch up to the executive branch and catch up to reality.” A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/8X1CVExYmYA The Congressman’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are pasted below. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. REMARKS (As prepared for Delivery): Last week we celebrated Veteran’s Day. So naturally there was a lot of talk about the military. But there was also a lot of talk about Obama taking executive action on immigration and it got me thinking about Harry S. Truman. Like me, Harry Truman was from the Midwest and a plain talker who did not mince words and sometimes made his fellow Democrats uncomfortable. And like every Republican and Democratic President in modern history – including our current one – Harry Truman was not afraid to use his executive powers to fight for justice in the United States, even when Congress failed to act. In 1946, we had just defeated Fascism and were already locked in a Cold War with Russia and the communist bloc. Black, Asian, Hispanic and Native American troops helped deliver that victory. But when the war was over they faced the same segregation, discrimination, Jim Crow and violence as they had before they were deployed – markers of an era from which we continue to feel the lasting effects, to this very day. In response, Truman established a Committee on Civil Rights and one concrete step the President wanted to take was to desegregate the military. But President Truman knew that legislation mandating desegregation would not pass through the U.S. Congress which was dominated by Southern segregationists – who, it is worth remembering, were mostly Democrats like Truman. But he pushed forward and Harry Truman signed Executive Order 9981 on July 26, 1948 and the last all-black unit in the United States military was finally abolished years later. Congress caught up with reality and with the President, but it took many years. I am fairly confident that Democrats from North Carolina, Arkansas, Georgia and Louisiana asked Harry Truman not to do it, but he did it anyway. And I would venture to guess that there are not too many Members of Congress today who wish that Truman did not desegregate the military or had waited -- however long it took -- for Congress to evolve on the segregation issue. He used his pen and we celebrate his courage today. But here is one big difference between what Harry Truman did and what President Obama is considering. President Truman never asked Congress for legislation or gave them 2 years to act. But President Obama, as he contemplates taking executive actions to keep families together and spare certain immigrants from deportation, knows that he did ask Congress to act and he did give us time, repeatedly, to act. He has been judicious in his use of executive actions throughout his Presidency despite facing a Congress deeply entrenched in being – well -- deeply entrenched. But he did ask this Congress – as far back as January 30th 2013 -- to act. He worked with both parties in the Senate to help shepherd an immigration bill through in June 2013. And for a year and a half, he has waited – patiently deferring the use of executive action as a last resort -- and he held off again and again so that he could give the Republicans in the House time to pass a bill. When Republicans in the Senate said gay people cannot be included under any circumstances, the Democrats didn’t like it. It offended us, but we said let’s keep trying to find compromise. When Republicans said they needed 30,000 more border guards, the Democrats found a way to include that. When the House said it would not even consider the Senate bill, we Democrats – myself included – said OK, let’s work out a House bill. And when Republicans said immigrants could not get a special path to citizenship and that we would have to pass many separate bills piecemeal, Democrats and the President never left the table. And then when the Speaker of the House called the President last June to say that despite all of the Speaker’s efforts and all of the President’s efforts, the House was not going to even allow a vote – the President said he would do what he said he would do all along – use his pen and his phone under current law to help the country as best he can. Now the Speaker says that the President is picking a fight with Republicans over immigration and he is vowing to fight back, which is his right. But I would advise the Speaker that his fight is not with the President or the Democrats, it is with the American people. It is a fight he will have to deport the parents of millions of U.S. citizens, the spouses of U.S. citizens, and the parents of DREAMers who know no other country but this one. That is who the Republican Party intends to fight. But let’s be clear, nothing the President does will keep the House from working with the Senate to pass immigration reform and his actions can no longer serve as a convenient excuse for the inaction of Congress. Sitting at his desk in the White House, Harry Truman said the “Buck Stops Here.” And he was right then and he is just as right today about the current occupant of the White House. The President has a responsibility to act even when the Congress refuses to. And just like the 1950s and 1960s after President Harry Truman desegregated the military, it will be time for the Congress to catch up to the executive branch and catch up to reality. # # #
11.14.2014	CHICAGO – Today, Representatives Jan Schakowsky, Luis Gutiérrez and Mike Quigley sent Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Director Mel Watt a letter asking that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac not sell foreclosed properties in specific Chicago neighborhoods until a meeting is held to ensure continued access to affordable housing in those neighborhoods. The letter is attached. The Representatives issued the following statement regarding their request: As Chicago-area families continue to recover from the foreclosure crisis, it is crucial that we make sure our residents have every opportunity to secure quality affordable housing. The FHFA’s Neighborhood Stabilization Initiative (NSI) can be of great benefit to our communities, but we first must make sure residents of our cities are not displaced due to the unintended consequences of NSI. “I am always hearing from residents in my community about the need for affordable housing. I believe we must do everything we can to ensure that low-income people aren’t forced from their homes and neighborhoods – in many cases the only neighborhoods they’ve ever known. We must ensure that as Fannie and Freddie work to sell foreclosed properties, policies are in place to maintain the supply of affordable housing in our communities. Director Watt has always been a champion of affordable housing, and we have asked to meet with him regarding how the NSI can help promote affordable housing.” - Rep. Jan Schakowsky “Our communities are stronger if long term residents can stay in their homes and neighborhoods can thrive. The need for affordable housing continues to be an important issue for Chicago residents and we have an opportunity to work together to ensure that we are meeting that need as our housing market recovers.” –Rep. Luis Gutiérrez “Studies show that affordable, safe and stable housing is important to the overall well-being and health of families. As my constituents continue to recover from the foreclosure crisis, it is my duty to ensure that FHFA Director Mel Watt takes every step to ensure that low-income individuals and families have access to affordable housing in their current neighborhoods. I will continue to work with my colleagues to make sure residents of our cities avoid unintended consequences or displacement due to NSI.” – Rep. Mike Quigley
11.14.2014	The letter pasted below to President Obama was signed by 117 House Democrats and calls on the President to take “bold and meaningful executive action” on immigration. It was discussed at yesterday’s 2:00 p.m. press conference that included Reps. Pelosi, Hoyer, Lofgren, Conyers, Gutiérrez and many others. Gutierrez-Lofgren Letter to President on Exec Action Post Election (FINAL)
11.13.2014	“My Chicagoans have been waiting for the Congress to take action on immigration for over a decade.” Washington, DC – This morning during the 10 am hour (ET), Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL-4) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives on immigration and the President’s decision to take executive actions on deportations and other immigration matters. The Congressman said: “The President will act, as he should. Boldly, broadly and soon to help the country. And when he acts, tens of millions of our fellow American citizens will support him. Why? Because they care more about justice and practicality than they do about partisan politics and the blame game.” He concluded, “I am tired of the manufactured excuses for inaction. The U.S. Congress can still debate, vote and pass any immigration law it wants to and the best way to get something done will be if leaders on both sides work together. If you don’t like it, do something! There is nothing in your way but yourselves.” A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/h76Xs54eveA The Congressman’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are pasted below. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. REMARKS: We have not been back in DC for a full 24 hours and the immigration shenanigans have begun already. Republicans and even a few unhelpful Democrats have been saying the President should not take executive action on immigration or should not act yet, as if his intention to use his executive power under existing law is a surprise. David Axelrod, safe in the confines of the University of Chicago, has no sense of urgency because his mom and his neighbor are not facing deportation. But it is a little different on my side of Chicago where people live in nearly constant fear that a loved one or a friend will be detained and then strapped into an airplane for deportation. My Chicagoans have been waiting for the Congress to take action on immigration for over a decade. Polish, Ukrainian, Irish and Mexican have been waiting. Jamaicans and Philippinos. They have been waiting for family members to get visas in backlogs that stretch to 20 years because Congress refuses to act. They have been heart broken by laws that say -- on the one hand -- they can apply for a green card because they are married to a U.S. citizen, but on the other hand say they must wait in exile outside the country, away from their families for 10 years in order to get that green card. Two hundred thousand deportations, three hundred thousand deportations, four hundred thousand deportations, per year – these statistics represent people – people disappearing from their churches, from their kitchen tables, and from parent-teacher conferences. Why? Because Congress is doing nothing to make it stop or make any progress towards an immigration system based in reality and common sense, where people come legally with visas rather than smugglers. Now, the GOP conference in the House is saying after a decade of delay, a decade of defying the American people, and a decade of demonizing immigrants that they are so anxious to work on immigration reform, but there is just one thing stopping them: The President. The one thing preventing Republicans from taking action , they say, is that the President may also take action to keep families together and address the destructive nature of deportations. Here’s how one commentator in the Atlantic Magazine described it: “Boehner’s effort to hold congressional immigration reform hostage if Obama acts unilaterally is so absurd. Boehner killed the hostage long ago. Now he’s hoping that if he pretends it’s still alive, no one will notice the corpse lying on the floor.” To put it another way, it is a little late for the Mayor of Chernobyl to worry about someone else poisoning the well. The President stood right there and said that if this Congress fails to act on important national priorities, he will use his pen and phone within current law to do so. Republicans heard him just as well as I did. Republicans had more than two years to draft a bill and a year to schedule a vote on the Senate bill and I do not see one scheduled today, tomorrow, or next week and I doubt I will before this Congress – and the bill – expires. Let’s just look at the record: Republicans said we cannot do immigration unless it is done piece meal; or we cannot do immigration unless people are denied citizenship; or we need more border security spending, or we need parole officers assigned to each immigrant who gets to stay and work.- And every Democrat from the President on down -- all the way to me – says, “Yes, yes, yes, compromise and progress are more important than gridlock and making every Democratic constituency happy.” Governing means when Democrats say yes to Republican demands, Republicans actually move forward and we work together! But none of that happened despite the door being open, the table being set, and Democrats saying -- in effect – Republicans could order anything off the menu. And yet, here we are with no action, no vote, and Republicans threatening to double down on “no action” if the President – acting within the letter and the spirit of the laws passed by Congress – takes action to help the country. The President will act, as he should. Boldly, broadly and soon to help the country. And when he acts, tens of millions of our fellow American citizens will support him. Why? Because they care more about justice and practicality than they do about partisan politics and the blame game. Because a policy based on driving out 10 million immigrants is neither a sensible one nor one we should be spending billions of dollars on. The President will act because Presidents before him have acted to solve immigration problems when the Congress acted too slowly. The President will act because he believes -- as the American people do -- that families are important and children should be raised without the Government coming along and ripping their mommy or daddy away from them. I am tired of the manufactured excuses for inaction. The U.S. Congress can still debate, vote and pass any immigration law it wants to and the best way to get something done will be if leaders on both sides work together. If you don’t like it, do something! There is nothing in your way but yourselves. # # #
09.10.2014	“I think the President will have the courage to act. And then it will be the Congress’ turn.” Washington, DC – This morning during the 10 am hour (ET), Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL-4) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives on immigration and the President’s decision to delay an announcement of executive actions on deportations and other immigration matters. He said, “I have made it clear that from a political standpoint in the short-run and the long-run, I think the President should have taken action before Election Day,” and added, “I know the President has heard all of these arguments and I don’t think I will convince him to change his mind -- again -- and move forward with key improvements to our deportation policies before November 4.” But then the Congressman went on to make two points, that the legal arguments against the President taking executive action have been settled and that the President will be “going big, going broad, and going quickly after Election Day” as a way of prodding Republicans to action. Referring to his Republican colleagues who control the agenda in the House, the Congressman said, “I don’t see the President saying he will act if you do not act, as we have been saying for two years. This time, I see the President acting first. Laying out a broad array of executive actions to mitigate the damage that is being done to the country by congressional inaction on immigration reform.” “If the Republicans are so inclined, they can take legislative action,” he continued. “It is what we have been begging you to do for two decades on this issue.” He concluded, “I think the President will have the courage to act. And then it will be the Congress’ turn.” A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/y1yjQHnIPUA The Congressman’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are pasted below. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. REMARKS: My press secretary has kept me pretty busy the last few days, talking on national and local TV about the President’s decision to delay executive action on immigration… in two languages. I have made it clear that from a political standpoint in the short-run and the long-run, I think the President should have taken action before Election Day in order to be more transparent with the American people about the policy we all know is coming. It makes the job harder for me to generate enthusiasm among Americans to vote at all, let alone enthusiasm for voting for Democrats when there are members of my own Party asking the President to hold his pen and his phone in abeyance until after voters vote. From a policy standpoint, every week we delay is bad for the country. From a humanitarian perspective, deporting the parents of U.S. citizens is not in our national interest; Making it impossible for spouses of legal immigrants and citizens to pick up the visas that have already been issued to them is not in our national interest; And keeping the fear of deportation hovering over immigrant communities like Pilsen and Little Village in my District in Chicago has a damaging impact on the fabric of our community. It dampens the economy along commercial thoroughfares like 26th Street, a key engine of the Chicago economy and tax-base. Perhaps more important to those living outside of immigrant communities is to know that, when the President acts, he will announce a tough-but-fair solution for millions of immigrants who do not have visas or any way of getting visas, but who have lived and worked here peacefully for years, even decades. It would work something like this: if they come forward, if they submit their fingerprints at their own expense to the FBI and if they pass a rigorous criminal background check and meet other requirements, we will issue them a biometric identification card that says they are not a priority for deportation. Not only do we get them in the system and on the books, but now they are in a program that needs to be renewed periodically with strict rules. This creates a huge incentive not to violate the rules of the program or the rules of society. I know the President has heard all of these arguments and I don’t think I will convince him to change his mind -- again -- and move forward with key improvements to our deportation policies before November 4. But let us also be clear, I think he has already made two important decisions. Number 1, there is no longer any question that the President of the United States has the legal authority to act on immigration and deportations under current law. Even Republicans, who have hired the best lawyers at taxpayer expense to prepare their lawsuit against the President, agree and excluded immigration in their far-fetched list of presidential “overreaches.” This is settled law and despite the shouts of talk-radio and a few on the Republican side, there is no longer a serious debate about the rock-solid legal ground from which the President can act -- and has already acted. Secondly, I think the President has decided that going big, going broad, and going quickly after Election Day is the right decision. Because he and Secretary Jeh Johnson have to set enforcement priorities about which people they deport first and which people they deport last based on the national security and economic interests of this country, he will act. He will act up to the limits of current law. And believe me, I can hear the cries from the other side. ‘He can’t act because we may try to do something on immigration in the lame duck.’ ‘He can’t act because we are going to put the bipartisan coalition back together in the new 114th Congress that will get reform passed in both Houses.’ ‘We were just kidding when we said all that after Election Day in 2012,’ the Republicans will say. ‘This time we really mean it because 2016 and the Electoral College are staring us in the face.’ But no, I don’t think the President and the Democrats will fall for that again. I don’t see the President saying he will act if you do not act, as we have been saying for two years. This time, I see the President acting first. Laying out a broad array of executive actions to mitigate the damage that is being done to the country by congressional inaction on immigration reform. If the Republicans are so inclined, they can take legislative action. It is what we have been begging you to do for two decades on this issue. We may even work with you if you are serious about it. But it will no longer be accepted as a delaying tactic for action by the executive branch. It will be a response to presidential action. I think the President will have the courage to act. And then it will be the Congress’ turn. # # #
08.27.2014	Mayor Emanuel and Rep. Gutiérrez Convene a Meeting of Key Community Leaders and Groups to Prepare Washington, DC – On Wednesday, at the invitation of Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel and Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), a group of approximately 50 leaders and advocates gathered at City Hall in Chicago to begin discussing how Chicago can get ready for an announcement by the Obama Administration on the use of prosecutorial discretion to provide temporary deportation relief for undocumented immigrants. Key immigration advocacy groups, clergy, legal services providers, college and university leaders, and other community leaders met for over an hour to discuss what may be coming as early as sometime in September. “Congressman Luis Gutierrez and I came together today with various immigration leaders, advocates, service providers, faith leaders, labor leaders, and educators to discuss how Chicago will prepare for administrative relief,” said Mayor Rahm Emanuel. “We value the voices of these important leaders and we have a landmark opportunity to set an example and lead the nation on this issue.” “I told the President he should be as bold and generous in providing deportation relief as the Republicans have been mean spirited and small minded in blocking immigration reform in Congress,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “When an announcement comes, we will make sure Chicago is ready, that the community institutions in our neighborhoods are ready, and that we can efficiently inform our community about what is being announced and can help our neighbors sign up.” Non-profit groups have already begun forming a coalition of stakeholders to prepare the city for a broad announcement of administrative action and deportation relief. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus, of which Rep. Gutiérrez is a member, has called for the broad application of the President’s legal authority under existing immigration law to address our broken immigration system. “Chicago voices have been among the loudest calling for immigration reform and now that Republicans have blocked all legislative avenues, Chicago will be a leader when it comes to implementing administrative action,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “From the Mayor on down, in the private and public sectors, Chicago is a leader on immigration issues and when the President makes his announcement, whatever the specifics, Chicago will be ready to lead again.” In June 2012, President Obama announced the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (DACA) that allowed some immigrants who came to the U.S. as children who met certain criteria to apply for deferred action, a form of temporary deportation relief. On August 15, 2012, tens of thousands of young immigrants and their families lined up at Chicago’s Navy Pier to begin the registration and application process. Nationally, roughly 600,000 applied for and received DACA (a program that continues to this day). If the President and the Department of Homeland Security make an announcement in September as expected, it could potentially affect as many as 5 million undocumented immigrants based on estimates calculated by Rep. Gutiérrez and his expectations for bold action by the President. Preparing for an announcement this large-scale will require a community-wide effort. “There are five million U.S. citizen children with undocumented parents, millions more in our immigrant community have lived here for more than a decade, and they are a key ingredient in the economic vitality of Chicago and the country. We need to address the toll that deportations have taken and start the healing process in communities across the city and across the nation,” Rep. Gutiérrez concluded. Rep. Gutiérrez, a Democrat, represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
08.01.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor during the debate of on H.R. 5272, a bill to eliminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program – a program that temporarily gives DREAMers protection from deportation. Rep. Gutiérrez, a Democrat, represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. A video of his floor speech is here: https://youtu.be/R_8NmBOEA0A The following is the text of his remarks as prepared for delivery: How did we get here? In the dark of night Republicans are voting to deport DREAMers, take away the DACA program, and make every undocumented immigrant deportable. In 2012 the Republicans were shellacked and they spoke of turning over a new leaf with younger voters, with Asian voters, with women and Latinos. A year ago I was working with Congressman Sam Johnson and Judge Carter of Texas. I did town halls and public appearances with Judge Carter and with Congressman Valadao. I worked with Mike Coffman of Denver and stood up with Aaron Schock and Adam Kinsinger in my own state of Illinois. But now Steve King, Michele Bachmann and Ted Cruz are literally writing the immigration script for the Republican Party. A script filled with ugly and mean policies to demonize children and marginalize immigrants and destroy families. In January you were saying that all of the DREAMers should get green cards and citizenship. We always understood you wanted to deport their parents. But now, late on a Friday night you are going after the DREAMers who have known no other country. Who risked their identities and their families to come forward and sign up with the Department of Homeland Security and passed FBI background checks. The United States said come forward and get right with the law and now Republicans are saying they should go back in the shadows and back to a life of fear where opportunities are few and futures are uncertain. The voters had a referendum on this program back in 2012 and the winner was President Obama, the DREAMers, and the American people. But now you want to take that all away. Thank God the Senate is gone, the President has called this veto-bait, and this will never become law. Is there no one in your conference who can stand up and talk sensibly when others in your party want to demonize children at the border and deport the DREAMers? You are so frozen in fear of your own voters – so frozen in fear of your own colleagues – and the nation needs you to be courageous. Only cowards scapegoat children and only those who are ashamed of themselves do it after hours on a Friday night. You are apparently not strong enough to stand up and craft real solutions to American problems. But here is the truth revealed about the Republican Party in the last few weeks and why all of the talk this year about immigration reform was just talk. In the end, the Republican position on immigration can be summed up as “deport ‘em all.” When push comes to shove, your party is standing by the simplistic desire to deport ‘em all. Most of you know that the approach of deport ‘em all is nonsense as an immigration policy, as a security policy, and as an economic policy. And you know it is suicide as a political strategy. But there are dozens and dozens of good, decent, charitable Republicans who know we must do something to fix our immigration system – But you stand with the ones who shout and scream the loudest and are saying deport ‘em all. It is not too late. Don’t succumb to fear. For those Republicans with a conscience and who are brave enough to stand by DREAMers like you did just six months ago. Please vote “no” with me on this bill. All you need is a little courage. # # #
08.01.2014	“It defies logic to turn immigrants with authorization to work and contribute to this country back into undocumented immigrants. And they call our side the party that supports illegal immigration? It is sideways logic,” said Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) testified before the House Rules Committee today on the newly crafted and revamped Republican bills to deport Central American children without due process, change asylum and trafficking laws, and end the popular Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program instituted by President Obama in 2012. Language hastily assembled today to change the Blackburn Bill to kill DACA –– clearly cuts the program off for anyone that has not received their final approval and is intended to prevent the President of the United States from using elements of American immigration law like Deferred Action in the future. But it also prevents anyone who currently has DACA from renewing it after their initial two-year period expires. The language in the Blackburn bill says that there can be no new adjudication under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (or any similar program), if the person was not lawfully admitted to the United States. Renewal of DACA requires a new adjudication. Applicants submit evidence that they have DACA, that their circumstances have not changed, a fee to renew and then the application for renewal is adjudicated. “Over 600,000, young people raised in the United States, who came forward and applied for DACA will now be turned back into undocumented immigrants,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “It defies logic to turn immigrants with authorization to work and contribute to this country into undocumented immigrants. And they call our side the party that supports illegal immigration? It is sideways logic.” “Clearly Republicans are not interested in owning this fact because under direct questioning by Rep. Jared Polis of Colorado, Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte of Virginia refused to answer if those with DACA now would be allowed to renew. And because this bill was rewritten yesterday to make it harsh enough to garner Republican votes, there have been no hearings or outside analysis.” Over 600,000 individuals have applied for DACA who are over 16, were under age 31 (as of June 15, 2012), arrived before they turned 16, had continuously resided in US since June 2007, met educational requirements, are not convicted criminals and passed an FBI criminal background check and paid $465.00. It must be renewed every two years. The first applications for the initiative were accepted on Aug. 15, 2012. Rep. Gutiérrez said: “This program was initiated by President Obama under the law as it existed and exists today and we have had a national election where the President was overwhelmingly returned to the White House, but now as the next Election Day approaches, Republicans want to kill DACA and kill it quietly on a Friday night. “If they want all DREAMers deported, they should say so proudly and let the rest of America know where they stand. Apparently, even these legislators have a threshold for shame. “Thank God this will never become law.” A vote is expected in the House late tonight. Rep. Gutiérrez, a Democrat, represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
07.31.2014	“I guess it is harder to take candy from children than they thought,” said Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) commented on the failure of House Republicans to approve their harsh border supplemental bill and a bill House Republican leadership promised to the anti-immigrant wing of the GOP to revoke the Deferred Action initiative (DACA) for DREAMers. Rather than see the bills fail in a vote, House Speaker John Boehner pulled the bill altogether. At this hour (4 p.m. ET), Republicans are still trying to find a way forward and plan to regroup as a conference in the morning, postponing the beginning of the August recess. Rep. Gutiérrez is scheduled to leave this evening for a tour of the Texas border with a bipartisan group of House Members led by Rep. Steny Hoyer (D-MD) and a delegation of Senators led by Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME). They will tour border facilities in Texas on Friday, if they are able to leave this evening. Rep. Gutiérrez, a Democrat, represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “I guess it is harder to take candy from children than they thought. The Republicans planned to pass a bill to deport children quickly and take away protections from deportation that the President extended to children raised in the U.S., but it didn’t work out as planned. They just couldn’t go far enough over the anti-immigrant ledge to satisfy enough of the GOP conference to get a majority. “The number of kids who have come to this country from Central America fleeing violence could all fit in Soldier Field with room to spare, yet about 60,000 kids have made adult American legislators lose their marbles. They could not agree on how to deport them fast enough and the Democrats were not going to let a decade or more of progress in improving our asylum and human trafficking laws get thrown out for election year politics. # # #
07.24.2014	“The President understands that the status quo is unsustainable even though the Republicans punted on immigration and may punt on his supplemental budget request,” said Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC –Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) continued an eventful week trying to forge consensus both on matters pertaining to Central American children and families fleeing violence and on efforts by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to address America’s deportation crisis. Today, Rep. Gutiérrez met with the Presidents of Guatemala and Honduras, senior officials from El Salvador, and Members of Congress at the invitation of House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi. They discussed steps that are being taken and can be taken to stem the flow of unaccompanied minors from those three Central American countries to the U.S. The two presidents are also meeting with other U.S. government officials during their visit to Washington. “The Central American leaders understand that there is a shared responsibility to protect the lives of their children and their citizens and are taking steps to create the conditions where children are not fleeing to the U.S. and other countries for safety,” said Rep. Gutiérrez. “We want fewer children and others taking the dangerous journey in the first place, fewer smugglers and other criminals preying on desperate migrants. I think they understand that and that we in the Congress understand that there is a role for the governments there, the U.S. government and regional partners to play.” Yesterday, Rep. Gutiérrez organized a classified briefing for Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus on the children fleeing violence. Briefers from the Department of Homeland Security (ICE, CBP, Intelligence and Analysis Unit, and Human Smuggling and Trafficking Unit, among them) met with more than a dozen CHC Members for more than an hour at the Capitol. “We are seeing a reduction in the number of children making the journey but this is a very complex issue,” said Rep. Gutiérrez. “It is a combination of violence, lack of legitimate law-enforcement, poverty, and hopelessness that are driving people out of Central America, fueled by smugglers and narco-traffickers who are pumping false information to stimulate demand for their black market services. It is not clear to me what the death toll is of this movement of children across so many thousands of miles, but that is a huge concern to the CHC Members. Even though overall border crossings and illegal entry are way down compared to a few years ago, the danger these children face is extreme and the CHC wants to find ways to discourage anyone contemplating the trip.” The Congressman also convened a meeting of the Immigration Task Force of the CHC, which he chairs, on Wednesday to evaluate Senate and House proposals taking shape to address the President’s supplemental budget request on the child refugee issue. (See Rep. Gutiérrez’ statement Wednesday: https://1.usa.gov/Uo7Y7f). On Friday morning, a delegation of CHC Members will meet with DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson and White House Chief Counsel Neil Eggleston at the White House to discuss the legal authority the President has in existing law to address family separations and the adverse impact of deportations. The U.S. has deported more than 2 million people in the last five years – more than at any time in our history – and illegal border crossings remain at historically low levels. The meeting on Friday is a follow up to the CHC’s meeting last week with President Obama, Vice President Biden, and Cabinet-level officials to discuss the recommendations the CHC made in April (https://1.usa.gov/1x6BPxF) to address deportations. “Our deportation system has been on overdrive and it is overwhelmed by the volume of people we are trying to deport,” Rep. Gutiérrez said Thursday. “Republicans have simply abdicated responsibility for addressing border security and immigration because of their internal party divisions over legal immigration and legalization. But the rest of us in government have to find a way to make the nation more secure, make communities more secure and make families more secure. What we are doing now is ripping families apart and putting a strain on the foster care system.” “The President understands that the status quo is unsustainable even though the Republicans punted on immigration and may punt on his supplemental budget request. Now it is up to the President and his staff to work with the coalition of the willing to improve things in the absence of congressional leadership.” Rep. Gutiérrez, a Democrat, represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
07.23.2014	“The Democrats have children to protect and the Republicans have a crisis to exploit,” said Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) responded to press reports on recommendations from the House and Senate on how those bodies may respond to the humanitarian crisis of children fleeing violence who are being apprehended at the U.S. border. In the Senate, Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Chair of the Appropriations Committee, would support a “clean” supplemental budget request that does not change underlying laws aimed at protecting children. On the House side, a working group of Republican Members reportedly recommends major changes designed to reduce the number of unaccompanied children who are allowed to argue that they deserve asylum, deserve visas designated for victims of crime, or other immigration considerations given to potential victims of smuggling and sex-trafficking. The following is a statement by Rep. Gutiérrez, a Democrat who represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “The Democrats have children to protect and the Republicans have a crisis to exploit. Almost every Democrat I talk to says we should hold the line on the laws passed to protect children from sex-trafficking and smugglers. The Republicans seem to be divided between the ones who don’t think the money is necessary, the ones who want to weaken laws protecting children and the ones who want to deport all of the DREAMers and other undocumented immigrants before we do anything else. “At this point, I think it is unlikely that we will see any major weakening of the law to protect children, but I don’t know if that means that the Republicans will insist on starving the government of the money it needs to address this humanitarian crisis. I hope that is not the case, but in an election year, political opportunism reaches a fever pitch.” # # #
07.16.2014	“I am energized and optimistic after meeting with the President,” said Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez joined his colleagues in the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) at a meeting at the White House with President Obama, Vice President Biden, Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwell. The meeting was requested by the CHC and its Chairman Ruben Hinojosa of Texas to discuss immigration issues and specifically the way children fleeing violence in Central America are being treated and the suggestions the CHC has made to the President on prosecutorial discretion to dial back deportations breaking up American families. Rep. Luis Gutiérrez, a Democrat who represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “I was proud of the CHC standing up, unified and powerful for Latinos and immigrants today at the White House. We want to help the President succeed and we want to work with him to address the damage and chaos our broken immigration system is causing in American communities. I am energized and optimistic after meeting with the President. “We told the President the CHC will not support a supplemental budget request that undermines the legal protection for children and we will work with him to get the resources our government needs to respond to the humanitarian crisis we are seeing with child refugees from Central America. The CHC told the President we will fight for the rights of these children under the law and a lot of other Democrats will stand with us. “I saw a compassionate President who listened to our position on the deportation crisis that families and communities are facing in America. We urged the President to be as broad and expansive in using prosecutorial discretion and executive action as the Republicans have been narrow and mean-spirited when it comes to immigrants and immigration. “I think the President, the Vice President and their administration get it on an emotional level – they get the pain that immigrant communities are suffering, the families being split apart, and they get the pain that children fleeing violence are suffering. “There are times when the United States must show why it is the greatest nation on earth and how we treat children fleeing violence is one of those times. These are refugees in need of help. We would denounce any country overseas that attacks, protests, and turns back children fleeing violence and turmoil. And as a great nation we must set an example for others when it comes to the rule of law and the generosity of our people.” # # #
07.15.2014	“This is not the middle ground, this is the deportation-only agenda dressed up in sheep’s clothing,” said Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) reacted to the pending introduction of a bill by Senator John Cornyn of Texas and Rep. Henry Cuellar of Texas to curtail the rights of children captured at the border who are fleeing violence in Central America. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis Gutiérrez, a Democrat who represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “Senator Cornyn has led the opposition to every single immigration reform proposal he has ever seen and he is exploiting children, wrapping himself in a thin blanket of feigned compassion, and he has gotten a Democrat to stand with him. This is not the middle ground, this is the deportation-only agenda dressed up in sheep’s clothing. More of the same is not a solution. “The backbone and commitment to justice of the strongest and most generous nation in the world is trembling at the presence of 50,000 children and responding by taking away legal rights from vulnerable children. It is shameful. “We could fortify the U.S. Mexico border like the Berlin Wall of the past and it still would not change the fact that kids are fleeing their home countries because of danger and violence. The Congress has an important decision to make, right here, right now: As our nation faces a refugee crisis of desperate children fleeing for their lives and the Western Hemisphere faces massive displacement of children and families, do we want to create a border with Mexico that rivals the militarization of the border between North and South Korea? Is that our response, to shut out our neighbors and stick our heads in the sand? “Or do we rise to the challenge, as Americans have always done, follow the laws we have in place to sort out legitimate claims for asylum and safeguard against sex-trafficking and respond with leadership, compassion and solutions that will actually work. This will not help establish democracy and the rule of law in Central America, this will not crackdown on the smugglers, but this will send children back into harm’s way by curtailing basic humanitarian protections enshrined in decades of American law. “The children and most of the other people crossing our southern border are being caught – they are being apprehended and put into a legal process that multiple Congresses on multiple occasions approved so that we protect the rights of children who are in great danger. But now we have politicians with a political agenda to spend more tax money on the border using the plight of these children to say this is a border security crisis, this is a crisis of too many rights for undeserving children, and to respond to the mob, not to our values as a nation.” # # #
07.11.2014	“Among the children are little girls who are fleeing those who would abuse their bodies. Sen. Kirk, open your heart.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) reacted to a press release issued by Senator Mark Kirk stating that 429 Central American children apprehended at the border as unaccompanied children are in Chicago and that he is questioning whether any of these children “…has the potential to present a serious threat to our country and communities should they have criminal records….”. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis Gutiérrez. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “Senator Kirk should be ashamed of himself. These are children and he is trying to paint them as criminals and make Americans afraid of children. That is shameful behavior. Rather than exploiting and demonizing children to score political points, how about the Senator works with the President to solve a national problem. “In March, Senator Kirk was standing with Illinois officials decrying trafficking, especially the sex trafficking of children (https://www.kirk.senate.gov/?p=press_release&id=1034) and yesterday he was decrying human rights abuses in Iran (https://www.kirk.senate.gov/?p=press_release&id=1135 ) and now he is pulling this stunt to question whether children are a threat? It is hypocrisy, it is immoral, and it ought to stop. Among the children are little girls who are fleeing those who would abuse their bodies. Sen. Kirk, open your heart.” # # # Note: Congressman Gutiérrez cannot confirm the claim from Sen. Kirk that 429 children fleeing violence in Central America have been relocated to Illinois. Officials from the Department of Health and Human Services were unable to confirm the information as well for the Congressman, so it is unclear on what information this claim is being made. Also note: The Congressman spoke earlier today on the issue of unaccompanied children at the border at a press conference of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. His press release is here: https://1.usa.gov/U6EISw
07.11.2014	“I want the President to be as bold and generous as the Republicans have been petty and mean-spirited on immigration.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) joined at least 14 of his colleagues from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to say that July will be a month of action for the CHC to defend children fleeing violence and to push for prosecutorial discretion and executive action by the President to address the continuing immigration and deportation crisis in America. The CHC Members said they plan to fight to ensure that the law of the United States is being followed when it comes to children from Latin America seeking safety and that the President act within the law to improve America’s immigration system as he pledged to do on June 30 afterRepublicans made it clear they were not going to help. The following is Congressman Gutiérrez’ opening statement from today’s press conference. A segment of his remarks recorded onvideo, in Spanish, can be found here: https://youtu.be/nOkZ_OgxWSU and https://youtu.be/AyHU0nfgl1k (Video en Español). A release with additional quotes from CHC Members is coming separately from the CHC Press Office (https://chc-hinojosa.house.gov/). Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Rep. Gutiérrez remarks: The CHC is unified in supporting the fair treatment of children fleeing violence who are apprehended at our border and we support the President following the law and giving children a meaningful day in court to protect their rights under our laws. When children are being demonized – in this case, children from Latin America – when they are being vilified; when their legal rights are being questioned and their due process rights threatened; when adults are stirring up fear of children – children -- we want to make it very clear that the Congressional Hispanic Caucus will join together with other Democrats and other people of conscience and defend those children so they are treated as they should be treated under U.S. law. The Congress created the law for how we treat children at our border seeking safety in a humane and careful manner and we voted on this procedure not once, not twice, but on at least three different occasions -- when cooler heads prevailed. In 2002, 2007, and by a voice vote in 2008, Congress mandated the process that the President should follow. These were not Democratic Bills rammed through on a partisan basis. These were bipartisan bills – remember those? Lamar Smith of Texas who opposes legal immigration voted for this procedure. Louie Gohmert of Texas who talks about immigrants as disease-ridden criminals voted for it. So did Steve King of Iowa who wants to electrify the fence. And George W. Bush signed them into law. When cooler heads prevailed, when their wasn’t a humanitarian crisis to exploit, a President they hate, and an election right around the corner, Republicans joined Democrats in saying we should treat children at our doorstep in a humane fashion. I think we should speed up the processing of children and families detained at the border to make sure they are not warehoused in overcrowded conditions, to make sure there is a strong deterrent message getting back to Central America so children do not risk their lives in the first place, and that they get their day in court as the law mandates. I plan to support the President’s budget request, but we must make sure we do not short-circuit justice for the children and I think all of us agree that that is a top priority. At the same time, we are urging the President to act boldly under current law to extend prosecutorial discretion and take other executive actions to fix our broken immigration system now that Republicans have failed to allow legislation to proceed. I want the President to be as bold and generous as the Republicans have been petty and mean-spirited on immigration. We cannot let the current turmoil at the border – which we would be doing an even better job of controlling had this Congress addressed immigration reform – we can’t let this crisis distract us from the fact that record-breaking levels of deportation -- and the threat of deportation -- are taking a devastating toll on American communities. The CHC has laid out a sensible, legal, thoughtful menu of items for the President and Secretary Johnson to consider and we will fight for executive actions that fix what the President can fix under current law now that Republicans have made it clear he is on his own. I think the President can take actions to put all of those who would have been legalized by the Senate bill, for example, in a safe place and take them out of the deportation queue so we concentrate our resources on high priority deportations. Even though the bill was stopped by House Republicans, the President has the latitude to put that large a group in a safe place. And we will work with him and build support across the country for him to take action. Clearly Republicans would rather sue the President than help him solve national problems. They say he does not follow the law and now they are complaining when he does follow the law. They cannot have it both ways. On immigration and the treatment of immigrants – especially children – Republicans will have to contend with the CHC. # # # Video en Español: https://youtu.be/nOkZ_OgxWSU Video en Español: https://youtu.be/AyHU0nfgl1k
06.30.2014	Rep. Gutiérrez’ Reaction to President’s Immigration Announcement Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement in reaction to the President’s Rose Garden announcement regarding his intentions to address immigration and deportation through executive actions within existing law. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “The antidote for do-nothingism is doing something and the President is doing for the American people what the Republican-controlled Congress refused to do. This is the President I voted for. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus has already submitted a list of actions he can take under current law to add some rationality to our irrational immigration system and I look forward to working with him to vet those ideas and others he can take to help the American people.” # # #
06.30.2014	“While I support the President asking for more money, I am deeply concerned that the legal rights of children fleeing violence that are part of our current law may get curtailed.” -- Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement in reaction to the letter sent by President Obama to Congress requesting an additional $2 billion and certain policy changes to address the crisis of children fleeing violence in Central America. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “The priority for the White House is to send a strong deterrence message to Central America by sending people back and while I agree with the goal, I fear this will short-circuit justice and not protecting vulnerable children. There is no doubt that some of those returned to Central America will face violence, rape and death and some will attempt the trip again anyway. “We should process those who arrive at our border as quickly as possible. The White House has requested a surge of immigration judges, adjudication officers and lawyers to accelerate the legal processing and evaluation of individual cases, but we must simultaneously ensure that the proper legal processes are followed. “I support the increased budget request, but we should go beyond it. The appointment of legal counsel to unaccompanied children would be extremely helpful not only in protecting their rights but in expediting the process of their claims, if any. That is why I joined my colleagues in introducing legislation (H.R. 4936, The Vulnerable Immigrant Voice Act of 2014 or VIVA see: https://1.usa.gov/1l4DhtL) to appoint counsel for unaccompanied children in immigration courts. Ensuring counsel for unaccompanied children will actually speed up their processing while protecting basic due process rights. “We also need long-range engagement with our neighbors in Latin America to assist them in creating the conditions that will keep their children at home. This includes law-enforcement, gang-prevention, and violence reduction, but also economic development, developing civil society, and helping move our entire continent towards the modern age. “While I support the President asking for more money, I am deeply concerned that the legal rights of children fleeing violence that are part of our current law may get curtailed. We should treat this refugee crisis the way we address refugee crises elsewhere in the world by setting up quick but fair mechanisms to evaluate the refugee status of migrants – especially children -- fleeing violence in Central America. We should look into whether this process could occur in the sending countries, in this country, or in another country along the way. The goal is to reduce the number of children and individuals -- fueled by extreme violence, poverty, and false rumors about the welcome they will receive in the U.S.—from taking the dangerous journey to the U.S. in the first place. “There is also an important lesson in this: If you fail to institute a safe, legal and orderly immigration process for several decades, chaos ensues. The same Republicans who have blocked immigration reform and are fanning rumors with claims that President Obama is not enforcing immigration laws and that the U.S. has “open borders” are now saying we need to change our border policies to deport children and families without delay. You cannot have it both ways. If we had a legal and orderly process for immigration in place, we would have better control over the current situation.” # # #
06.25.2014	Washington, DC – This morning during the 10 a.m. hour (ET), Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives on immigration, marking the one-year anniversary of passage of the Senate bipartisan bill (June 27, 2013) with no action in the House. The Congressman has been counting down to the July 4 recess as the date by which Republicans had to have a bill moving if they were to pass a bill this year, and therefore, pass a bill before a Republican presidential candidate faces voters in 2016. In his speech he said: “[M]onths passed and Republicans turned their backs on their own Members, turned their backs on the American people, turned their backs on the business community, on Latino and Asian voters, and on those trying to save the Republican Party from itself. But I kept hoping the better angels in the Republican Party would tamp down the irrational and angry angels blocking reform the American people want and deserve.” Then the Congressman produced a soccer “red card” indicating an expulsion. He said: “I gave you the warning three-months ago and now I have no other choice. You’re done. Leave the field. Too many flagrant offenses and unfair attacks and too little action while you run out the clock. You are out. Hit the showers. I’m giving you the red card.” He concluded: “Republicans in the House simply have no answer when it comes to immigration reform and Republicans have failed America and failed themselves….[I]t is now up to the President to act.” A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/_O_oneQGHvc The Congressman’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are pasted below. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. REMARKS: Mr. Speaker, I came to the floor on April 2 to tell my Republican colleagues that they had three months to craft an immigration policy before the July 4 recess. At the time, there was still hope that sensible Republicans would see that their existence as a national party depended on getting the immigration issue resolved. I came back to this well almost every week to remind my Republican colleagues that time was running out. With the nation gripped by World Cup fever, let me give you a visual representation of my message for the last three months: [YELLOW CARD] I gave Republicans a yellow card to put them on warning that they must act on immigration -- and if they failed to act – they would be out of the game. Having met with the President in March, I knew he was prepared to give Republicans time to craft an immigration reform bill– but if they failed to take action, I knew the President intended to use his pen and pad to save families at risk of being split up by deportation. But let’s review where we stand three months after I gave you that first warning. A year ago this Friday marks the one-year anniversary of passage of the bipartisan Senate immigration reform bill that passed with 68 votes. We had our own group of eight in the House crafting a tough but fair immigration compromise but politics slowed us down and the effort collapsed. But some leaders in the Republican Party – knowing that immigration reform is the only way to achieve border security, workplace verification like E-Verify, legal immigration to feed our economy, and compassion and justice for how we treat our immigrant neighbors and friends – some in the Republican Party kept trying. And on my side of the aisle we kept an open mind. When the Speaker said no to the Senate bill, I said, OK, let’s find a way to craft a House bill. When Republicans said no to a conference, I said we will find a way to make it work if that is what you need. Piecemeal bills, not one comprehensive bill – we will work with you. No direct path to citizenship for most immigrants, well, we don’t like it, but let’s keep talking. No one tried harder than I did to keep the two parties talking about how to move forward on immigration. There are Members of the Republican Conference who need immigration reform politically, others who want it because it restores law and order, and others for reasons deeply grounded in their conservative philosophy. Still others are fighting for reform out of a sense of compassion and doing the right thing as a nation. But months passed and Republicans turned their backs on their own Members, turned their backs on the American people, turned their backs on the business community, on Latino and Asian voters, and on those trying to save the Republican Party from itself. But I kept hoping the better angels in the Republican Party would tamp down the irrational and angry angels blocking reform the American people want and deserve. And then the last straw. As violence, poverty and gangs drive families out of Central America, I see Republican Members of Congress and their allies in talk radio and TV taking advantage of a humanitarian crisis to score political points. In a few hours, the Judiciary Committee – which has done nothing to help move the Republican Party and the Congress forward on immigration – will hold a hearing on what it calls Obama’s “Administration-made disaster on the U.S.-Mexico border.” I gave you the warning three-months ago and now I have no other choice. [RED CARD] You’re done. Leave the field. Too many flagrant offenses and unfair attacks and too little action while you run out the clock. You are out. Hit the showers. I’m giving you the red card. First of all, your chance to play a role in how immigration and deportation policies are carried out this year is over. Having been given ample time and space to craft legislation, you failed, the President now has no other choice but to act within existing law to ensure that our deportation policies are humane, that due-process rights are protected, that detention conditions are as they should be, and most importantly – that the people we are deporting are detriments to our communities, not assets to our families, economy, and society. And I think we all know that you are out when it comes to the White House. By taking no action – even after repeated warnings – you have decided it is up to the Democrats to pick Supreme Court Justices, conduct foreign policy, and carry out all of the functions of the Executive Branch for a generation or more to come. The Republican presidential nominee, whoever he may be, will enter the race with an Electoral College deficit he cannot make up. Republicans in the House simply have no answer when it comes to immigration reform and Republicans have failed America and failed themselves. Mr. Speaker, it is now up to the President to act. # # #
06.23.2014	Rep. Gutierrez an original co-sponsor of the Vulnerable Immigrant Voice Act of 2014 (VIVA) Washington, DC – Today at a Washington press conference, Representatives Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08), Karen Bass (CA-37), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) and Judy Chu (CA-27) introduced The Vulnerable Immigrant Voice Act of 2014 (VIVA), which ensures that vulnerable unaccompanied children are appointed counsel in removal proceedings in an immigration court. The U.S. government does not usually appoint counsel in immigration proceedings and therefore, a majority of children facing removal do not have lawyers. While unable to attend the press conference today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez is an original co-sponsor of the VIVA legislation and issued the following statement: “It is just common sense. No child should appear in immigration court and be expected to advocate for themselves. Children do not have law degrees and most of the children currently arriving at our border have limited English skills. It is silly for us to expect a child to stand alone before an immigration judge and get any amount of justice arguing their case against a trained government attorney. Children may or may not have a good case for remaining in the United States, but we will never know unless someone who understands the law and the procedures works with them. A child who does not have a lawyer probably will not qualify for asylum, a victim’s visa, or any other form of relief, even when the law is on their side. “This bill will address the current gap in legal representation and ensure a fair process in our immigration system for the youngest and most vulnerable fleeing violence, poverty and hopelessness.” # # #
06.19.2014	Washington, DC – This morning during the 10 am hour (ET), Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives about unaccompanied minors from Central America entering the U.S. along the Texas border and the U.S. government effort to ensure their safety while they are being processed. The Congressman notes the urgency of the current crisis comes amidst the final six legislative days the Republicans have to address immigration reform before the July 4 recess – and therefore, for all intents and purposes, before the 113th Congress ends and before the 2016 presidential election. In his speech he said: “In Congress, we are quick to point fingers of blame – especially in an election year – but surely we must accept some of the responsibility ourselves. For decades, no realistic legal immigration options have existed for most people and this breeds a clandestine network of smugglers that feeds on desperation and hopelessness. Invading or propping up failing states on the other side of the world has meant we have paid little attention to the failing states in our own hemisphere.” He concluded: “With only six legislative days before the July 4th recess, Republican Leaders have almost no time left to demonstrate compassion and understanding of the immigration issue, enact real border security, allow legal immigration that feeds our economy, and get people who have lived here for decades on the books. Six days, Mr. Speaker, before this issue clobbers the Republican presidential nominee in 2016 at the polls. You may have waited too long to act, but that is – and always has been -- up to you.” The full text is below. A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/FEvb4c-Ei6I Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. REMARKS June 19, 2014 I usually come here to talk about the on-going crisis in American cities and towns related to our unrelenting deportation of moms and dads and longtime residents with no criminal history. There is no doubt we will see substantial action to dial back the record deportations this country has suffered over the past 5 years and a retargeting of deportations at criminals. The only question is whether the Republican majority gets its act together to participate in that process as legislators and leaders in the next six legislative days left before the July 4th recess. Now, in addition to the deportation crisis, we face a new crisis quickly becoming a human tragedy of catastrophic proportions. Thousands and thousands of young children – some in families but many alone – are fleeing Central America because they think it is their only option for survival. Faced with death threats, sexual assault, poverty, and no legal immigration options, little boys and girls are simply leaving their Central American countries by the tens of thousands. Some are coming to the U.S. to reunite with relatives, while many others are seeking asylum in any country they can get to, including this one. Girls as young as 11 and 12 --threatened with rape in their own country -- are risking rape, smugglers, murder and exploitation for the slim chance of a life in the United States. Eighty percent are coming from just three countries – Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala –countries that top the list of the highest murder rates. Guns, gangs, poverty and hopelessness are driving kids as young as kindergarteners to countries like Belize and Costa Rica, Mexico and the United States. This is a complex international crisis that does not have easy solutions. The Obama Administration, Homeland Security and FEMA are mobilizing like they would for a major natural disaster. They are trying to address each case – one by one – following the laws we have for unaccompanied minors, families and asylum seekers. The first goal is to get the children and families in a safe place. Eventually, some may pass the rigorous test for asylum. Others may be considered for legal status as victims of traffickers, but many have no legal avenue and had none to begin with. And in many cases, children will face an immigration judge alone, without a lawyer and without a clue what is going on. The majority get orders of removal and face deportation. I have urged parents that the risks are too great, the danger too real, and the survival rate too low to attempt such a perilous journey. But let’s be clear: Adults on all sides of the border are failing when children feel they have no way to survive other than risking their lives to cross thousands of miles. I do not see the countries of Central America stepping up to take responsibility for the danger, dysfunction, death, and despair in their own cities and towns. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus told their embassies that in a very testy meeting yesterday. Nor do I see the United States taking responsibility for the insatiable appetite for drugs on our streets that -- in many cases -- fuels the narcotrafficking, gangs, and desperation in Central America. In Congress, we are quick to point fingers of blame – especially in an election year – but surely we must accept some of the responsibility ourselves. For decades, no realistic legal immigration options have existed for most people and this breeds a clandestine network of smugglers that feeds on desperation and hopelessness. Invading or propping up failing states on the other side of the world has meant we have paid little attention to the failing states in our own hemisphere. Opponents of immigration mock the children on their radio shows and have even cooked up a new conspiracy theory that claims President Obama has been calling these children to our country so he can put more people on welfare and so these children who can never become citizens will somehow vote for him. But we must not make light of this tragedy. These are children. Desperate boys and girls who are being demonized. Opponents of immigration are exploiting their desperation for political sport. But the stakes could not be higher for the Republican Party. With only six legislative days before the July 4th recess, Republican Leaders have almost no time left to demonstrate compassion and understanding of the immigration issue, enact real border security, allow legal immigration that feeds our economy, and get people who have lived here for decades on the books. Six days, Mr. Speaker, before this issue clobbers the Republican presidential nominee in 2016 at the polls. You may have waited too long to act, but that is – and always has been -- up to you. # # #
06.11.2014	House Democrat Continues Countdown for House Republicans to Act on Immigration Washington, DC – This morning during the 10 am hour (ET), Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives about the need for immigration reform and the prospects for House action one day after Majority Leader Eric Cantor’s surprise primary defeat. He addresses how immigration has fared as an issue on the campaign trail. He also noted the House has just 10 legislative days before the July 4 recess, a deadline that Rep. Gutiérrez has pointed to repeatedly as the practical deadline for any serious legislative action in the House in an election year. In his speech he said: “[I]t is still up to the Republican Leadership how they plan to proceed. Not a single Republican who opposes immigration reform needs to vote for it. Not a one. And we will still have a majority of the House voting to do what a majority of Americans want them to do, address immigration.” He concluded: “This nation built by and sustained by 400 years of immigration needs a coherent immigration system and we need politicians brave enough to craft one.” A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/0Bhq8R1axV4 The Congressman’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are pasted below. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. REMARKS June 11, 2014 Some things do not change after a primary. Even a primary result that no one, including the winning candidate, had predicted. The thing that does not change with the political winds in Washington is the calendar. There are only 10 legislative days left before the July 4 recess. Another thing has not changed. The Republican Party and the Republican Leadership has a difficult choice: They can choose to address the immigration issue head-on and get it resolved – and give the Republican nominee in 2016 a fighting chance in his or her run for the White House – or they go back to the bunker, sharpen their anti-Obama knives and never get to the White House in the next generation, possibly two. As I have said on this floor before, if there is no serious immigration reform action headed towards a floor vote in the House by July 4, we will not see action at all... And it will be left up to the President to rescue the country from the worst aspects of our dysfunctional immigration system. On the Democratic side, we all prefer a legislative solution where the House, like our counterparts in the Senate, pass bills signed by the President. I suspect there is a lot of agreement on that point from the other side of the aisle. But in the absence of anything resembling leadership from the legislature, the President will not just sit back and watch a bad situation get worse and he will act in accordance with existing law to protect all the immigrants he can. I believe he can protect literally millions of them through executive action. Immigration reform is not dead. It might just be moving to the White House for action if none comes from this House. So with 10 days left before July 4, where do we stand? The Majority Leader released his legislative schedule for the month of June -- reforming our immigration system is nowhere to be found. Immigration is the single most important issue to address for the Republican Party’s ability to be competitive at the national level after this fall – and it is nowhere on the schedule before this fall. So what lessons have we learned? Half-measures to legalize some immigrants here and allow legal immigration for some industries there does not seem to have much political traction with conservative voters in the South. Blocking sensible immigration reform and sending out mailers decrying -- quote – “amnesty” at the last minute does not seem to have much traction with southern voters in conservative Districts. Articulating a firm argument for why deporting 11 or 12 million people is not a realistic policy; defending your position that legal immigration is preferable to illegal immigration; and making clear that the only way to actual border security is a combination of enforcement, legal immigration, and address the legal status for immigrants already living and working here – that seems to work pretty well with Southern conservative voters. That is what the gentleman from South Carolina, Mr. Graham, would tell us. Or the gentle lady from North Carolina, Ms. Ellmers. Or every poll that has been taken in recent memory. And we know that in every part of the country outside of the most conservative districts -- mainly in the south – supporting the end of illegal immigration and a broad and rigorous legalization combined with serious workplace and border enforcement is not only the only policy that works, it is the only policy that is politically viable. So every pundit on TV last night said it was time to man the barricades. They said immigration reform with a Republican stamp in a Republican Congress is dead because the American people want to be protected from the threatening outside world and Republicans want to be protected from their threatening voters. But it is still up to the Republican Leadership how they plan to proceed. Not a single Republican who opposes immigration reform needs to vote for it. Not a one. And we will still have a majority of the House voting to do what a majority of Americans want them to do, address immigration. Given the chaos of our current system, which is being stretched to the limit to handle the child refugees fleeing the violence in Central America – it is up to Republican Leaders to lead or get out of the way of the American people. Next week in Judiciary, we will have a hearing on the crisis of unaccompanied minors fleeing Central America and we will pointing fingers at everyone but ourselves and not -- I would note – using the few remaining legislative days available to craft a sensible border and immigration strategy as our colleagues did in the Senate almost a full year ago. Let us not accept the latest excuse for inaction on immigration, especially from those who want no action to be taken even under the best of conditions. This nation built by and sustained by 400 years of immigration needs a coherent immigration system and we need politicians brave enough to craft one. # # #
05.20.2014	Floor speech reminds Republicans only 18 legislative days remain before July 4 recess to address immigration reform. Washington, DC – This morning, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives during the 10 a.m. hour (ET) to remind Republicans that time is of the essence if they are serious about immigration reform. Standing before a picture of the first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln (of Illinois), and George W. Bush, Rep. Gutiérrez said if Republicans fail to address immigration reform before the July 4th recess, President Bush may go down as the last Republican President in American history. There is a demographic reality that will make Republicans a footnote in history, just like the Whigs and the Know-Nothings, unless they do something to get the immigration issue off of the table. There are only 18 legislative days before the July 4th recess – before the campaign season takes over. He went on to say: That is not a lot of time. Let us work together to put my 200 Democrats together with the 60, 70, or 80 Republicans we can get on board to get a bill -- or series of bills -- passed and let’s get this done for the American people. Do it for Abraham. Do it for George. Do it for any little boy or little girl who wants to grow up to be a Republican President. And most of all, do it for your country. This is the fourth speech the congressman has given counting down to the July 4th recess. A video of this morning’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/3HYdpxdDCOI The Congressman’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are pasted below. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez REMARKS May 20, 2014 Mr. Speaker, Last week, Tom Donahue, the President of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said that if House Republicans fail to pass an immigration reform bill this year, the Republican Party “shouldn’t bother to run a candidate in 2016.” Even with a majority of Republican voters supporting immigration reform and a majority of Tea Party voters in support, the positions Republican candidates feel they must take in order to win over their base make them unelectable when they face the American people in the general election. Latino voters are repelled and the loud but small contingent of immigration opponents have backed the Republican Party into a corner they do not have the courage to break out of. So, Mr. Speaker, I give you George W. Bush, the man who will go down as the last Republican President in American history. Tom Donahue is right. There is a demographic reality that will make Republicans a footnote in history, just like the Whigs and the Know-Nothings, unless they do something to get the immigration issue off of the table. There are only 18 legislative days before the July 4th recess – before the campaign season takes over. But, you still have time to change history. But if you do nothing on immigration, I guess you can take comfort in knowing that from Abraham Lincoln to George W. Bush, you had a good run. Freeing the slaves, winning the Civil War, the Interstate Highway system, those all go in the highlight column. And there have been a few lowlights as well… All our grandchildren will know of Republicans as a national party will be what they read in their history blogs and Wiki-websites. And they will look at 2014 as the year it all slipped away, unless you act soon. With or without immigration reform, Latino voters are a force that is growing faster than Republicans can withstand -- and are tilting more towards the Democrats with each day Republicans stand in the way of stopping deportations that are breaking up Latino families. Today, Tuesday, 2,000 Latino citizens born and raised in the United States will turn 18 and become eligible to vote. That is 2,000 today and every day until Election Day 2016 and for the next two or three decades, at least. That's 65,000 citizens a month, with or without immigration reform. Throw in women, younger voters, Asian voters and others who are strongly in favor of immigration reform and the Republican Party has dug quite a hole for themselves by standing with Steve King. Two million more Latinos voted in 2008 than in 2004 and tilted heavily to the Democrats after the Sensenbrenner bill, a Republican enforcement-only bill that criminalized immigrant families. Two million more Latinos voted in 2012 than in 2008 and tilted even farther to my side because of Romney’s message. And we aren’t even registering the citizens in our community in the numbers that we are capable of. But we are getting better at it with every passing year. Right now, I think House Republicans are at a crossroads. Many, including the Speaker -- I think -- want to get the immigration issue resolved before the 2016 elections. They know that the next few weeks offer the only chance Republicans have to both solve a tough American issue and get some of the credit for doing so. Others are already crouching in their anti-Obama bunkers and want to play it safe this year regardless of the consequences for the future. Conservative columnist Juan Williams calls this the “trap” Obama is setting for the Republican Party. Williams knows as I do that President Obama can act with or without Congress, given the latitude he has under existing immigration law. Williams wrote in Roll Call, “The House’s lack of action could open the door for Obama to take unilateral action on immigration reform. “The political result would be to make heroes of the president and his congressional allies while leaving Republicans to explain why the Tea Party element in the House refused to deal with the immigration crisis.” He goes on to say, “Such an outcome would cement political loyalty between the growing Latino vote and Democrats. It would also stir the Democrats’ liberal base for the 2014 midterms.” Williams is right. You have 18 legislative days left to write the policy, whip the votes and pass the bill. That is not a lot of time. Let us work together to put my 200 Democrats together with the 60, 70, or 80 Republicans we can get on board to get a bill -- or series of bills -- passed and let’s get this done for the American people. Do it for Abraham. Do it for George. Do it for any little boy or little girl who wants to grow up to be a Republican President. And most of all, do it for your country. # #
05.19.2014	“Your sacrifice is just one more reason I am proud of my Puerto Rican heritage,” - Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Today, The U.S. House of Representatives is expected to vote on H.R. 1726, bestowing the Congressional Gold Medal on the 65th Infantry Regiment, known as the Borinqueneers, a unit comprised mainly of Puerto Ricans, which served with distinction in three wars and was most notable for their accomplishments during the Korean War. The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest honor Congress can bestow. The following is a statement placed into the Congressional Record by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), the Chicago-born son of Puerto Rican migrants. It is always an honor to recognize the sacrifice and bravery of our men and women in uniform. Today, as a fellow Puerto Rican, I am pleased to join my colleagues in celebrating the Puerto Rican veterans of the 65th Infantry Regiment, who are known as the Borinqueneers. The Congressional Gold Medal will be the highest award granted by Congress to a Hispanic active duty unit in U.S. history. The Borinqueneers will be only the second Latino individual or group to receive a Congressional Gold Medal. This recognition of their service and sacrifice is long overdue and I thank the authors, the Governor of Puerto Rico, and Puerto Ricans and veterans from Florida to New York, to Illinois to Colorado who have made sure the accomplishments of the Borinqueneers are preserved and celebrated. The Borinqueneers served during WWI, WWII, and the Korean War. The unit was segregated through most of the Korean War and composed primarily of soldiers from the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico, but also included recruits from other Latino backgrounds. In the face of discrimination and segregation, these brave soldiers performed many remarkable military accomplishments and are known for waging the final battalion-sized bayonet assault in U.S. Army history. These soldiers fought valiantly on behalf the U.S. and served our nation honorably with great skill and courage. General Douglas MacArthur said of the Borinqueneers, "The Puerto Ricans forming the ranks of the gallant 65th Infantry give daily proof on the battlefields of Korea of their courage, determination and resolute will to victory, their invincible loyalty to the United States and their fervent devotion to those immutable principles of human relations which the Americans of the Continents and of Puerto Rico have in common. They are writing a brilliant record of heroism in battle and I am indeed proud to have them under my command. I wish that we could count on many more like them." Throughout the course of the Korean War, Puerto Rico's 65th Infantry Regiment suffered more casualties than did the vast majority of mainland states and according to Department of Defense records, 2,700 soldiers received the Purple Heart for wounds received while in battle, and the Regiment lost 740 Borinqueneers in Korea. The Borinqueneers selflessly served and many gave their lives for our democracy and have earned this recognition from Congress. They have inspired new generations of Puerto Ricans who have continued to answer the call to serve in the Armed Forces of the United States. To the Borinqueneers of the 65th Infantry Regiment, their loved ones, and to the Puerto Rican soldiers who have followed in their footsteps, I thank you for your proud service to this country. Your sacrifice is just one more reason I am proud of my Puerto Rican heritage. # # #
05.05.2014	No further review recommended on issues related to lobbying, campaign activities and the Congressman's memoir. Single recommendation from OCE relates to whether approved contract was permissible under House rules. Washington, DC – Today, as its rules require, the House Committee on Ethics released the Office of Congressional Ethics’ (OCE) extensive review of Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez's contract with Doug Scofield. The release from the Ethics Committee is here: https://ethics.house.gov/press-releases. The following is a statement from Douglas G. Rivlin, spokesman and Director of Communication for Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez: “Today's announcement by the Committee reveals that it will not convene a special ethics panel. As the Committee reviews this matter, Congressman Gutiérrez and his office will continue to cooperate fully. As the Committee points out, its review does not indicate that any violation has occurred or reflect any judgment on behalf of the Committee. “After its exhaustive review, the OCE made a single recommendation that the House Committee on Ethics assess whether the approved contract was permissible under ambiguous House rules. “As part of its review, the OCE examined questions relating to lobbying, campaign activities and the Congressman's memoir. The OCE ultimately found no conduct on those issues that necessitated additional review by the House Committee on Ethics. “The report reflects that Congressman Gutiérrez’s office submitted the entire contract for review by both the Committee on House Administration and the finance office of the House of Representatives before Mr. Scofield performed any work. The report also establishes that the Congressman’s office resubmitted the contract to the House at the beginning of each new Congress and that the contractual payments were disclosed in public, quarterly reports of disbursements for the House. “The Congressman and his office cooperated fully with the inquiry of the OCE. The OCE requested ten years of records, files, notes and communications (including e-mails) between Doug Scofield and Congressman Gutiérrez and the Congressman’s staff. The Congressman and ten current or former staff members also voluntarily spoke with the OCE.�? # # #
04.30.2014	Floor speech reminds Republicans only 25 legislative days remain before July 4 recess to address immigration reform. Washington, DC – This morning, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives during the 10 a.m. hour (ET) to remind Republicans that time is of the essence if they are serious about immigration reform. Republicans have 25 legislative days left before the July 4 recess to address immigration reform before the window to fix our immigration system closes for all intents and purposes this year. But the Congressman said “I am optimistic this morning.” He cited statements by key Republicans in Illinois, Colorado, and New York – and by the Speaker of the House – indicating there is growing support among Republicans to move forward on the issue. However, he noted, “But while some House Republicans, the Speaker and key Republican supporters and funders get it, the Majority Leader did not list immigration as something the House should address this spring. It is nowhere on the legislative calendar.” Rep. Gutiérrez said, “Neither Party is free from blame and neither Party seems to have the appropriate level of urgency on deportations.” He concluded, “The Republicans control the calendar and Democrats will bring 200 votes to the table if you work with us. But we all must be willing to put it all on the line to stand up for what is right, what is achievable, and what will heal and strengthen our nation. We still have the next 25 days. Time is of the essence.” After the speech, Rep. Gutiérrez left for California where he will address the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference Annual Convention in San Diego this evening and march in a May 1 immigration and worker’s rights rally in Los Angles tomorrow. A video of this morning’s speech is here: https://youtu.be/wQUtmGiUMOQ The Congressman’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are pasted below. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks, April 30, 2014 House of Representatives Mr. Speaker, Tick, tick, tick. The clock and the calendar march on. Congress just took a two week vacation and I am back to remind my colleagues that the window to pass legislation to fix our immigration system, stimulate the economy, keep families together, and strengthen America is ticking away. With just 25 legislative days until the July 4 recess, the Republicans have a difficult task and it gets harder with each passing day. But I am optimistic this morning. Last week I saw the Speaker of the House in his District urging his Republican colleagues to get to work and legislate on this important issue. Republicans from Coffman in Colorado to King in New York are calling for reform. In my home state of Illinois, practically every Republican running for office came out to stand with former Speaker Denny Hastert and business owners to say they want Republicans to allow a vote on immigration. One speaker, Carole Segal, the co-founder of Crate and Barrel, shared the microphone with two American kids whose parents are being deported and there was not a dry eye in the house. But while some House Republicans, the Speaker and key Republican supporters and funders get it, the Majority Leader did not list immigration as something the House should address this spring. It is nowhere on the legislative calendar. In order to fix what is broken about our immigration system, we must do three things at the same time. We must repair and improve our legal immigration system so that we eliminate the black market. We must strengthen and humanize our enforcement system so that our laws serve our national interests. And we must legitimize and de-stigmatize those people who actually live, work and raise families in our country by inviting them to join us on the right side of the law so that they earn the privileges and fulfill the responsibilities our country demands. The easiest way for Republicans to get this issue behind them would be to schedule a vote on the bipartisan bill that passed the Senate last year. An hour or two of debate and a 15 minute vote is all we need. Done, punto. Not one of the Republicans who thinks legislating on immigration reform this year is “too hard” needs to vote for it and it will still pass comfortably. But House Republicans say that bill has too many pages and does not have the imprint of House Republicans. OK, fine. We have introduced the discharge petition for H.R. 15 for any Republicans who change their minds. Republicans say they prefer a series of short, digestible bills to address the three components of reform. Fine, pass multiple bills to fix our immigration system and we Democrats will work with you. But remember, more bills take more time, and time is not something Republicans have plenty of… Republicans have said they do not want a special path to citizenship for adults who entered the country illegally. They want some sort of non-citizen status that might or might not lead to citizenship over time. And my side finds that very hard to swallow. But we at least we want to keep talking and hear you out. We want to see if we can reach a bipartisan agreement and move forward. Democrats think citizenship is important and we’ll fight for it. We think making everyone play by the same set of rules is very, very important to the American people. But OK, if this is the only way you will fix the three components of immigration reform, let’s talk and let’s see if we can reach a deal. But we have not seen any real immigration bills or floor time and – take a look –time is running out. Now we hear the warning that if Obama does anything – even a clarification of current deportation policy – Republicans say Obama will be “poisoning the well” for reform. This from a party that seems to hardly need any excuse to scream about mass amnesties, Mexicans’ rushing to our borders, and Obama’s plot to undermine America. But even some important Democrats don’t think any form of Presidential action would be prudent at this time. They seem to be saying, “let’s just ride out the pain of deportations in Latino and immigrant communities” – many of which are in our Districts – “while we score political points against the do-nothing Republicans.” Maybe we can try again when Democrats are in charge, even though we didn’t do it the last time we were in charge. When we had 257 Democrats we didn’t call a single vote on comprehensive reform. One-by-one deportations are driving fathers and mothers out of our communities and leaving children in foster care. Neither Party is free from blame and neither Party seems to have the appropriate level of urgency on deportations. The Republicans control the calendar and Democrats will bring 200 votes to the table if you work with us. But we all must be willing to put it all on the line to stand up for what is right, what is achievable, and what will heal and strengthen our nation. We still have the next 25 days. Time is of the essence. # # #
04.09.2014	“We opened a new front today in the fight to protect American families,” – Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – This morning, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) participated in a meeting hosted by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus in the U.S. Capitol with Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson. At the meeting, Secretary Johnson was formally presented with the six page memo from the CHC that outlines measures the Obama Administration can take under current law to protect some immigrants and their families from deportation. The off-the-record meeting with the Secretary lasted about an hour and afterwards, Rep. Gutiérrez issued the following statement: “Secretary Johnson was forthright with us and we had an open and candid discussion. This is the first of what I expect to be many conversations on the road to overhauling our enforcement system to better reflect our values. “We opened a new front today in the fight to protect American families. We have to find a way to keep moms and dads and husbands and wives who are simply trying to survive out of the deportation queue. And we have to make sure that the Department of Homeland Security is focusing on killers and rapists and using its resources on measures that actually make our country safer. “In talking to the Secretary, I kept the stories of immigrants I have met foremost in my mind. While some Republicans argue that the Obama Administration has been cooking the deportation numbers, we in the CHC know that is not the case. Wherever we go, we hear tragic stories of family separation and deportations and desperate appeals for assistance to protect and reunite families. But current policies are stacked against these families, and significant changes in federal enforcement -- and bold administrative action -- are needed to put deserving immigrants and their families in a safe place. “Yesterday, I visited with the Women’s Fast For Families on the Mall and today I am meeting with other families who are gathered outside the White House who have loved ones in detention. I was asked by the Fasters to deliver a letter to Secretary Johnson with the stories of women gravely impacted by our broken immigration system, which I did. These stories are demonstrative of the dire need for administrative action -- like the expansion of deferred action and the use of parole -- available to the Secretary under current law “A permanent, legislative solution to the plight of these families is far preferable to administrative relief. As I have said, we have a window between now and the summer to put pressure on Republicans to save their party from the Steve Kings and opponents of legal immigration and immigration reform who have held the House GOP Conference in check on this issue. “We are all applying pressure to get the Republicans to get over their fear and take action. But just the threat of presidential action is a powerful tool in this battle. They know they are on the clock and that if they don’t take action, Secretary Johnson and the President will have to.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # #
04.08.2014	Quotes Letter from Three GOP Judiciary Chairmen Stressing Need and Legal Justification for Administrative Relief Washington, DC – This morning, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to remind Republicans that time is running out if they plan to do anything legislatively on immigration. And the consequence of their inaction will be action on the part of the President to spare immigrants from deportation. Buoyed by new data on deportations and a forceful national call on President Obama to dial back deportations for those with deep roots in the U.S. and no criminal history, Rep. Gutiérrez said, the President is on firm legal ground in taking executive action along the lines of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program announced in 2012 that made 1.2 million DREAMers eligible to apply for temporary protection from deportation. “Tomorrow, on Wednesday, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus will have a special meeting with Secretary of Homeland Security Johnson... We will present him with a memo that lays out options the Obama Administration has under current law to protect more immigrants from deportation along the lines of the Deferred Action for DREAMers program Republicans have voted repeatedly to eliminate.” A draft of the confidential CHC memo was leaked to various media outlets last week, including the Washington Post. The Congressman referred to an enlarged copy of a 1999 letter signed by 28 Republicans and Democrats, including three former Republican Chairmen of the Judiciary Committee, that confirms the President’s legal foundation in exercising prosecutorial discretion to protect immigrants from deportation. A video of the Congressman’s speech today is here: https://youtu.be/yFtrSOgup34 The Congressman’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are pasted below. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # # Luis Gutiérrez Remarks April 8, 2014 Thank you Mr. Speaker, this is my weekly reminder to House Republicans that they only have 30 legislative days left before the July 4th recess. In that time they had better allow a vote on immigration reform or the President will take executive action to reform our immigration system. The chance to save the Republican Party from being a regional party -- and not a national one -- rests on what Republican Leaders do with the next 30 legislative days. If they deny justice, security and dignity to our brothers and sisters with foreign hands who work every day in America’s fields to plant and pick our vegetables, the Republican Party is giving up the chance for their brothers and sisters with Republican hands to plant or pick vegetables in the White House’s vegetable garden anytime soon. Tomorrow, Wednesday, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus will have a special meeting with Secretary of Homeland Security Johnson... We will present him with a memo that lays out options the Obama Administration has under current law to protect more immigrants from deportation along the lines of the Deferred Action for DREAMers program Republicans have voted repeatedly to eliminate. The important phrase here is, “under current law.” In February of 2011 the CHC delivered a memo to the President outlining specific actions he could take within existing law to keep families together, spare military families, and yes, spare those who would qualify for the DREAM Act – protecting them temporarily and on a case-by-case basis from deportation using tools in the law like deferred action, parole, and hardship waivers. Our position was strengthened in April of that year by a paper called “Executive Branch Authority Regarding Implementation of Immigration Laws and Policies.” The report, with all the legal citations is right here and was written by Bo Cooper, who served as general counsel at the INS and by Paul Virtue, who also served as general counsel at INS, along with four other attorneys who are experts in immigration law. The report said “The executive branch, through the Secretary of Homeland Security, can exercise discretion not to prosecute a case by granting ‘deferred action’ to an otherwise removable or deportable immigrant.” Only a month before Deferred Action for DREAMers was announced, a letter signed with footnotes and citations was sent to the President from more than 100 law professors at America’s top law schools and universities who concluded that the President had the power under existing law to grant deferred action to DREAMers. But legal scholars and research are not always enough to persuade my friends in the Republican Conference. Almost every single one of them voted for the King amendment defunding Deferred Action last year and voted this year to sue the President if they want over immigration enforcement. They are rejecting these arguments as some sort of academic hoax. So, as I have done in the past, I ask that you not just take my word for it… or the word of legal experts and hundreds of law professors. I ask that you take the word of your former Judiciary Chairmen – three of them -- when it comes to immigration and deportation. Here is a letter from November 1999 where at least 28 Republicans and Democrats called on President Clinton to exercise prosecutorial discretion when it came to deportations and immigration enforcement. “There has been widespread agreement that some deportations were unfair and resulted in unjustifiable hardship.” Over here it says “The principle of prosecutorial discretion is well-established.” “Optimally, removal proceedings should be initiated or terminated only upon specific instructions from authorized INS officials, issued in accordance with agency guidelines.” And they go on to urge that those guidelines be issued from headquarters just as the CHC is urging the current President to issue guidelines for initiation or termination of deportation proceedings today. Here is Lamar Smith’s signature, I see James Sensenbrenner, and Henry Hyde, just to mention a few. Mr. Speaker, three former Republican Chairmen of the House Judiciary Committee…The legal foundation upon which this opinion rests is as rock-solid as their conservative credentials. And yet, to this day, the Republican Caucus has not come up with an immigration bill or a series of bills of their own… The American people are still waiting for Republicans to write their own bills or amend the one sent to us by a two-thirds bipartisan majority in the Senate. And I am here to remind you that time is running out. If you fail to act, President Obama will act to spare millions of immigrants from deportation. The choice is yours. # # #
04.02.2014	“If you refuse to act in the next 34 days…[the President] will act without you.” Washington, DC – This morning, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) offered a lifeline to the Republican Party as time ticks away to pass an immigration reform bill in 2014. He spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to say that the Republicans have only 34 legislative days left before the July 4 recess and that they had better have an immigration reform plan “seriously rolling down the tracks by the time we break for Independence Day.” Otherwise, Rep. Gutiérrez said, the President will seize the initiative and act within legal authority he has under current law to “keep families together and spare U.S. citizens from losing their wives, their husbands, and their children to deportation.” Rep. Gutiérrez challenged Republicans to act but made it clear that the President will act if they do not. A video of the speech is here: https://youtu.be/V2-R-5L8s0o The Congressman’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are pasted below. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Remarks, April 2, 2014 House of Representatives Madam Speaker: On June 27, we will mark one year since our friends on the other side of the Hill in the United States Senate passed a bipartisan immigration reform bill. Four Senators from each Party worked together to get a bill introduced on April 16 of last year. By May the Judiciary Committee was debating and marking it up and by June it was headed to the Senate floor. Then after debate and many, many amendments, it was voted on by the full Senate. Sixty-eight out of 100 Senators voted to replace illegal immigration with legal immigration, legalize millions of people who live and work in the US, and secure our immigration system in the workplace and at the border. Madam Speaker. After almost a year with no serious movement forward on immigration reform in the House, I am beginning to wonder whether the Republicans will get serious about immigration before they run out of time. Well, I want to be helpful, so I have done a little calculating. Including today, we have 34 legislative days before the July 4th recess. And Madam Speaker, let’s be honest. If Republicans have not gotten an immigration reform bill seriously rolling down the tracks by the time we break for Independence Day… Republicans might as well just fold up the big tent they always talk about. One thing is for sure: Republicans will not be pitching that tent at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue anytime soon. I talk to Republicans and they know the truth: If Republicans do not work with Democrats and bring an immigration bill to the floor, they are giving up a chance to stand for justice, a sense of peace, and fairness for immigrants until after the 2016 Presidential elections. That means Republicans will have to head into the 2016 Presidential Elections as the party that blocked immigration reform that would finally have brought justice to immigrant communities. You will have said no to the dreams of the DREAMers and no to millions of families and no to communities in every city across the country. Oh, and Madam Speaker, if you think the Republican Party alone controls the future of 11 million undocumented immigrants, you will be sadly disappointed. If you don’t act in the next 34 days – if you refuse to give the President a bill he can sign because you do not trust him to enforce immigration laws, even though he has spent more money and deported more people than any President before him, he will act without you. He has alternatives under existing law. There are concrete ways within existing law to help keep families together and spare U.S. citizens from losing their wives and their husbands and their children to deportation. In spite of your lack of action! And the President is going to do it. I saw it in his eyes when I met with him. He did not run for office so that he could deport two million people and put thousands of American children in foster care. He is heartbroken by the pain deportations cause. Do you think he will sit by and do nothing just because you are doing nothing? The Republicans threaten lawsuits and even impeachment if the President acts to spare American families being broken apart by deportations. But this President will act even if you refuse to act. And the country will rally behind him because that’s what Americans do in the face of a humanitarian crisis. And Republicans threaten to impeach him? What’s new, Madam Speaker? Look, you gotta remember, for the first three or four years he was President, leaders in the Republican Party – I mean Presidential candidates and entire TV networks -- questioned the President’s own immigration status. We had ‘birthers’ denying the President was born in America. They questioned whether he was an undocumented immigrant himself. They demanded to see his papers! Now we have ‘deportation deniers’ falsely suggesting President Obama is not enforcing the law. ‘Oh, he’s not really deporting people,’ they say. ‘That’s all fake. Something Obama, Univision and Telemundo cooked up.’ The President knows the kind of pain that Congressional inaction has caused for families and children. The President wants to be an emancipator, not a deporter, and he will act if he has to. If you give him no choice, this President is going to take charge himself. And he should. So, once again, Madam Speaker, We offer a lifeline to Republicans. Work with us to pass a bill before the President – faced with no other choice – takes action himself. You have 34 legislative days left until July 4 and you better make use of them. The American people are waiting. # # #
03.26.2014	“I am proud of the Governor…” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) praised Illinois Governor Pat Quinn’s budget proposal as a forward-looking plan that invests in Illinois and invests in immigrant communities in Illinois. The following is a statement from Rep. Gutiérrez: “The Governor proposes serious and sound investments in working families and the hopes and aspirations they have for their children. He understands that investing in education and the Earned Income Tax Credit will help families like those in my District in Chicago. His commitment to the Immigrant Services Line Item is recognition of the contributions that immigrant families and businesses are making across the state. I am proud of the Governor of my state and I urge the State Legislature to pass his budget expeditiously.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. ###
03.26.2014	“How Republican Leadership handles the immigration issue for the next several months will go a long way towards determining national politics for the next several decades.” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) added his support to the introduction of a discharge petition to force a vote on H.R. 15, the House’s comprehensive immigration reform bill. While the Congressman was unable to attend the press conference announcing the introduction of the discharge petition with Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi this morning (because of a prior commitment), he issued the following statement: “The discharge petition keeps the pressure on the Republicans. They can sign their names to put their country before their party, put their constituents before their ideologues, and pledge to work with the Democrats to do what Republican and Democratic voters want them to do. “The question is whether Republicans allow the majority to rule or continue to hide behind the ‘majority of the majority’ straightjacket they have put themselves in. “How Republican Leadership handles the immigration issue for the next several months will go a long way towards determining national politics for the next several decades. Republicans can choose to be a nationally competitive party that supports legal immigration or a regional minority party that can only muster support for deportation. “The Republicans who want reform must be more vocal in calling out their leadership and demanding a vote this year that saves the Republican Party from the House Republican Caucus. Members can sign the discharge petition to put their names on the right side of law and order, the right side of economic growth, the right side of deficit reduction, and the right side of keeping families and children together.” Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. ###
03.25.2014	Meeting precedes Secretary’s meeting with full CHC in April Washington, DC – Today in his Capitol Hill office, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) met with Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson to discuss immigration and deportations. The Congressman requested the meeting with the Secretary as a follow-up to the Congressman’s meeting with President Obama and other Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) leaders on March 13 at which the President indicated he was tasking DHS with reviewing deportation policies. “It is clear that the President is serious about addressing the humanitarian crisis that deportations are causing and the Secretary and I had a very productive and positive conversation,” Rep. Gutiérrez said after the meeting which took place this morning. “I look forward to the meeting he will have with the full CHC in April where we can share ideas and strategies.” The whole CHC will continue the discussion of deportation relief options when they meet with Secretary Johnson in the coming weeks. Advocacy leaders and other are also meeting with the Secretary to discuss strategies to dial back the deportation of non-criminals and relieve, as much as possible within existing law, the family separation and pain that increasing deportations have caused in recent years. “There is a new dialogue and a new openness with the President and the Secretary and they want our ideas and to work with us to see what can be done,” Congressman Gutiérrez said. “I think it is sincere and a step in the right direction.” Rep. Gutiérrez stressed that working with the Administration to develop strategies for administrative relief and prosecutorial discretion are entirely consistent with putting pressure on Republicans to act on immigration reform. With Democrats slated to introduce a discharge petition for H.R. 15 this week, pressure is mounting on House Republican leaders to take action. “We not only have to stop the needless destruction of families but need to heal families that have been caught up in the almost two million deportations we have seen in recent years,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “The Obama Administration and the Secretary are taking the necessary steps to prepare for the worst, and the worst is that the Republicans in the House squander the national momentum and popular call for immigration reform and go back to the default Republican position of doing nothing or doing things to make the current situation worse.” “The clock is ticking on the GOP and they need to give the country a vote on immigration reform and let the majority rule,” Gutiérrez said. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez represents the Fourth District of Illinois, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. ###
03.20.2014	Statement by Douglas G. Rivlin, Spokesman for Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez Announcement from House Committee on Ethics Washington, DC – The following is a statement from Douglas G. Rivlin, the Director of Communication in the Office of Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-04): “The OCE referral to the House Committee on Ethics relates to whether a long-standing contract was allowable under House rules. The contract for services was reviewed and approved by the House of Representatives and submitted for renewal each Congress for 10 years. It was consistently and properly reported. Rep. Gutiérrez cancelled the contract last year. “Rep. Gutiérrez cooperated fully with the OCE during its review and will continue to do so with the Committee. As the Committee has noted, an OCE referral does not indicate that any violation has occurred or reflect a judgment on behalf of the Committee.” ###
03.13.2014	Gutiérrez, CHC Chairman Hinojosa, and Rep. Becerra Discuss Need For Administrative Relief Washington, DC – This evening, three Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Chairman Ruben Hinojosa (D-TX), Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-CA), and Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), met with the President at the White House to discuss immigration and deportations. The following is a statement from Rep. Gutiérrez, Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the CHC, after the meeting: “The President directed Secretary Jeh Johnson to review with the CHC a menu of options that can be implemented to reduce the pain of the current enforcement escalation and end the deportations that separate families. “I will meet with Secretary Johnson next week to present options and then the entire CHC will meet with him to discuss those and other options the that Department of Homeland Security is developing when Congress returns after recess. “Just as important, Republicans should step up to the plate and take action on immigration reform and not abandon the American people on this important issue. And in the absence of action by House Republicans, administrative action is imperative. “It is clear that the pleas from the community got through to the President. The CHC will work with him to keep families together. The President clearly expressed the heartbreak he feels because of the devastating effect that deportations have on families. “This began a new dialogue between the CHC and the White House that had been dormant for too long. The CHC Members who met with the President were adamant that the President needed to act. I agree with the President that the ultimate solution and responsibility for fixing our broken immigration system rests with the Republican majority in the House of Representatives and we will work together to demand Republicans take action.” ### White House Read Out of Meeting: THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 13, 2014 Readout of the President's Meeting with Congressional Hispanic Caucus Leadership The President met with Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chairman Ruben Hinojosa, CHC Immigration Task Force Chair Luis Gutierrez, and Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus Xavier Becerra in the Oval Office this evening. The discussion focused on their mutual efforts to pass commonsense immigration reform legislation through the House of Representatives this year. The President emphasized his deep concern about the pain too many families feel from the separation that comes from our broken immigration system. He told the members that he has asked Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson to do an inventory of the Department’s current practices to see how it can conduct enforcement more humanely within the confines of the law. The President thanked the Members of the CHC for their work on these challenging issues, and expressed his strong desire to work together to put pressure on Congressional Republicans to pass bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform as soon as possible. ### Read out from CHC Chairman Ruben Hinojosa March 13, 2014 CHC MEETS WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA TO DISCUSS IMMIGRATION Washington, DC- Today, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chairman Rubén Hinojosa, CHC Immigration Task Force Chair Luis Gutierrez, and Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus Xavier Becerra, met with President Barack Obama, on behalf of the CHC, where they discussed the urgent need to provide relief to immigrant families being torn apart by our broken immigration system. The meeting was productive, and as a result, the Caucus will be meeting with Department of Homeland Secretary Jeh Johnson to continue moving forward in a constructive manner. A permanent legislative solution is needed to truly fix our nation's broken immigration system. The CHC will continue to work with the President, the faith community, business and community leaders to put pressure on House Republican Leadership to allow a vote on H.R. 15, the bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform bill. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), founded in December 1976, is organized as a Congressional Member organization, governed under the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives. The CHC is dedicated to voicing and advancing, through the legislative process, issues affecting Hispanics in the United States, Puerto Rico and U.S. Territories. ###
03.13.2014	Chicagoland family with dad in deportation is basis for Gutiérrez floor speech Washington, DC – Today, during the 10 a.m. hour (ET), Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives about a Chicago family that is typical of the deportation crisis gripping the United States. Liz, a fourth grader, is the youngest of four U.S. citizen siblings who come from “the family you want living on your street,” the Congressman said. But Liz’s father is facing deportation. A video of the speech is here: https://youtu.be/wKJmGL7sMHM The text of his speech, as prepared for delivery, appears below. In his speech, Rep. Gutiérrez noted that the House passed a bill yesterday allowing the House to sue the President of the United States if they feel he is not enforcing the laws they want enforced fully enough, including immigration laws. H.R. 4138, the ENFORCE Act, passed 233-181. Gutiérrez said: “But the random deportation wheel landed on them [Liz’s family] and according to Republicans, they are willing to sue the President in federal court if he takes action to spare this father of four from deportation.” The House votes on a related bill (H.R. 3973) today. (Video of Rep. Gutierrez’ floor speech on H.R. 4138 yesterday: https://youtu.be/OdhLfgiW4ZU) Representative Gutiérrez is the Chair of the Immigration Taskforce of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security. # # # Rep. Luis Gutiérrez Remarks March 13, 2014 The young lady in the white dress in this picture is a role model for all young people. Her whole family are role models. They are the family you want living on your street. They always shovel and salt their driveway and their neighbors' driveway too. Their house is always spotlessly clean and all of the children are on the honor roll. They make me proud to live in Chicago. Liz and her three older siblings are all U.S. citizens. When Republicans say to me that President Obama is not enforcing immigration law, I think of Liz’s face. When the President says there is nothing more he can do to keep immigrant families together, I think of her face too. When citizens say to me that it really doesn’t matter whether they vote or not, I want them to think of Liz. Liz has a father who is facing deportation. He has lived in the United States for more than 20 years and raised a beautiful, healthy, upstanding American family. “But Luis,” I hear my Republican colleagues say to me, “all of this deportation nonsense is in your head. The Obama Administration is fudging the numbers to make it look like they are enforcing the law.” But hundreds of thousands of American families are being split up. Over a two year period, according to the Applied Research Center, 200,000 parents of United States citizens like Liz’s parents were deported. And I hear how my colleagues in the Judiciary Committee talk about Latinos and especially immigrant Latinos. They are all criminals and drug-cartel kingpins. So therefore we have to arrange our entire immigration system as if they are ALL violent felons. But what about Liz and her family? Liz is not a drug kingpin in her fourth grade class. Her parents and her siblings are not meth-heads or meth-chemists. But the random deportation wheel landed on them and according to Republicans, they are willing to sue the President in federal court if he takes action to spare this father of four from deportation. “But Luis,” I hear my Democratic colleagues say, “for several years, President Obama has instituted programs at Homeland Security to help families, removing non-criminals and parents and DREAMers from the deportation queue.” And indeed, the President and Homeland Security constantly talk about how many gang-bangers and hardened criminals they are removing from the country. But that doesn’t change the reality for Liz or her family. That doesn’t change the fear that families like Liz’s face every day. People who have lived here peacefully and raised a proud American family are just a broken tail light -- or an unlucky encounter -- away from losing everything. Losing their children. And what about going out and coming back in “the right way”? Despite 20 years in the U.S. –despite at least four U.S. citizens in his family all willing to petition for him –Congress, two decades ago, made it next to impossible for this family ever to live together in the U.S. legally unless we change the law again. But Republicans refuse to allow a vote on immigration reform when they know a majority in the House of Representatives -- although perhaps not a majority of the Republican Party -- would vote to allow families like Liz’s to continue to live together and prosper. Sorry Liz. Politics is more important than an American family or two, or two hundred or two hundred thousand. And the President has said he cannot do more to alleviate the fear that American kids like Liz face. The political price of helping Americans like Liz is too high. It is shameful that the Speaker of the House and the President of the United States are putting politics and election calculations ahead of Liz’s family. To Liz, the solution is clear. If you will not act, she will. She said recently: “No child should ever have to be separated from their parents. When I grow up, I want to be a Senator because I want to be in the position to help people when they need it and pass laws that are good for people.” I wish my colleagues felt the same. I do not know if she will ever be a Senator when she is eligible to run in 20 or 30 years. But I will tell you one thing I am pretty sure of. In less than 10 years she will be old enough to vote. And her older siblings even sooner than that. Mr. Speaker, do you think she will remember which party prevented reform or threatened to sue the President if he spares her dad from deportation? Take a look at this picture. Republicans are hoping he (dad) gets deported and she (mom) doesn’t ever become a citizen. But these four are Americans already and will someday have a vote and from the looks of it, will be voting for decades to come. You do the math. ###
03.05.2014	“I would define [Obama Derangement Syndrome] as a broader and more serious condition: the irrational fear that the 44th President of the United States is something he is not.” Washington, DC – Today, during the 10 am hour (ET), Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives offering a quiz on immigration enforcement comparing the records of Presidents Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama. During the quiz, Rep. Gutiérrez awarded five gold stars to President Obama, labeling him “the Deporter-in-Chief.” A video of the speech is here: https://youtu.be/PJ17ACipIsk The text of his speech, as prepared for delivery, appears below. Representative Gutiérrez is the Chair of the Immigration Taskforce of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security. # # # QUIZ: WHO IS THE “DEPORTER IN CHIEF?” [Visual: Pictures of Presidents Clinton, Bush and Obama.] Mr. Speaker, I have come to the floor to discuss a very serious illness afflicting Members of the House of Representatives. Dana Milbank of the Washington Post diagnosed it as “Obama Derangement Syndrome.” Milbank defined the syndrome as an affliction in which “The president’s opponents are so determined to thwart him that they will reverse long-held views if they believe it will weaken his stature.” I would define it as a broader and more serious condition: the irrational fear that the 44th President of the United States of America is something he is not. From a public health standpoint, the news is pretty bad. Those of us concerned with the long-term health of the body politic have identified an aggressive fact-resistant strain of Obama Derangement Syndrome that affects how the Republican Caucus views immigration enforcement. Remember, the Republicans are currently sitting on their hands when it comes to immigration reform because they say they cannot trust the President of the United States to enforce immigration laws. Well, I thought it would be a good time to offer a quiz to determine just how fact-resistant the current epidemic of Obama Derangement Syndrome really is. Here we have the last three Presidents of the United States, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama. Mr. Speaker, let’s test our knowledge of how much or how little they have enforced the immigration laws of the United States during their terms. Question One. Which President deported a population slightly larger than the population of the entire State of Nebraska? With almost 2 million people deported so far, Barack Obama has deported more people than those that live in the entire State of Nebraska. President Obama gets first place, if you can call it that. So I will put a gold star next to his picture. Question Two. Who expanded immigration enforcement by local law enforcement by 100 fold? One of these Presidents expanded the Secure Communities program for deporting immigrants who are booked into local jails from 31 jurisdictions to more than 3000 jurisdictions. And that was? ...President Barack Obama. He gets another dubious Gold Star. For Question Three, let’s go to ‘boots on the ground,’ where the immigration issue seems to begin and end for many Republicans. Who spent more on immigration enforcement than all other criminal federal law enforcement combined? Well, if you guessed Barack Obama you’d be right. His almost $18 billion is $3.5 more than we spend on the FBI, ATF, DEA, Secret Service – all of them – combined. Another Gold Star. And Question Four: what crimes are the most prosecuted crimes in Federal court? More than kidnapping, murder, counterfeiting, or political corruption? Well, under President Obama, being in the United States illegally is the number one prosecuted federal misdemeanor and reentering the country illegally is the number one prosecuted felony. Another Gold Star. Finally, for Question Five, we get to detention. Which of these Presidents put more than 420,000 people in detention in just one single year of his presidency – meaning incarceration in a private or government jail or other facility? President Obama has detained more immigrants in jails, prisons and detention facilities than any other President. That is five for five. Five stars -- the highest rank we give out -- and it goes to the ‘Deporter in Chief’—President Barack Obama. But because Obama Derangement Syndrome is so fact-resistant, I am not optimistic that I have convinced you. Tell that to the estimated 5,100 U.S. children placed in foster care because their mom or dad was deported. Mr. Speaker, let me be clear. The immigrant community is organized and will continue to pressure Republicans and the President until this unprecedented wave of deportations ends. Republicans can either be participants in how this country advances more sensible immigration policies or they can simply sit on the sidelines while the President does it with his ‘phone and pen.’ And secondly, if we pass immigration reform in this body today, most of the new reforms would take about two years or more to take effect. Therefore the President who will enforce any new system will not be this President, who you say you cannot trust to enforce the law. In fact, if Republicans continue to insist on making immigration reform a football in their game against the current President, they are all but guaranteeing that the President in two years will not be a Member of their party and could well be the wife of one of these three men. ###
02.12.2014	“We remain deeply concerned that the U.S. military is denying U.S. citizens the opportunity to serve their country because of the legal status of their spouse or child,” Bipartisan Letter from Reps. Coffman and Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) and Congressman Mike Coffman (R-CO) sent a letter to the Secretaries of the Army, Navy and Air Force requesting a thorough report on an enlistment matter they raised with the Secretaries almost three months ago. At issue is whether the U.S. military is barring the enlistment of U.S. citizens who have undocumented immigrant family members. The bipartisan duo of Congressmen, who have worked together on issues related to immigration and military service in the past, first raised their inquiry to the Secretaries with a letter signed by a bipartisan group of 31 House Members on November 21, 2013 (https://1.usa.gov/17OPti5). The military branches have formed a working group to examine the policy and were to have responded by February 13 to the initial request from the Congressmen. Instead, Reps. Coffman and Gutiérrez received a letter requesting additional time to review the policy and consult with additional federal agencies, including the Department of Justice, about how to handle the enlistment of citizens when they have an undocumented spouse or child. “Service in the U.S. military is the highest duty one can perform for the country, so I am very concerned about the possible exclusionary enlistment policies currently being implemented by our armed service branches,” said Coffman, a Marine Corps combat veteran. "We simply want to make clear that Members of Congress in both parties think this enlistment issue is important and we are getting impatient for a thorough response,” said Gutiérrez, who is Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and sits on the Judiciary Committee. “Qualified citizens who want to serve their country should be allowed to do so. Period.” The letter to the Secretary of the Army, Secretary of the Air Force, and the Secretary of the Navy, can be found here: https://1.usa.gov/1j4baMj # # #
02.05.2014	Gutiérrez to Boehner & Pelosi: Convene House Classified Briefing Before Deliberating Further Iran Sanctions “We are facing a crossroads as a nation, we are facing a crossroads as a Congress, and I want us to be as informed as possible.” Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives (at approximately 10:00 am ET, video link: https://youtu.be/429qdaNNvWA) to amplify his call on Speaker Boehner and Democratic Leader Pelosi to convene a classified briefing for the entire House on issues related to Iran nuclear arms. Rep. Gutiérrez, a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, spoke about the Joint Plan of Action with Iran and the debate regarding whether the Congress should pursue additional sanctions. The Congressman expressed his opinion, based on briefings he has received as a Member of the Intelligence Committee, that now is not the time to consider further sanctions. Rep. Gutiérrez is calling on the Speaker and the Democratic Leader to convene a classified briefing so that all Members can benefit from fuller information in evaluating proposals for additional sanctions. The Congressman requested the classified briefing in a letter to Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi last week. View the release and letter here: https://1.usa.gov/1kT5feo. The following are the Congressman’s remarks from this morning, as prepared for delivery (video link: https://youtu.be/429qdaNNvWA): Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez – Five Minute Speech February 5, 2014 Mr. Speaker, There is no area of foreign policy that produces greater concern amongst American citizens than the prospect of a nuclear-armed Iran. Whether Democrat, Independent or Republican, there is remarkable unity across the ideological spectrum that we must do everything in our power to prevent that outcome. We have heard the steady drumbeat over the years that Iran is moving closer and closer to the achieving nuclear capabilities. We have seen the regime engage in dangerous provocations and offer support to Hezbollah and other militant groups that have threatened the stability of the region and caused significant concerns from our allies and friends. The Obama Administration worked with our international partners to impose crippling sanctions on Iran. These sanctions covered Iran’s banking, energy, shipping, shipbuilding, insurance, broadcasting, and automotive sectors, and even gold and precious metals. Now, after decades of tension between the United States and Iran and the escalating international pressure of sanctions and isolation, we have seen positive steps in relatively quick succession. After the election of the Iranian President Hassan in 2013, I joined over 130 of my colleagues calling on President Obama to “utilize all diplomatic tools to reinvigorate ongoing nuclear talks,” including the potential that “bilateral and multilateral sanctions be calibrated in a way that they induce significant and verifiable concessions.” Those diplomatic overtures, coupled with the debilitating sanctions on Iran’s energy and banking sectors, yielded the historic phone call between President Obama and President Rouhani, the first direct contact between leaders of our two nations in 34 years, and ultimately, the signing of the Joint Plan of Action – representing real progress towards a nuclear agreement. There remain ample reasons to question the prospects of a long term agreement with Iran. We heard the President one week ago in this very room speak of the challenges for negotiators, cautioning, “They may not succeed. We are clear-eyed about Iran’s support for terrorist organizations like Hezbollah, which threaten our allies; and the mistrust between our nations cannot be wished away.” Now, Members of Congress in both chambers are discussing legislation for new and expanded sanctions. Our constituents, deeply concerned with the Middle East and strongly in favor of peace, are asking us what we think, how we would vote, and what we should do as a Congress and as a nation. I have had the honor of serving on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and as a Member, have regular access to the classified assessments of the professionals in our intelligence community who provide a much fuller and clearer picture of the situation in Iran. I cannot tell you what that information is here -- or anywhere else -- because it is appropriately classified. But based on the classified briefings I’ve received on the situation in Iran and the Joint Plan of Action, I am very reluctant to support any additional sanctions at this time. And, Mr. Speaker, given the importance of this issue to all Members and the stakes involved in preventing a nuclear-armed Iran, I think many of my colleagues would be in a much better position to evaluate the options before us if they also had access to the type of classified briefing from which I regularly benefit. That is why I wrote a letter to Speaker of the House John Boehner and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi last week asking them to convene a classified briefing for Members of the House of Representatives. All of us could have access to classified materials or request a briefing if we wanted one on a case by case basis, but the point is that we are facing a crossroads as a nation, we are facing a crossroads as a Congress, and I want us to be as informed as possible. I understand the mistrust between the United States and Iran and the desire of some in this body to seek additional sanctions, even as we are implementing the terms of the Six Month Agreement. We need clear-eyed, apolitical, informed decision-making so that we can make the best possible choices on behalf of our constituents and our nation. I believe my colleagues would find great value in the classified briefing and come away with greater confidence in the work of the Administration and our international partners. I have been convinced that now is not the time to consider additional sanctions, but I want my colleagues to make up their own minds and to do so with as much information as possible, so I renew my request, Mr. Speaker, for classified briefings as soon as they can be arranged. I have every confidence that if talks falter or we have evidence that Iran is not abiding by the terms of the Joint Plan of Action, the Congress will not hesitate to take appropriate actions, including imposing new sanctions on Iran. But with Iran at the negotiating table, taking steps to halt enrichment and submit to enhanced inspections and monitoring, it is worth giving diplomacy the chance to succeed. I yield back. # # #
01.30.2014	"The details really matter and I have not seen anything concrete from the Republicans so I am not in a position to say 'yes' or 'no' to anything… I think we are getting a little bit closer and that bodes well for the future. " Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), issued a statement in response to the release of the Republican "Standards for Immigration Reform," a document of principles that House Republicans are debating at their retreat in Maryland this week. Rep. Gutiérrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Immigration Subcommittee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The following is a statement from Rep. Gutiérrez: We have gone from the Republicans saying 'self-deportation' and 'veto the DREAM Act,' to saying we need bipartisan solutions in just about a year. And we have gone from some Democrats saying immigration is too difficult an issue to handle to saying we need bipartisan solutions in just a few years. We are now talking about how people stay and how they come legally, not how we kick out 11 million people and build a big moat around the country. Nobody in Congress is talking about immediate citizenship for everyone and no one still talks about mass deportation for everyone. We can find common ground that allows millions to eventually apply for citizenship, legalizes millions who are working and contributing to the country, and puts our economy, our security, and the legality of America's workforce on solid ground. The details really matter and I have not seen anything concrete from the Republicans so I am not in a position to say 'yes' or 'no' to anything. I am concerned with stopping the deportations, not erecting any new barriers to applying for citizenship, protecting the rights of working people, be they immigrants or U.S. born, and making sure we don't turn our local police into enemies of immigrants in our communities. There is a long way to go and we all need to carefully evaluate actual legislation, but the principles are a first step. Citizenship is very important, to me, to Democrats, and to the American people. Turning immigrants into American citizens over time has been the tradition in the U.S. and it has worked very, very well for more than 200 years. If you are a citizen, you are "all-in." You have all the rights, but just as important, all the obligations and responsibilities we share as citizens. I want immigrants incorporated and integrated into our society and citizenship is a part of that process. The most important first step from the point of view of immigrants is to stop the massive increase in deportations. It is devastating, breaking up families and painting a target on whole communities in Illinois and elsewhere. We deport more than 1,100 people per day, putting parents in detention and children in foster care. Everyone knows we should stop wasting money and lives deporting working-class people and families. The Senate passed a bill with strong bipartisan support and the House should do the same. I think we are getting a little bit closer and that bodes well for the future. # # #
01.30.2014	"I believe that all of my colleagues would benefit from the opportunity to receive much more detailed briefings, including classified information," Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, sent a letter to Speaker of the House John Boehner and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi requesting a classified briefing for all Members of the House of Representatives on the international agreement aimed at preventing a nuclear armed Iran. The importance of Iran and the Middle East, recent Capitol Hill hearings, and the President's threat to veto any additional economic sanctions on Iran all triggered the request for a classified briefing next week. Rep. Gutiérrez states that he has already been briefed, but that others would make more informed decisions with more information. He writes: I believe that all of my colleagues would benefit from the opportunity to receive much more detailed briefings, including classified information. This is particularly important given the President’s threat to veto any new sanctions on Iran during his State of the Union address. Rep. Gutiérrez also writes "Members of Congress want to be as helpful as possible in furthering American interests, promoting peace, and creating the conditions for long-term stability" in the Middle East. The interim agreement was signed with Iran and went into effect on January 20, 2014. The full text of the letter is pasted below. A pdf file is here: # # # January 30, 2014 Dear Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi: There is no area of the world that causes greater consternation or anxiety for American foreign policy, nor any region of the globe more important, than the Middle East. Members of Congress want to be as helpful as possible in furthering American interests, promoting peace, and creating the conditions for long-term stability there. We want to make sure that the hopes and aspirations of our constituents are reflected in American foreign policy and almost every American I have ever met is deeply concerned about matters in the Middle East. But to be forceful advocates for our constituents, we must be fully informed ourselves. Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle share a strong commitment to preventing a nuclear armed Iran. The signing of an interim multilateral agreement represents a significant step toward achieving that goal. If diplomacy is to succeed, it will require changes from the Iranian regime that has a track record of destabilizing provocations in the region and egregious human rights violations in addition to its illicit nuclear activities. As a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, I have had access to classified information on the status of the negotiations and have benefited from this information in forming my own opinions about how the United States should proceed and what the role of the U.S. Congress should be. As congressional committees strive to conduct robust oversight with hearings on the interim agreement this week and, perhaps, vote on legislation related to this crucial foreign policy question, I believe that all of my colleagues would benefit from the opportunity to receive much more detailed briefings, including classified information. This is particularly important given the President’s threat to veto any new sanctions on Iran during his State of the Union address. I ask you to convene a classified briefing for all Members of Congress next week so that legislators will have the opportunity to hear from Administration and intelligence leaders about the terms of the interim agreement and the verification mechanisms in place that ensure Iran complies fully with the obligations in the agreement. I believe that this briefing would enhance our ability to work with the Administration and international negotiators with common purpose to halt Iran’s progress toward a nuclear weapon and increase the prospects of a more stable and peaceful Middle East. Thank you in advance for your consideration of this request. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Luis V. Gutiérrez Member of Congress
01.29.2014	Washington, DC- Today, Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Chairman Rubén Hinojosa (TX-15) and CHC Members released the following statements on the fifth anniversary of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, a critical law championing the principle of equal pay for women. "Women deserve to be paid fairly for the work they do. When we talk about women, these are our mothers, wives, sisters and daughters who are the backbone of our economy and who make up nearly half of our labor force. As a father, I want my daughters to earn more than the 77 cents women currently make. Women in our country deserve better and on this anniversary, let us stand up and help them succeed," said CHC Chairman Rubén Hinojosa (TX-15). “Five years ago today, President Obama signed his first bill into law. With the stroke of a pen, he and the Democratic Congress that sent him the legislation sent a powerful message that we will fight for fairness in the workplace and an agenda that supports women and their families. We still have work to do to ensure equal pay for equal work, but we remain committed to this effort and will continue our call for fair and just treatment for all,” said CHC First Vice Chair Ben Ray Luján (NM-03). “Five years ago today, President Obama signed into law the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, critical legislation ensuring women can fight against pay discrimination in court. But with women making only 77 cents for every dollar men earn – and Hispanic women making even less – it’s clear that we must do more to empower women in the workplace. That means passing the Paycheck Fairness Act. That means enhancing the Family and Medical Leave Act to include paid sick leave. And that means expanding access to child care for working families. At a time when women serve as the sole or co-breadwinner in two-thirds of American families, equal pay for equal work shouldn’t be just a suggestion; it should be the law of the land," said CHC Whip Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01). "There are turning points on the road to justice and equality in America. Passing the Lilly Ledbetter Act was a significant one. But passing legislation is only one part of the fight for equal pay and equal rights and we all have a responsibility to make sure the economic growth that enriches so many Americans is also lifting up the middle-class, the working-class, and our whole society, regardless of gender, orientation, or ethnicity," said CHC Immigration Task Force Chair Luis Gutierrez (IL-04). "I was pleased to join Lilly Ledbetter, Leader Pelosi and colleagues at today’s Steering and Policy Committee hearing on equal pay. As the President said in his State of the Union address, 'When women succeed, America succeeds.' The way to ensure women will succeed is by raising the minimum wage and guaranteeing equal pay for equal work. This is a particularly important issue for minority and immigrant women, who are paid even more disproportionately than white women," said CHC Health Task Force Chair Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40). “The law that bears Lilly Ledbetter’s name means my two daughters have the chance to compete in the workplace just like their brothers, receiving the same reward for the same job well done. We cannot be a nation which fails to pay the same wage, for the same quality of work, in the same job to a certain group of our citizens, based strictly on their gender. That is unacceptable for a nation based on equality, that prides itself on giving every American an equal opportunity," said CHC Financial Services, Manufacturing and Commerce Task Force Chair Tony Cárdenas (CA-29). ###
01.28.2014	"I am not a doctor, not a health care expert, and not a woman, so I do not feel qualified to restrict women's health access to certain valid and legal medical procedures -- and neither should my colleagues," Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Today, the House is voting on H.R. 7, the "No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act," legislation that simultaneously attempts to restrict the health care options available to women and to restrict and politicize the Affordable Care Act. The bill would go beyond the current ban on federal funding for abortions to restrict tax incentives for insurance plans that cover abortion procedures, restrict pre-tax income in health savings accounts (HSAs) from going towards abortion procedures, and restricting tax deductions for medical expenses that include abortion procedures. Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), a Member of the Judiciary Committee, which approved H.R. 7 on a party line vote on January 15, is a long-time advocate for women's health, issued the following statement: "We already restrict federal money from paying for abortions except in the case of rape, incest, and preserving the life of the mother. Now the Republican majority wants to mess around with the tax code to restrict a woman's access to a doctor's care even more and play politics with women's lives. It must be an election year if they are handing out candy to the base. "I am not a doctor, not a health care expert, and not a woman, so I do not feel qualified to restrict women's health access to certain valid and legal medical procedures -- and neither should my colleagues. "With all of the major issues facing the country right now, spending time attacking women’s health just doesn't make sense." # # #
01.23.2014	Immigration the theme for Reps. Schakowsky, Schneider, Quigley, and Foster Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez announced that his guest for next week's State of the Union Address will be Rev. Tony Suárez, Vice President of the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference (NHCLC). Rev. Suárez and the NHCLC were integral partners in the Fast For Families in support of immigration reform that took place on the National Mall and garnered national and international attention. Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, the President of NHCLC fasted for 40 days as part of the Fast For Families. Both Rev. Rodriguez and Rev. Suárez are national leaders among Hispanic evangelicals working within the evangelical movement and across the political spectrum to build support for sensible immigration reform. "Rev. Suárez is at the forefront of making the moral case to the nation that we need to stop the deportations that are breaking apart families and pass meaningful immigration reform this year," Rep. Gutiérrez said. "The President is ready for reform, the Democrats and a large percentage of House Republicans are ready, and goodness knows the American people are ready to reform. But Hispanic Evangelicals and leaders like Rev. Suárez and the NHCLC can be very important messengers for anyone who is still on the fence." At least four other Members of Congress from the Chicagoland area are bringing guests that underscore the immigration theme. Reps. Jan Schakowsky, Schneider, Quigley and Foster all announced their intention to bring immigrants, parents of immigrants or prominent advocates, including those involved in the Fast For Families. "This is the most important annual event in Congress and a number of us from Chicago are saying with our invitations that immigration reform is the most important issue before us on the agenda," Gutiérrez said. Rev. Tony Suárez (@TonySuarez80), originally from Chicago, serves as National Vice President of Chapters for the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference (NHCLC), America's largest Hispanic evangelical association serving over 40,118 congregations in the United States and Puerto Rico. In 2007 he and his wife founded The Pentecostals of Norfolk church in Virginia where they served as Senior Pastors until 2013. Rev. Suárez and his family reside in Norfolk, VA. # # #
12.12.2013	"We need to see the same level of commitment from House and Senate Leadership, the White House, and the continued push of the American people to move us to action and compromise on immigration reform." Washington, DC – This afternoon, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) voted for the bipartisan budget deal worked out between Sen. Patty Murray and Rep. Paul Ryan. The following is a statement from Rep. Gutiérrez: "I voted for the budget deal because it renews my faith in bipartisanship and in getting things done on difficult policy issues, even though there are aspects of the deal that I do not like. But that is the nature of compromise and the deal keeps us moving forward and allows the Congress to focus on other important issues like the economy, immigration reform, health care and gun-violence. "The two Houses of Congress and the two parties can work out immigration reform in 2014 in a similar manner. It takes commitment from the leaders in both parties and it takes hard work and the willingness to compromise. I think Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi should appoint a team to lead the effort to get immigration reform across the finish line. "I am still optimistic about the prospects for immigration reform in 2014 because immigration reform is easier than the budget. There is much more consensus among voters and among Members of Congress in both parties. My informal talks with Republicans are encouraging because there is a critical mass that wants to reach a compromise. And among Democrats, there is more unity than ever before behind reform. "It will still not be easy, but the polls, the policy, and the political winds all point towards action in 2014. We need to see the same level of commitment from House and Senate Leadership, the White House, and the continued push of the American people to move us to action and compromise on immigration reform. The budget deal gives me a sense of hope that compromise and progress are still possible in Washington." # # #
12.05.2013	"If your child has received DACA, you should not be deported. If you qualify for legalization under the Senate bill -- a bill the President and the rest of the country supports -- you should not be deported." - Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) joined Rep. Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ) and other Members of Congress (Reps. Schakowsky, Rangel, Holt, Titus, Doggett) in releasing a letter from Members of Congress to the President asking him to use his executive power under current law to dial back certain deportations. The letter, signed by 29 Members, says: "Our efforts in Congress will only be helped by the sensible and moral step of stopping deportations." (Full text here). Rep. Gutiérrez said, "Let us make sure the right hand of the Obama administration that is working with Republicans and Democrats to pass immigration reform is in sync with the left hand of the Obama Administration that is deporting people at record levels." Rep. Gutiérrez specifically called for a cessation on deportations for the parents of young people who have received DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) and those who would be eligible for legal status under the terms of the Senate bipartisan immigration bill (S. 744) passed in June of this year. The Senate bill has been endorsed by the President. Rep. Gutiérrez is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Immigration Subcommittee. The following is the text of the Congressman's remarks (as prepared for delivery): Press Conference Remarks December 5, 2013 I want to thank Raúl Grijalva for organizing this press conference and for correctly saying that we need to put more pressure on the White House to dial back the deportations. Thank you. And I have already heard from reporters: 'Hey, Gutiérrez, does this mean immigration reform in Congress is dead?' My answer is 'No.' We must fight for immigration reform and fight to stop the deportation of those we want to legalize at the same time, which is what I have been doing for the past five years. In March of 2009, I began seeking some form of administrative relief to scale back the deportations. At the same time I was pushing Congressional Leadership and the President to make immigration reform the top priority. In early 2011, after we passed the DREAM Act in the House and after the DREAM Act was filibustered in the Senate, despite a majority vote, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus joined me in calling on President Obama to use his vast administrative powers to prioritize deportations of criminals and leave hardworking families and individuals alone. I was arrested twice in front of the White House while making that point. In 2011 and again in 2012 and again in 2013, the President took important steps to prioritize the deportation of criminals, using deportations to advance the national interest, and setting the deportation of certain immigrants aside, especially the DREAMers and military families. Does he have the legal authority to do this? There is really no debate. Every significant legal expert -- including the former Republican Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee who is a staunch opponent of legal and illegal immigration -- agrees that under current law the President can suspend deportations for certain individuals. No less than Robert Morgenthau, the respected former Manhattan District Attorney and legal expert, agrees. In today's New York Times he has a letter to the editor that says, "President Obama seriously understates his ability to mitigate the effect of immigration law while he confronts Republican intransigence in the House." He goes on to say: "The best way to challenge 'know nothings' on immigration policy is to 'do something.' The president should use his discretion, carry out a principled immigration policy and let the House Republicans come to him begging for compromise." And we are pleading with President Obama to take this advice. If your child has received DACA, you should not be deported. If you qualify for legalization under the Senate bill -- a bill the President and the rest of the country supports -- you should not be deported. The U.S. is shooting ourselves in the foot at great cost, ripping apart American families, putting our foster care system under stress, and disqualifying the very people we are working to qualify for earning legal status. Once we deport someone, it is very, very hard to get them back. So let us make sure the right hand of the Obama administration that is working with Republicans and Democrats to pass immigration reform is in sync with the left hand of the Obama Administration that is deporting people at record levels. # # # Letter to President Obama
12.03.2013	"Here in the Judiciary Committee we are running out the clock on 2013 and trying to score cheap political points." Washington, DC – Today, the House Judiciary Committee held a hearing on "The President’s Constitutional Duty to Faithfully Execute the Laws" (live webcast), but has not acted in a substantive way to address immigration reform. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), in his prepared opening statement, said that rather than attack the President and accuse him of not faithfully enforcing laws, the time of the Judiciary Committee would be better spent passing laws that are enforceable, especially when it comes to immigration. As for the topic of the hearing, Congressman Gutiérrez said, "When it comes to whether the President has broad discretion on whether to prosecute a violation of the law, there really is no debate." The following are the Congressman's remarks from the hearing as prepared for delivery. Also appended is an op-ed on immigration reform, "Immigration: You Cannot Do Nothing," which appeared in today's edition of The Hill newspaper. REMARKS - JUDICIARY COMMITTEE December 3, 2013 [As Prepared for Delivery] Once again we are bloviating and not legislating in this Committee. We could be using this time to find common ground or even to have a strenuous and substantive debate on important public policy matters, but instead, we are offering empty assurances and shaping political messages for next fall. Rather than worrying about whether the President we know you "distrust," is enforcing our laws the way you would like him to, we could be making meaningful progress towards crafting and passing laws for the betterment of the American people. For example, Speaker Boehner, Majority Whip McCarthy, and many other Republicans have said we do not have time to address immigration reform this year. And yet, here in the Judiciary Committee we are running out the clock on 2013 and trying to score cheap political points. Can anyone recall the last time we had a substantive immigration reform hearing? It was a hearing in July about the plight of undocumented children who have no way of getting legal and was supposed to be a precursor to the introduction of the KIDS Act, a Republican version of the DREAM Act about which we have heard plenty of rumor but seen zero substance. But the Majority want us to believe that we don't have time for immigration reform? We had time to pass four partisan bills in the Judiciary Committee that will not go anywhere. They were a rebuke to the Chairman of the Republican Party and anyone who analyzed the outcome of the last election and concluded that the Republicans should take a smarter, more enlightened approach to immigration reform. A stance that is not only in tune with two-thirds of the American public, including Republican and Independent voters, but that will actually take our nation in the direction of law and order on immigration rather than more isolated talk about border security and E-Verify that will not solve our immigration problems. Like I said, we have been bloviating and not legislating in this Committee. When it comes to whether the President has broad discretion on whether to prosecute a violation of the law, there really is no debate. The former Chairman of this Committee, an immigration hardliner who was responsible for passing some of our nation's most restrictive and harsh immigration laws, has made exactly this case. He argued that in hardship cases, the President and his enforcement agents in the Executive Branch ought to spare certain individuals from deportation, even if by the letter of the law, they were deportable. This is the Chairman of the Judiciary Committee just a few years ago, a Member who sits on this panel today who states that prosecutorial discretion was “well established” and “well grounded in case law.” I argue that when it comes to prosecutorial discretion, the President has gone to great lengths to act cautiously and within the law, especially when it comes to immigration. For five years I have been asking him to do more to dial back the deportations and for five years the President has resisted. When he has acted to protect the spouses, children, and parents of military service members from deportation or undocumented youth who were brought here at an early age and raised in the United States, he has instituted each of those measures by examining the facts of each occurrence on a case by case basis, not in any blanket or haphazard way. I know, because my staff and I have sat down with DREAMers and helped them assemble the evidence they need to meet the standards of the DACA program, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals plan the President announced in June 2012. And for five years, as I have been calling on the President to exercise his discretionary latitude to spare families and individuals from deportation and separation, there have been Members on the other side who have threatened the President's powers if the idea is even whispered. Let's be honest, please. Today's hearing is a threat that any use of executive prosecutorial discretion will result in a full-frontal political assault. Yet we are unwilling as a body to pass laws that will actually address the problems the President, perhaps after some resistance, feels compelled to address. In two or three hours today and for the remaining five or six days on the legislative calendar this year, who could actually do more to stop destructive deportations that are harming our national interest. The Judiciary Committee or the President? Who could do more to establish real border security, workplace enforcement systems like E-Verify to protect American workers, and a visa system that reduces illegal immigration? The Judiciary Committee or the President? Instead, we will bloviate about taking powers away from a President willing to act when the need is so great and the wound has festered so long, while we as a Committee and a Congress will do nothing to address the problem and heal the festering wound ourselves. Mr. Chairman, we can do better than this and we must. * * * THE HILL: Immigration: You Cannot Do Nothing Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), December 3, 2013 Before Congress left town in November, two teenagers interrupted Speaker John Boehner’s breakfast. As he ate, they asked what he is doing to ensure that they and their families will not be deported. Then, the week of Thanksgiving, an undocumented student who has lived in the U.S. since age eleven interrupted President Obama‘s speech on immigration to ask when he would stop the deportations that are splitting up families. These undocumented youth are American in every sense of the word -- including the confidence with which they speak their minds -- but they don't have papers. Many politicians are learning what I have known for years: you cannot go anywhere without hearing about the devastation caused by two million deportations. We harm ourselves every day when we deport 1,100 people. We put U.S. citizen children in foster care or the care of others or we send them out of the country. A generation of kids has grown up with the threat of deportation of mom or dad. It is unsustainable and creates a sense of urgency around the immigration issue that, unfortunately, does not seem to register here in Washington. My friend Eliseo Medina and others embarked on a fast in November (www.Fast4Families.org) to impress the urgent need for an immigration reform vote in the House of Representatives. They put their health on the line because a moral and just cause requires sacrifice when comfortable politicians seem content with inaction. But the country cannot afford to let the immigration crisis fester. Especially when the solution is so close at hand. I have said for months that the votes exist in the House for fair and sensible immigration reform that legalizes the undocumented and keeps families together. If the Speaker gives us a vote, we can fully implement E-Verify, protect our borders, reduce illegal immigration, strengthen legal immigration and heal our families. But eyeing next November, Republicans -- and some Democrats -- have already done the math and so far, the do-nothing approach is winning. So let me explain the political mathematics as I see them. Neither the Republicans nor the Democrats will win any favor from the American people by doing nothing. It is still true that two-thirds of the American people favor immigration reform that legalizes people and allows them to eventually apply for citizenship. Still, many politicians are reluctant to vote 'yea' on any immigration reform bill because they worry such a vote will cost them in a primary or a general election. They are wrong. But OK; we don't need their votes. Every Republican and Democrat who believes immigration reform will hurt their districts can vote ‘nay’ and we still have 218 votes for the reform this country needs and deserves. Immigration aside, many Republicans feel they were sent to Washington to prevent the President from getting anything he wants. Their political slogan can be summed up as "Vote for us so we can stop POTUS." Despite votes from a third of the Senate Republicans, the authorship of key Republican leaders, and the support of business, evangelical, and conservative leaders across the country, immigration reform is seen as something the President wants and therefore something that must be prevented by House Republicans. Fine. We know you are against the President. Tell us what you do want. I think there is substantial room for compromise on immigration in the next few weeks and certainly the next few months. If it helps you politically to define it as a series of incremental steps and a rejection of the Senate plan, so be it. You can dress it up with enforcement measures, as long as it doesn't actually undermine public safety. And you can call it the "Anti-Obama Immigration Reform Act" if that is what it takes. But you cannot do nothing. When I think about the urgency of immigration reform, I think about the young people who interrupted the President and the Speaker and the clock that is ticking on their lives. I think of the Fast4Families fasters on the Mall and their sacrifice. But most of all I think of a father who came up to me recently and said: "Find my papers. Don’t let my deportation widow my wife or orphan my children. My children will remember who treated their parents badly and will punish them with their votes. But right now, I need my papers." Politicians in both parties should think about that man and find a way to do what he asks. # # #
11.22.2013	Rep. Luis. V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) and Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO) gathered signatures from a bipartisan group of 31 House Members for a letter to the Secretaries of the Army, Navy and Air Force inquiring about an issue of military recruitment related to immigration status. It has been reported in La Opinión and Fronteras Desk that recruiters are rejecting citizens and others who have undocumented dependents as a matter of policy. The letter expresses strong concerns about this policy. “Service in the U.S. military is the highest duty one can perform for the country, so I am very concerned about the possible exclusionary enlistment policies currently being implemented by our armed service branches,” said Coffman. "There is no reason I can think of why any branch of the military should restrict the military service of individuals based on the immigration status of someone else in their family. None. I want to know where this is happening, why and what is being done to fix it?" said Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), who is Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and sits on the Judiciary Committee. The letter to the Secretary of the Army, the Acting Secretary of the Air Force, and the Secretary of the Navy, can be found here.
11.19.2013	"Think of it as multiple courses that make up dinner…, provided none of the individual dishes make us so sick to our stomachs that we must leave the table. . - " Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Today, speaking to a forum organized by the Wall Street Journal, President Obama indicated he would be okay with the House passing several immigration bills that together accomplish immigration reform as opposed to approving only one comprehensive bill. The President said (according to Reuters), "If they want to chop that thing up in five pieces, as long as all five pieces get done, I don't care what it looks like." Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), who continues to work with Republicans and Democrats to get immigration reform passed in the House of Representatives, welcomed the President's comments. Rep. Gutierrez is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The following is a statement from Congressman Gutierrez: "The President is saying to Republicans that he doesn't care how they get it done as long as they get it done. The most important thing to many Republicans is to be against whatever Obama is for and he doesn't want this thinking to poison the immigration issue. You don't like the Senate bipartisan bill, fine, come up with what you do want and let's keep this moving forward. "Think of it as multiple courses that make up dinner. A salad and a side dish are not enough to call it a full meal. But if we get several different dishes together and they make up, as a group, serious immigration reform, then we can work with Republicans, provided none of the individual dishes make us so sick to our stomachs that we must leave the table. "Despite all the doomsayers, I know a critical mass of Republicans want this issue resolved and they are willing to -- in fact they have to -- work with Democrats to get it done. And it is clear that they want several smaller bills, not one big one with a lot of pages. As long as we get people in a safe place, dial down the deportations, and reestablish legal immigration, we can work with them. That gives me a lot of hope. # # #
11.13.2013	"If we can vote 45 times to gut Obamacare -- and we have another vote scheduled this week -- why can the Republican Leadership not find the time to schedule one vote on immigration?" -- Rep. Gutiérrez Washington, DC – Today, as the House Judiciary Committee met to discuss entry/exit visa systems, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) challenged Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) to work with Democrats to address immigration reform. Last week, the third ranking Republican Leader, Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-CA), stated that the Congress did not have time to deal with immigration reform in 2013. Yet this week, the Judiciary Committee meets again to discuss -- but not actually legislate -- an aspect of immigration reform on which there is broad agreement and the four partisan Republican-only bills the Committee has already passed on immigration are going nowhere because they do not have sufficient support among Republicans. Congressman Gutiérrez, who sits on the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said "Mr. Chairman, they say that where there is a will, there is a way and I think there is time to get something done [on immigration], but I don’t believe the Republican Party has the will to do it. Mr. Chairman, please prove me wrong." The following are the Congressman's remarks from the hearing as prepared for delivery. REMARKS - JUDICIARY COMMITTEE November 13, 2013 Mr. Chairman, it is important to note that this hearing happens within a context of inaction on immigration reform. I have been in the Congress for more than two decades and we have debated the merits of an Entry/Exit system many, many times. I support the implementation of an effective Entry/Exit system and have included it in immigration bills I have authored. But here is the situation: Last week, the Number 3 Republican, Kevin McCarthy of California, said that there is not enough time in the schedule for the Congress to pass anything on immigration in 2013. While the economy in Bakersfield depends on agriculture and agriculture depends on immigrants, there will be no bill in 2013, Representative McCarthy said. And why will there be no bill? One need look no further than this Committee to get a big part of the answer. Earlier this year, during the period of time when Republicans seemed to have learned the lesson everyone else learned from the last election and seemed open to addressing immigration reform in a serious way, all we got were partisan bills in this committee to make things worse. We had a stand-alone E-Verify bill that zero Democrats could vote for because it did not legalize the current workforce and would encourage a black market of smugglers and document forgers. We had an agricultural guest worker bill that zero Democrats could support because it requires every undocumented farm worker to eventually leave the country and was opposed by the farmworker's union and the major agricultural growers. We had a STEM visas bill that actually reduced legal immigration by eliminating the Diversity Visa and sibling visa category and driving more immigrants into the black market. And we had the SAFE Act, the very definition of a poison pill, which takes the Supreme Court ruling that struck down major parts of Arizona's racial profiling bill, SB 1070, and tried to make that the law of the land by forcing state and local police to enforce civil federal immigration law. It is a bill that undermines the safety of whole communities in our Districts that even major law enforcement associations, chiefs of police, and sheriffs opposed and not surprisingly, not a single Democrat could support this bill either. So we have had four thoroughly partisan bills pushed through the Committee and not a single one is scheduled for any floor time. Why? It isn't just that the Majority realizes that they have crafted bad legislation. No. The real reason is that the partisan bills passed by this Committee do not have the votes. Clearly the Democrats and I truly believe many Republicans, will not support these measures that hurt immigrants and industries and are not real solutions. And even though many Republicans do support punitive measures, there is a caucus of anti-immigration Members within the Republican Caucus -- some of whom sit on this panel -- who will not support any measure no matter how anti-immigrant it is because they fear that the door could be opened to a Conference Committee with the bipartisan bill that passed the Senate with about a third of the Republicans voting in favor. So a strictly partisan plan is not working. There are not enough Republican votes to cross the magic threshold of 218 votes. You have to work with Democrats if you are serious about immigration reform or an Entry/Exit system or E-Verify or visas to keep American agriculture or high-tech in business. Now, I can count on my side too. While I have 201 Democrats and almost every single one of them would vote for a sensible immigration reform measure -- I know I need Republicans to cross the finish line. So, the question becomes: Mr. Chairman When will your side act to preserve families, protect our borders, honor legal immigrants, and restore the rule of law? When will your side join my side in helping the agricultural industry, the hospitality industry, the restaurant industry, the high-tech sector or the service sector of our economy remain competitive and remain viable in the country? And when will workers in those industries be protected from the black market that undercuts wages and worker safety? And when will it be safe for a woman to call the police in her own community when she is the victim of a crime without fear that the immigration authorities will come with them to take her children and destroy her family? I know… I have been told by Republican pollsters not to use the 'heart strings' arguments when speaking to Republicans because they don't find such arguments helpful in swaying Republicans. But 100,000 people have been deported since the Senate passed its bill. Another 17,000 will be deported by the time we sit down for Thanksgiving dinner in two weeks. By Christmas morning, we will have lost another 45,000. Mr. Chairman when will you start working with Democrats on real reform? When will we see the Kids Act? When will we see a legalization bill? The sense of urgency in my community is very different than the non-existent sense of urgency in the Republican Party. The time to act is now. If we can vote 45 times to gut Obamacare and have another vote scheduled this week, why can the Republican Leadership not find the time to schedule one vote on immigration? Mr. Chairman, they say that where there is a will there is a way and I think there is time to get something done, but I don’t believe the Republican Party has the will to do it. Mr. Chairman, please prove me wrong. # # #
11.08.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released the following statement regarding Puerto Rico Governor Alejandro Javier García Padilla's nomination of Chief James Tuller of New York to the position of Puerto Rico Police Superintendent: "Given the public safety challenges facing Puerto Rico, Chief James Tuller is an excellent choice to assume the role of Police Superintendent. The recipient of numerous community awards from diverse ethnic organizations, Chief Tuller’s demonstrated sensitivity to Latino neighborhoods in New York City and his distinguished law enforcement record make him uniquely qualified for the job. “I commend Governor García Padilla for nominating Chief Tuller and trust he will be an asset in helping reduce crime in Puerto Rico.” # # #
11.08.2013	"There is an indomitable spirit that exists within the immigrant community." Washington, DC – In interviews today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) responded to reports that important House Republican pro-immigrant champions said that immigration reform is dead for the year. Rep. Gutierrez disagrees. When asked by U.S. News and World Report, "Will immigration reform ever get taken up in the House and passed by Congress?" He responded: "It will. There is an indomitable spirit that exists within the immigrant community. I truly believe that there are phases and times in history where things are inevitable, and this is one of the inevitable goals for justice that this country is going to achieve. Much like for African-Americans’ civil rights or voting rights for women or the right for the LGBT community to marry whom they love, this too will come to pass." The Congressman continues to work with conservatives, moderates, and liberals on bipartisan approaches to immigration reform that ends the massive increase in deportations, secures the nation, and heals and reunifies families. # # #
11.04.2013	Español Abajo Congressman will no longer work with National Immigrant Youth Alliance (NIYA) or DREAMActivist.org on deportation and detention cases. Washington, DC – This afternoon, representatives of the National Immigrant Youth Alliance (NIYA), DREAMActivist.org, and the DREAM30 sat-in at the office of Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) in Washington, D.C. One activist, who was recently released from detention in El Paso, Texas at the request of Congressman Gutiérrez, was removed from the office of Congressman Gutiérrez for refusing to leave until the Congressman spoke personally with President Obama and secured the release of other detainees. The activists were asked to leave by U.S. Capitol Police. Two activists left the office. A third refused and was escorted out by U.S. Capitol Police. The following is a statement from Douglas Rivlin, spokesman and Director of Communication for Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez: The Office of Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) will no longer work with the National Immigrant Youth Alliance (NIYA) and their affiliated advocates at DREAMActivist.org The Congressman met privately with the parents of some of the young people in detention in El Paso last week in Washington; a meeting that was frank, emotional, and confidential. But that meeting was also recorded surreptitiously by NIYA, without the knowledge of the parents, the Congressman or his staff. It is unfortunate that the actions of the advocates in this case are preventing this office from being able to work with parents and family who are understandably and rightly concerned for the safety of their son or daughter. The illicit tape recording of a confidential conversation was the latest chapter in a long and difficult relationship with NIYA and its leaders. The NIYA leaders have expressed their strong opposition to immigration reform (LINK), have expressed disturbing racism (LINK), and have put young people in harm's way. In talking with the families, the Congressman and his staff believe that the parents and families were being manipulated by NIYA and its leaders and were not well informed about the law and the legal process. The Congressman is warning parents that these actions can hurt the chances that young people will be able to return to the United States or live legally in the United States. Only one in ten asylum cases like these are approved and a deportation or removal could put future legal status in doubt. The Congressman continues to fight for the ability of DREAMers and their parents to remain in the U.S. or to enter legally if they have been removed or left the United States. The Congressman's staff had been working with the Department of Homeland Security and the attorney for the detainees to help secure their release. The Congressman’s staff has also communicated directly with a number of the parents, siblings and supporters of the detainees in the past several weeks. ### La Oficina del Congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) ya no estará trabajando con la Alianza Nacional de Jóvenes Inmigrantes (conocidos por sus siglas en inglés como NIYA) y sus defensores afiliados en DREAMActivist.org. El Congresista se reunió en privado con los padres de algunos de los jóvenes detenidos en El Paso la semana pasada en Washington, durante una reunión que fue franca, emocional y confidencial. Pero esa reunión también fue grabada clandestinamente por NIYA, sin el conocimiento de los padres, el Congresista o su personal. Es lamentable que las acciones de los activistas en este caso le estén impidiendo a esta oficina trabajar con los padres y familiares, quienes con razón y comprensiblemente están preocupados por la seguridad de su hijo o hija. La grabación ilícita de una conversación confidencial fue el último capítulo de una larga y difícil relación con NIYA y sus líderes. Los líderes de NIYA han expresado su fuerte oposición a la reforma migratoria (LINK), han expresado un racismo inquietante (LINK), y han puesto a los jóvenes en peligro. Al hablar con las familias el Congresista y su equipo creen que los padres y las familias estaban siendo manipulados por NIYA y sus líderes y no estaban bien informados acerca de la ley y el proceso legal. El Congresista advierte a los padres que estas acciones pueden poner en peligro las posibilidades de que los jóvenes sean capaces de regresar a los Estados Unidos o que puedan vivir legalmente en los Estados Unidos. Sólo uno de cada diez casos de asilo como estos son aprobados, y el Congresista continúa luchando para que los “DREAMers” y sus padres puedan permanecer en los EE.UU., o para que puedan tener entrada legal si han sido removidos o han salido de los Estados Unidos. El personal del Congresista había estado trabajando con el Departamento de Seguridad Nacional y el abogado de los detenidos para ayudar a asegurar su liberación. El personal del Congresista también se ha comunicado directamente con varios de los padres, los hermanos y simpatizantes de los detenidos en las últimas semanas.
10.29.2013	"As a parent, I was shocked by the death of Trayvon Martin and the fact that no one was even arrested after it happened." Washington, DC – This morning, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) testified in the Senate about "stand your ground" laws like those in Florida and more than 20 other states that were a central issue in the shooting death of teenager Trayvon Martin. The hearing was called by Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois who chairs the Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Human Rights. Earlier this year, after George Zimmerman was acquitted of any wrongdoing in the Trayvon Martin case, Rep. Gutierrez called for hearings in the House Judiciary Committee into "stand your ground" laws. So far, he has not received a response from the Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. More information and a link to the live webcast of the hearing can be found on the Senate Judiciary Committee's website: https://1.usa.gov/1aEfa3x The following is Rep. Gutiérrez' testimony as prepared for delivery. TESTIMONY OF CONGRESSMAN LUIS V. GUTIÉRREZ Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Human Rights “Stand Your Ground” Laws: Civil Rights and Public Safety Implications of the Expanded Use of Deadly Force” Chairman Durbin, Ranking Member Cruz, thank you for the opportunity to testify on this extremely important issue. I extend my condolences to the families who lost loved ones. Ms. Fulton and Ms. McBath, I am deeply sorry for your loss and appreciate your presence here today. Thank you. As a parent, I was shocked by the death of Trayvon Martin and the fact that no one was even arrested after it happened. An unarmed teenager was pursued by an armed adult in the neighborhood where he was staying, shot to death, and nobody was convicted of any crime. I respect the verdict and the judicial process. But I have deep concerns about the expansion of self-defense laws, the proliferation of guns, the weakening of gun laws, and how this affects public safety. The case of Trayvon Martin, like the Sandy Hook massacre, should have sparked a response from our nation's lawmakers. Mr. Chairman, I too requested hearings on this matter as a Member of the House Judiciary Committee, but received no response from the Chairman. Examining the “stand your ground” laws and whether they make our communities safer or less safe is critically important as part of a larger examination of the impact of gun-violence on America. Sadly, we lose a classroom full of kids every few days to gun violence across the country, and there have been no hearings in the House, so Senator Durbin, I applaud you for your leadership and for holding this hearing. The fundamental problem is Americans are so afraid of other Americans that they feel they must arm themselves. The gun lobby is pushing to reshape our laws to make this practice more socially and legally acceptable. Special interests are relaxing our laws resulting in an escalation of the deadliness of those confrontations. I have never believed that allowing more guns will mean less gun violence. We must confront the deadly combination of rampant fear and easily available guns. We must examine "shoot first" or "stand your ground" laws in this context. In 22 states, "stand your ground" laws expand the use of deadly force outside your home to any place you have the legal right to be. We seem to have made a decision that it is acceptable to use a weapon on another human, but have failed to have a serious conversation about under what circumstances. Under “shoot first” laws, a person is presumed to have a “reasonable fear" of death that justifies the use of deadly force in many places. In some states there is also immunity from civil liability, criminal prosecution, and even arrest. I grew up in Chicago in a very different era. When scuffles broke out, it was up to us to protect ourselves. But no one had Glocks or AR-15s back then. New concealed carry laws and “shoot first” laws are a recipe for more dead sons and daughters. The GAO estimated last year that approximately 8 million permits for concealed weapons were issued in the U.S. Illinois just became the 50th state to allow concealed weapons. As a father and a grandfather, I strongly oppose proposals to allow national reciprocity for concealed weapons permits issued by states with fewer safeguards than Illinois. For the safety of all our loved ones, we must take every reasonable precaution to ensure that individuals who are violent or a public threat do not have easy access to weapons. That is why I reintroduced legislation this year to ban cheap, junk guns used disproportionately in the commission of crime. But legislation is only part of a solution. In Chicago, we continue to develop strategies to reduce violence and target at-risk youth. Teaching our kids how to resolve conflicts without pulling a trigger makes more sense. Instead, the gun lobby is pushing "shoot first" laws and claiming they deter crime. Truth is, these laws increase murder rates. Researchers at Texas A&M found “shoot first” states had an 8% increase in homicides relative to other states, translating to 600 additional parents, children, and friends killed each year. Moreover, “shoot first” laws exacerbate the mistrust of the police among minority communities. There is a widespread feeling in poor and working class communities that the police are there to protect people FROM them, not protect them FROM other people. That trust further deteriorates under “shoot first” laws when communities question whether racial stereotypes and biases will enter into the subjective determination that someone had a “reasonable fear.” When we allow people to take the law into their own hands, when police hesitate to make an arrest when a young person of color is killed, or if we turn cops into immigration agents like the House Judiciary Committee’s proposed SAFE ACT, public safety suffers. Engaging in this dialogue is a critical first step. Congress should guide this discussion, carefully monitor the application of these laws, and watch out for racial disparities. Thank you Senator Durbin for your leadership, for your service to Illinois, and for the opportunity to testify. # # #
10.28.2013	"Until now, consumers who send money abroad had no protections if they felt they were getting gouged or ripped off." Washington, DC – New regulations from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) go into effect today that will keep consumers better informed as they send money to loved ones overseas. Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) fought for the inclusion of these important protections in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, signed into law by President Obama in 2010. "For years, immigrants sending money overseas were easy prey and lacked access to basic consumer protections for these financial transactions," Rep. Gutiérrez said. "Until now, consumers who send money abroad had no protections if they felt they were getting gouged or ripped off," Rep. Gutiérrez said. "Finally, consumers will benefit from upfront, clear information about the exchange rate, taxes and fees, and the amount of money that will actually be received on the other end. Remittance transfers are big business for banks and financial institutions and there is new accountability in the system. With the CFPB remittance transfer rule, consumers will have peace of mind thanks to new protections that allow transfers to be canceled within 30 minutes and confidence that errors will be investigated and addressed." The World Bank estimates that people in the U.S. sent $51 billion in remittances in 2012. Rep. Gutiérrez was Chairman of the Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee at the time the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which created the CFPB and mandated the new remittance protections, was debated and passed in the House and a conferee when the final version was worked out with the Senate. The new remittance rule applies to transactions sent by a consumer within the United states to a person or business in foreign country valued over $15 from financial institutions, including money transmitters, banks, and credit unions, that consistently send more than 100 international wire transfers each year. "The CFPB has proved in a short amount of time that we can make the financial world safer for consumers and protect our economy from the excesses of the financial industry," Rep. Gutiérrez said. # # #
10.23.2013	On Immigration: "Your side needs a little time to recover from the last fight? I get that. But with 1,100 deportations every day, we can't wait forever." Washington, DC – This morning (at approximately 10 am ET), Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) rose to address the House for five minutes on the need to keep working in a bipartisan manner towards immigration reform. Rep. Gutierrez is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Immigration Subcommittee. The following is the text of his remarks (as prepared for delivery). FIVE MINUTE SPEECH October 23, 2013 I don't think it is news to my friends on the Republican side of the aisle that you do not win every battle around here. This place is tough and occasionally you get knocked down. The measure of a man or woman in Congress -- or anyplace, for that matter -- is what they do AFTER. We all witnessed a political showdown over the past several weeks and now that is behind us. I challenge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to step up, show the country what you are made of, and let us actually legislate on behalf of the American people. I have heard a lot of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle say things like "we don't trust the President" or "we cannot work with this President." So, Mr. Speaker, does that apply to everything? Will there be no legislation until there is a different President in 2017? That doesn't sound very realistic. And on my side of the aisle, they are already saying, those Republicans, they are hardliners. They will not compromise on anything. And when someone does reach across the aisle to say, hey, let's work on this issue together, what do we get? "Hey, why are you helping them?" I've heard it. When I stood with David Valadao or Paul Ryan to say immigration reform is an objective we can reach in a bipartisan manner, I heard from the Democrats. "Stop working with them, we're trying to defeat them." Look, I get it. There are millions of dollars to be raised by partisan bickering. Your side raised a ton of money off of this past battle and my side has too. The fact is that if two of us get into a shouting match, it is news and if it gets bad, it will be shown on every channel. But if two of us reach agreement on something, it's not news. But here's the thing. The only way we actually get anything done is to put aside the shouting matches and work together. I want immigration reform to pass. And even though I think almost every single Democrat agrees with me, it is still not enough because there are only 201 of us. We do not run the Rules Committee or set the agenda in the House. So I know I have to work with the other Party. On your side, you say you don't like what the Senate passed? Then let's not just respond with nothing, let's craft the House response and put our own proposals on the table. Those on the other side of the aisle say they do not trust the President and can't work with him. Well, OK, fine. Then work with us. There are 435 of us, we need 218 to pass a bill and the President doesn't get a vote. The truth is that even during the shutdown, many on your side of the aisle have been drafting proposals and there are many of us on this side willing to work with you if you are serious. The question is whether work on a bipartisan basis will be allowed to flourish. I want to spend the rest of this Congress working with whoever wants to join -- in either Party -- to get immigration reform done. Your side needs a little time to recover from the last fight? I get that. But with 1,100 deportations every day, we can't wait forever. The kids who are losing their moms are not going to wait for you. The husbands and fathers who die in the desert because their wives and kids live here do not have any more time to give. But you probably ask “Um, Luis? After the battle over health care and the budget, how can the two parties ever work together?” That is exactly what I thought in 1996. In 1996 it was Speaker Gingrich who shut down the government. But after that, what happened? We passed a series of major bipartisan bills on difficult policy issues. Welfare reform was crafted in part by a very conservative House and signed by a liberal President, who vetoed it twice before an agreement was reached, after the shutdown. The Kennedy-Kassebaum bill was historic, bipartisan health care legislation. We can do the same, if politicians in both parties are committed to accomplishments over campaign talking points. We can pass immigration reform this year. We all know that immigration reform is immensely popular with voters in both parties who want a practical solution to fixing our broken immigration system. Diverse constituencies back immigration reform, like labor unions, business owners, evangelical leaders, Catholic Bishops, and leaders across the political spectrum. Don't think of it as working with President Obama if that makes it easier for you. Think of it as doing your job. Think of it as working on behalf of the American people, not for an Obama solution, or a Tea Party solution, but for an American solution. # # #
10.16.2013	"The President and I agree that immigration reform is very likely to be taken up before the end of the year." Washington, DC – Yesterday, President Obama reiterated his desire to move immigration reform legislation forward in Congress as soon as the Republican government shutdown, fiscal cliff, budget and default episode is resolved. He made the comment during an interview with Univision affiliate KMEX-TV in Los Angeles (Reuters news report in English). Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), a leading proponent of immigration reform in Congress, reacted to the President's comments and expressed his own optimism about the prospects for immigration reform in a statement issued today. A Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Immigration Subcommittee, Rep. Gutiérrez is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The following is a statement from Rep. Gutiérrez: "It is hard to be optimistic about the prospects for anything happening in a bipartisan manner on Capitol Hill these days, but the President and I agree that immigration reform is very likely to be taken up before the end of the year. When we emerge from this crazy partisan eruption from the Republicans, there will be a huge incentive for sensible Republicans who want to repair some of the damage they have done to themselves. Immigration reform remains the one issue popular with both Democratic and Republican voters on which the two parties can work together to deliver real, substantive solutions in the Congress this year. "The GOP government shutdown has not slowed the deportations, the separation of families, or the placement of American citizen children of deportees in foster care at taxpayer expense. The Republicans' political strategy has not damaged the economy enough to kill the demand for legal immigration, yet we still do not have a legal immigration system to accommodate and regulate this demand and meet it with a supply of visas. And despite the tendency of politicians in both parties to fix their sights on winning elections a year away, there is still an opportunity this term, this year to pass sensible immigration reform, even if that diminishes, not heightens, distinctions between the two parties. "Immigration is the one issue on which a majority of the country and a diverse array of Republican and Democratic constituencies can agree. The Senate already passed bipartisan legislation and I am confident there will be a high premium on bipartisanship in the House after we emerge from this partisan tunnel and into the light. "The President's remarks are extremely helpful and he should continue to push Congress towards areas of agreement on which we can come together to solve tough public policy problems the country faces. It benefits all Americans to have a government that functions, a Congress that enacts policy that strengthens—not damages—the economy and a nation with a sensible and legal immigration system. With more prodding from the President and the American people, we can get immigration reform legislation passed in the House and signed into law." # # #
10.08.2013	"Those of us who have the piece of paper and peace of mind that ensures our return home tonight to our families must fight for those who do not have that piece of paper or that piece of mind " Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke at the Camino Americano: Rally and March for Immigrant Dignity and Respect on the National Mall calling on Congress, and particularly Republican Leaders, to allow immigration legislation to move forward, get a vote, and be signed into law. Rep. Gutiérrez spoke towards the end of the rally after a concert that included Los Tigres Del Norte and Lila Downs, and after Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Senate immigration champion Robert Menendez (D-NJ), and House Republican immigration champion Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) addressed the audience. The event was hosted by Casa in Action and SEIU Local 32BJ in the National Capital region and sponsored nationally by the Alliance for Citizenship, AFL-CIO, Center for Community Change/Fair Immigration Reform Movement, NEA, the National Hispanic Foundation for the Arts (NHFA) and SEIU. It was the culmination of events on October 5 as part of the National Day of Action for Immigrant Dignity and Respect (www.reformaoctubre.org or https://octoberimmigration.org). After the speaking portion of the program on the Mall, Congressman Gutiérrez joined approximately 200 others, including Members of Congress, in getting arrested in an act of civil disobedience. The following are the remarks, as prepared for delivery, delivered by Rep. Gutiérrez. Rep. Gutiérrez, in his 11th term, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Taskforce of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. # # # Rep. LuisV. Gutiérrez Remarks as Prepared for Delivery We are here to demand that Speaker Boehner and the Republican Leadership give us a vote on immigration reform. We know the votes are there! For the first time in my 20 years in Congress I know the votes are there. Now there are 30 or 40 Republicans -- some estimate as many as 85 Republicans in Congress -- who support legalization and immigration reform in some form. They know the power of our vote, they know the popularity of immigration reform, they know the hunger and passion in our community, and yet we still have not seen immigration reform signed into law by the President because other Republicans are holding it up. That is why you and I must turn up the volume even more. Since the election last November, the United States has deported another 400,000 people. We know the enormous toll it takes on our families, our neighborhoods and our peace of mind. Our communities and our families do not have the luxury to rest or relax. 1,100 people will be deported today, 1,100 people will be deported tomorrow, and the next day. Those of us who have the piece of paper and peace of mind that ensures our return home tonight to our families must fight for those who do not have that piece of paper or that peace of mind. So I am joining these religious leaders, our union brothers and sisters, our friends from all walks of life who have both the legal piece of paper and the peace of mind that comes with being a citizen or being a permanent resident and we will march to the Capitol in just a few minutes. We will go and risk arrest and sacrifice the very freedom that 30,000 people in detention right now do not have. We will lose a few hours of our freedom to stand for justice for the children who are being put in foster care today because their parent was deported last night. I will lock arms with my colleagues and go to jail today for the father who was deported and cannot see his children, see them grow up, and see them prosper in the United States, the country of their birth. Fifty years ago, my hero, John Lewis was criticized for leading demonstrations and non-violent protests. But John Lewis is here with us today and we together with my colleagues are willing to give of ourselves to win freedom for those who have none. A month ago, 50 people were arrested on the capitol grounds calling a vote in the House. Then a couple weeks ago, 100 women were arrested calling for a vote in the House. Today we will be 200. And the next time we will be more and more and more until the Congress acts to give us reform that stops the deportations; Reform that does not militarize the border or criminalize immigrants; Reform that respects the family and honors hard work by reestablishing the rule of law. And reform that does not only benefit the DREAMers or the high-tech workers or the engineers without also providing justice to the parents of those DREAMers, the woman who cleans the high-tech worker's office or home; and the construction workers who build the building that the engineer imagines. Will you fight by my side? Will you march with me? Will you join me in our call for justice? This is how we win justice in the United States. This is how we establish fairness in the United States. And this is how we honor the elders who have gone before us in the United States.
10.05.2013	"The community is united behind three principles: We must stop the deportations, we must stop the militarization of the border, and we must pass immigration reform." Washington, DC – Because of the Republican government shutdown and the resulting changes to the congressional schedule, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez was unable to attend many of the activities he planned to attend in Chicago as part of the National Day of Action for Immigrant Dignity and Respect (www.reformaoctubre.org or www. https://octoberimmigration.org). More than 160 events were planned around the country for October 5 and there will be a rally and concert on the National Mall in Washington on October 8 (which the Congressman still plans to attend). The following is a statement from the Congressman to those who gathered in Chicago and at events across the country. Rep. Gutiérrez, in his 11th term, is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Taskforce of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The next few weeks will determine if we see the leaders in Congress allow a vote and allow us to pass comprehensive immigration reform. We are at this moment because the community is united behind three principles: We must stop the deportations, we must stop the militarization of the border, and we must pass immigration reform. But my colleagues in Washington must continue to feel the pressure. Unless we maintain a persistent and consistent demand for reform, the Republicans and Democrats in Congress might just play politics with immigration and have an issue to run on in their next election and not an accomplishment to point to. We must hold Washington accountable. We marched, we voted, we marched some more and we will vote some more, but we will not take 'no' for an answer. Our communities and our families do not have the luxury to rest or relax. Today, 1,100 people will be deported, and tomorrow, and the next day. A child born and raised in the United States will lose a parent to deportation today. A DREAMer with protection from deportation may lose a parent today. Someone will die in the desert today because they cannot come legally. Someone will risk their life today because they were deported but their wife and children are here. Someone will lose a hand or a finger or an eye or their life on the job because they are not protected by our most basic health and safety laws. And an immigrant woman who has been sexually assaulted is in danger right now because she is afraid to call the police because of her status. Those of us who have the peace of mind and the piece of paper that ensures that we can come home tonight to our families must fight for those who do not have that peace of mind or that piece of paper. I remain optimistic because you are fighting along with me and making your voice heard. # # #
09.27.2013	Current Travel Rule Cuts Benefits in Half for Some Filipino Veterans [WASHINGTON, D.C.] – U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL), U.S. Representative Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL), U.S. Representative Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), U.S. Representative William Enyart (D-IL), and U.S. Representative Cheri Bustos (D-IL) today introduced the Benefits Fairness for Filipino Veterans Act, which adjusts residency requirements for Filipino World War II veterans that currently result in some of them facing a 50 percent cut in benefits. It puts these Filipino veterans on a par with other permanent legal residents. “Filipino-American veterans served our country admirably and honorably in World War II,” Durbin said. “Whether or not they spend part of the year visiting family in the Philippines is irrelevant to their service of our nation. I’m proud to join Congressman Gutiérrez to restore these benefits for Filipino-American veterans.” “This is a small measure of fairness for veterans who sacrificed so much,” Luis Gutiérrez said. “This will help veterans in Chicago and Illinois and around the country keep benefits they earned without an arbitrary cut if they spend too much time visiting loved ones in their golden years.” “This is necessary legislation for the Filipino veterans and advocates who have long fought to obtain just compensation for their sacrifices and service to our country,” Duckworth said. “I have long advocated for Filipino veterans to receive their promised benefits in full, and remain committed to honoring the contributions of all of our men and women in uniform – no matter their background. These men fought loyally beside our American troops and deserve to receive the benefits promised to them, including the same freedom to travel that other permanent residents enjoy.” “Having spent over 35 years in the military, I know our national policies should treat all veterans with respect and equality,” Enyart said. “This measure ensures that Filipino-American veterans are entitled to the full measure of benefits afforded to others, and I’m proud to support it.” “All the brave veterans who have served our country deserve our thanks and gratitude-they had our backs and we should have theirs,” said Congresswoman Bustos. “That is why I am proud to support this effort to ensure Filipino veterans who have sacrificed on our behalf receive the benefits they have earned.” Initially, Filipino veterans who are U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents received only 50 cents on the dollar compared to other veterans for benefits including service connected disabilities, dependency and indemnity compensation, education benefits for their children, and a burial allowance. In 2001, Congress passed a law granting 100 percent of eligible veterans’ benefits to those American citizens and permanent residents residing in the U.S. who served in World War II in the Commonwealth of the Army of the Philippines, certain recognized guerilla forces or the Philippine Scouts. A subsequent ruling by the Department of Veterans Affairs slashed the benefits in half for any Filipino veteran who spent more than 60 days at a time or more than 183 total days in a calendar year outside the U.S.—a standard that does not apply to other benefit recipients. The Benefits Fairness for Filipino Veterans Act would adjust the regulations and give Filipino veterans the same freedom to travel that is afforded to other permanent residents. In order for U.S. citizen and legal permanent resident Filipino veterans to reinstate their benefits under the current rules, the veteran must submit documentation of any dates they traveled outside the country along with copies of their passport visas or reentry permits with entrance and exit date stamps. Veterans from Chicago and districts across the country have had to go through this cumbersome process to reinstate benefits that they earned, only to be told that their responses are pending in the backlog of cases with the Manila Office of the Department of Veteran Affairs. The Benefits Fairness for Filipino Veterans Act is supported by the Veterans Assistance Commission. Veterans from the organization’s Cook County chapter brought the issue to Senator Durbin and Congressman Gutiérrez requesting a change for Filipino veterans.
09.20.2013	Rallies on Oct. 5 and Oct. 8 Will Put Pressure on Republican Leaders to Lead Washington, DC – Two Texas Republicans, John Carter and Sam Johnson, Members of the House "Gang of Seven" negotiating a bipartisan immigration reform deal, announced today that they were withdrawing from the group, as expected. Congressman Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL), also a Member of the group, in an interview with Washington Post Plum Line blogger Greg Sargent posted Friday, predicted the announcement and indicated "The bipartisan group just wasn’t getting support from Republican House leadership…It’s just not gonna happen now.�? Rep. Gutiérrez remains optimistic that a bipartisan way can be found to move legislation forward, and feels it is now more important than ever for supporters of immigration reform to make their voices heard. "There are rallies planned in 90-plus cities across the country on October 5 and we will see an outpouring from the community demanding a serious effort by Republicans to get immigration reform moving in the House," said Rep. Gutiérrez, who will be speaking at a rally in Washington on the Mall on October 8. "It is clear the bipartisan group's work was not being embraced by Republican Leaders, so this allows us to put the focus squarely on Speaker Boehner and his lieutenants to decide if they are serious about reform and if so, to do something more than talk." Congressman Gutiérrez met with Republicans and Democrats on immigration reform in Washington on Thursday, including meetings with Leader Nancy Pelosi, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and centrist Democrat Henry Cuellar (D-TX). "I was encouraged by my meeting with Chairman Goodlatte and Henry Cuellar that conservatives and centrists still want to move forward and Democrats remain more unified behind reform than ever," Gutiérrez said. "I am optimistic, but Republicans need to decide if they want to play politics to energize their base or solve problems to help their country. Whether it is immigration reform, food stamps, or a government shutdown, they are playing narrow-cast politics to the far right, not legislating with the good of the nation in mind." The Congressman is disappointed with the apparent demise of the bipartisan group in the House, telling the Washington Post “We had agreed on virtually everything.�? But he had high praise for his Republican partners and hopes the work they produced as a group eventually can be incorporated into a bipartisan compromise that gets a bill passed in the House. "John Carter, Sam Johnson, and Mario Diaz-Balart put a lot of blood, sweat and tears into our group and are among a few dozen Republicans I think will be critical to successfully getting a solution out of the House. Right now things are partisan and polarized and Carter and Johnson took a shot at President Obama in pulling out of the group, but everyone knows there are two critically important reasons we need to pass immigration reform. One, our commitment to justice, our security, our economy and the growth of our nation require a modern immigration system based on the rule of law and both parties understand we need legislation to get us there. Secondly, there are enough sensible Republicans who understand that the future of their party depends on getting this issue resolved." The Congressman continued: "I have been saying for weeks and nobody has made any effort to contradict me: The votes exist in the House today to pass immigration reform with a path to citizenship. Almost all of the Democrats and a few dozen Republicans are ready for a vote if the Speaker allows it. The vast majority of voters support immigration reform, but Republicans in the House seem to be the only group who cannot get it together." "We may have a divided government, but we need a unified solution. I think the call on Oct. 5 and Oct. 8 will be so loud, it will be hard for House Republicans to continue stalling. The devastation of deportations, the frustration with inaction -- all of it is unsustainable." # # #
09.04.2013	Congressman Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) released the following statement regarding the authorization for the use of military force in Syria: “I strongly condemn the use of chemical weapons against civilians. However, I have concerns about taking military action in Syria without a holistic plan and a clear objective to ensure that in the end, democracy wins. Intervention without a clear plan could make what is already a very bad situation much worse.” ###
08.26.2013	"The votes are already there. More than two dozen Republicans are on-the-record supporting immigration reform and I think another dozen or two dozen Republican votes exist." Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke at two immigration reform events in Republican-held congressional districts in Virginia in an effort to build support for immigration reform legislation in Congress. The Congressman addressed a luncheon marking Women's Equality Day -- a celebration of the Constitutional Amendment giving women the right to vote -- at a restaurant in Chantilly, VA, in the 10th Congressional District held by Rep. Frank Wolf. He spoke about the importance of immigration reform in protecting immigrant women, many of whom are afraid to call the police, from domestic violence and sexual assault in the workplace. The event was hosted by Casa in Action and SEIU 32BJ [C-SPAN Coverage: https://www.c-spanvideo.org/event/223508]. Later in the day, the Illinois Congressman spoke at a rally in downtown Harrisonburg in the Shenandoah Valley in Virginia's 6th District, held by the Chairman of the Judiciary Committee in the House, Rep. Bob Goodlatte. The event was coordinated by Organizing Virginia, a statewide group based in Charlottesville that supports immigration reform. Congressman Gutiérrez said he was not coming to "trash-talk" in Republican Districts. "I am not coming to the Districts of these two Republican Members of Congress to shout or embarrass them or protest how they may or may not have voted on immigration legislation that is important to the men and women in their Districts," the Congressman said, adding: "If you were looking for trash-talk, you should look elsewhere." "Rather, I am here in Virginia today to help demonstrate the deep and broad support for immigration reform that stretches across this country from red districts to purple districts to blue districts." Rep. Gutiérrez said that changing demographics and changing attitudes towards immigration reform gave him optimism that more Republicans would join Democrats in the House to support immigration reform. "The votes are already there," he said. "More than two dozen Republicans are on-the-record supporting immigration reform and I think another dozen or two dozen Republican votes exist, which is more than enough, combined with 190 or 195 Democratic votes in the House, to pass a bill this fall. All we need is for the Speaker of the House to call the vote." Rep. Gutiérrez said it was unlikely the House would act on the bill passed by a bipartisan majority in the Senate, but was likely to craft its own package, perhaps made up of several smaller bills, to gain the bipartisan support the legislation will need to pass. "Republicans are likely to try getting some of their harsher enforcement bills passed on their own without any support from Democrats, but that is not going to work," Rep. Gutiérrez said. "In the end, if we are to get a bill this year, and I think we will, it is going to take a bipartisan effort, similar to what happened in the Senate, where nearly all the Democrats join about a third of the Republicans to craft a bill and get it passed." Rep. Gutiérrez is Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, a Member of the Judiciary Committee, and one of seven House Members negotiating a bipartisan immigration reform bill. In recent weeks, he has traveled to Oregon, Washington, California, Colorado, New York, and Minnesota to rally support for immigration reform. # # #
08.14.2013	"About 400,000 young immigrants do not need to worry every day about deportation… What many of them are concentrating on now is getting an immigration bill passed that addresses the legal status of their families and neighbors." Washington, DC – The following is statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) on the one year anniversary of the day applications first were accepted for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). Rep. Gutiérrez is Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, a Member of the Judiciary Committee, and one of seven House Members negotiating a bipartisan immigration reform bill. "DACA was a turning point. Politically it was a huge boost to the President and helped galvanize Democrats around immigration reform and putting a stop to needless deportations that break up families and waste resources. The American people saw hundreds of thousands of young immigrants come forward who are just like other young people in America. It put a face on the immigration issue and set aside fears that legalization is unworkable or politically disastrous. It showed that immigration reform on a grander scale can work and that it is the right thing to do. "DACA was an important test for the pro-immigrant movement in this country. Young people lined up by the thousands a year ago and we had a secure, orderly process for registering with the government, submitting fees and fingerprints, and going through a thorough background check. When we get a broader immigration bill passed this year, it is going to require a massive civil undertaking to get people in the system and on the books, but DACA was a good dress rehearsal. "In my two Chicago area offices, we are helping people fill out DACA applications at a rate of about 80-100 per month. Nancy Onofre is the second DACA recipient I hired and she helps people fill out DACA applications in my office in Cicero. DACA recipient Jose Quintero worked in my Chicago office also assisting with DACA applications since January until he recently left to study architecture in Chicago on a scholarship. "About 400,000 young immigrants do not need to worry every day about deportation, legally working, or in most states getting a driver's license. What many of them are concentrating on now is getting an immigration bill passed that addresses the legal status of their families and neighbors. I meet them at pro-immigration reform rallies across the country and they have been very clear with me. Reform that only legalizes the DREAMers and does not address the status of their parents and other undocumented immigrants in our communities would be unacceptable." # # #
07.31.2013	"I urge my colleagues to think about the millions of immigrant families who are no longer able to spend time together," said Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) Washington, DC – On Wednesday, Rep. Luis Gutiérrez spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives about those in detention and those facing deportation. He reminded his House colleagues that 44,400 immigrants will be deported during the 37 day recess that begins on Friday. Unlike the Senate which passed a bill, the House has not voted on any immigration reform measures and the path forward for comprehensive immigration reform remains unsure. The Congressman is confident the House will pass immigration reform this year and is working with Democrats, some Republicans, and diverse array of leaders, advocates, unions, and networks to keep up the pressure that will lead to a bill being passed. The Congressman highlighted a particular group of detainees, known as the DREAM 9, who are being held in Eloy, Arizona. Each of these young immigrants came to the U.S. as children and were raised here, but left the country at some point. They were detained at the border trying to reenter the country and are asking for humanitarian parole and/or political asylum. The Congressman has been in constant contact with their attorney and he and Rep. Jared Polis of Colorado wrote President Obama last week asking for their release. The Congressman asked that his letter be enter into the official record. The text of the letter, dated July 25, 2013, is below. Video of the speech is below. The following is the text of the Congressman's speech, as prepared for delivery: I did not expect to still be waiting for a vote on immigration reform in August, but here we are, 48 hours from leaving town for six weeks and there has been no definitive House action. Many of us will spend time with our children and loved ones, whether on vacation or in the back yard. I urge my colleagues to think about the millions of immigrant families who are no longer able to spend time together. The mother who was deported yesterday, the sister who feared deportation and left last year. The tens of thousands who wait in line for visas and the ones for whom there is no line available. For those who are in detention, like the DREAM 9 in Arizona, and the many others, who, because of their status, a trip to the hospital or getting a traffic ticket could mean they never see their children again. The American Dream will end for 44,400 immigrants who will be deported between now and September 9. I hope they are in your thoughts. [I ask unanimous consent to insert this letter from Rep. Jared Polis of Colorado and myself to the President of the United States asking for the release of the DREAM 9 held in detention in Arizona is entered into the record.] # # #
07.23.2013	REPS. VELÁZQUEZ Y GUTIÉRREZ PIDEN A COLEGAS QUE OPONGAN "LEY DE RESOLUCIÓN DEL STATUS DE PUERTO RICO” (H.R. 2000) "Dado al carácter intencionalmente erróneo del referéndum del año pasado, un verdadero proceso de autodeterminación debería tomar lugar, en el cual se presenten todas las opciones disponibles para los votantes en Puerto Rico” Washington, DC -- Hoy, la representante Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) y el representante Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) le escribieron a sus colegas en la Cámara de Representantes pidiendo que rechacen la supuesta "Ley de Resolución del Status de Puerto Rico" (HR 2000). El proyecto de ley obligaría a un voto sancionado por el gobierno federal para Puerto Rico en el cual convertir a Puerto Rico en el Estado 51 sería la única opción en la papeleta, a pesar del hecho de que más de la mitad de los votantes puertorriqueños rechazaron esa opción en un referéndum el año pasado. Representantes Velázquez y Gutiérrez, ambos puertorriqueños, sienten que el referéndum del año pasado fue sesgado hacia el resultado que el partido Estadista quería y que los resultados han sido mal interpretados. Escribieron en la carta a sus colegas: "Dado al carácter intencionalmente erróneo del referéndum del año pasado, un verdadero proceso de autodeterminación debería tomar lugar, en el cual se presenten todas las opciones disponibles para los votantes en Puerto Rico ... Por lo tanto, instamos a nuestros colegas a unirse a nosotros en la oposición al voto Estadista que HR 2000 impondría y en su lugar apoyar un verdadero proceso de autodeterminación, tal como una asamblea constitucional o la solicitud del presupuesto del año fiscal 2014 del Presidente, que se asegura de que todos los votantes se incluyan en el proceso. " ### Reps. Velázquez and Gutiérrez Ask Colleagues to Oppose “Puerto Rico Status Resolution Act” (H.R. 2000) "Given the intentionally flawed nature of last year’s referendum, a true process of self-determination should take place in which all the available options are presented to the voters in Puerto Rico" Washington, DC -- Today, Representatives Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) wrote to their colleagues in the House of Representatives asking them to reject the so called “Puerto Rico Status Resolution Act” (H.R. 2000). The bill would force a federally sanctioned vote in Puerto Rico in which making Puerto Rico the 51st State would be the only option on the ballot, despite the fact that more than half of Puerto Rican voters rejected that option in a referendum last year. Reps. Velázquez and Gutiérrez, who are both Puerto Rican, feel last year's referendum was skewed towards the result the Statehood Party wanted and that the results have been misinterpreted. They wrote in their letter to colleagues: "Given the intentionally flawed nature of last year’s referendum, a true process of self-determination should take place in which all the available options are presented to the voters in Puerto Rico… Therefore, we urge our colleagues to join us in opposing the statehood vote that H.R. 2000 would impose and instead support a true process of self-determination, such as a constitutional assembly or the President’s FY 2014 budget request, that ensures that ALL voters are included in the process." # # # Reject the "Puerto Rico Status Resolution Act" (H.R. 2000) Flawed Puerto Rico Statehood Bill (H.R. 2000) Ignores Will of the People Dear Colleague: We urge you to reject the so called “Puerto Rico Status Resolution Act” (H.R. 2000). This flawed piece of legislation would force a federally sanctioned vote in which making Puerto Rico the 51st State would be the only option on the ballot, despite the fact that more than half of the voters rejected that option in a referendum held last year. Although statehood proponents claim that their option won with 61% of the vote in a referendum held in Puerto Rico on November 6th, a closer look at the results reveals that close to 55.6% of voters actually rejected making Puerto Rico the 51st state. The reason is simple. According to the Associated Press: “Nearly a half million voters chose to leave a portion of the ballot blank.” The Huffington Post further reported: “That 61 percent wasn’t the majority, however. Over 470,000 voters intentionally left the second question blank, meaning that only 45 percent of those casting ballots supported statehood.” The Hill newspaper explained that: “But the ballot did not include other non-statehood options, and hundreds of thousands of voters left blank their preferred choice." The same article went on to say that “…the 61 percent vote in favor of statehood is seen by some in Congress as a ‘statistical fiction.'” Given the intentionally flawed nature of last year’s referendum, a true process of self-determination should take place in which all the available options are presented to the voters in Puerto Rico. Such a process could take the form of a constitutional assembly, which was the approach taken by a bill we introduced in 2007 (H.R. 1230). This legislation recognized the inherent authority of the people of Puerto Rico to call a Constitutional Convention for the purpose of proposing a self-determination option and established a mechanism for Congressional response. In addition, the President has proposed a new referendum where all options would be included on the ballot, as outlined in his FY2014 budget proposal to Congress requesting $2.5 million for the Puerto Rico State Election Commission after the U.S. Department of Justice certifies that the options on the ballot and a voter education campaign are constitutional. These are just a few of several common-sense ways of addressing this important issue without excluding other non-statehood options. Therefore, we urge our colleagues to join us in opposing the statehood vote that H.R. 2000 would impose and instead support a true process of self-determination, such as a constitutional assembly or the President’s FY2014 budget request, that ensures that ALL voters are included in the process. Sincerely, Luis V. Gutiérrez Nydia Velázquez Member of Congress Member of Congress
07.19.2013	Town Hall Meetings Planned with Republican Rep. David Valadao, Denver Area Reps., and at National Council of La Raza National Conference Washington, DC – This coming weekend, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) continues his national tour to build bipartisan support for moving forward on immigration reform in the House. On Saturday, July 20, he will join Rep. David Valadao (R-CA) in his district in Bakersfield, CA for a bipartisan town hall meeting with business, faith and Latino leaders, hosted by a coalition of pro-reform advocates. On Sunday, he flies to Denver for a series of events including a town hall meeting with area Members of Congress (invited are Reps. Mike Coffman, Diana DeGette, Ed Perlmutter, and Jared Polis), hosted by Coloradan’s for Citizenship Now, the Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition and local coalition partners. On Monday, July 22, Rep. Gutiérrez will participate in a town hall conversation in New Orleans at the annual convention of the National Council of La Raza, the Latino civil rights organization. Bakersfield, California, July 20 - 4:00 p.m. PT Bipartisan town hall conversation with Rep. David Valadao and leaders from a cross-section of the Bakersfield economy. Hosted by the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles and local partners. Bakersfield Christian Church, 3200 Bernard St., Bakersfield, CA 93306. Denver, Colorado, July 21 - Press Availability: 1:00 p.m./Public Forum: 2:00 p.m. MT Coloradan’s for Citizenship Now, the Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition and local Members of Congress will host a public immigration forum at St. Cajetan’s Church - Auraria Campus/Lawrence Way, Denver, Colorado 80204. New Orleans, Louisiana, July 22 - Immigration Town Hall 3:00 p.m. CT At the National Council of La Raza national conference, Rep. Gutiérrez will participate in a town hall discussion with Janet Murguia (NCLR President/CEO), Julie Kitka (President, Alaska Federation of Natives), Ana Navarro (Republican Political Strategist), Hilary O. Shelton (Washington Bureau Director, Sr. VP for Advocacy and Policy, NAACP), John Trauger (VP, Human Resources Policy, National Association of Manufacturers), and Jenny Yang, (VP of Advocacy & Policy, World Relief). Morial Convention Center, Riverside Rooms R02-R04. Background: Congressman Gutiérrez is traveling throughout the country in July and August to build bipartisan support for immigration reform. He is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee, a member of the bipartisan Group of Seven negotiating a House comprehensive immigration reform bill, and the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Last week (July 13, 15), he visited Portland and Hood River, Oregon, Yakima, Washington, and Orlando, Florida where he met with business owners, workers, clergy, and supporters of reform. He also spoke on a panel at the Annual Convention of the NAACP in Orlando (July 15). Next weekend he travels to New York City for several immigration-related events. # # #
07.17.2013	"This is an historic agreement that will lift a stain that has haunted Puerto Rico for too long," said Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) Washington, DC – On Wednesday, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) announced a legally binding consent decree that will usher in a new era of accountability and transparency for the Puerto Rico Police Department (PRPD). It is a comprehensive civil rights agreement with the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to reform and modernize the PRPD. "This is an historic agreement that will lift a stain that has haunted Puerto Rico for too long," said Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), who sits on the Judiciary Committee and is a long time champion of civil and human rights in Puerto Rico. "The people of Puerto Rico have been the victims of the kind of unconstitutional policing you expect in a dictatorship, not a democracy and I applaud the actions of the DOJ and Governor García-Padilla to set things right." This agreement is the result of a DOJ civil suit filed in December 2012 to address long-standing police misconduct. The civil suit followed an investigation of PRPD's policies and practices where a pattern of police misconduct, a failure to investigate gender-based violence, and discriminatory policing was discovered. This agreement comes after extensive negotiations between the DOJ, PRPD, and the administrations of Governor Alejandro García-Padilla and his predecessor Luis Fortuño. For several years, Congressman Gutiérrez has been trying to call attention to the civil rights and human rights situation in Puerto Rico, including the conduct of the PRPD, which deteriorated significantly during the Fortuño regime. This included speeches in the U.S. Congress, visits to Puerto Rico, and an unrelenting effort to call attention in Washington to what was happening in Puerto Rico. "Rather than work with me to fix what was going wrong in civil society in Puerto Rico, forces loyal to Fortuño in the legislature censured me for speaking out about the police abuse, the violence, and the human rights violations," said Congressman Gutiérrez. I have the document of formal censure proudly displayed in my office because being censured for standing up to fight for what is right is a badge of honor I wear proudly." The House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico censured the Congressman on May 2, 2011 for his "statements and actions against the best interests of the People of Puerto Rico." They stated "he shares common causes with activists on the extreme left who oppose the principles and values of our Nation." The Congressman has been outspoken on civil and human rights, Puerto Rico police, the environment, and other issues affecting the Puerto Rican people. "I think Attorney General Eric Holder and Governor García-Padilla take civil rights and human rights very seriously and I think that they have arrived at a sensible plan to move things forward," the Congressman said. "The agreement will improve public safety and increase community confidence in the PRPD." This agreement is one of the most extensive agreements ever obtained by the DOJ under the police misconduct provisions of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, and requires corrective action in 11 core areas: use of force, searches and seizures, equal protection, policies and procedures, training, supervision, civilian complaints and internal investigations, community engagement and information systems. Puerto Rico will have access to nearly $10 million in asset forfeiture funds, which it can use to implement the reforms and fully institutionalize a culture of accountability and transparency in the PRPD. The agreement was filed with the federal court today and will become court-enforceable once it is approved by a District Judge. # # #
07.16.2013	Washington, DC – Today, the Senate confirmed the appointment of Richard Cordray to be the director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), who served on the House Financial Services Committee at the time the Congress considered the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform bill that created the CFPB, issued the following statement. [Note: In the 113th Congress, Congressman Gutiérrez gave up his seniority on Financial Services to take a leave of absence and serve on the Judiciary Committee so that he could play a direct role in the debates over immigration reform and gun violence prevention.] "I applauded the selection of Director Cordray exactly two years ago this week when his nomination was first announced. The bipartisan vote today in the Senate clearly demonstrates that the two years of Republican obstruction had nothing to do with the qualifications or capabilities of Mr. Cordray to lead this critical agency, but rather with their opposition to the CFPB itself. I was proud to work closely with former Chairman Barney Frank and my colleagues on the Financial Services Committee to fight for a strong and independent consumer protection agency in committee, on the House floor and in the conference committee. I believe the CFPB is the key to leveling the playing field for American consumers when they apply for a mortgage, finance a college education, pay off a car loan, or want to understand the terms of a credit card. I am proud to have played a role in creating the CFPB and prouder still of the leadership Director Cordray has provided and will provide to the CFPB. Consumers will soon benefit from greater disclosure about the costs of remittance transfers, a provision that I championed as part of Dodd-Frank. The money transfer rule is scheduled to go into effect on October 28, 2013. Prior to the passage of Dodd-Frank, the billions of dollars that consumers transferred each year internationally had no consumer protections at all. With the basic consumer protections and transparency that I fought for, consumers will be able to see clearly in advance the fees and taxes on the transfer, the exchange rate on the transaction, the amount of money that will finally go to the recipient, as well as their error resolution and cancelation rights. I congratulate Director Cordray on the work he and the CFPB are doing to implement critical consumer protections under Dodd-Frank. Now that he has been confirmed, I know he will continue to ensure that consumer financial protection laws are enforced and that Americans have an advocate working to restrict abusive financial practices. # # #
07.15.2013	Washington, DC – On Monday, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) called on Chairman Robert W. Goodlatte (R-VA) to hold hearings into the Trayvon Martin case in the House Judiciary Committee. Gutierrez wrote, "When any child is gunned down and no one goes to jail, it is incumbent on lawmakers at the highest level of government to investigate whether justice has been done, whether the underlying law is just, and whether federal legislation could help avoid another tragic death like the death of Trayvon Martin. I respectfully request that the House Judiciary Committee hold hearings as soon as possible to examine these questions further." Rep. Gutiérrez said the shooting death of Trayvon Martin in Florida, "undermines the rule of law, erode community trust in law enforcement, and exemplify just how dangerous the combination of rampant fear and easily available guns can be." Earlier this year, Rep. Gutiérrez introduced H.R. 965, a bill to ban "junk guns," the small, cheaply manufactured, easily concealable handguns that are disproportionately used in the commission of crimes. On Wednesday, the Congressman was in Orlando, Florida where he addressed a legislative panel at the NAACP's 104th Annual Convention, along with Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), and Rep. Bobby Scott (D-VA). "Finally, I note with great sadness that Mr. Martin was just one of hundreds and hundreds of children we have lost to guns. There is no reason in a modern society to accept the sale, marketing, and widespread proliferation of guns as a means for killing other human beings and our laws should reflect that fact." The Congressman's letter concludes: "Day after day and month after month, gun violence is taking the lives of children in the City of Chicago at a horrendous rate. And yet, the House Judiciary Committee scarcely has anything to say about it." # # #
06.27.2013	GUTIÉRREZ REACTS TO SENATE PASSAGE OF IMMIGRATION BILL Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) issued the following statement on the Senate passage of immigration reform legislation. The Congressman is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, a Member of the Judiciary Committee, and one of seven Members of a bipartisan group in the House crafting an immigration reform measure. "Yes we can! The Senate acted and now the leadership in the House must determine how and when we also act in a bipartisan way. This is a great moment, but we are only halfway to the finish line. "As they say in the NFL draft, 'Mr. Boehner, you are on the clock.' Every passing day will put more pressure on Speaker Boehner to act or else have the House Republicans once again be seen as an obstacle to enacting popular, sensible legislation for the American people. "I believe that a bipartisan approach in the House is the only approach that will solve the political problem facing the Republican Party -- that their positions on immigration make them look anti-immigrant and anti-Latino. House Republicans cannot change this perception significantly unless they work with House Democrats to reach a bipartisan solution. "To my Republican friends I say, Democrats are the only ones who can help save you from yourselves, but we can only extend our hand. We cannot make you take it. "The bills we have been offered in the House Judiciary Committee could have been written -- and in most cases, were written -- before November 6th of last year. They don't reflect the desire of the American people to find a bipartisan solution. They reduce legal immigration, punish those who have applied to come legally, undermine the rule of law, make our borders and our neighborhoods less safe, encourage illegal immigration, and drive immigrants off-the-books and further into the black market. They do not take a sensible or helpful approach that will garner support in both parties and actually help fix our immigration system. "The clock is ticking, not just for the Republican Party but for the 1,400 people deported every day we fail to enact immigration reform." # # #
06.27.2013	Congressman on House Floor This Morning Says "All families…must be recognized as families for the purposes of our immigration laws." Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) addressed the Congress and recalled a speech he gave on July 11, 1996 urging his colleagues to vote against the Defense of Marriage Act. The Congressman voted against DOMA and yesterday tweeted to his 23,700 plus followers, "I told you so." Yesterday, the Secretary of Homeland Security indicated she would act without delay to make sure our immigration laws reflect the Supreme Court's decision striking down DOMA, saying in part, "Working with our federal partners, including the Department of Justice, we will implement today's decision so that all married couples will be treated equally and fairly in the administration of our immigration laws." The Congressman applauds the expediency with which the Obama Administration is acting and indicated that there is no legal barrier to the Department of Homeland Security immediately issuing green cards and taking other immigration-related actions in light of the Supreme Court's ruling. A video of the Congressman's speech this morning (delivered at approximately 10:00 a.m. ET) is available here: https://youtu.be/_rf6AiO6r6U. The text, as prepared for delivery is here: REP. LUIS V. GUTIÉRREZ Mr./Madam Speaker: Yesterday, a short time after the Supreme Court ruled that the Defense of Marriage Act violated the Constitution of the United States, an immigration judge in New York stopped the deportation of a man who is legally married to an American citizen. According to press reports, the bonds of marriage that tied Sean, an American citizen, to Steven, a native of Colombia, were invisible in the eyes of the law before about 11 a.m. Eastern time yesterday morning. But after the Supreme Court announcement, the bonds of marriage that drew these two individuals together in love and in the sight of God, all of a sudden became visible to the United States government. They materialized before our eyes, allowing a spouse of a U.S. citizen to live peacefully in the United States with his spouse as our immigration laws intended. What a difference a day makes! Well, actually this step towards justice took a great deal longer than a day. I am proud that the Supreme Court finally caught up to Sean and Steven. I am glad that the law of the land finally caught up to the American people who generally feel that marriage equality -- like other forms of equality -- is a good thing. I am glad the Supreme Court caught up to the 21st Century. And I am glad the Supreme Court caught up to me. In fact, what does a 21st century Congressman do on such occasions? I tweeted. And what I tweeted was: "I told you so." It was right here on this spot on July 11, 1996, that the House passed DOMA. I came to this well and walked up to the distinguished gentleman from Massachusetts, Barney Frank, who controlled the time on the Democratic side and I asked him if I could speak on the bill. I had a great deal of respect for the gentleman from Massachusetts and I have a great deal of respect for him today, now that he is happily retired and happily married. But on that particular day, he said to me "Luis, I only have time for people who will oppose the bill, Shoo. Go away." Who knows? Maybe it was a mild case of profiling, but he saw a Latino Catholic from the Midwest and just assumed I would not be with him. I assured the gentleman that as an Alderman, as a Congressman, and as just a man, I was against discrimination, bigotry and unfairness wherever and whenever I saw it and that I had fought hard to help Chicago pass a groundbreaking ordinance on LGBT equality in the 1980s. The gentleman smiled and welcomed me to the team and yielded me 3 and a 1/2 minutes. I went back to check the record to see what I had said that night and you know what? The 2013 me agrees wholeheartedly with the 1996 me. I pointed out that the supporters of DOMA were wrapping themselves in family values, when in fact they were preventing families from being recognized as families. Quote: I don't know many Americans--regardless of their political party, race, religion or sexual orientation--who don't believe that family values are vitally important. But I also don't know many Americans who want a couple of hundred politicians in Washington to impose their values on everyone else's families. Let me tell you about some very basic values I think we're talking about when we stand up against this bill. The values of people who love each other. People who share each other's lives. People who care about their future and the future of those around them. People who want to make a commitment that is legal and official and is important to them. To me, that sounds like family values. End quote. I am proud to have spoken up. I am proud to have voted against that bill. I am proud to have stood shoulder to shoulder with Barney Frank and many other heroes who said "no" then and can now say, as I did yesterday, "I told you so." Now, we need to take another vital step right away. The immigration judge that stopped Steven's deportation because of his legal marriage to an American citizen is absolutely right. But we need to make sure our immigration laws reflect the post-DOMA reality across the board. If the Obama Administration needs to write regulations to make sure our immigration laws match the Constitution of our nation, then they better get to work. We cannot afford delay. Same sex couples form families. Our immigration laws are supposed to honor families, so, Mr. President, please make it clear, from your office on down, that family unity means all families. We have waited long enough. The highest court in the land helped us take another step against discrimination. Now we must ensure that the administration of the law catches up to the letter and the spirit of the law. All families, like Steven and Sean's, must be recognized as families for the purposes of our immigration laws. What a difference a day makes!
06.14.2013	Rep. Gutierrez: "More than half-a-million children and young adults have applied for temporary relief from deportation and more than 360,000 have been approved and can live their lives and build their futures in the nation they call home." Washington, DC –Saturday, June 15, will mark one year since President Obama announced a program called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) to spare certain young immigrants who came to the U.S. as children from deportation and give them a work permit for two years. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) is one of the people who fought hardest to have the President dial back his program of deportations in this manner and has defended the President's action against constant attacks from Republicans. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez on the occasion of DACA's first anniversary: When the President announced the DACA initiative a year ago two things happened. First, young undocumented immigrants who were raised in the United States lined up by the thousands to pay the fee, submit their fingerprints, and sign up. Secondly, despite all the dire predictions of the opponents, the sun came up the next morning. The President and the nation are stronger for him having taken this action. More than half-a-million children and young adults have applied for temporary relief from deportation and more than 360,000 have been approved and can live their lives and build their futures in the nation they call home. They very bravely came forward, even as Republican candidates and lawmakers constantly threaten to deport them. I hired José Quintero earlier this year and he will be leaving soon to study architecture in the fall with a scholarship. I just hired our second DACA recipient, Nancy Onofre, who will be in my Cicero, Illinois office working as a congressional aide. They both grew up here and you might not even know they were immigrants if you met them. When you meet and talk with DACA recipients and other DREAmers like Nancy and José, it is crystal clear that the future of our nation is in very good hands, unless we do something stupid like break up their families or deport them. These young people are now the most important examples of why we need a broad legalization program as part of immigration reform. DACA recipients and DREAMers are fighting at my side and alongside the broader pro-immigrant movement to stop the deportations of their mothers, brothers, and neighbors and they are forceful and persistent and fearless. The President has immense powers under current law to protect DREAMers, to protect spouses and parents in military families, and to remove the fear of deportation from U.S. citizens whose parents we deport in the tens of thousands. Republicans attack the President for every immigrant family he saves and almost all of the Republicans in the House voted again to deport the DREAMers just last week. So even as we are making progress towards sensible immigration reform, the hardliners and deportationists are still driving the debate among many House Republicans and are leading the GOP down the same path they led Mitt Romney. I think it will yield similar results." # # #
06.06.2013	Washington, DC – Yesterday, the bipartisan group negotiating an immigration reform bill in the House announced that it was continuing to move forward towards introducing a bill, but that Rep. Raul Labrador (R-ID) was leaving the group. The remaining group of seven -- Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX), Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-CA), Rep. John Carter (R-TX), Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Rep. John Yarmuth (D-KY) and Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) -- will finalize the legislative language and introduce their bill in the coming days or weeks. The following is a statement from Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a Member of the Judiciary Committee. "Congressman Labrador was a very important part of the group and contributed a great many good ideas to the process. I am sorry to see him pull out, but I think he will be tremendously helpful in getting immigration reform passed by the House and signed by the President this year when all is said and done. "We are still in the early stages of a very long process of getting our immigration system overhauled. There is a commitment within the group's remaining members to craft legislation that will attract votes from both sides of the aisle and we resolved every issue, including whether immigrants could receive critical health care during the long period they will wait while working towards legal status and citizenship. "There are still many things in this bill I don't like and many things my Republican colleagues don't like, but that is what it takes to compromise, move forward, and solve the vexing problems we have with our immigration and deportation system. The children of deportees I met with yesterday, the immigrants I meet around the country, the clergy and employers and law enforcement that are fighting for immigration reform want us to keep moving forward and we are. "I guess they will stop calling us the gang of eight, now. I am hoping they start calling us the Magnificent Seven." # # # Note: Rep. Gutierrez flies to Birmingham, Alabama today for an event with Rep. Terri A. Sewell (D-AL) on Friday. He and Rep. Sewell will speak at a public forum on immigration reform, 1:00 - 3:00 p.m. at the Birmingham Civil Rights Institute (520 - 16th Street, N.), an event in collaboration with the Alabama Coalition for Immigrant Justice and the Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama. Contact Rep. Sewell's office for more information:
06.05.2013	Washington, DC – Today, USA Today published a story raising questions about a firm that has been contracted with Congressman Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez' office since 2003 to provide training and services to the staff of his office. Rep. Gutierrez (D-IL) responded to the article with the following statement: "The House Administration Committee reviewed and approved the contract with Scofield Company that was first established in 2003. That same contract has been renewed at the beginning of each new Congress, as the rules require. "I have already requested that the House Committee on Administration once again evaluate the contract. As I have always done, I will follow their guidance and make any change they recommend to our contract with Scofield Company. I do not want to create even the impression of impropriety or the appearance of a conflict of interest with any contractor my office uses. "Doug Scofield was never involved in requesting, discussing, or securing any federal funding for any clients and has never been a federal lobbyist. What he or others at Scofield Company did for other clients, whether in terms of lobbying the state government or serving as a PR firm, has never had anything to do with services his company provided for my office." # # #
05.23.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), issued the following statement after a meeting with his Democratic and Republican counterparts in a bipartisan group who are negotiating an immigration reform bill in the House. Today we kept things moving forward and I believe we will prevail. You can deter justice, you can slow justice, you can defer justice, but you can't stop it. I've been fighting for immigrants for years. We've won battles, we've lost battles. I can tell you today that we are making progress, and we're going to win justice for immigrants and a sensible policy for the American people. We'll get there. And if political infighting between the parties derails immigration reform, we all lose. A bipartisan bill in the House has the best chance of passing the House and the best chance of producing a good immigration reform proposal when conferenced with the Senate's bipartisan bill. A bipartisan process in the House allows Republicans and Democrats to have their input and arrive at a workable solution to fixing our broken immigration system. The need for immigration reform is immediate and the goal is within our reach. Today, more than 1,000 people will be deported, another person is likely to die in the desert, and the exploitation of workers and the sexual exploitation of women by their employers will continue. This is not a political issue to be won or lost but a human rights and civil rights crisis to be solved with all deliberate speed. I want the best bill possible in the shortest amount of time and do not care which party or politician gets credit, so I will continue to work towards a bipartisan bill in the House. # # #
05.08.2013	Gutiérrez: Tres Medidas Pro-LGBTT Merecen Ser Aprobadas Gutiérrez: “La Legislatura tiene que establecer un estándar alto en contra de la discriminación, en contra de la exclusion, en contra de los chivos expiatorios y los esteriotipos, uno que refleje los altos instintos morales, éticos y equitativos del pueblo puertorriqueño”. Washington, DC – Hoy, el congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), un campeón a largo plazo de los derechos LGBTT,urgió la aprobación de tres proyectos de ley que están siendo considerados por la Legislatura puertorriqueña con un llamado a proteger los derechos de todos los puertorriqueños al lograr la protección de los derechos de las personas LGBTT. El Proyecto del Senado 437 eliminaria cualquier disposición de género como obstáculo para la adopción. El Proyecto del Senado 238 prohibiría el discrimen por orientación sexual e identidad de género en el empleo, la vivienda y otras instancias públicas y privadas. El Proyecto de la Cámara 488 añadiría la orientación sexual, la identidad de género y el estado marital a las protecciones de la Ley 54 de violencia doméstica. El congresista Gutiérrez emitió la siguiente declaración: "Aplaudo a la Legislatura puertorriqueña por moverse en la dirección correcta de proteger los derechos humanos y civiles de todos los puertorriqueños al buscar eliminar la discriminación y la exclusion en contra de la comunidad LGBTT. Estas medidas merecen el apoyo de todos los puertorriqueños fuera de líneas partidistas. La Legislatura tiene que establecer un estándar alto en contra de la discriminación, en contra de la exclusion, en contra de los chivos expiatorios y los esteriotipos, uno que refleje los altos instintos morales, éticos y equitativos del pueblo puertorriqueño." # # # Gutierrez: Three Puerto Rico LGBT Bills Deserve Passage Gutierrez: The Legislature must set a high standard against discrimination, against exclusion, against scapegoating and stereotypes, one that reflects the high moral, ethical, and egalitarian instincts of the Puerto Rican people." Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), a long-time champion of LGBT rights, called for the passage of three bills in the Puerto Rican Legislature to protect the rights of all Puerto Ricans by protecting the rights of LGBT individuals and couples. Senate bill 238 would prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity in employment. House bill 488 would add language to the domestic violence law to protect all couples, regardless of their sexual orientation, gender identity and marital status. Senate bill 437 would make it clear in adoption law that sexual orientation and gender identity plays no role in determining what is in the best interest of the child. Rep. Gutierrez issued the following statement: "I applaud the Puerto Rican Legislature for moving in the right direction on protecting the civil and human rights of all Puerto Ricans by eliminating discrimination and exclusion targeted at the LGBT community. These bills deserve the support of Puerto Ricans across the political spectrum. The Legislature must set a high standard against discrimination, against exclusion, against scapegoating and stereotypes, one that reflects the high moral, ethical, and egalitarian instincts of the Puerto Rican people." # # #
05.06.2013	Gutierrez: "Five years after Postville, we still need a legal immigration system that works and we still need labor rights and legalization extended to vulnerable workers like those who worked the line in the plant that day." Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), a long-time champion of immigration reform who is part of a bipartisan working group in the House of Representatives crafting immigration reform legislation, commented on the pending fifth anniversary of one of the most horrific immigration raids in American history. On May 12, 2008, almost 1,000 Homeland Security agents in full SWAT battle gear, backed by helicopters and SUVs, swooped into a meat packing plant in Postville, Iowa. There, the federal agents arrested nearly 400 workers and processed them in groups at the nearby National Cattle Congress for deportation. In so doing, hundreds of families with children were split apart, workers in an abusive meat packing plant were punished, and the small town of Postville was completely and permanently turned on its head. "Five years ago, an earthquake would not have been able to plunge Postville into a greater sense of loss and confusion than the federal government did that day," said Rep. Luis Gutierrez. "I remember the stories of the parents and the children who could not find each other, a community simply devastated by the raid, and the religious community stepping up to help, provide shelter, and provide information in the vacuum. Postville instantly became iconic in the American Latino community for why we need immigration reform and it is still an image that haunts and inspires me." Rep. Gutierrez led a delegation of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to Postville in July 2008 that included then Chairman of the CHC Joe Baca (D-CA) and several other Members. Commemoration ceremonies to mark the fifth anniversary are scheduled in Cedar Rapids, Iowa for May 10, 2013, beginning with a noon remembrance in front of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Iowa (111 7th Ave. SE), followed by a “Walk for Justice” at 12:30 p.m. to Immaculate Conception Church (857 3rd Ave. SE) and a interfaith prayer service at 1:15 p.m. Contact Rockne Cole or Sr. Mary McCauley, BVM for more information. [Because of a scheduling conflict, Rep. Gutierrez will not be able to attend the fifth anniversary events.] The feature length documentary abUSed: The Postville Raid, by producer/director Luis Argueta will air nationally on PBS’s America Reframed on May 12, 2013. In all, 389 workers were arrested on May 12, 2008 at AgriProcessors, the kosher meat packing plant in Postville. Charges against the company ranged from violations of child labor laws, sexual harassment and assault, identity theft, violations of health and safety laws, and conspiracy to violate immigration laws, but the workers bore the brunt of the prosecution. Some immigrant workers who were victims of abuse and child labor violations, and who collaborated with law enforcement, were granted U visas. The majority were deported, and many others who had not been arrested fled, only to be replaced by new immigrant workers. In the end, only one executive of the plant went to jail – for unrelated bank fraud charges - and the company itself went bankrupt until the plant reopened under new management. "It is hard to believe that only five years have passed since the era of massive militaristic workplace raids were taken to a new level in Postville," Gutierrez said. "The dramatic, headline grabbing raids have mostly stopped, but the urgent need for immigration reform has only intensified. About two million immigrants have been deported in the last five years in a quieter but equally devastating escalation of deportation in this country." "In 2013, we still need a legal immigration system that works and we still need labor rights and legalization extended to vulnerable workers like those who worked the line in the plant that day," Rep. Gutierrez said. "Reforming immigration is within reach this year and it is the only way we establish law and order, the only way we stabilize the economy in some communities, and the only way we respect the human rights and dignity of immigrants. I hope people are reminded of the cost of inaction as they pause to remember Postville." # # # Additional resources related to Postville and the fifth anniversary of the raid: Postville Remembrance Website (Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service): www.lirs.org/postville-anniversary Sister Mary McCauley, BVM, Dubuque, Iowa (563-583-8989, mmccauley@bvmcong.org) [Sister Mary was the pastoral administrator at St. Bridget's in Postville at the time of the raid.] Reverend Greg Bahl, Current Pastor of St. Bridget's in Postville (dbq134@arch.pvt.k12.ia.us) David Vásquez, Campus Pastor, Office for College Ministries, Luther College, Decorah, IA (vasqda01@luther.edu) June 2008 account of Erik Camayd-Freixas, Florida International University, published in the New York Times: "Interpreting After the Largest ICE Raid in US History: A Personal Account" (https://graphics8.nytimes.com/packages/pdf/national/20080711IMMIG.pdf)
04.17.2013	Washington, DC – A bipartisan group of eight Members from the U.S. House of Representatives released the following statement today regarding their efforts for comprehensive reform of the U.S. immigration system: “Americans want to see the nation’s broken immigration system fixed, and they know it will take bipartisanship to solve this problem in a sensible and rational way. This week, a bipartisan group of Senators stepped forward to introduce their proposal, and we applaud their effort. We are also working on a good faith, bipartisan effort in the House. We believe we will soon agree on a reasonable, common-sense plan to finally secure our borders and strengthen our economy, with a tough but fair process that respects the rule of law so immigrants can contribute to our country. While we have made substantial progress, we continue to work diligently towards a bill that keeps America strong, competitive and true to our values.” — Reps. Xavier Becerra (CA), John Carter (TX), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL), Luis Gutierrez (IL), Sam Johnson (TX), Raul Labrador (ID), Zoe Lofgren (CA), and John Yarmuth (KY) # # #
03.21.2013	Gutierrez Statement on ATSDR Study of Vieques [English Version Below] Washington, DC – El siguiente es una declaración del Congresista Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) reaccionando a un informe sobre los peligros de salud que existen en la Isla de Vieques, a la costa de Puerto Rico, por la Agencia para Sustancias Tóxicas y el Registro de Enfermedades (ATSDR). "Los resultados del estudio de ATSDR sobre Vieques me han enojado, entristecido y han hecho que mi compromiso con lograr justicia para la gente de Vieques sea más fuerte que nunca. No se puede usar la palabra “ciencia” para encubrir la injusticia que ha acosado a Vieques, porque la ciencia implica verdad, evidencia y realidad. Las conclusiones de ATSDR claramente ignoran la evidencia que todos conocen y que ha sido demostrada por los científicos puertorriqueños. "La descuidada pero bella isla de Vieques ha sido bombardeada, ametrallada y mutilada y ahora, el mismo gobierno que le hizo estas cosas a una isla habitada dice que no nos debemos preocupar por las enfermedades, las muertes, el envenenamiento por el mercurio, por otros metales pesados y por los químicos. La incapacidad de ATSDR de llegar a la verdad acerca del peligro ambiental y de profundizar en sus análisis puede resultar en tasas de muerte debidas al cáncer y a otras enfermedades más altas. "Esto es un escándalo indignante. El pueblo de Puerto Rico merece más que esto. Según nos acercamos al 10mo aniversario del fin del bombardeo en Vieques, esta bofetada en nuestra cara de pueblo nos sirve de recordatorio de que hasta que no se restaure la salud, el ambiente y el bienestar de la gente de Vieques no tendremos nada que celebrar. "La belleza y la seguridad de la preciosa isla de Vieques y la belleza y la seguridad de su gente deben ser defendidas y mantenidas para las generaciones futuras." Washington, DC – The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) reacting to the release earlier this week of a study of the health risks on the Island of Vieques, just off the coast of Puerto Rico, by the U.S. Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR). "The results of the ATSDR study on Vieques make me angry, sad and more committed to seeking justice for the people of Vieques and Puerto Rico than ever before. You cannot use the term science to paint over the injustice that has beset Vieques, because science implies truth, evidence, and reality. The ATSDR conclusions clearly disregard the evidence that is widely held and that has been shown by Puerto Rican scientists. "The neglected but beautiful Island of Vieques has been bombed, strafed, shelled, and mutilated and now the same government that did all these things to an inhabited island says not to worry about the illness, death, mercury poisoning, and other heavy metals and chemical poisoning. Failure of the ATSDR to get the truth of the environmental hazard and go deep in its analysis could mean higher death rates due to cancer and other diseases. "It is an outrage. The people of Puerto Rico and Vieques deserve more. As we approach the 10th anniversary of the end of the bombing in Vieques, this slap in our collective faces serves as a reminder that until the health, the environment and the well being of the people of Vieques are restored, we have nothing to celebrate. "The beauty and safety of the precious Island of Vieques and the beauty and safety of its people must be defended and maintained for future generations." # # #
03.19.2013	Gutierrez: "More and more Republicans are approaching immigration with a sensible, reality-based, and conciliatory attitude…" Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), a long-time champion of immigration reform who has frequently worked across party lines, was the featured speaker at an on-the-record breakfast meeting with reporters hosted by the Christian Science Monitor at the St. Regis Hotel in Washington. Across the street at the Capitol Hilton at the same hour (9:00 am ET), Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) delivered a speech about immigration to the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. In addition to his opening remarks at the Monitor breakfast with reporters, which are pasted below, Rep. Gutierrez made a brief statement in reaction to Sen. Paul's remarks on immigration. Background: Rep. Gutierrez is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Chairman of the Task Force on Immigration of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He just completed a three-city tour of California over the weekend, holding packed, enthusiastic events to build support for immigration reform in San Diego, Salinas and San Francisco (See Facebook Note: Gutierrez Travels The County To Build Support for Comprehensive Immigration Reform). Gutierrez Statement on Sen. Rand Paul's Remarks on Immigration: "I welcome Sen. Rand Paul's remarks and think it is important for more Republicans to step up and make their positions on immigration reform known. Based on the reports I have seen, Sen. Paul and I probably do not agree on every detail, but he and I agree on broad strokes. We will not drive 11 million undocumented immigrants out of the U.S. and we need a legal way to incorporate immigrants into our society, both those already here and those coming in the future. More and more Republicans are approaching immigration with a sensible, reality-based, and conciliatory attitude aimed at resolving the issue, not sharpening a partisan divide and that is very refreshing." Gutierrez' prepared opening remarks, Christian Science Monitor Breakfast March 19, 2013 Thank you for letting me talk with you today and thank you to the Christian Science Monitor for inviting me. I am glad to see a number of immigration reporters who are veterans in the group and a few who are new to the immigration issue or maybe just new to me. I want to lay out some parameters and then I can expand on them or we can talk more during Q &A. I have been careful to adhere to the first rule of working in a bipartisan secret group: "Don't Talk About The Secret Group." While it has been widely reported that I am part of a group of four Democrats and four Republicans on the House side crafting a bipartisan immigration bill, I will neither confirm nor deny that here. That said, I have been a part of numerous conversations across party lines and nothing I say here should be construed as speaking "for" or "on behalf of" a secret group, if it in fact exists. I will say that immigration is incredibly complicated and that I do not anticipate the announcement of a bill or bipartisan principles in the next week, but I am hopeful that after recess, after Easter, the process will move forward quickly in both the House and the Senate. We are under a time pressure, not one set by the President, or the Senate Leaders or the Speaker of the House or Democratic Leader Pelosi. We are under a time pressure to resolve this issue because the moment is right politically and the further away we get from Election Day 2012, the less urgency there will be. And more importantly, every day we wait is another 1,400 or so immigrants who are being deported every day in our nation's incredible escalation of deportations and family destruction. Hundreds of parents will not come home to their children today. Hundreds of U.S. citizens will be orphaned, turned over to family protective services or uprooted to live with relatives today and every day we wait to fix our immigration system. I notice we have a mix of English language and Spanish language reporters here today and the sense of urgency on this issue is strikingly different in the media of the two languages. In Spanish this is a human rights issue, a civil rights issue, and family preservation issue. In English, by and large, this is a political issue. A horse-race issue. Who is ahead and who is behind? I am not surprised, but I wanted to point that out as we begin. I also want to reiterate my commitment to a path to citizenship. My name will not be on any bill that prevents citizenship for those who are legalizing. Perhaps not an easy path or a uniform path for every undocumented immigrant who is legalizing to arrive at a green-card at the end of the exact same process taking the exact same number of years for every person legalizing, but I will not prohibit immigrants who are legalizing from ever being citizens if they choose to apply. I have talked with Republicans including Reps. Paul Ryan (R-WI), Raul Labrador (R-ID), and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and they understand that we should not legislate a permanent, non-citizen under class and I think they agree with me and that many of the leading Republicans also agree. They have said, as Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) said while speaking at a Monitor Breakfast just like this one a couple of weeks ago, that we can come to agreement on allowing people to eventually apply for citizenship without creating a "new special path to citizenship" only available to those who are legalizing. We can come back to this, but I think there is an overlap between the Republican position and the Democratic position that we do not prohibit citizenship, which makes me optimistic that the policy to satisfy these two overlapping demands can be crafted. I would like a clean, clear, quick path to citizenship and I think a lot of people on my side would, but we are working to find bipartisan agreement and I don't get to write the bill all by myself. But I think it is important to underscore that all the talk about a new attitude or a new approach or a new openness by Republicans on immigration is true and I have seen it in every conversation I have had on immigration with Republicans. John McCain put it succinctly, trying to sum up the difference between the pre-election Republicans and the post-election Republicans: it is politics. That is true but it goes further. As I have said before, there are many Republicans who want immigration reform off of the table because they are worried about Democrats running the table in an electoral sense with Latino voters -- and a lot of other voters -- if they continue to be seen as the party hostile to immigrants. In other words, Republicans cannot start a conversation with Latino voters if they continue to be the party opposed to legalizing immigrants and stand firmly in favor of restrictive immigration policies and in favor of 11 million people, mostly Latino immigrants, being driven out of the United States if, by some miracle, Arizona-style laws actually worked and were able to induce mass "Self-Deportation." As some have said correctly, the GOP policy of "self-deportation" self-deported their candidate from living in the White House. But I know that some Republicans want to go beyond politics and solve our immigration problems because it is the right thing to do. I think many Republicans were quiet as the strident House Republican message of enforcement-only, deportation-only, and "no amnesty forever" was the dominant Republican approach. You still hear those Republicans at hearings occasionally going with the old talking points about immigrant murderers and rapists and gangbangers and welfare cheats. Some of the hard liners cannot help themselves. But there are a lot of Republicans who because of their faith or their free-market ideals or because of their admiration for people like Ronald Reagan take a different, more humane, and more practical approach. Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-SC) is a good example, I think. From the day he was named as the Immigration Subcommittee chairman, he started talking about immigration in a new way. He wanted to focus on the people, the humanity, and get away from the stereotypes and the labels like "illegals." He told Gannett News in January: "Peoples' desire to improve their lives resonates with me, no matter where they're from." And he went on to say that "In my district, what's said from the pulpit carries a lot of weight in terms of how we define morality." And he had heard Baptist preachers talking about the immigration issue and immigrants themselves in a new way. In a human way. As God's children, too. In the hearings he has called, he has selected three witnesses to the Democrats one witness in each of the three hearings we have had in the subcommittee and it has been remarkable. None of those witnesses were from the advocacy groups that oppose legal immigration like NumbersUSA or FAIR or the Center for Immigration Studies. Those groups dominated the Republican witness lists on immigration for more than a decade. But now we tend to have three Republican witnesses and one Democratic witness and I agree with all four, I share values and an approach to this issue with all four. The questions from almost all -- not all, but almost all -- of the Republicans are aimed at figuring out solutions, exploring realistic options, and are based on the premise that legal immigration is basically a good thing. That is a huge change. The people who lost on Election Night were the opponents of legal immigration in the Republican Party and they are mostly on the fringes of this debate looking in at this point. They were driving the Romney immigration message and the Republican platform, but they are almost nowhere to be seen. You still have a few Republicans that go straight to welfare and crime and make all immigrants out to be threats, but they are no longer the center of the Republican debate. Finally, as an example of where we are and where I think this debate is heading, I want to talk about Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI). He and I are scheduled to speak at a joint appearance at the City Club of Chicago to discuss immigration on April 22. The event sold out in the first 12 minutes that tickets were on sale. I don't think there is a line of the Ryan budget I would endorse and I don't think there is a line of a Gutierrez budget he would endorse if such a document existed. But people are interested in how we are finding common ground on immigration. [The Congressman took questions for the rest of the hour.] # # #
03.18.2013	Gutierrez: "I see it in every conversation I have with Republicans on the Hill" Washington, DC –The Growth and Opportunity Project, an advisory panel convened by Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus, released a set of policy and strategic recommendations to the Republican National Committee that include an apparently full-throated embrace of comprehensive immigration reform: [A]mong the steps Republicans take in the Hispanic community and beyond, we must embrace and champion comprehensive immigration reform. If we do not, our Party’s appeal will continue to shrink to its core constituencies only. We also believe that comprehensive immigration reform is consistent with Republican economic policies that promote job growth and opportunity for all. (https://images.politico.com/global/2013/03/17/rnc_growth_opportunity_book_2013.html, p. 8) Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), a long-time champion of immigration reform who has frequently worked across party lines, welcomed the new direction of the GOP and said he is already seeing the new approach in practice. He just completed a three-city tour of California over the weekend, holding packed, enthusiastic events to build support for immigration reform in San Diego, Salinas and San Francisco (See Facebook Note: Gutierrez Travels The County To Build Support for Comprehensive Immigration Reform). The following is a statement by Rep. Gutierrez, a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Chairman of the Task Force on Immigration of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus: "The politics on immigration have evolved so quickly since Election Day in the GOP that it makes your head spin. They were committed to driving 11 million undocumented immigrants, mostly Latinos, out of the country through "self-deportation" and self-destructive Arizona-style anti-immigrant laws. That was not only what their presidential candidate embraced, it was in the party platform. "Elections are powerful things. Now the GOP sees that unless they stop talking about kicking millions of Latino immigrants and their families out of our country, they cannot effectively talk to Latinos about anything else. It is good to have the GOP back at the table discussing how to resolve a tough policy problem, conscientiously, seriously, and not just thinking how to exploit this division at election time. Right now, we need to forget about who is going to get credit and have both parties serve the people's interest by getting immigration reform done. "I see this change in every conversation I have with Republicans on the Hill. I see it in the Immigration Subcommittee chaired by Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-SC). We are talking about how to legalize hard working immigrants who have lived here for years or decades and how to keep their families together. We are no longer arguing with the opponents of legal immigration in the GOP Caucus who have driven the Republican position on immigration for decades and led them off an electoral and demographic cliff. "There are a lot of reasons for optimism that Congress will pass immigration reform this year and the return of reasonable Republicans to the table is one of them." # # #
03.05.2013	Rep. Gutierrez: "The best way to get visas for our high-tech fields, for graduates of U.S. universities, and for keeping American companies on the cutting edge is for all of the stakeholders in immigration to keep working together towards comprehensive reform." Washington, DC -- The Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security held a hearing today on "Enhancing American Competitiveness through Skilled Immigration" (see: https://judiciary.house.gov/hearings/113th/hear_03052013.html for information and live streaming), the third hearing the Subcommittee has held in two weeks on immigration reform issues. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) is a Member of the Subcommittee and the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez: I think we all want to fix our broken immigration system and Chairman Gowdy is devoting a good deal of time and energy to this issue. I think my Republican colleagues are taking immigration reform seriously, more seriously than in previous years. It is a refreshing change and a good sign that we will be able to arrive at common ground on immigration reform legislation this year. I support visas for graduates in STEM fields, those who graduate from U.S. universities with degrees in science, technology, engineering, and math and think we do not need to cut other visa categories to create such a program to help the American economy. One of the most difficult things we must get right in reforming our immigration system is the mix between family-based and employment-based immigration. We need both and should not let the opponents of legal immigration in the Republican Party force us into a false choice. We need more family and employment visas. Let's take a both/and, not an either/or approach. For as long as immigrants have been coming to America, family units have been important to their survival and success. Families support each other, spawn small businesses, and facilitate integration. One of the most devastating aspects of the massive increase in deportations over the past several years is that families have been split apart leaving orphaned American citizen children and countless families uprooted. At the same time, we need visas to fuel our economy and keep American industries in the U.S. The best way to get visas for our high-tech fields, for graduates of U.S. universities, and for keeping American companies on the cutting edge is for all of the stakeholders in immigration to keep working together towards comprehensive reform. A piece by piece approach will not solve our immigration issues top to bottom and that is exactly what we need and what is achievable if we keep moving forward. # # # For additional information on Rep. Gutierrez' views on skills-based and family-based immigration as components of comprehensive immigration reform, see his recent exchange on the web site Tech Crunch with Vivek Wadhwa, tech-blogger, New York Times contributor, and Vice President of Innovation and Research at Singularity University, (also: Fellow at Stanford Law School, and Director of Research at the Center for Entrepreneurship and Research Commercialization at Duke University). Dear Congressman Gutierrez, Please Lift Your Hold On Silicon Valley (TechCrunch 2/10/2013): https://bit.ly/VMtoLVG1 Dear Vivek Wadhwa, We Need To Fix Our Whole Immigration System And I Need Your Help (TechCrunch 2/14/2013): https://bit.ly/LVGtoVW1 Rep. Gutierrez, Let’s Try The Silicon Valley Way – Lean Immigration Reform (TechCrunch 2/16/2013): https://bit.ly/VMtoLVG2 Dear Vivek: Think Big On Immigration Reform: (TechCrunch 2/26/2013): https://bit.ly/LVGtoVW2
03.04.2013	Gutierrez: "Chicago has been in the center of the debate on gun control. I have fought since my earliest days in Congress for sensible gun control legislation. And I am glad that we are finally revisiting this important topic of public safety after horrific mass shootings like Newtown, CT, and Aurora, CO, and Tucson, AZ, and the 'slow moving massacre' that continues on the streets of Chicago and around the country each day. Too many of our precious young children are being claimed by gun violence – much of it with handguns." Washington, DC -- When he returns to Washington on Tuesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) will introduce legislation to curb the sale and trafficking of junk guns, the cheap handguns, sometimes known as "Saturday Night Specials" responsible for a huge percentage of the deaths and injuries in Chicago and around the nation. Rep. Gutierrez, who sits on the Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, made the announcement at a press conference in Chicago on Monday before holding a community meeting with Chicago clergy, community leaders and others to discuss gun-violence prevention strategies. A one-page fact sheet on the Congressman's proposed legislation, as well as lists of the guns most often recovered in crimes by the Federal Bureau of ATF and Chicago Police Department were also distributed to reporters at the press conference. The following are the Congressman's remarks at the press conference, as prepared for delivery, held at La Capilla Del Barrio/The Neighborhood Chapel in Chicago at 10:00 am CT on Monday. Good morning. A couple weeks ago I had the opportunity to meet with concerned pastors and community leaders and victims of gun violence to discuss steps that we can take to address the problem of gun violence in our community. As part of the outcome of that dialogue, today I am announcing that I will be reintroducing federal legislation to ban the sale of junk guns. This is an issue that has been important to me for many years. It was one of the first bills that I introduced in Congress. In 2011, 97 percent of the shootings that occurred in Chicago were done with handguns. Junk guns, are a particularly notorious subset of handguns. They are small and easily concealable and manufactured from cheaper and weaker materials and metals, which makes them prone to misfire and malfunction. In spite of being widely considered unsuitable for self-defense or sporting, they are very popular crime guns. You can see to the side here the top ten most traced crime guns from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms from 2000. Five of the ten guns pictured are junk guns. You can also see here, a list of the most recovered handguns by the Chicago Police Department from 2008-2010. You can see the problem of these notorious and dangerous handguns has persisted – dangerously – through the years. Removing this dangerous subset of handguns from streets of Chicago and communities across the country will save lives. Now, we have had for many years a set of basic design and safety standards to regulate handguns that are imported to the United States. What has been absent are similar standards for domestically manufactured handguns, essentially allowing an unregulated market to flourish for these weapons. That is why my bill would ban junk guns and require that these handguns manufactured in the U.S. meet the same standards of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives as the handguns we import. When we regulate standards for cars and cribs and a whole host of products to ensure they are safe for public consumption – how does it make sense that we do not have basic safety standards for dangerous handguns made right here in America? Now, Chicago has been in the center of the debate on gun control. I have fought since my earliest days in Congress for sensible gun control legislation. And I am glad that we are finally revisiting this important topic of public safety after horrific mass shootings like Newtown, CT, and Aurora, CO, and Tucson, AZ, and the “slow moving massacre” that continues on the streets of Chicago and around the country each day. Too many of our precious young children are being claimed by gun violence – much of it with handguns. Over half of the firearms traced by the Chicago Police come from outside the State of Illinois. So while we know that the efforts of the City of Chicago and the Chicago Police are important in addressing crime and preventing gun violence – many of these weapons are brought from neighboring states, and particularly from some of the Southern states like Mississippi. Setting a basic federal standard will help all of our children, whether they live in Illinois or anywhere else. I think that this legislation is especially timely as the Illinois State Legislature debates state conceal and carry legislation. While state legislators are grappling with sensible safeguards and restrictions for a conceal and carry law, I think we all know that the demand for small and easily concealable handguns in the state is likely to grow. Now is the time to remove the most unsafe handguns from the market. I thank the pastors and community leaders who are here today and engaging all elected officials and citizens on the importance of sensible gun control. They have witnessed the heartache and suffering of families who have lost a loved one to handgun violence. I believe that we have a moral obligation to find solutions to the pervasive problem of gun violence and I look forward to continuing to work with them on additional ways that we can address related issues like unemployment, safe schools that contribute to strengthening our community and preventing violence. Thank you. The Congressman will formally introduce his bill on Tuesday when he returns to Washington and is continuing a dialogue he started with concerned clergy and community leaders who have come together to develop strategies to prevent gun violence. # # #
02.27.2013	"We are having a much more realistic and fruitful conversation about employment verification because Republicans are back at the table willing to talk sensibly about how to move forward." Washington, DC -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) commented on today's House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security hearing on electronic employment verification systems like E-Verify. Rep. Gutierrez, who is Chairman of the Task Force on Immigration of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, recently rejoined the Judiciary Committee and the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee in order to work on immigration reform. He is traveling on Friday to Florida and on Saturday to New Jersey for a series of immigration events and plans trips later this month to Texas and California to meet with local Members of Congress, their constituents, and anyone who wants to have their voice heard as Congress deliberates immigration reform. The following is a statement by Rep. Gutierrez: "Today's hearing is remarkable because we are talking about employment verification systems in their proper context. We are discussing how to actually make them work and work for American workers with the right sorts of protections and appeals processes that make sure any errors are corrected in a timely manner. And we are talking about electronic verification systems as part of a broader reform that legalizes the current workforce and allows for legal immigration in the future. "For the last decade, the bills I have written and co-sponsored with Senators McCain and Kennedy and Flake and others have had mandatory electronic verification systems as part of the broader reforms because whatever system we devise must have integrity and enforcement. But for the last decade or more, Republicans have only been willing to discuss E-Verify as a stand-alone issue, isolated from other reforms of our immigration system like legal immigration and legalization. Those times are changing and we are having a much more realistic and fruitful conversation about employment verification because Republicans are back at the table willing to talk sensibly about how to move forward." # # #
02.26.2013	"A civil, intelligent discussion on a complicated and sometimes very partisan issue in a House Subcommittee hearing should not be such a remarkable event, but in these hyper-partisan times, it sort of is." Washington, DC -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) commented on today's House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security Hearing, noting that he could not remember a hearing where the Republicans had not invited a staunch opponent of legal immigration to testify. Gutierrez said this was a very good sign that Republicans were turning a new page on the immigration issue and he congratulated Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-SC) on this remarkable accomplishment. "This is the first time in 20 years that I feel I share the same basic values as every panelist invited by the Republican Majority," Rep. Gutierrez said. "The Chairman and the Subcommittee Chairman are approaching this issue from a new and much more constructive perspective which gives me great hope that we can come to agreement across party lines on immigration this year." In previous years when Republicans have been in the majority and the topic of immigration came up, it was pretty much guaranteed the panel would include a representative from FAIR or NumbersUSA or the Center for Immigration Studies or one of the other groups founded to fight immigration -- legal or otherwise. Today's panel included two agricultural trade association representatives, a farmer, and a representative from the United Farmworkers (UFW) labor union to discuss labor in the agriculture industry, temporary worker programs, and how comprehensive immigration reform could or should address agriculture. Rep. Gutierrez stressed that he did not agree with the panel on every issue -- especially around the rights of working people to form unions -- but the panel was a hopeful sign for Gutierrez. "It was a very thoughtful, helpful discussion and did not end up with Republicans grilling witnesses about immigrant murderers or rapists or gangbangers, which has been the default position of a lot of Republicans on immigration for a long time," Rep. Gutierrez said. "A civil, intelligent discussion on a complicated and sometimes very partisan issue in a House Subcommittee hearing should not be such a remarkable event, but in these hyper-partisan times, it sort of is." Rep. Gutierrez, who is Chairman of the Task Force on Immigration of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, recently rejoined the Judiciary Committee and the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee in order to work on immigration reform. He is traveling on Friday to Florida and on Saturday to New Jersey for a series of immigration events and plans trips later this month to Texas and California to meet with local Members of Congress, their constituents, and anyone who wants to have their voice heard as the Congress deliberates immigration reform. # # #
02.20.2013	Congressman: "I am extremely optimistic that we are on track for an immigration reform bill signing this year, and I think that will happen sooner rather than later." Washington, DC -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) commented on the leak of a White House immigration proposal, first reported on by USA Today, portions of which were later published by the Miami Herald. The following is a statement by Rep. Gutierrez, Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a Member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security: "The fact that the President is preparing a serious, thoughtful proposal is more evidence that things are moving in the right direction. "That the President's plan got leaked to the press doesn't really change anything. We have known that the President is preparing a bill and that at the same time, tremendous progress is being made in Congress towards bipartisan immigration reform. "Progress towards a bipartisan solution continues and I am very optimistic, so there is no need for the President to introduce his bill at this time. What is needed -- and is always needed -- is for the President and the American people to continue to put pressure on Washington to act swiftly on immigration reform. We can't let inertia, politics, gridlock, or other important fights on other issues to get in the way of an immigration bill this year. I am extremely optimistic that we are on track for an immigration reform bill signing this year, and I think that will happen sooner rather than later." # # #
02.13.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, U.S. Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) and Representatives Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Frank Pallone (D-NJ), and Luis Gutierrez (D-IL) reintroduced legislation in both the Senate and House to allow certain Indonesian refugees to reopen claims for asylum. Many Indonesian Christians who fled their native country to avoid religious persecution are now faced with deportation after years of living, working, and paying taxes in the U.S. The legislation introduced today would provide a legal avenue for these individuals to reapply for asylum in the U.S. “We're proud to reintroduce this bill to provide a chance to these hard-working Indonesian families that have lived law-abiding, peaceful lives in the United States for more than two decades,” said Lautenberg. “These families fled religious persecution and came to our country to work to raise their families in safety. We must carry on America's long history of protecting refugees from persecution by giving these families a chance to legally seek asylum and to continue contributing to our country.” “Now is the time for the United States to provide refuge for those fleeing persecution and to support a process that fairly considers their claims. These individuals came to this country to escape extreme violence merely because of their religious beliefs, and should not be forced to return to that brutality. Instead, they should be allowed their day in court!” said Maloney. “This bill does not, in itself, grant asylum, but does prevent families from being ripped apart by removing a procedural barrier.” “I remain concerned about the status of those Indonesian citizens who fled religious persecution in their home country and may be forced to return despite their seeking asylum in the United States,” said Pallone. “Many of these individuals have become valuable members of their local communities here in the United States. I am proud to re-introduce legislation, along with my colleagues, which would reopen the opportunity for these individuals to apply for asylum here in the U.S. and avoid having to return to religiously motivated violence and intolerance.” “Our fundamental and ancient values of fairness, justice, and religious freedom are at stake and these refugees deserve a chance to remain with their families,” said Gutierrez. “These men and women fled persecution and violence in Indonesia and, like so many immigrants and refugees, came to the U.S. with the hopes of a brighter and safer future for themselves and their families. Many of these Indonesian refugees were denied asylum solely for missing a filing deadline and deserve their day in court. This bill aligns with this country's history and commitment to protecting people who fear persecution.” The “Indonesian Family Refugee Protection Act” would grant qualifying Indonesians whose asylum applications were denied solely based upon failure to meet the one-year application filing deadline an additional two-year window to reopen their asylum claims. The legislation was first introduced last year in the 112th Congress. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, many Indonesian Christians came to the U.S. on tourist visas when religious persecution in Indonesia escalated, resulting in extreme violence and destruction of Christian churches. Many of these families have lived, worked, and paid taxes in the U.S. for years and now have children who are U.S. citizens. A number of these families have settled in areas surrounding Highland Park, New Jersey, where they have become a part of the community. At the request of the U.S. government, many of these Indonesians registered with the government under a program requiring the registration of non-citizen males from certain countries following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. Following this registration, the government began deportation proceedings against some Indonesians who had overstayed their visas. These deportations and threatened deportations have caused fear in the Indonesian community that family members will have to return to Indonesia, where they could again face religious persecution. ###
02.11.2013	Congressman Has Been Helping South Carolina Father Fight Deportation Case For More Than A Year Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) announced today that he would bring Gabino Sanchez, a South Carolina father and husband fighting deportation, to be his guest at the President's State of the Union Address on Tuesday in the Capitol. Sanchez, of Ridgeland, SC, is a husband and father of two U.S. citizen children who entered the country when he was 15 years old and has been working and living peacefully in the U.S. ever since. Because he is undocumented, Mr. Sanchez has received multiple misdemeanor charges for driving without a license by local police over the past ten years. The Congressman met Sanchez in November 2011 and pledged to help him fight deportation. The Congressman accompanied Sanchez to his first supervision appointment with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) in Charleston, S.C. to ask that his deportation case be closed and attended two subsequent hearings (March 12, and May 15, 2012) before an immigration judge in Charlotte, North Carolina (For additional background, see: "Rep. Luis Gutierrez Makes Example of Deportation Case," CNN Early Start interview with Soledad O'Brien, 3/12/12; "Are President Obama’s Deportation Changes Real?" Rep. Gutierrez article for Huffington Post, 3/12/12; and "Gutierrez: My Fight For Gabino Sanchez And The President's Deportation Policy Is Not Over," Press Release, 3/13/12). In May 2012, Sanchez was granted a 12 month continuance in his case as he pursued relief from deportation, which under current immigration laws, allows him a permit to work legally and apply for a driver's license, which he has done. This month, Sanchez was granted an additional month to apply for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), the special deportation relief process set up by the Obama Administration for immigrants who came to the U.S. as children. Representative Gutierrez sees the deportation case against Sanchez as a test of the President's deportation policies, and especially the guidelines, announced by President Obama in 2011, that are supposed to prioritize deportations of immigrants who have committed serious crimes like rape and murder and apply "prosecutorial discretion" to close deportation cases against immigrants with deep ties to the United States, U.S. citizen children, and no significant criminal history. Sanchez is in the process of applying for DACA and, in addition to sitting in the Gallery for the President's speech, is participating in a forum with other immigrant workers, Congressman Gutierrez, and other Members of Congress taking place on Wednesday (1:00 p.m. ET in Capitol Visitor's Center HVC-215, see separate media advisory or contact Rep. Gutierrez' office for more details). # # #
02.08.2013	Congressman developing legislative strategy to prevent handgun deaths and injuries Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), who sits on the Judiciary Committee's Crime Subcommittee, will meet with gun-violence victims and their families and with pastors and other leaders on Monday and will hold a media availability immediately afterwards. The goal is to discuss what many are calling the "slow-motion massacre" taking place in Chicago and to solicit input on legislation the Congressman is developing to prevent handgun violence. The Congressman has a long track-record fighting for gun-control legislation, dating to his first days in Congress. In addition to his very first bill in 1993 ― to ban military-style assault weapons ― the Congressman has also fought for legislation to stem the flow of unsafe handguns that are disproportionately used in the commission of crimes. He is particularly interested in what can be done to stem the epidemic of handgun deaths and injuries in the City of Chicago and is hoping to introduce legislation in the coming weeks. He is seeking community input from leaders in the Fourth District and the rest of the Chicago area. “I remain concerned about the prevalence of handguns and the senseless deaths that our community suffers week after week. I think it is important that in addition to improvements to background checks and reinstating the assault weapons ban, solutions to the epidemic of handgun violence need to be part of the national discussion.” The Congressman is also eager to see how the President addresses gun violence prevention in his State of the Union Address Tuesday, which is also likely to include more details of the President's approach to immigration reform. # # #
02.05.2013	"Whatever the reason that brings Republicans back to the immigration negotiating table, I am glad they are back and look forward to working with them to resolve this issue for the American people." Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) participated in his first hearing since rejoining the House Judiciary Committee and the topic was right up his alley: America's Immigration System: Opportunities for Legal Immigration and Enforcement of Laws against Illegal Immigration. Gutierrez said the fact that the first hearing of the full Judiciary Committee was on immigration was a sign that the Republicans are changing their tune on the issue. "For years we have been talking about electrified fences, overblown stereotypes of criminals and gangbangers, and mass deportation fantasies in Republican-controlled immigration hearings," Rep. Gutierrez said. "Most Republicans I talk to understand that 11 million people here illegally will not be leaving the country and that holding out for their 'self deportation' puts Republican lawmakers out of step with the country as a whole." Rep. Gutierrez noted that his parents, who were U.S. citizens who migrated from Puerto Rico to Chicago in the 1950s, were not highly educated, but were given a chance to raise a family and sent two kids to college and one to the United States Congress. "There is a lot of talk about high skilled immigration and I support legal immigration for highly skilled immigrants," Gutierrez said. "The beauty of the American experience with immigration is that it does not and should not have income tests, education barriers, and exclusions for humble people like my parents and the parents of a lot of Members of Congress. We need 'both-and' not 'either-or' when it comes to the mix of family and business immigration when we reform the system." "Some of the Republicans cannot help themselves when talking about immigrants and gravitate to a stereotypical discussion of gangs, criminals, and the boogie-man of open borders," Rep. Gutierrez said. "Despite this, we are starting in a different place this year in Congress, with much less grandstanding and fear mongering by the anti-immigration wing of the Republicans." "The issue of citizenship for immigrants currently in the U.S. illegally is a much bigger issue for Republican elected officials than it is for the American people," Gutierrez said. "For the American people, citizenship means you are sharing the load, making the same sacrifices, having the same rights and the same responsibilities. Republicans who are shying away from citizenship as a goal now will learn that citizenship strengthens their position with their base and the rest of America, not weakens it." The make-up of the two panels of witnesses at the hearing gave Rep. Gutierrez some hope that Republicans are serious about working towards immigration reform. The three Republican witnesses on the first panel are generally supportive of legal immigration for highly skilled and highly educated people, and were joined by Mayor Julian Castro of San Antonio, who supports legal immigration across education and class levels. "Look, we need legal immigration across skill and education levels so that we do not create an underground for workers after reform," said Rep. Gutierrez. "I think Mayor Castro's remarks make clear the goal of keeping families together in our immigration system, because it makes sense from a social and an economic point of view." But, Gutierrez noted: "The hearing's second panel was more of a throwback to the Republicans' default position that calls for more deportations and more enforcement first, last and always. The deportation-only approach has not worked for two decades and most of us on Capitol Hill take the view that enforcement must be combined with legalization, legal immigration, and other reforms in order fix our immigration system." Rep. Gutierrez said he is optimistic that House Republicans will follow the lead of key GOP leaders like Speaker John Boehner, Rep. Paul Ryan, and Sen. Marco Rubio in remaining open to immigration reform that includes legalization leading to citizenship and wider legal immigration avenues so that we get control over immigration. "Many of the House Republicans I talk to understand that they have mishandled the immigration issue and that their approach has alienated voters," Rep. Gutierrez said. "Other Republicans see the wisdom of legalizing people who have lived and worked here for a long time and ensuring that the people who come in the future come legally in a controlled and orderly manner with basic rights and visas. Whatever the reason that brings Republicans back to the immigration negotiating table, I am glad they are back and look forward to working with them to resolve this issue for the American people." # # # Recent Press Releases and statements: 2/4/2013 - Gutierrez meets with Chicago community leaders and Sen. Durbin on immigration 2/1/2013 - Gutierrez attends Denver, Colorado community forum 1/29/2013 - Gutierrez reacts to President Obama's immigration speech 1/28/2013 - Gutierrez reacts to bipartisan Senate immigration principles 1/25/2013 - Gutierrez statement after CHC meeting with President Obama 11/28/2012 - CHC Releases immigration reform principles
02.05.2013	Members assert: UAFA must be a part of any comprehensive immigration reform proposal President Obama, Congressional Hispanic Caucus, House champions of immigration reform endorse UAFA and LGBT-inclusive immigration legislation WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), the ranking Democrat on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, led a bipartisan coalition of congressional champions of immigration reform and civil rights in re-introducing the Uniting American Families Act (UAFA), including Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Richard Hanna (R-NY), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Charlie Dent (R-PA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), John Conyers (D-MI), Jared Polis (D-CO), David Cicilline (D-RI), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Mark Takano (D-CA), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Mike Honda (D-CA), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD). UAFA would allow gay and lesbian Americans to sponsor their permanent partners for legal residency in the United States, a right currently enjoyed only by married heterosexuals under immigration law. Because the U.S. does not legally recognize gay and lesbian couples and their children as families, many same-sex bi-national couples are torn apart. As the push for comprehensive immigration reform increases in Congress, the original co-sponsors asserted that any legislative proposal for immigration reform must include UAFA and equality for LGBT families. Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) also plans to introduce UAFA in the Senate. “Today, thousands of committed same-sex couples are needlessly suffering because of unequal treatment under our immigration laws, and this is an outrage,” said Nadler. “Our Constitution guarantees that no class of people will be singled out for differential treatment – and LGBT Americans must not be excluded from that guarantee. Moreover, any serious legislative proposal for comprehensive immigration reform absolutely must include gay and lesbian couples and their families.” “We must continue to strike down the barriers of discrimination wherever they exist,” said Leader Pelosi. “As we work toward comprehensive immigration reform, we must ensure that the value of all families is valued, respected and recognized in the eyes of the law.” “It is imperative that our immigration system recognizes and upholds the value of keeping all families together, said Whip Hoyer. “Discrimination of any kind, including against same-sex marriages, has no place in our nation. I am proud to stand with Representative Nadler as he reintroduces the Uniting American Families Act to ensure that our laws protect and treat committed bi-national same-sex couples with the respect they deserve.” “Our laws ought to reflect reality and the full diversity of what family means in the United States today,” Gutierrez said. “I will fight for UAFA because it is the right thing to do and because it protects the interests of all families.” “Our immigration system has always recognized the value of keeping families together,” said Conyers. “But when it comes to legally married same-sex couples and domestic partners our immigration law says those families don’t count. I am pleased to join my colleagues today to stand against this discrimination and to protect the unity of all families.” “The Uniting American Families Act reflects our values as Americans, prioritizing the sanctity of the family unit,” said Polis. “Instead of continuing to discriminate against same-sex couples, this important legislation would help reduce family backlogs, grow our economy and improve the effectiveness of the immigration process. This common-sense legislation is part of the solution to how to fix our broken immigration system.” “Today’s bipartisan reintroduction reminds us that LGBT immigrant families live in Democratic and Republican districts,” said Rachel B. Tiven, executive director of Immigration Equality. “Voters sent a clear message in November: they support treating everyone – gay and straight, citizen and immigrant – with dignity and respect. These are true American values. As Congress moves forward on long overdue immigration reform, lawmakers must include UAFA as part of that effort. Our immigration laws must reflect the diversity of our beautiful country and must protect families and family unity. We are grateful to Congressman Nadler for his decades-long leadership on this issue and to his House colleagues from both parties who have joined our efforts.” “Americans should never be forced to choose between love of family and love of country. Yet our nation’s discriminatory immigration laws often require bi-national same-sex couples to uproot their lives and move abroad in order to keep their families together,” said Human Rights Campaign President Chad Griffin. “Today we applaud the bi-partisan reintroduction of the Uniting American Families Act, which affirms that our nation’s committed and loving bi-national same-sex couples deserve the same dignity, respect and opportunities as everyone else.” “U.S. immigration policy is supposed to be based on the principle of bringing and keeping families together, but the system is broken. Instead of unification, the policy often results in painful separation of loved ones,” said Rea Carey, Executive Director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force. “This must change. Thousands of binational same-sex couples and their families have been kept separated or forced to live abroad. This discriminatory practice is unfair and inhumane. No one should ever have to choose between their partner and their country or be denied the freedom to be with their families. The Uniting American Families Act will change this inequity.” UAFA would add the term “permanent partner” to sections of the Immigration and Naturalization Act that apply to married heterosexual couples. “Permanent partner” is described as an adult who is in a committed, intimate relationship with another adult in “which both parties intend a lifelong commitment.” This legislation would afford equal immigration benefits to permanent partners as exist for married heterosexuals, and it would impose the same restrictions, enforcement standards and penalties as are currently in immigration law. At least 31 countries currently allow residents to sponsor gay and lesbian permanent partners for legal immigration, including: Andorra, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. ###
02.04.2013	"Right now, the momentum gives me a great sense of optimism." Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) participated in a community forum in Chicago hosted by Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL) at the Instituto del Progreso Latino, in the Congressman's district. The forum brought together leaders from a cross section of Chicago-area constituencies to update them and discuss progress being made in the House and Senate towards comprehensive immigration reform. The Congressman and the Senator are deeply involved in on-going bipartisan discussions aimed at securing passage of a bill, which President Obama and Senate Majority Harry Reid (D-NV) have each identified as their number one legislative priority. "Right now, the momentum gives me a great sense of optimism," Rep. Gutierrez said. "Senator Durbin and I and a few other Democrats have been at the negotiating table for a long time and at times, we felt a little lonely," Rep. Gutierrez joked. "Now people in both parties are actually fighting to be at the negotiating table and I think we will get legislation passed and signed by the President this year." Both Senator Durbin and Congressman Gutierrez have been fighting for immigration reform for decades and leading the efforts for comprehensive immigration reform and the DREAM Act. Participants in the Chicago community forum, who ranged from pro-immigrant advocates and religious leaders to business and labor leaders, asked the lawmakers about policy specifics being discussed in various plans under consideration in Washington. "I am less interested in the policy specifics right this moment than the fact that things are moving forward steadily and sensibly," Rep. Gutierrez said. "Both parties are putting ideas on the table, but there is broad agreement that legalization needs to be part of any reform and most agree that the ultimate outcome of legalization is citizenship for those who choose to make the U.S. their permanent home." Rep. Gutierrez participated in a packed community forum in Denver, Colorado on Saturday hosted by Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and attended by Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO) and community leaders, advocates, business owners, religious leaders and immigrants themselves. The event featured the stories of immigrants who would be most directly impacted by immigration reform. "What everyone is asking me is how do we deal with the massive increase in deportations that are wreaking havoc on Latino communities," Gutierrez said of his meetings in both Denver and Chicago. "We deport 1,000 people per day and hundreds of them are the parents of U.S. citizens, leaving broken families, orphaned children and neighborhoods under siege. We cannot afford to wait for another year or for another Congress." On Tuesday, the House Judiciary Committee, of which Rep. Gutierrez is a member, will hold its first hearing on immigration in Washington. # # # Recent Press Releases and statements: 2/1/2013 - Gutierrez attends Denver, Colorado community forum 1/29/2013 - Gutierrez reacts to President Obama's immigration speech 1/28/2013 - Gutierrez reacts to bipartisan Senate immigration principles 1/25/2013 - Gutierrez statement after CHC meeting with President Obama 11/28/2012 - CHC Releases immigration reform principles
02.01.2013	"The people voted in November and I am joining my colleagues in Colorado this weekend to make sure the message is heard loud and clear in Washington." Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez of Illinois is convinced that comprehensive immigration reform can be passed by the Congress and signed by the President this year, but only if the American people make their voices heard. He will appear at a community forum in Denver with Colorado Representatives Diana DeGette and Jared Polis on Saturday to talk about the progress being made in Washington and what people can do to encourage action. "The President is already using his bully pulpit and fruitful conversations are taking place between the parties all over Capitol Hill," Congressman Gutierrez said. "I am so glad to have a chance to stand with allies in Colorado like Diana DeGette and Jared Polis and hear from immigrants, business owners, community groups, and average voters what they want to see in an immigration reform bill and how they can work with us to make it happen." Rep. Diana DeGette invited Rep. Gutierrez and Rep. Polis to join her at the community forum she is organizing at Montview Boulevard Presbyterian Church (1980 Dahlia Street, Denver 80220) on Saturday, February 2 at 11:30 am MT. Capacity is limited, so attendees are asked to RSVP to Rep. DeGette's Office at 303-844-4988 or DeGette.RSVP@mail.house.gov. Representative Gutierrez is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) and participated in a meeting last week with President Obama to discuss immigration. The CHC released its principles on immigration reform (link) in November 2012. In 2005, Rep. Gutierrez introduced the first bicameral, bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform bill, along with the late Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA), Senator John McCain (R-AZ), and Representative (now Senator) Jeff Flake (R-AZ). A version of the McCain/Kennedy/Flake/Gutierrez bill passed the U.S. Senate in 2006 but House Republican leaders at the time refused to let the measure move forward to final passage. "What is broken about our immigration system has not changed and the bipartisan policy solutions on the table have not changed much in the last eight to ten years," Congressman Gutierrez said. "What has changed are the politics and the fact that Republicans are back at the table. Also, the urgency of the demand from the American people has increased in volume as more than 1.5 million people have been deported since 2008 and no significant reforms have been enacted by Congress." The Congressman is planning a series of events around the country in the coming months leading up to a week of action around the country and a rally that immigration reform supporters are planning in Washington on April 10. The House Judiciary Committee, of which Rep. Gutierrez is a member, will hold its first hearing on immigration on Tuesday, February 5 in Washington. "We deport 1,000 people per day and hundreds of them are the parents of U.S. citizens, leaving broken families, orphaned children and neighborhoods under siege. We cannot afford to wait for another year or for another Congress. The people voted in November and I am joining my colleagues in Colorado this weekend to make sure the message is heard loud and clear in Washington." # # #
01.29.2013	"Time for Lawmakers in Both Parties to Come Out of the Shadows and Work with the President" Washington, DC – Today, President Barack Obama outlined his vision for comprehensive immigration reform one day after a bipartisan group of Senators announced their intention to introduce legislation. A delegation from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) met with President Obama at the White House on Friday and a range of conversations between Republicans and Democrats continue in the House aimed toward building support for immigration reform. The following is a statement from Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The speech was the best pitch for immigration reform I have heard in a long, long time. I am excited and very pleased that the President is making immigration reform his number one priority. The President clearly sees comprehensive immigration reform as an attainable goal and I agree. There is a moral urgency to keep families together, stop the deportations, and allow immigrants to fully integrate into American society. Every day we delay action is another 1,000 immigrants deported, hundreds of parents of U.S. citizens deported, and hundreds of thousands of young immigrants unable to fully achieve their dreams. Enough talk from Congress. We have talked about immigration reform for a decade or more; now is the time for lawmakers in both parties to come out of the shadows and work with the President in a bipartisan way to get something done. The young DREAM Act student the President recognized should be in our mind's eye throughout the legislative process, but so should his parents, siblings, neighbors, and immigrants coming in the future. We can put immigration on a legal footing and accomplish a great achievement for the American people. The voters spoke in November and now we have to get it done. # # # Note: Rep. Gutierrez plans to attend a community forum organized by Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) to discuss federal immigration reform legislation in Denver on Saturday, February 2, 2013 at 11:30 a.m. It will be held at Montview Boulevard Presbyterian Church (1980 Dahlia Street, Denver). Seating capacity is limited so please RSVP by contacting Rep. DeGette's Office at 303-844-4988.
01.28.2013	Congressman Travels to Colorado Saturday to Build Support for Immigration Reform Washington, DC – Today, a bipartisan group of Senators announces the framework for comprehensive immigration reform legislation and a major address by President Obama is expected tomorrow in Nevada. A delegation from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) met with President Obama at the White House on Friday and a range of conversations between Republicans and Democrats continue in the House aimed toward building support for immigration reform. The following is a statement from Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. We are on track to pass a bipartisan bill this year that legalizes millions of immigrants, keeps families together, strengthens our country, and eventually allows immigrants to apply for citizenship. All of the pieces are falling into place. We have not signed on the dotted line and some important details are yet to be resolved, but what we have now is momentum. Momentum, plus encouragement from the American people, the President, and immigrant and Latino communities, will get an immigration bill across the finish line this year. As the President told me in the White House on Friday, immigration reform is his number one priority. Combine that with a serious bipartisan framework in the Senate and very constructive conversations with my House colleagues in both parties and I am confident we are poised for action and not just more talk on immigration reform. I will be in Colorado next Saturday with local leaders, clergy and elected officials to start a national tour to build support for immigration reform. I want to work with Democratic and Republican colleagues to lift up the voices of the people and families who will benefit from immigration reform. This includes immigrants who fear deportation and who are marginalized in our society, but everyone -- employers, working men and women, and other segments of society -- has a stake in reform and need to be heard. The principles that the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) laid out in November still guide me as I evaluate every new proposal and where a proposal is weak, I will work with those lawmakers to strengthen it. The most important thing right now is to keep the various efforts moving forward and not to draw lines in the sand. Every proposal can be amended at some point and so I am optimistic that the CHC will have a significant input on any final proposal. # # # Note: Rep. Gutierrez plans to hold a series of public events on Saturday, February 2 with Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) in the Denver area to kick off a tour of the country to hear from stakeholders in the immigration debate. More details to follow later this week. The Congressman was interviewed along with Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) by Soledad O'Brien on CNN this morning: VIDEO.
01.25.2013	Congressman Pleased with CHC Delegation Meeting Today with President Obama Washington, DC – Today, a delegation from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) met with President Obama at the White House to discuss immigration reform. The president reiterated that immigration reform would be his top legislative priority and that the principles adopted by the CHC in November (link) are in line with what the President wants in immigration reform. CHC Chairman Rubén Hinojosa (D-TX) led the delegation that included the three other officers of the CHC, plus Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Democratic Caucus Chair Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-CA) and CHC Immigration Task Force Chair Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez. The following is a statement from Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL): Immigrants need action now and immigration reform cannot wait. We have a unique opportunity to finally put our government on the side of hard-working immigrants. We all need to work together -- the President and Congress, Republicans and Democrats -- to get something done right away. The President is the quarterback and he will direct the team, call the play, and be pivotal if we succeed. I am very optimistic based on conversations with Republicans in the House and Senate that we will do more than just talk about the immigration issue this year. The President putting his full weight and attention behind getting a bill signed into law is tremendously helpful. We need the President and the American people all putting pressure on the Congress to act because nothing happens in the Capitol without people pushing from the outside. For my community in Chicago, the biggest issue is the deportations and keeping families together, not putting kids in foster care or uprooting them when parents are deported. Family unity is the urgency behind reforming our immigration system. Every day that passes, another 1,000 people are deported and hundreds of kids, U.S. citizen kids, lose a parent to deportation. We have got to act and act quickly. We spend more money on immigration enforcement than all other federal law enforcement combined. The day has to come when the federal government concentrates our resources on removing criminals, murderers, smugglers and kidnappers and not on deporting working men and women raising families and contributing to our economy. The process or strategy for getting a bill is complicated, but the policy is straight-forward and builds on the bills I co-authored with Ted Kennedy, John McCain, and Jeff Flake. The problems have not changed in the last six or eight years and the solutions are pretty clear. We need a secure border and an electronic employment verification system that is combined with a generous and rigorous legalization program to get immigrants already living here on-the-books and in the system. We also need visas and visa reform for the people waiting decades to come here and a system for the future that people and employers will actually use and not try to go around. All of this is achievable if Republicans work with Democrats and that work has already begun. # # #
01.23.2013	Committee Assignments, Finalized Today, Put Rep. Gutierrez in Position to Influence Two Signature Issues: Immigration Reform and Gun Violence Prevention Washington, DC – Today, the House Judiciary Committee finalized subcommittee assignments for the next two years and Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) requested and received assignment to the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security and the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations. The Congressman, who just started his eleventh term, said he was happy to get his first two subcommittee choices because it will allow him to work on two of the issues he has worked on since he was first elected to Congress in 1992 -- immigration reform and gun violence prevention. Rep. Gutierrez requested assignment to the Judiciary Committee, temporarily giving up his third-ranking seniority on the Financial Services Committee for the 113th Congress, so that he could work on immigration reform and gun violence prevention directly, two issues expected to be at the top of the congressional and national agenda. "I want to keep an eye on them and make sure the Subcommittee, the Committee and the Congress are making progress towards reform and not just talking about it," Gutierrez said. "The only way I can push the immigration reform legislation forward is if I am in the room articulating the urgency that is being communicated to me by my constituents and Latino and immigrant voters across the country. Every single day we are deporting at least 250 parents with U.S. citizen children who wind up orphaned or uprooted. The clock is ticking and this Congress needs to act." In 2005, Rep. Gutierrez introduced the first bicameral, bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform bill along with Representative (now Senator) Jeff Flake (R-AZ) and Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and the late Ted Kennedy (D-MA). That bill proposed legalizing most of the estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S. through a lengthy process, adopting mandatory electronic employment verification, increasing border security, and establishing a legal immigration system for workers and families that would allow people to go through our system efficiently, eliminating the need to go around it. The Congressman also has a long track record on gun violence prevention dating to his earliest days in the U.S. Congress. "The first bill I introduced in February 1993 was a bill to ban the domestic manufacture and sale of semi-automatic assault weapons, so I am hoping we can establish some common sense gun violence prevention measures in the Crime Subcommittee this year," Gutierrez said. "We lost a classroom full of children in Connecticut which sparked national outrage that needs to be translated into action, but in Chicago, we sometimes lose a dozen or more young people every weekend. Too many bullets and too many guns are killing the next generation and we have got to make it stop." On both the immigration and gun violence issues, Rep. Gutierrez sees outrage and outspokenness outside of the Congress as the only factors that will lead to action inside the Congress. "Congress does not lead as much as it follows and it tends to follow the loudest and most persistent voices," the Congressman said. "We need to stop the mass deportation and the mass killing that that is devastating neighborhoods in my district, but the only way that is going to happen is if Members of Congress feel the heat from their constituents and are forced to actually solve problems. I have been here long enough to know that, left to their own devices, most Members of Congress would rather talk about problems than enact solutions, so the outside pressure is critical to actually accomplishing anything." The subcommittee assignments were finalized today at a meeting of the full Judiciary Committee. # # #
01.15.2013	First Illinois DREAMer to benefit from Obama deportation-relief program now working in Congressman's office helping other immigrant youth Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) announced the hiring of José M. Quintero as an employee in his District Office on North Avenue in Chicago. Quintero was the first young immigrant in Illinois to receive work authorization via Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), the deportation-relief offered by President Obama to immigrants eligible for the DREAM Act. Quintero applied for DACA through the Congressman's office on the first day applications were accepted (Aug. 15, 2012) and received work authorization and his official two-year reprieve from deportation in October. The Congressman hired Quintero on a temporary basis in December and made him a full-time employee with benefits in January of this year. He will do casework in the Congressman's Chicago office, specializing in helping DACA applicants assemble and fill-out the necessary forms and documents to apply. The Congressman said he plans to hire an additional DACA recipient for his office in Cicero in the coming weeks. "I am challenging my colleagues to put their money where their mouths are and hire young people who have come forward, applied and received work authorization," Rep. Gutierrez said. "It takes a lot of courage for undocumented immigrants to get their records together, pay their fees, and apply for this program and this is a very small way for a Member of Congress to lead by example and to say I want to help you fully participate in your community by working and contributing." "José is outstanding and first volunteered to help at DACA workshops we held in Chicago, then we brought him into the office to help and now he is full-time, with health care benefits, and the works," Gutierrez said. "He has a great story to tell that is typical of the DREAMers I have met in Chicago and around the country and he is very serious about public service and giving back to his church and his community. He is a fantastic ambassador for the DACA program, for DREAMers and for immigrant youth in general." Quintero was born in Celaya, Guanajuato, Mexico and came to Chicago with his parents at the age of six. He graduated from Benito Juarez Community Academy in Pilsen and received his Associates Degree from Harold Washington College in Chicago. He was the first DACA recipient to be identified in Illinois and one of the first in the nation. He has since been interviewed by numerous local reporters and also told his story on Univision's national network morning news program "Despierta America" in November. "Thanks to the help of Congressman Luis Gutierrez, I now have my work permit, two year protection from deportation, a Social Security number and state ID," Quintero said. "I am learning so much in his office and have a chance to help other DREAMers apply for DACA. As immigration reform moves to the center of the national agenda this year, I will have a front row seat and I will be helping Congressman Gutierrez and my community every step of the way." Congressman Gutierrez said he has spoken with other Members of Congress about hiring DACA recipients and he thinks a few offices will soon be doing so. The Congressman is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and was instrumental in advocating for the adoption of the DACA policy by the White House and in advocating for immigration reform and the DREAM Act. # # # A photo of José M. Quintero with Congressman Gutierrez is available here: https://bit.ly/JoseQuinteroPhoto
01.08.2013	"I am looking forward to carrying the same spirit of problem-solving and concrete accomplishment that was demonstrated in Springfield to the immigration debate in Washington." Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL) praised his home state of Illinois for passing SB957, a bill that will allow the State of Illinois to issue Temporary Visitor Driver’s Licenses to immigrants, even if they are undocumented immigrants in the United States. The Illinois Highway Safety and Mandatory Insurance for All Bill passed the State House of Representatives and is expected to be signed by Gov. Patrick Quinn. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The conversation on immigration has shifted and once again, Illinois is in the forefront. All the talk of mass deportation, "self-deportation" or driving out tens of millions of undocumented immigrants and their families has died down. It was resoundingly rejected on Election Day in November. Now we are starting to address the reality that immigrants work here, live here, raise families here, and yes, drive here, and that we should have practical policies that reflect that reality. The Illinois bill will improve insurance coverage and road safety and protect thousands of Illinois families, including Illinois families who will not have to worry that a minor traffic stop could lead to their family's disintegration through deportation. Congratulations to the State of Illinois and to the advocates and public safety experts who have been fighting for this legislation for more than a decade. It is a sensible response to reality and another sign that the immigration policy debate is moving forward. I am looking forward to carrying the same spirit of problem-solving and concrete accomplishment that was demonstrated in Springfield to the immigration debate in Washington. # # #
01.08.2013	Washington, DC – News that American International Group (AIG) is considering suing the U.S. government over the taxpayer-funded rescue of the company in 2008 is drawing a clear response from Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) who joined House colleagues Reps. Peter Welch (D-VT) and Michael Capuano (D-MA) in saying: “Don’t even think about it.” In a letter to AIG Chairman Robert S. Miller, Reps. Welch, Gutierrez and Capuano say: “AIG became the poster company for Wall Street greed, fiscal mismanagement, and executive bonuses – the taxpayer and economy be damned. Now, AIG apparently seeks to become the poster company for corporate ingratitude and chutzpah.” “Taxpayers are still furious that they rescued a company whose own conduct brought it down. Don’t rub salt in the wounds with yet another reckless decision that is on par with the reckless decisions that led to the bailout in the first place.” News reports indicate that AIG is actively considering suing the U.S. government over the $182 billion dollar rescue of the bank at the height of the financial crisis, arguing that the bailout deprived shareholders of tens of billions of dollars in profits. The full letter is copied below: Mr. Robert S. Miller Board Chairman American International Group, Inc. 180 Maiden Lane New York, NY 10038 Dear Mr. Miller: According to The New York Times, AIG is actively considering suing the U.S. government for monetary damages after American taxpayers rescued your company from its reckless conduct with a $182 billion bailout. Don’t do it. Don’t even think about it. AIG became the poster company for Wall Street greed, fiscal mismanagement, and executive bonuses – the taxpayer and economy be damned. Now, AIG apparently seeks to become the poster company for corporate ingratitude and chutzpah. Taxpayers are still furious that they rescued a company whose own conduct brought it down. Don’t rub salt in the wounds with yet another reckless decision that is on par with the reckless decisions that led to the bailout in the first place. Sincerely, PETER WELCH Member of Congress MICHAEL CAPUANO Member of Congress LUIS V. GUTIERREZ Member of Congress # # #
01.04.2013	"All of the road signs are pointed in the right direction..." (Washington, DC) -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) announced that he was taking a leave of absence from the House Financial Services Committee (FSC) to serve on the Judiciary Committee as immigration reform takes center stage. The Democratic Caucus announced the changes today after a Caucus meeting. Rep. Gutierrez, first elected in 1992 and serving in his eleventh term, is the third ranking Democrat on FSC. He will be at least the 13th ranking Democrat on Judiciary. Nonetheless, Rep. Gutierrez requested the change and Democratic Leaders and his House Democratic colleagues approved the switch. Rep. Gutierrez has previously served on the Judiciary Committee (2007-2010). Rep. Gutierrez, a national leader on the immigration issue and the co-sponsor of historic bipartisan legislation in the past with the late Sen. Ted Kennedy (D-MA), Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) and Rep. (now Senator) Jeff Flake (R-AZ), serves as the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The following is a statement from Rep. Gutierrez: Giving up 20-plus years of seniority on Financial Services, even temporarily, is not easy, but passing comprehensive immigration reform is my passion and my commitment to my constituents and immigrants all across our country. All of the road signs are pointed in the right direction, and I felt I must be on the Judiciary Committee during this Congress to help the others on the Committee get immigration reform to the finish line. We are poised for serious action to fix our broken immigration system, a top priority for Democrats, for the Democratic Leadership, and for the President, and I have spoken to numerous Republicans in the House and Senate who want to get it done. We have record levels of deportations and millions of families separated by borders and out-of-date laws. We can't wait and wait and wait for immigration reform, and I am finding an enthusiasm for action that I have not seen on Capitol Hill for years. One of the main obstacles to a serious conversation on immigration reform was the small group of people holding the issue hostage to the notion that 12 million people had to leave the country and no new legal immigrants could be added. That argument is dead and the funeral was on Election Night when Gov. Romney and his hard line approach fell in stunning defeat and the overwhelming majority of Latino voters rejected the Republican approach. Now we need all hands on deck to make sure that legislation moves and that it makes our immigration system work for the American people first and foremost and for both new immigrants and those who are already here. We need an immigration system that is as smart and generous as the American people and that serves the needs of our 21st Century economy. What we have now is two- or three-decades out of date and separates families, keeps people locked in the underground, and does not live up to the expectations the American people have for an immigration system that has always been such a crucial aspect of our nation's identity. I appreciate the seriousness with which the Democratic Leadership and my Democratic colleagues are taking with this issue and for allowing me to adjust my committee assignments so that I could continue to lead on the immigration issue. I look forward to working with the Chairman and the Subcommittee Chairmen and the Ranking Member, Rep. John Conyers, and the Immigration Subcommittee Ranking Leader, Rep. Zoe Lofgren in crafting bipartisan immigration reform that fixes our broken immigration system. # # #
01.03.2013	"As we set about crafting and passing immigration reform in the U.S. Congress, this type of smart policy change sets the right tone." (Washington, DC) -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), reacted to news that the final rule had been published governing waivers to the three and ten year immigration bars that keep families separated and prevent those who could apply to obtain permanent resident status under current law from doing so. When it goes into effect on March 4, 2013, the rule will give immediate family relatives (spouses, children, and parents) of U.S. citizens the ability to apply for a "provisional unlawful presence waiver" of the 3 and 10 year bar to reentry before leaving the country. As it stands today, undocumented immediate family members of U.S. citizens who qualify under the law for permanent resident status (a green card) can only apply for a waiver of the 3 or 10 year bar once they have left the United States and with no guarantee that they will be approved for the waiver. This prevents many who qualify for legal status from even applying and keeps families separated, which is bad for the immigrant and his or her immediate U.S. citizen family members. Rep. Gutierrez is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, and this waiver process is among the issues he has been asking the Obama Administration to address administratively for the last two years. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez: It is a small fix, but an absolutely necessary one. When we talk about a 'broken immigration system,' this is what we mean. We actually have barriers in the law that prevent people who qualify for legal status from doing so. This removes a barrier facing so many U.S. citizens who can legally apply for permanent residency for a spouse, child or parent but are scared to do so because their loved one is forced to leave the United States and their family could face a decade of separation. I have had people in my own district, U.S. soldiers, who have applied for a green card for their spouse and the mother of their children, only to find out they will have to live in Ciudad Juarez for three years or ten years before being a family again at home in the U.S. It is a tragedy for them and another stupid and senseless aspect of U.S. immigration law that needs to be rectified. This change in how and where paperwork is processed will be enormously helpful to U.S. families and is another example of how the President can use his administrative powers intelligently to solve problems. As we set about crafting and passing immigration reform in the U.S. Congress, this type of smart policy change sets the right tone. We need to reduce deportations, get people legally into the system and solve the many problems created by an immigration system two or three decades out-of-date. We had been anxiously awaiting this announcement and it does not go into effect for another two months, but after March 4, many families in Chicago and around the country who qualify for legal status will be able to apply for the unlawful presence waiver without the risk that they will be banished from the United States for three years, or ten years, or more and not know about it until after they leave the country. # # #
01.03.2013	"His triumphant return to the Senate is an inspiration to all of us." (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), the dean of the Illinois House delegation, issued the following statement on the occasion of Sen. Mark Kirk's return to the U.S. Senate after suffering a stroke in 2012. "As the Senior Member of the House of Representatives from Illinois, I would like to welcome Senator Mark Kirk back to Capitol Hill on behalf of the entire delegation. His triumphant return to the Senate is an inspiration to all of us. "The stroke that laid him low in 2012 was not enough to deter him from his elected duties and we are proud of him for returning to the Senate. In case there were any doubts, the State of Illinois is now fully and completely represented in Washington. "Sen. Kirk has been a leader for Illinois and for the nation on issues as diverse as child sex trafficking, roads and infrastructure for Chicago and Illinois and the region, and preserving the Great Lakes. "We are all grateful that Sen. Kirk is back among us." # # #
12.21.2012	"This is nothing to be proud of." (Washington, DC) -- Today, the Department of Homeland Security announced that more than 400,000 people were deported in the Fiscal Year that ended September 30, 2012. The exact figure was 409,849 individuals . The following is a statement by Congressman Gutierrez (D-IL), the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus: "This is nothing to be proud of. In the 409,849 deportations are hardened criminals for whom I have no sympathy, but we must also realize that among these hundreds of thousands of deportations are parents and bread-winners and heads of American families that are assets to American communities and have committed no crimes. "We must decide whether we want massive deportation to continue to be the policy of our nation or whether we want to take a smarter approach. I think we should recognize that families and individuals with deep ties to the U.S. live here and work here and yet have no way to get legal. We are deporting roughly 90,000 parents of U.S. citizens each year and often placing their children in foster care at taxpayer expense. "Solving this problem in a humane and sensible way requires Congress to act on immigration reform and do what we have been unable to do for 25 or 30 years. In the mean time, as we have seen with the deportation relief afforded to DREAM Act eligible youth, there are things the President and immigration authorities can do to examine individual cases and provide relief from deportation where it is appropriate." # # #
12.06.2012	"Felicito a las personas que tomaron acción para canalizar la indignación que siente todo el pueblo por este crimen horrendo y estoy de acuerdo que esta situación de crimen no puede ser tolerada." (Washington, DC) -- El Congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez se unió hoy - a través de Facebook -- a la campaña "Todos somos José Enrique" en solidaridad con la familia, los amigos y los compañeros de José Enrique y porque está de acuerdo con todos los buenos puertorriqueños que dicen "basta ya" ante el crimen y la violencia que impera en la isla. "Felicito a las personas que tomaron acción para canalizar la indignación que siente todo el pueblo por este crimen horrendo y estoy de acuerdo que esta situación de crimen no puede ser tolerada." En referencia a los comentarios irresponsables e insensibles expresados en el programa "Súper Xclusivo" respecto a las supuestas circunstancias que precedieron al horrible y vil asesinato, el congresista comentó "Es absolutamente inaceptable que se abuse de esta forma al acceso a las ondas televisivas que le pertenecen a todo el pueblo en la búsqueda del sensacionalismo vulgar y de generar audiencia usando como base las declaraciones de cuatro asesinos que intentaron justificar un crimen injustificable." El congresista se encuentra en la isla para participar de Encuentro Sobre Derechos Humanos, que se lleva a cabo durante este fin de semana en la Universidad Sagrado Corazón, en Santurce. El Congresista Gutiérrez, junto a la activista de Chicago Emma Lozano, participará en una conferencia titulada "Los Derechos Humanos y las personas de origen mexicano en los Estados Unidos" empezando a las 11:00 de la mañana de este domingo, 9 de diciembre, en el Teatro Emilio S. Belaval de la Universidad Sagrado Corazón. Al finalizar la conferencia, estará disponible a la prensa. # # #
11.30.2012	"There was no special line for PhD's and Master's Degree holders at Ellis Island. There was not an asterisk on the Statue of Liberty that said 'your IQ must be this high to enter.'" (Washington, DC) -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez spoke on the House floor about a STEM visa bill that is being voted on in the House of Representatives today. This bill would kill the Diversity Visa Program and use some of those green cards to create a program for graduates of U.S. universities with advanced degrees in science, technology, engineering, and math. It would also create different rules for how the spouses and minor children of STEM visa degree holders with PhDs and Master's Degrees are treated in our immigration law as compared to spouses and minor children of those without higher degrees. Wednesday, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) held a press conference in the U.S. Capitol to release their principles for immigration reform (link) that includes the creation of a STEM visa program. Congressman Gutierrez (D-IL) is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Below are his remarks as prepared for delivery and a video link: VIDEO: https://youtu.be/oaFNyMUlsaE REMARKS November 30, 2012 We have heard about how important STEM Visas are and we do not debate the point that STEM Visas are important. That's why when we have the REAL immigration debate -- the debate that will result in the signature of the President, the debate that starts in January when the Congress is sworn in -- that's why we will have STEM visas in that bill. So everyone agrees STEM visas are important and if you didn't know this before the last election, I hope you know it now: The American people want us to fix our immigration system. But the more important message I got from the election is that the American people think we CAN solve the immigration issue. If Republicans and Democrats work together, put aside the bitterness, come to the table in an honest manner, we can solve tough problems and immigration is at the top of the list. We need to approach immigration as a great facet of America's past, present and future and solve the problems we have with our current immigration mess like adults. We need to stop scoring cheap political points and playing games with immigration and start working together. Which is why it is so DISAPPOINTING the majority decided to undermine an area of bipartisan agreement on STEM visas by loading up the measure with provisions that are a slap in the face to the core values of the United States. If you support this bill, you are saying that one group of immigrants is better than another and one type of educated, degree-holding person and their work is more important than another's. In order to give visas to those with PhD's and Masters' Degrees, Republicans make two demands. FIRST, we take away visas and the only means of legal immigration (most likely) from 50,000 people who may not have PhD's or Master's Degrees. Talk about "picking winners and losers"!?!? My dad, if he had been an immigrant from Ireland or Nigeria or Taiwan would have been told "nope." America is not for you. It is like when we used to have signs saying "Help wanted, Irish need not apply." The SECOND thing this bill requires is that we treat the families of those with PhDs and Master's Degrees differently than we treat the families of those who don't have doctorates or higher degrees. If you have a Master's or a PhD, we say please come, and bring the wife, bring your husband, bring the kids and we will give them all permission to work. Automatic work permits for the spouses of STEM degree holders. But if you don't have a PhD or Master's Degree we are taking away your wife's ability to work legally. We may let her in six-months earlier than she would have waited without this provision -- after she's waited a full year -- but she can't work. It is as if they said to my father, "Let's check your education record." No "Doctor" before your name? No fancy initials after your name? Well Mrs. Gutierrez and the kids have to stay home and when we do let them come, they can't work. That is not America. There was no special line for PhD's and Master's Degree holders at Ellis Island. There was not asterisk on the Statue of Liberty that said your IQ must be this high to enter. They are saying my father was TOO STUPID to make it. And I RESENT it. But he put two kids through college and one in the House of Representatives. # # #
11.29.2012	"I want Republicans to know that Democrats support STEM visas. We don't need to kill other legal immigration programs to create a STEM program. But Republicans are more interested in killing the Diversity Visa Program than in creating a program for STEM graduates." (Washington, DC) -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez spoke on the House floor about a STEM visa bill expected to be voted on this week in Congress (H.R. 6429 – STEM Jobs Act). This bill would kill the Diversity Visa Program and use some of those green cards to create a program for graduates of U.S. universities with degrees in science, technology, engineering, and math. Yesterday, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) held a press conference in the U.S. Capitol to release their principles for immigration reform (link) that includes the creation of a STEM visa program. Congressman Gutierrez (D-IL) is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Below are his remarks as prepared for delivery (at about 10 a.m. this morning) and a video link: VIDEO: https://youtu.be/33ttczVCIT4 Remarks on STEM Visa Bill November 29, 2012 Mr. Speaker, let me tell you how you know you have turned a corner in the immigration debate. When Sean Hannity, Senator Rand Paul, and a group of others in the Republican Party begin saying it is time to rethink the party's approach to immigration, we have probably reached a milestone. When Donald Trump says the Republican policy of asking 12 million people to "self-deport," is quote "a crazy" policy that likely cost the Republicans the White House, you have turned a corner. Any time I agree with Donald Trump, hope for bipartisan agreement should be running high. Most Americans believe that Election Day demonstrated it’s time to move beyond the same old politics – the same tired blame-game on immigration. So when I saw a Republican sponsored STEM visa bill on the House calendar this week, I thought, "Well, maybe House Republicans are changing their tune." On the campaign trail we heard Gov. Romney say he supported "stapling a green card to the diploma of every math and science graduate." Why should we educate some of the best minds on earth and then say "sorry, no room in the U.S. economy, we have no green cards to give?" It makes no sense. They go away and compete against us rather than innovating and creating jobs here. But then I took a closer look at what the Republicans are actually proposing. They haven’t turned a corner at all. In fact, they haven’t even stepped out of their houses. They certainly didn’t learn anything from the election. The STEM visa bill on the House floor this week was actually voted down in September. It was introduced with few changes and absolutely no consultation with Democrats. I want to find bipartisan solutions on immigration. I’m committed to it. I know it won’t be easy. They say a journey of 1,000 miles begins with just one step. The problem is the Republicans want to take one step and have the Democrats travel the other 999.9 miles. Sadly, this bill isn’t even a step. It’s a shuffle. It’s a shell game. It has exactly the same problem that the STEM bill in September had. It moves visas from a legal immigration program that works over to the new visa category where there may or may not be sufficient demand to use those visas each year. Immigration is always a zero-sum game for Republicans. We will only increase visas for immigrants we like if we can eliminate immigration for immigrants we don't like. But it isn't even a zero-sum trick they are pulling here. Best estimates are that only 20,000 or fewer STEM visas would be issued to graduates, meaning that the other 35,000 visas would just disappear. And which immigrants do they want to exclude in order to play this game? People from around the world who want a chance to make a new life for themselves in the U.S. You know, people like the fathers and mothers or grandparents of almost every Member of Congress. In this case, half of the people who come to America legally through the Diversity Visa program are from Africa. But they come from all over. So the Republicans would have us say to the good people of Ghana or South Africa or Sweden or Ireland or New Zealand or Taiwan, who apply to come legally, "sorry, we have to withdraw the chance you had at 50,000 visas so we can divert them to maybe 20,000 STEM graduates." Once again, Republican math does not add up. And here is something I bet you didn't know about the Diversity Visa program -- many join the U.S. military. But these legal immigrants are the target of the Republican bill. I have news for my Republican friends. You can’t fool immigrants. You can’t pretend to be pro-immigrant and then eliminate immigration for one group to allow immigration for another. I woke up the day after the election and saw a new landscape for the immigration debate. It is one where Democrats and Republicans work together to solve tough problems facing the United States. We should not treat it as an opportunity for politicians to score political points. But sadly, that is not what is happening here. I want Republicans to know that Democrats support STEM visas. We don't need to kill other legal immigration programs to create a STEM program. But Republicans are more interested in killing the Diversity Visa Program than in creating a program for STEM graduates. Mr. Speaker, I believe we can turn the corner on real immigration reform, but only if Republicans are willing to put on their walking shoes and take a few steps. # # #
11.28.2012	"When my colleagues and I demanded fairness for immigrants we used to be kind of like the unwanted party crasher… All of a sudden we’re the belle of the ball." (Washington, DC) -- Today, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) held a press conference in the U.S. Capitol to release their principles for immigration reform in the upcoming congressional session. The principles, "One Nation: Principles on Immigration Reform and Our Commitment to the American Dream (link)" were drafted to guide the Caucus' work and make their priorities clear. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Below are his remarks at today's press conference as prepared for delivery: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez Remarks As Prepared Thank you Charlie [Gonzalez, outgoing CHC Chair] – and thank you for your leadership as our Caucus Chair. Thank you to my good friend Senator Bob Menendez, and my thanks to the good people of New Jersey who were wise enough to overwhelmingly re-elect this key leader. Ruben, [Hinojosa, incoming CHC Chair], I’m looking forward to working closely with you to advance immigration reform and the priorities of our community in the next Congress. I brought a few documents with me, just as a reminder of how long the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and I have been working on comprehensive immigration reform. Here is the comprehensive immigration reform bill I introduced in 2004, the first bicameral immigration reform bill with Senator Kennedy. And then the first bipartisan, bicameral bill in 2005 introduced with Jeff Flake, Jim Kolbe, John McCain and Senator Kennedy. By 2007, Jeff Flake and I had a 700 page bill 80 co-sponsors. Then, in 2009 we had a bill weighing in at 650 pages, and with more than 100 co-sponsors. I could bring along many other bills – from helping Dream Kids to protecting families -- but honestly, I can only carry so much at one time. My arms get tired. And I think this stack alone makes my point. For years and years, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus has been fighting for immigrants to our nation. For years, I have asked for one simple thing – fairness. Fairness for people who work hard, pay taxes and make America a better place to live for all of us. And what was the result? A Congress that refused to act. A Republican party who demonized immigrants instead of dealing in good faith. Because of Congressional inaction -- good people, who are only asking for the chance to work hard, help their communities and keep their families together – have been forced to stay in the shadows and been forced to go around our legal system because they could find no way through it. Well, you know – elections are very useful things. Because election results can show the people who pointed fingers of blame at immigrants instead of pointing us toward a solution for immigrants the folly of their ways. Democracy is wonderfully educational. When my colleagues and I demanded fairness for immigrants we used to be kind of like the unwanted party crasher – the one who makes all of the other guests uncomfortable. We stood alone, in the corner. All of a sudden we’re the belle of the ball. Well, it’s time to dance. You know why? Because what we’ve always been asking for on behalf of America’s immigrants is simple and fair and just. Comprehensive immigration reform is the right thing to do and it’s good for everyone. We’re unveiling our nine principles today. My colleagues will walk us through them. These fundamental principles haven’t changed much over time, but now is the time to make them reality. I talked at length with Senator Menendez about these principles and circulated them over the past two weeks to all of my colleagues. What we’re unveiling today represents a consensus of the Caucus – a declaration of what is right for immigrants. But here’s what every American should know. These principles don’t just help immigrants – they help all of us. I can sum them up in a just a sentence or two. Let's have an immigration system that reflects our values and interests as a nation and that recognizes we are both a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants. But let's create laws that work for us, get people in the system, don't let employers cheat to undercut their competition or America's native workers and which gives immigrants a simple deal: if you work hard and play by the rules, you can stay and join us. Let me close by saying that my mentor, Chicago Mayor Harold Washington, used to tell me “You can’t use government to settle old scores.” I’ve thought about that a lot. Those of us who have led the fight for immigrants have a lot to be frustrated about. America’s immigrants have every right to feel anger about how they have been treated, ignored, mocked and lied about. We need to set that anger aside. The Congress that starts in January has an historic opportunity to help immigrants. We can – and should – make history in this session of Congress by passing comprehensive immigration reform. Not next session, not next time, not next term. Next isn’t good enough. Next will not be part of our vocabulary. So I want to bring up my colleagues who will go over our principles, entitled One Nation: Principles on Immigration Reform and Our Commitment to the American Dream [Reading of the "One Nation" Principles] Let me be clear about this -- we want to work with Republicans to find common ground, help the American people, and help America’s immigrants. But common ground is based on common decency, and common sense. These principles reflect that common decency. Protect families and keep them together. Make sure people can work and not be abused and mistreated in their workplace. Get people out of the shadows and into the system, paying taxes and playing by the rules. And keep our border safe and secure for everyone. That has to be our common ground. These principles are common sense, common decency. It’s a time of uncommon opportunity. A time when 12 million people – good people who are just as American as you and me except for a piece of paper – are ready for our help. They need our help. They deserve our help. Together, we can make history. # # #
11.27.2012	50 Residents from 26 Countries Became U.S. Citizens during the Second Naturalization Ceremony in City Council Chambers CHICAGO – Mayor Rahm Emanuel hosted a second Citizenship swearing-in ceremony where 50 Chicago residents representing 26 countries became U.S. Citizens in City Hall’s Council Chambers. Mayor Emanuel was the keynote speaker for the ceremony and was joined by Congressman Luis Gutierrez and Alderman Danny Solis to offer congratulatory remarks to the new citizens. The Oath of Allegiance was administered by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) Chicago District Director Lori Pietropaoli. The presentation of colors was conducted by the Marine Math and Science Academy JROTC Color Guard with the National Anthem performed by Cadet Devin Velez from Rickover Naval Academy. “These public celebrations welcome and congratulate the new Citizens of the United States and make City Hall a leader in celebrating Chicago’s immigrant communities,” said Mayor Emanuel. “As we build a 21st century economy, we must work together to attract and retain immigrants by helping them to succeed and grow in a safe and welcoming city. I am committed to making Chicago the most immigrant-friendly city in the world by ensuring that every law-abiding Chicagoan has access to the resources they need to become productive members of society and contribute to our thriving global city.” As part of Chicago’s New American initiative, the Mayor will host citizenship swearing-in ceremonies at City Hall and other prominent city locations on a regular basis. "Today a group of people have the chance to raise their right hand and recite a solemn pledge to be new, fully-fledged members of our society and participants in our democracy,” said Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-04). “It comes at a moment when we are poised to reform our immigration system so that more of the people who live, work, and raise families in our country also have the opportunity to fully participate in our nation's affairs. It reminds us of how long and hard the struggle is to become a citizen and what we also must do to encourage and celebrate citizenship as new Americans become just Americans." “We are excited that Mayor Emanuel is receptive to hosting special naturalization ceremonies at the Chicago City Council Chambers,” said Lori Pietropaoli, Chicago District Director, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). “Naturalizing new United States citizens from around the world is an important function of USCIS, and partnering with the City of Chicago to welcome these new citizens on their special day is a great honor.” The first naturalizations ceremony took place at Council Chambers in City Hall in June of this year during the launch of the Chicago New Americans Initiative. The Chicago New Americans Initiative is a comprehensive municipal efforts to assist eligible immigrants become U.S. Citizens. This coordinated campaign is the first of its kind and being led by the City of Chicago Mayor’s Office of New Americans (ONA), in collaboration with the State of Illinois Governor’s Office of New Americans (GONA) and the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, Uniting America Campaign. The Chicago New Americans initiative will work to offer assistance to thousands of eligible, law abiding, permanent residents in becoming naturalized, U.S. citizens. Over the next three years, the Chicago New Americans Initiative will directly assist 10,000 immigrants in Chicago to become U.S. citizens; encouraging immigrants to independently initiate their naturalization process; and helping new citizens become fully active participants in the civic life of the city and state. Promoting citizenship will contribute to the City of Chicago’s economic and cultural vitality and increase the City’s global competitiveness. New citizens mean new economic growth—and an investment in immigrant integration pays dividends not just for immigrants and their families, but for the city as a whole. ###
11.19.2012	“I knew this would be huge and it is a clear indication that the politics of immigration reform have shifted seismically. (Chicago, IL) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) issued a statement reacting to new statistics from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) on the number of immigrants who have applied for relief under the President’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program for DREAM Act-eligible youth. The new statistics, released Friday, indicate that almost 309,000 young people have applied and 53,273 have been approved for a two-year reprieve from deportation and work authorization. Almost 5,000 applications have been received per day since USCIS began accepting applications in August. The Congressman, who played an active role in persuading the Obama Administration to initiate the program and in campaigning for President Obama’s reelection this summer and fall, will attend a special Thanksgiving dinner on Wednesday in Chicago with 21 DACA recipients and their families, hosted by Lincoln United Methodist Church in Chicago (2242 S. Damon, 5:30 -7:00 pm on Wed., Nov. 21). The following is a statement from Rep. Gutierrez, who serves as Chair of the Task Force on Immigration of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus: I am elated that so many applications are coming in and now that the fear of Romney winning is out of the way, I think a half-million applications by New Years should be our goal. Everyone I speak with in Chicago and Washington sees this relief for DREAM Act-eligible youth as a turning point on the immigration issue. It is clearly a first step towards broader and permanent immigration reform and shows the hunger for it in the community and the wisdom of the policy. I feel gratified that after pushing so hard for deportation relief, the President extended real relief and the community has embraced it. When 15,000 or so young people and their families lined up at Chicago’s Navy Pier on August 15, I knew this would be huge and is a clear indication that the politics of immigration reform have shifted seismically. Now there are tens of thousands of immigrants who can pursue their goals and dreams who don’t have to worry about being jailed and marched out of the country they call home. The American people rejected the politics of division at the ballot box, and now we are poised to move immigration reform when the Congress convenes in January. Every day, in my offices in Chicago and Cicero, we help young people prepare and submit their applications for DACA. The process for the estimated 1.6 million eligible applicants is rigorous, time consuming and expensive, but for DREAMers being able to work legally, drive legally, and be free from fear of deportation is priceless. The 50,000 young people approved for work authorization so far have made one giant leap on behalf of all immigrants to show that their futures and the future of our country are irreversibly interconnected. I am looking forward to sharing a truly thankful Thanksgiving meal with 21 young DACA recipients and their families in Chicago on Wednesday evening. I know how significant this moment is for them and for the entire community that has been fighting for justice and inclusion and will keep fighting in the New Year. We have reached a tipping point in the journey towards reestablishing immigration as a shining example of what America is all about. We are on the verge of transforming a thorny political impasse into a reimagining of the America Dream and what immigrants and their families bring to our country, now and in the future. # # #
11.15.2012	Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) spoke on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this morning (at approximately 10 am ET) in an effort to introduce the Republican Party to America's Latinos. His somewhat tongue in cheek "introduction" was a call for Republicans to join Democrats at the table to resolve the immigration issue after what he termed "the Election Day wake-up call" that saw an overwhelming majority of Latino voters supporting the reelection of President Obama. "I know some Republicans want to come to the table because they want the immigration issue off the table. They want it off the table because they are worried about Democrats running the table in statewide and national elections for the foreseeable future. "Whatever your reason for coming to the table, please come. Together we can fight for justice for immigrants. Together we can reestablish the rule of law. Together we can again make immigration one of the greatest and most defining aspects of American society." The full text of the Congressman's speech on Thursday (today) is pasted below. A video of his speech is here: https://youtu.be/n8Q_-sUk5O0 An op-ed Rep. Gutierrez wrote was published in the Washington Post's Outlook section on Sunday (11/11): https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/what-obama-should-do-now-fix-immigration/2012/11/09/38ad9bfe-29f4-11e2-96b6-8e6a7524553f_story.html The Congressman also discussed Latino voters and the immigration issue with Bill O'Reilly on Fox News Channel's "The O'Reilly Factor" yesterday evening: https://youtu.be/km_gNmEdLR4 REP. LUIS V. GUTIERREZ (D-IL) REMARKS (As Prepared For Delivery) November 15, 2012 Mr. Speaker, I’m here today to make an introduction. I would like the Republican Party to meet America’s Latinos. It’s hard to meet us all at once, because there are more than 53 million of us, but let me tell you a little bit about who we are and what we do. Most Latinos are citizens. In fact, many of us have been here for many generations. We live all over the United States, and our population is growing fast. In fact, every single year, 500,000 young Latino citizens turn 18 and become eligible to vote. Of Latinos under the age of 18 -- Ninety-three percent are citizens. In this election, 1 in 10 voters were Latinos. In another decade, some analysts predict, we will be 25% of the voting age population. And here’s a key fact about the more than 16 million Latino immigrants -- – they work, and they work hard, often in jobs that are hardest to fill. Picking grapes and garlic, caring for young children in day-care centers, sweeping and cleaning as janitors in hospitals and office buildings. You know what else they do? They pay taxes, regardless of their legal status. Here’s one last fact – Latinos love America. And, my Republican friends – I promise, in time, you’ll love us too. I hope this introduction is helpful – but I know it’s a little late. The Republican Party really met Latinos on Election Day. At about 11 p.m., when the race was over, pundits, political strategists, and Republican candidates opened their eyes to discover who really lives and votes in the U.S. It looked like we were watching Columbus stumble across America. Latino voters? Who knew? Demographic changes move as slowly as glaciers, but this one seemed to sneak up on the news media like a sudden thunder storm. I’ve been trying to introduce my colleagues in the Republican Party to real Latinos and immigrants for some time. I’ve worked on bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform bills and stayed at the table to work out a compromise even when all the Republicans left the table. But the Republican Party seemed much more interested in the imaginary Latinos they tried to use as a wedge issue. So they crafted messages aimed at the very few Americans who are not offended when Republicans talk about criminals, gang-bangers, freeloaders, and law-breakers whenever they talk about Latinos and immigrants. The party nominated a Presidential candidate who carried around a to-do list of creative ways to offend Latinos. Call for more than 10 million people and their families to “self-deport?” Check. Celebrate the extreme Arizona approach to immigration laws? Check. Threaten to veto the DREAM Act and let hundreds of thousands of young people who have applied for Deferred Action fear for their future? Check. Stand with other Republicans and beg for their endorsement when they have called for electrified fencing to keep out immigrants because, quote "that works on livestock"? Check, check and check. I believe Election Day was check-mate for the Republican Party’s extreme, unfair and intolerant anti-immigrant policies. Now, we need to come together to make progress. In truth, some Democrats have not seen how the electorate in this country has changed either. Too many Democrats did not see immigration reform as an urgent priority or recognize the need for change in a country that deports 1,000 immigrants a day. We need to set aside the mistakes of both parties, and do what is right for the American people, including Latinos and immigrants. We need to invite Democrats and Republicans to sit at a big table to work out immigration reform as soon as possible. I have suggested that President Obama set up that big table at Camp David and invite leaders from both parties to discuss how we forge the coalition to pass immigration reform. I think after the Election Day wake-up call, there are more and more Republicans willing to come to the table to negotiate. We have heard from Republican leaders who want to be at that table. I know some Republicans want to come to the table because they want the immigration issue off the table. They want it off the table because they are worried about Democrats running the table in statewide and national elections for the foreseeable future. Whatever your reason for coming to the table, please come. Together we can fight for justice for immigrants. Together we can reestablish the rule of law. Together we can again make immigration one of the greatest and most defining aspects of American society. Together, we can make Americans see that we can work together to solve problems. So please join us and do what’s right for America.
11.07.2012	"In state after state and in the nation as a whole, Latino voters made the difference for President Obama and for Democrats." (Washington, DC) -- Yesterday, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) was reelected to his eleventh term in the U.S. House of Representatives representing the Fourth District of Illinois. Today, he spoke at a press conference organized by the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights (www.icirr.org) to discuss the national and local election results and the role of immigrants, Latinos, and the immigration issue. Rep. Gutierrez is Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He issued the following statement: I have been saying that the road to the White House goes through Latino neighborhoods. When I traveled to Florida and Nevada and Colorado for the President, it was clear to me that Latino voters were energized and engaged and ready to believe that the President will fight for fairness for immigrants in his second term. I am so proud of Latino voters and their massive turnout. In state after state and in the nation as a whole, Latino voters made the difference for President Obama and for Democrats. Mitt Romney and the Republicans drank the anti-immigrant Kool-Aid during the primaries and they never recovered. But let's be clear, the President and Democrats cannot be satisfied that the other Party is repulsive to most Latino voters and lots of other voters as well. Democrats must actively attract voters to their positions on jobs, health care, same-sex equality, equal rights, and, especially with Latino voters, immigration reform. It was an act of faith that Latino voters pulled the lever in overwhelming numbers for President Obama who has deported more than a million immigrants. Now, the President must work with Congress to live up to that faith. The President should call Republicans and Democrats to the White House who want to chart a reasonable course forward on immigration and begin the process of delivering. I am ready to work with the President and anyone else who is serious about solutions for the American people and for immigrants. The massive deportation and destruction of families must stop. We need a legal immigration system that works, a system of enforcement with integrity, and an end to the fantasy that ten million people or more should leave the country. I am grateful to the voters of the Fourth Congressional District who reelected me and the new constituents I represent in my District in Cicero, Berwyn, Riverside, South Lawndale and elsewhere. My staff and I are here to serve and thank you for your faith in us. # # #
10.19.2012	Congressman Is Working with DREAMers and Advocates to Enroll As Many DREAM-Eligible Immigrant Youth As Possible in Obama Program (Washington, DC) -- Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) will join Miami-Dade pro-immigrant advocates and DREAM Act activists in a clinic aimed at helping young immigrants apply for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), the President's program to give two-year work authorization and a reprieve from deportation to immigrants raised in the U.S. Congressman Gutierrez is a national leader on immigration-related matters and the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Along with Sen. Dick Durbin, other officials, and advocates, immigrants and clergy in Chicago, the Congressman has been organizing workshops for deferred action applicants since the program began accepting applications in mid-August. The Congressman has traveled to several other states to speak with applicants, help out at clinics and encourage those who may be eligible to get more information and apply. His stop in Miami will be to participate in the free legal clinics organized by FLDream, a coalition of organizations led by undocumented students themselves from Students Working for Equal Rights (SWER), in collaboration with the Immigration Law Clinics from the Florida International University, United We Dream, PICO Florida, the Florida Immigrant Coalition and Americans for Immigrant Justice. The FLDream team has already organized eight free clinics almost every Saturday, to provide access to pro-bono lawyers and volunteers for undocumented families who don’t have the resources to apply through private lawyers. So far, more than 500 applications have been processed through the FLDream clinics since August and they have been held in different locations in South Miami, Homestead, Broward and now in North Miami. More information at https://fldream.swer.org/ # # # MEDIA AVAILABILITY: 11:30 am - 1:00 pm -- Congressman Gutierrez, DREAM Activist Gaby Pacheco, and other leaders, students, and applicants will be available. CLINIC DATE/TIME 11:30 am - 1:30 pm -- October 20, 2012 CLINIC LOCATION: Abraham S. Fischler School of Education, (Nova Southeastern University)1750 NW 167th ST., North Miami Beach, FL 33162
10.17.2012	"Mitt Romney's views are dramatically out of touch with the common-sense policies that most Americans embrace," Gutierrez says (Washington, DC) -- Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), reacted today to the exchange between President Obama and Gov. Romney on immigration during the presidential debate on Tuesday. Rep. Gutierrez is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez: Once again, Mitt Romney showed you can describe his immigration policy in two words: "get out." Mitt Romney has no understanding of the importance of immigrants to our economy or appreciation for the need to keep families together. Mitt Romney was clear that 10 or 11 million immigrants will have to leave the country if he is elected, but the idea that so many millions of people will leave or be driven out of the U.S. is a fantasy. Mitt Romney's views are dramatically out of touch with the common-sense policies that most Americans embrace when it comes to immigration. I urge every person who supports reasonable and fair policies that protect our borders, put people to work and keep families together to pay close attention to the extreme and unworkable views on immigration that Mitt Romney expresses again and again. # # #
10.11.2012	"Me enorgullezco de haber tenido un rol de ayudar al pueblo de Puerto Rico a descarrillar este tren que corría fuera de control y sin destino", dice Gutiérrez El Congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez reaccionó a la noticia de que se retiró la solicitud de permiso para la construcción del gasoducto, también conocido como "Vía Verde" pendiente ante el Cuerpo de Ingenieros del Ejército de Estados Unidos. El presidente de la junta de directores de la Autoridad de Energía Eléctrica, el Ingeniero José Ortiz hizo el anuncio hoy, lo que efectivamente mata el proyecto. El Congresista Gutiérrez ha sido un crítico acérrimo del proyecto por su potencial de atentar contra la vida y el ambiente y por la manera en que el régimen de Puerto Rico lo impulsó. El Congresista pronunció varios discursos contra el gasoducto en el hemiciclo de la Cámara de Representantes de Estados Unidos para atraer la atención a este asunto, sometió pedidos de información a las agencias federales bajo el "Freedom of Information Act", levantó cuestionamientos ante los reguladores para poner luz sobre el proceso del permiso, y contribuyó a unificar y galvanizar la oposición al gasoducto. A continuación, la declaración del Congresista Gutiérrez: Cuando un político asediado y en problemas invierte tanto de sus ambiciones políticas en un proyecto masivo de obra pública, ese proyecto puede ser más difícil de matar que a un vampiro, pero esta es la estocada final en el corazón del gasoducto. El gobernador de Puerto Rico estuvo dispuesto a arriesgar las vidas de los puertorriqueños, así como el ambiente, la economía y el futuro de la isla con tal de llenar los bolsillos de sus compinches y contribuyentes políticos. Ahora, a un mes del día de las elecciones, la enorme impopularidad del gasoducto le colgaba del cuello al gobernador como un albatros, y con este retiro de la solicitud intenta recortar sus pérdidas. Al exponer las mentiras del gobernador y desenmascarar la verdad acerca del gasoducto, me enorgullezco de haber tenido un rol de ayudar al pueblo de Puerto Rico a descarrillar este tren que corría fuera de control y sin destino. El pueblo de Puerto Rico resistió la construcción de este tubo masivo porque nunca fue necesario, no funcionaría a cabalidad y arriesgaría la preciada belleza natural de Puerto Rico, mientras sacaba a la gente de sus tierras. Toda la evidencia mostraba un riesgo tremendo para las especies en peligro de extinción, para las aguas frescas, y a los terrenos delicados de la isla, mientras exponía a la población a grandes riesgos de derrames, explosiones y otros desastres. El pueblo de Puerto Rico resistió también la manera en que este gobernador del Tea Party y su régimen impulsaron este proyecto, aún después que el pueblo se tornó en su contra. Desde el comienzo no existió transparencia ni oportunidad legítima para los comentarios del público. El proceso del gasoducto se convirtió en un lodazal de arreglos de conveniencias y de cuartos obscuros para ayudar a los aliados políticos ricos y poderosos del gobernador, y de atajos regulatorios cuestionables para encubrir y pasar por alto los riesgos ambientales. Gobernar en secreto para beneficiar a unos pocos a costa de los muchos no es la tradición puertorriqueña. Me alegra que la Autoridad de Energía Eléctrica recobrase su sentido y que haya retirado la solicitud de permiso. Felicito al pueblo de Puerto Rico. Felicito a los activistas, a los abogados y legisladores e individuos dedicados y comprometidos que lucharon en contra de esta injusticia. Casa Pueblo, organización de vanguardia de defensa ambiental en Adjuntas fue heroica por su dedicación a la justicia y se mantuvo firme en la lucha hasta que la justicia triunfó." # # #
10.11.2012	"I am proud I played a role in helping the people of Puerto Rico derail this runaway train to nowhere," Gutierrez says (Chicago, IL) -- Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), reacted today to the breaking news that the permit application to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers was withdrawn for the massive natural gas pipeline project in Puerto Rico known as the Gasoducto or Via Verde Project. The head of the Puerto Rico electric power authority (PREPA) made the announcement today, effectively killing the project. Rep. Gutierrez was an outspoken critic of the project because of the potential for environmental disaster and for the manner in which it was being pushed through by the Puerto Rican government. He gave several speeches in the House of Representatives to bring national attention to the issue, filed FOIA requests and questioned regulators to shine a spotlight on the process, and helped galvanize opposition to the project. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez: When an embattled politician wraps up so much of his political ambition in a massive public works project, it can be harder to kill than a vampire, but this is the final stake through the heart. Fundamentally, the Governor of Puerto Rico was willing to risk the lives of the Puerto Rican people as well as the environment, economy, and future of the island to line the pockets of his cronies and supporters. Now a month before Election Day, the unpopular Gasoducto project is like an albatross around the neck of the Governor and he is cutting his losses. By exposing the Governor's lies and unmasking the truth about this project, I am proud I played a role in helping the people of Puerto Rico derail this runaway train to nowhere. The Puerto Rican people resisted the construction of the massive pipeline because it was never needed, could never become fully functional, and risked ruining the precious natural beauty of Puerto Rico while driving people from their land. All of the evidence indicated a tremendous risk to endangered species, fresh water, and the island's delicate terrain and a huge risk to the people of Puerto Rico from spills, explosions, or other disasters. The Puerto Rican people also resisted the manner in which the Tea Party Governor and his regime pushed this project even after the people turned against it. From the outset, there was no transparency or legitimate opportunity for public comment. It became a quagmire of sweetheart deals to help wealthy political allies and questionable regulatory shortcuts to gloss over the environmental risks. Government in secret to benefit the few at the expense of the many is not the Puerto Rican way. I am glad the power authority (PREPA) came to its senses and that the application has been withdrawn. Congratulations to the people of Puerto Rico. Congratulations to the dedicated advocates, lawyers, law-makers, and individuals who fought against this injustice. Casa Pueblo, the ground breaking environmental advocacy group in Adjuntas, was heroic in its dedication to justice and kept fighting until justice was won. # # #
10.04.2012	"Romney stands proudly with the most extreme, anti-immigrant elements of the Republican Party," Gutierrez says (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) issued the following statement reacting to reports that Gov. Mitt Romney changed his mind again and now pledges to stop accepting applications for President Obama's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program if he is elected President. After weeks of questioning, Romney indicated he would not revoke the work authorization and two year reprieve from deportation issued under President Obama's special program for DREAM Act-eligible youth because they had "purchased" it by paying a $465 fee. Yesterday, Romney said he would end the program and not accept new applicants if elected. Congressman Gutierrez will hold a series of workshops Saturday, Oct. 6, in Chicago with Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) to assist applicants for the program. Rep. Gutierrez is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a national leader on the immigration reform issue. Rep. Gutierrez' statement: Every day Mitt Romney demonstrates more clearly that he is hostile to America's immigrants. First, he reluctantly said he would support young immigrants who benefit from Barack Obama's deferred action policy only because he didn't want to take away something they "purchased," -- as if the ability to live in the only country you've ever known is no more important than buying a sweater at the mall. Now he tells us it's just a one-day sale, by flip-flopping on his flip-flop the next day, saying that if he becomes President he will stop accepting applications for President Obama's policy. Immigrants have no reason to wonder what would happen to them if Mitt Romney is elected. Romney stands proudly with the most extreme, anti-immigrant elements of the Republican Party and refuses to consider even the most sensible and fair relief for America's immigrant community. It is absurd that a 90 minute debate on domestic policy and the economy would not address immigration at all, not even in passing, especially when Latino voters are considered the key demographic that will determine who sits in the White House. The moderator dropped the ball, the President missed an opportunity, and Romney dodged a bullet. The American people are clear that they don't think our immigration policy should be held hostage to the Romney fantasy that 11 or 12 million immigrants must leave the country and believe that immigrants should have an opportunity to be in the U.S. legally and eventually apply for citizenship. Yet Romney is saying he would resume deportations for every young person raised in the U.S. who has no line to stand in to get legal. # # #
10.04.2012	Durbin, Schakowsky and Gutierrez Offer Help to Immigrants Applying for Obama Program for DREAM Act-Eligible Youth (Chicago) -- Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) will be joined by Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Rep. Jan Schakowsky to kick off five workshops around Chicago on Saturday aimed at helping young immigrants apply for deferred action, the President's program to give two-year work authorization and a reprieve from deportation to immigrants raised in the U.S. MEDIA AVAILABILITY: There will be a media availability at 10 am at Roberto Clemente High School (1147 N Western Ave, Chicago 60622) with Sen. Durbin, Reps. Gutierrez and Schakowsky, the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, applicants, and volunteers, advocates and attorneys helping applicants. WORKSHOPS: Roberto Clemente High School (1147 N Western Ave, Chicago 60622) - registration is closed - Hours: 10:00 am - 1:00 p.m. Benito Juarez High School (1450-1510 West Cermak Road [at Ashland], Chicago 60608) -registration is closed - Hours: 10:00 am - 1:00 p.m. Harry S. Truman City College (1145 West Wilson Ave Chicago 60640) -registration is still open - Hours: 9:00 am - 1:00 p.m. Richard J. Daley City College (7500 South Pulaski Rd Chicago 60652) -registration is closed - Hours: 10:00 am - 1:00 p.m. Wilbur Wright City College (4300 N. Narragansett Ave Chicago 60634) -registration is closed Hours: 10:00 am - 1:00 p.m. DATE: Saturday, October 6, 2012 DESCRIPTION: Over 500 pre-registered applicants have received pre-workshop consultations to gather appropriate documents to facilitate the application. At each site, they will meet with volunteers who will answer questions and help them prepare their application. Anyone who is not pre-registered will receive an orientation to the program and be given an opportunity to register for future workshops. More information can be found at www.DREAMrelief.org or by calling Rep. Gutierrez' Office at 773-742-0774 # # #
10.02.2012	Romney "sees fundamental fairness and decency for immigrant children who grew up in America as nothing more than a 'purchase'" (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) issued the following statement reacting to reports that Gov. Mitt Romney will not revoke work permits issued to young immigrants under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. First reported by the Denver Post, Romney said he will honor work permits issued under President Obama's special program for DREAM Act-eligible youth ("DREAMers") granting them a two year reprieve from deportation. Congressman Gutierrez recently announced a series of workshops to be held in Chicago on Oct. 6 in conjunction with Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) to assist applicants for the program. Rep. Gutierrez is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a national leader on the immigration reform issue. Rep. Gutierrez' statement: Mitt Romney is looking at polls in Colorado, Nevada, Florida, North Carolina, and a lot of other places and realizing that winning enough Latino voters to win those states does not fit with his threats to veto the DREAM Act and to make racial profiling laws in Arizona and the Deep South models for the country. Mitt Romney has been saying he wants 12 million immigrants to leave the United States by deporting themselves. Latino voters and a lot of other folks hear that kind of talk and they run in the opposite direction. It tells us all we need to know about Mitt Romney that he sees fundamental fairness and decency for immigrant children who grew up in America as nothing more than a "purchase" he doesn't want to cancel. Protecting these young immigrants from being deported sounds no more important to Mitt Romney than protecting someone who bought a sweater at the mall. I have news for Mitt Romney: you don't "purchase" fairness, you earn it, and these young people earn it every day of their lives. That is why I am helping young immigrants sign up and encouraging anyone who is eligible to fill out the application. Regardless of Romney's motives, it should be clear to those eligible that it is safe to apply even in the unlikely event that Romney wins the White House. # # #
09.25.2012	(Chicago) -- Sen. Richard Durbin (D-IL) and Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) held a press conference today to announce a series of workshops to be held on October 6 across Chicago that will help young immigrants determine if they are eligible for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), and if so, to sign up. The two leaders described the series of workshops as a "surge" strategy to help meet the tremendous demand for information and assistance on the deportation relief and work authorization program for young immigrants brought to the United States as children. Interested applicants should visit www.DREAMRelief.org or gutierrezregister.com to pre-register for the workshops, which will be held at Roberto Clemente and Benito Juarez High Schools and at Richard J. Daley, Harry Truman and Wilbur Wright City Colleges on Saturday Oct. 6. Those who pre-register will be contacted for an appointment and given assistance in determining if they meet the eligibility criteria and identifying the documents they will need to gather in order to successfully apply. "Since I first wrote the DREAM Act over a decade ago, I’ve met with countless young people who only want a chance to earn a chance to live and work without fear in the country they call home," Durbin said. "President Obama’s deferred action policy gives many of them that chance. These young peoples’ entry into the workforce will also give American companies a chance to draw from their untapped talent. With such great humanitarian and economic benefits, we need to ensure that every young dreamer who qualifies for DACA knows exactly what they need to do in order to be considered. At last month’s DREAM Relief Day we saw such a high demand for help with applications that we weren’t able to assist all students. With the workshops planned for the coming weeks and months, we hope to give them the guidance they need." "The first people who applied in August are beginning to get their approvals," Rep. Gutierrez said. "We want to make sure everyone who can apply in the Chicago area gets all the information and help they need to apply. This is a great opportunity and we have found that the more visible DREAMers and other immigrants become, the harder it is for politicians to ignore them. I see signing up for Deferred Action as the first step for the broader immigrant community to come forward, make themselves known, and get into the system and on-the-books." Several Chicago-area immigrants who have already applied for Deferred Action joined the Senator and the Congressman at the press conference and encouraged their fellow DREAMers to apply. Antonio, 19, has been in the United States for 10 years. He applied and was called in for an appointment to be fingerprinted (an intermediate step in the application process). He said, "When I went to the appointment for my fingerprints I had some anxiety I needed to get over, but I knew I was one step closer to what I want to achieve. I have goals in life and want to be one person that doesn't quit and sets the example for younger people who also struggle." Katherina, also 19, came to the U.S. when she was 6 and applied for Deferred Action at Rep. Gutierrez' office on August 17. She said, "I am excited. I just had my appointment for my biometrics and I was truly blessed to have had Congressman Gutierrez and his staff helping me with the application." Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) is the program announced by President Obama in June and kicked off in August that allows young immigrants who came to the U.S. as children -- those who qualify for the DREAM Act -- to apply for a renewable two-year reprieve from deportation and work authorization. The press conference was held at the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights (ICIRR), an organization that is part of the broad coalition of community leaders and clergy working to sign-up eligible young immigrants in the Chicago area. Senator Durbin, the author of the DREAM Act, and Rep. Gutierrez, a leading voice on immigration issues, are hoping to make Chicago a model for other communities by signing up the highest percentage of local eligible applicants -- the DREAMers -- for the program. # # #
09.21.2012	(Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) issued the following statement reacting to two candidate forums conducted this week on Univision, the nation's largest Spanish-language network. On Thursday, President Obama stated that his "biggest failure" during his first term was being unable to enact comprehensive immigration reform that couples legal immigration reform, legalization for undocumented immigrants, and improved enforcement at the border and in the workplace. Rep. Gutierrez is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a national leader on the immigration reform issue. Rep. Gutierrez' statement: As my statements and actions have made clear during President Obama's first term, I do believe he should have done more to fight for comprehensive immigration reform. President Obama’s statement to Univision last night regretting his failure to pass immigration reform in his first term suggests to me that we will see real leadership from the President during his second term and I look forward to standing with him to make comprehensive immigration reform a national priority. Election Day will be a turning point and significant immigration reform is possible during President Obama's second term because the dynamics of the issue are shifting. After Election Day, I hope President Obama invites Republicans to the White House and that leaders like Sen. Marco Rubio, Gov. Jeb Bush, and Michael Bloomberg, who have made it clear they want to work on immigration reform in a serious way, will bring along the Republican support necessary to solve one of our nation’s most pressing issues. Realistic Republicans recognize that the situation with immigration issues is unsustainable for the GOP politically and unsustainable as a matter of policy. Standing with Steve King, Joe Arpaio, Jan Brewer or Kris Kobach is a liability to Republicans who are paying a huge price for blocking immigration reform. Gov. Romney has fallen with Latino voters and he can't get up. The hole Romney dug for himself by embracing the most staunchly anti-immigration position of any GOP candidate for President will cost him the White House. The clique in the GOP that opposes immigration and immigration reform got their hooks into Romney during the primaries and as returns come in from Nevada, Florida, New Mexico, and Colorado and as states like Virginia and North Carolina swing blue on the strength of Hispanic voters, the adults in the Republican Party will recognize they must begin work on immigration legislation, even if Republicans retain the House. To enact any sensible immigration reform, the President and the Democrats will need to bring 90% of the votes to get a bill passed, but I think after Election Day, finding 10% of the votes among Republicans will be a lot easier. If the Republican Party is to survive, they must sue for peace on the immigration issue and move beyond gridlock. Some leaders inside the Republican Party understand this reality. This President has ramped up enforcement and we have record deportation numbers in each year of his presidency to show for it. No one in the Democratic Party has been more critical of the President's choice to lead with enforcement than me, but now the Republicans have no excuse, no pretense of enforcement-only delaying tactics to hide behind. The President has accomplished a lot through Administrative action to ensure that our enforcement resources are being used to remove threats to our society while allowing assets to our communities to remain in this country. We can only fully modernize our immigration system through legislation and bring it into the 21st century, including getting more high skilled immigrants to choose America and reuniting families. The Republicans will soon understand how costly their obstruction and wrong-headedness has been, and I think we will be able to return to the table to discuss how we couple legal immigration, legalization for undocumented immigrants and enforcement in the workplace and at the border into a politically viable and successful immigration reform package. With illegal immigration at an historically low level, we can and must get control of immigration and get millions of undocumented residents into the system and on-the-books, but we will need Republicans who want to help solve the problem to join us. # # #
09.14.2012	(Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) issued the following statement reacting to the news that Republicans, including Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith (TX), hope to have a vote next week on a bill increasing visas for STEM graduates, those who receive degrees in science, technology, engineering or math at U.S. universities. The Republican proposal, as Rep. Gutierrez understands it, would reduce or eliminate other legal immigration programs in order to increase STEM visas. Rep. Gutierrez is one of the Congress' most visible supporters of legal immigration and immigration reform and is the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Task Force on Immigration. Gutierrez statement: I would like to negotiate on increasing STEM visas, by as much as 50,000, as well as family visas and I have been talking to Republicans, including Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith, to see if we can reach a deal. I hope we can. I would like to improve the STEM visa program without doing damage to other parts of our legal immigration system. The President has made this a priority and I am prepared to support a clean STEM increase because it will help our economy and create jobs. Republicans are only willing to increase legal immigration for immigrants they want by eliminating legal immigration for immigrants they don't want. STEM visas have a lot of merit and we should increase them. I am almost always willing to support legal immigration. Republicans almost always oppose immigration, even when it is legal, which has hurt them. # # #
08.21.2012	"Ya es hora de cerrar el capítulo del gasoducto." August 21, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Declaración del Congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez acerca de carta del Secretario del Ejército John McHugh desmintiendo al Gobernador Fortuño: "Una vez más queda desmentido el gobernador en cuanto al gasoducto. El Secretario del Ejército de Estados Unidos ha desmentido al gobernador directamente en cuanto a su aseveración de que la subsecretaria del Ejército, Jo Ellen Darcy, le había pedido que no retirase la petición del permiso del gasoducto. "Además, el Secretario McHugh hace claro en su carta que ha tomado en serio la necesidad de investigar el conflicto de intereses entre el subcontratista del gobierno BCPeabody y el distrito de Jacksonville del Cuerpo de Ingenieros, y ordenado que se acelere esta investigación. "Es claro que ni el gobernador ni su régimen tienen credibilidad. "Ya es hora de cerrar el capítulo del gasoducto." # # # Vea la carta del Secretario McHugh aqui.
08.15.2012	"This is going to help break through the political obstacles blocking broader, permanent immigration reform," Gutierrez says August 15, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez participated in DREAM Relief Day, a daylong workshop, information session, college fair, and celebration marking the first day that DREAM Act eligible young people can sign up for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, a form of relief from deportation. Rep. Gutierrez, who is Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, issued the following statement: “The people who say undocumented immigrants don't really want to be part of this country will have to rethink that when they see hundreds of thousands or maybe a million young people come forward to sign-up in the coming weeks and months. The hard-working young immigrants who sign-up are charting a course towards reestablishing law and order in our immigration system and are genuine leaders. I am proud of them and the immigrant community and the City of Chicago for being national leaders for immigration reform. “This is going to help break through the political obstacles blocking broader, permanent immigration reform because this demonstrates that when people are given a chance to get in the system and on the books, they will take it. We need to find a way for the parents and neighbors of these young people to come forward too and to establish a legal immigration system that will restore dignity, legality, and humanity to our immigration system.” # # # Rep. Gutierrez published an essay at the Huffington Post on Tuesday, August 14, "Ten Reasons Young People Should Come Forward For Deferred Action," https://www.huffingtonpost.com/rep-luis-gutierrez/ten-reasons-young-people_b_1775552.html More information on the Chicago Navy Pier event, which also included Sen. Dick Durbin, Mayor Rahm Emanuel and other Illinois and Chicago dignitaries, can be found at https://dreamrelief.org/ or by contacting the sponsors of the event, the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights.
08.03.2012	DHS & USCIS Guidelines Announced Today Will Govern The Process August 3, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, was briefed by USCIS on the process for DREAM Act eligible youth to apply on August 15 for deferred action, a two-year work permit and protections from deportation. The guidelines spell out the fees ($465.00) which will pay for the program in its entirety and include further clarification on who will qualify and not qualify for the review and deferred action. While some details are still being finalized and analyzed, the Congressman said he was confident the process would be clear on August 15, the first day young immigrants can apply. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis Gutierrez: When a million or more young immigrants begin signing up for deferred action on August 15, it will be hard to hold back the tears. You cannot overstate how important this moment will be in immigrant communities and Latino neighborhoods across the country. The excitement is electric and will not be dampened by House and Senate Republicans threatening to sue the President or take other actions to squelch young people’s dreams. The President and Secretary of Homeland Security are working within their authority to do something sensible that will improve immigration enforcement and public safety. By spending less time and fewer resources chasing high school and college students, the Department of Homeland Security can spend a lot more time and resources actually securing the homeland. I am still looking at the details, but the guidelines announced today are consistent with what I was expecting. The fees will pay for the program's implementation, so this will be a windfall for the American taxpayer when all is said and done. I know $465 is a significant chunk of money for most families, teenagers, and young adults, but relief from the constant fear of deportation and having your family split apart is priceless. We will have all the details and will have trained volunteers and will have reached out to other congressional offices by the time we hold our big DREAM Relief Day event in Chicago on August 15. [9:00 am - 2:00 pm; Grand Ballroom at Navy Pier. More info: https://dreamrelief.org/dreamrelief-day-announcement/]. At that event, I will be joined by Mayor Rahm Emanuel, Senator Dick Durbin, community organizations and volunteers and we expect over 1,000 eligible young people to come forward to get informed about the application process and to signup. We will reach out to the more than 500 individuals in Chicago who have already contacted us and are getting the word out in Chicago, with the help of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights and the website www.DREAMRelief.org. Applications will not be accepted before August 15, but we will be ready that day to help people prepare and file their applications. Nationally, we know of some 20 events already being planned and at yesterday's press conference, we had more than 20 Members of Congress pledging to help young immigrants receive clear and accurate information and get them signed up if they qualify. Until August 15, my message remains the same: Be patient, get as much information as you can from trusted sources like community based organizations and Members of Congress. Don't trust anyone saying they will help you for an exorbitant fee. Stay in school and prepare to show proof of high school graduation or a GED. And help us make this a successful, orderly program. And congratulations. Two additional points: If you have a serious criminal record, this program is not for you. And if anyone tries to game the system or commit fraud in this process, you will risk prosecution and deportation. I see these next few months as a stepping stone to sensible, permanent immigration reform and while this is a small and narrowly defined group who can come forward now, how it is conducted will set the tone for measures down the road as we address the disposition of 10-12 million people who live here but are not fully included as members of our society. # # # RESOURCES: USCIS has put more detailed information on their website and has prepared an informational brochure and flyer. The Fair Immigration Reform Movement website listing many of the events being held for DREAMers on or about August 15: www.fairimmigration.org Congressman Gutierrez's floor speech on deferred action for DREAMers 8/1/2012 (video): https://youtu.be/KRLQ7DaaxMU (text): https://bit.ly/QvHeyH. Immigration Policy Center Report on who and where those eligible for deferred action are (by state and congressional district): https://www.immigrationpolicy.org/just-facts/who-and-where-dreamers-are
08.02.2012	Letter to Obamas Expresses Outrage; Letter to Puerto Rico House Speaker Calls for Firing Advisor August 2, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) wrote President and Mrs. Obama a letter on Wednesday expressing his outrage at a racist Tweet attributed to the top Advisor to the Speaker of the House in Puerto Rico. He also wrote the Speaker calling for the advisor's termination. In the letter to the Obamas, the Congressman, a Chicago-born Puerto Rican, said: As a Puerto Rican, I believe it is appropriate to share with you my outrage regarding this message. I want you to know that I have called for Ms. Wys to be removed immediately from any position, formal or informal, that she holds with the government of Puerto Rico. Sentiments like this simply cannot be tolerated, and the Puerto Rican leaders responsible for her employment should act without hesitation. On July 26, Heidi Anne Wys, Advisor to Speaker Jennifer González, responded to a twitter picture posted by the President celebrating the First Lady's birthday, with the outrageous comment, "Who cares? Take her to Burger King, buy her a sundae with double banana, take her to your homeland, Kenya!" It has received extensive coverage, especially in Puerto Rico, including the Associated Press, El Nuevo Día and Noticel. A screen capture of the original tweet and Heidi Wys' response is available here. The Congressman's letter to the President and First Lady continues: I feel confident that I speak for all Puerto Ricans when I tell you that we reject this type of language, opinion and behavior. The Puerto Rican people have a long history of being the victims of racism, discrimination and violence. We also have a proud history of working to overcome these obstacles and fighting for positive change. We have marched with civil rights leaders like Dr. Martin Luther King and consistently promoted a message of fairness, tolerance and understanding. I want you to know the deep regret I feel that any Puerto Rican would publicly convey such a hateful message. In the letter to Speaker González, Congressman Gutierrez writes, (in Spanish): Given recent reports regarding the racist and unacceptable message your advisor Heidi Wys sent President Barack Obama through Twitter, I respectfully demand her immediate dismissal from any position she may hold with the Puerto Rico House of Representatives. (Translation by the Congressman's office). The Letter to President and Mrs. Obama is here: LINK The Letter to Speaker González (in Spanish) is here: LINK # # #
07.26.2012	"This is a step towards stabilization in housing and I am proud to have been helpful," Gutierrez says July 26, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) began initial implementation of the Obama Administration’s groundbreaking effort to preserve tens of thousands of public and other HUD-assisted housing with the publication of the Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD) Final Notice in the Federal Register (See HUD Press Release and www.hud.gov/rad). Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) is the Ranking Democrat on the Housing, Insurance, and Community Opportunity Subcommittee of the Financial Services Committee and worked with the Subcommittee Chairwoman and others to ensure that this important initiative was included in the FY2012 appropriations bill funding the agency. According to HUD: RAD allows public housing authorities and owners of at-risk multifamily housing to convert current limited or terminating forms of operating assistance to long-term, Section 8-based subsidy contracts at current costs. Such contracts will enable owners to leverage millions of dollars in debt and equity investments to preserve this housing over the long term. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez issued the following statement: Stable housing, stable families, and stable neighborhoods are the foundations of prosperous communities, so this is good news for Chicago and cities and towns across the country. Homelessness and the threat of homelessness is a fact of life for too many American families and local budgets are strapped. This intelligent move by HUD allows local authorities and entities to maintain and preserve housing for working class and poor families in a cost-effective way. We clearly have a long way to go before our housing markets are back on track across the board, and this instability has filtered down to working class families who may live in public housing or publicly subsidized housing. This is a step towards stabilization in housing and I am proud to have been helpful. # # #
07.26.2012	July 26, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – In response to a PBS investigation that documented allegations of widespread abuse by Customs and Border Protection (CBP) personnel, Members of Congress expressed grave concerns about the agency’s commitment to preventing the mistreatment of detained immigrants. The documentary, which mirrors the findings of multiple independent inquiries by non-governmental organizations, found evidence of physical abuse, deprivation of food and water, sexual assault and even torture by members of the nation’s largest law enforcement agency. “The PBS report paints an appalling picture of cruelty and corruption,” said Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA). “While the evidence mounts that CBP personnel are responsible for a deeply troubling pattern of abuses, the agency’s leadership has yet to take any meaningful action to improve the oversight of its officers and agents in the field. The time has come for CBP to finally take these egregious allegations seriously.” “The latest PBS reporting shows that the problems with violence at the CBP are widespread and systemic,” said Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY). “The need for a top-to-bottom review of CBP practices and for increased training of their officers couldn’t be more clear. We must ensure the safety and well-being of immigrants and citizens near the border and in custody. Most of those who are detained have done little more than cross a border—they shouldn’t be treated like violent criminals or worse.” "In light of the findings in PBS's report, it is imperative that there is a proper investigation to get at the root of these allegations,” said Congressman Charles A. Gonzalez (D-TX), Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Detainees under our government’s custody require an environment free of abuse, corruption and violence. Anything less than that, is a violation of our fundamental values as a nation." “Decades of partisanship, gridlock and acrimony have prevented the United States from addressing border, immigration, and security issues in a sensible way,” said Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “The result of our tough ‘law and order’ approach to border security is clearly less law and less order, with an unmanageable agency, renegade agents, unconscionable abuse, and more acrimony. We must do better in a 21st century world where contraband and threats are on the move at the same time that goods, families, tourists, and workers are also on the move and are driving our economy and prosperity.” “Congress should put politics aside and work together now to reform our broken immigration system,” said Congressman Jared Polis (D-CO). “One of the first steps is ensuring that federal agencies responsibly enforce the law. The allegations of abuse and corruption cast serious doubt on CBP’s ability to do so. Congress should investigate these allegations and the agencies involved should undertake a wholesale rethinking of how they conduct their business.” “The credible, ongoing allegations of abuse and corruption by certain Customs and Border Patrol agents raised by PBS and others demand immediate attention,” said Congressman Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ). “Agency leaders should start an immediate zero-tolerance policy and address credible reports of wrongdoing as quickly as possible. Many men and women who protect our nation’s borders truly define courage and honor. Those who violate the trust given to them by the American people should be held accountable for their actions not only to give their victims justice and closure, but to preserve the respect their agencies and their more honorable colleagues have earned.” Statistics obtained by Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard from the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General (DHS OIG) show that at least 26 CBP employees have been arrested and 14 convicted of crimes in the past year alone. In May, 16 members of Congress called for justice in the tragic beating death of an undocumented immigrant named Anastacio Hernandez-Rojas in CBP custody and reiterated the need for tougher oversight of Border Patrol personnel. A grand jury has subsequently been convened to investigate the Hernandez-Rojas case. ###
07.19.2012	104 Sign Letter Pledging to "Ensure Policy’s Success and Use It As a Stepping Stone for Broader Relief and Future Legislative Action" on Immigration. July 19, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- A group of 104 Democratic Members of Congress released a letter to President Barack Obama thanking him for his decision to instruct the Department of Homeland Security to offer "Deferred Action" deportation relief to young immigrants raised in the U.S. who would qualify for the DREAM Act. The President made his announcement on June 15, telling young undocumented immigrants who have lived in the U.S. for at least five years and arrived before they turned 16 that they will not be deported and will be given an opportunity to work legally in the U.S., at least temporarily. The Members of Congress, including Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA) and Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (MD), said they stand ready to work with the President "to ensure the policy’s success and to use it as a stepping stone for broader relief and future legislative action" on immigration. The letter was released by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (IL) during a floor speech in the House of Representatives this morning. Joining Rep. Gutierrez in gathering signatures for the letter were Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA), Joseph Crowley (NY), Judy Chu (CA), Xavier Becerra (CA), Barbara Lee (CA), John Conyers, Jr. (MI), Charles A. Gonzalez (TX), Jared Polis (CO), Michael M. Honda (CA), and Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA). Several Republicans have stated that the President does not have the legal authority to prevent the deportation of individuals who are in the country illegally and some have threatened to sue the President in Federal Court to prevent the policy from taking effect. The first young immigrants who meet the specific policy criteria can begin applying for deferred action, a particular form of temporary relief from deportation, in August. The Members of Congress wrote: We recognize that there are those who will want to take the power of discretion away from you and the Executive branch. Like you, we agree that you are on solid moral, legal, and political ground and we will do everything within our power to defend your actions and the authority that you, like past Presidents, can exercise to set enforcement priorities and better protect our neighborhoods and our nation. In his floor speech, Rep. Gutierrez said that the group of Democrats who signed the letter were telling the President "thank you" and underscoring the fact that the President took this action to allow immigration enforcement officers to go after serious criminals. The prosecutorial discretion that the President is exercising is backed by a considerable body of case law, including the recent Supreme Court decision in Arizona v. U.S. striking down key elements of Arizona's anti-immigrant SB1070 law. That decision reiterated the discretion the President and immigration officials have under current law to initiate and terminate deportations, the Congressman said. Furthermore, staunch critics of the President and of immigration reform, like Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX), Rules Committee Chairman David Dreier, Chairman of the House "Immigration Reform" Caucus Brian Bilbray (R-CA), and former Judiciary Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner (R-WI) supported the legal grounds for prosecutorial discretion to halt the deportation of immigrants in a letter they signed to the Clinton Administration in 1999. Governor Nathan Deal, the Republican Governor of Georgia, who signed that state's harsh, Arizona-like anti--immigrant law, also signed the 1999 letter when he was serving in the House. Rep. Gutierrez said: It’s simple, really, and the Members of Congress who’ve signed this letter with me today, and the U.S. Supreme Court, and President Obama – and Lamar Smith and dozens of his colleagues just 15 years ago – get it. It’s time to leave honest, hard-working immigrants alone. When we do, our law enforcement officials can focus on catching the actual bad guys. # # # PDF of Congressional Letter to President Obama, with signatures Letter from Rep. Lamar Smith to Janet Reno- 1999.pdf Text of Gutierrez floor speech (as prepared for delivery): https://bit.ly/GutFlrSpchTxt Video of Gutierrez floor speech:
07.12.2012	"I'm sorry there will be no 'perp walk' for the top executives so we can see their faces" July 12, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, the Department of Justice and Wells Fargo announced a $175 million settlement in a case of systematic discrimination against Hispanic and African-American homeowners and borrowers. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), the Ranking Democrat on the Housing, Insurance, and Community Opportunity Subcommittee in the U.S. House of Representatives issued the following statement: I am sorry there will be no "perp walk" for the top executives so we can see their faces. I know that if someone in my neighborhood robs a bank, they go to jail. But if a bank robs my neighborhood, nobody goes to jail. I am obviously pleased that systemic discrimination against black and Hispanic borrowers is being addressed. Charging people of color higher fees and steering them towards riskier categories of loans is outrageous and the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a concrete step we took to protect consumers from predatory practices. I will continue to defend the CFPB against Republican efforts to destroy or neuter it precisely because it was designed to bring discriminatory practices like these to light. We need to continue to make homeownership available in minority communities and ensure that fair lending practices are followed because home ownership is what builds stable, vibrant, and successful neighborhoods. The portion of the $50 million in down payment assistance and $125 million in compensation for those whose rights were violated that will come to Chicago will help my District and the whole City of Chicago. More importantly, this demonstrates that in the end, the systematic practice of discriminating against minorities is a very, very expensive and ultimately unprofitable way of doing business, and every other bank executive now knows that. # # # According to the Department of Justice release: The proposed settlement provides for an independent administrator to contact and distribute payments of compensation at no cost to borrowers whom the Justice Department identifies as victims of Wells Fargo’s discrimination. The department will make a public announcement and post contact information on its website once an administrator is chosen. Borrowers who are eligible for compensation from the settlement will then be contacted by the administrator. Individuals who believe that they may have been victims of lending discrimination by Wells Fargo and have questions about the settlement may email the department at wellsfargo.settlement@usdoj.gov
07.10.2012	Gutierrez Applauds Mayor for His Vision That Sets Chicago Apart from Other Jurisdictions, Like Arizona July 10, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) joined Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel at a press conference in the Little Village neighborhood to announce introduction of the "Safe Families Ordinance.” The ordinance clarifies and extends Chicago's existing policy of creating a firewall between federal civil immigration law enforcement and the relationship the City of Chicago, and especially the Chicago Police Department, has with its residents. The following is a statement from Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. I commend the Mayor and the City of Chicago for updating, shoring up, and making crystal clear the Safe Families Ordinance. The City of Chicago has been at the forefront of U.S. cities in how it handles the reality that thousands upon thousands of immigrants, families and entrepreneurs are seeking opportunity in our city and the reality that the United States has failed to modernize its immigration system for decades. We no longer have a reliable and responsive legal immigration system. Too many individuals are faced with the impossible choice of abandoning their families or going around our legal system because they can find no way through it to meet their responsibilities as spouses and parents. And we give almost no opportunity to immigrants here illegally to take any action that would allow them to earn legal status. Because of these realities, states like Illinois and Arizona and cities like Chicago and Phoenix are forced to deal with the consequences. In Arizona, they deal with this reality by enacting laws to sanction racial profiling and by condoning the irrational acts of cowboys -- sometimes ones who happen to be Sheriffs and carry guns -- and set them loose on immigrants or anyone who looks or sounds like an immigrant. We know from the experience in Arizona, Alabama, and many other places that this undermines public safety, wastes precious and scarce law enforcement resources and weakens the bonds of trust between police and the communities they serve and protect. In Chicago, we do things a little differently because we put public safety above political stunts, and we put creating a united, cohesive society over trying to draw dividing lines or driving political wedges. I am so proud that the Chicago tradition continues and is made all the more solid by our current mayor. Chicago police have guns and cars and badges and radios, but without the eyes and ears of the community, they would be lost. This ordinance protects everyone because it allows anyone who witnesses a crime, who knows about criminal activity and anyone who wants to make our city safer to come forward and share that information with police. It targets police resources on criminals and threats and minimizes the amount of city resources devoted to holding non-criminals and non-threats, just because they were flagged in a federal database as possibly violating federal civil laws. Most importantly, it defines clearly that the way towards law and order with regard to immigrants is very different than the "build a wall and round them up" approach that has so much traction in the Republican Party and which, unfortunately, many of my fellow Democrats sometimes fall victim to. The way we get control over crime, the way we get control over immigration, and the way we repair our immigration system so that it stimulates and builds up our economy, both here and nationally, is to look forward, not backwards. We need laws that match the reality that people are here, people are coming, and that every level of society is more efficient if the federal government sets up a functioning legal system to deal with that reality and keeps up with our modern society. That is how we end the illegality; that is how we focus law enforcement resources on actual law enforcement; that is how we maximize the positive impact that immigrants and immigration have had and will have on the economy in Chicago and nationally. And that is how we set a course forward. Mr. Mayor, I applaud you for your vision. # # #
06.28.2012	"I Know What Bullying Feels Like" Says Congressman at Capitol Press Conference June 28, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, the Congressional Anti-Bullying Caucus was launched by Chairman Mike Honda (D-CA). The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL). Look, I was a Puerto Rican kid in Chicago and then, after my family moved, I was an American kid in Puerto Rico, so I stood out wherever I was when I was a kid. So I know what bullying feels like. And wherever a kid or a grown-up stands out and is just a little bit different -- or people think they are just a little bit different -- then we need to be aware of the potential for bullying and help people when they are the targets. We also need to educate people who might potentially be bullies and steer their energy or their anger or their misunderstandings away from violence and intimidation. From our offices in Congress, we can be helpful in lifting up the bullying issue and making people pay attention. Where there are laws that could help -- or where laws are making it harder for people to help -- we can work on making it better. I joined the House Anti-Bullying Caucus because it is the right thing to do. I think we need to shine a light on the problem and if joining my friend Mike Honda on the Caucus helps do that, then I am all in. We all need to join together in this effort, regardless of who we are or where we live and that’s why I’m joining the Congressional Anti-Bullying Caucus. # # #
06.28.2012	Health Care Decision "Makes a Definitive Statement About How Dearly We Hold the Values of Equality And Opportunity in the United States" June 28, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, the Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act, the landmark health care reform bill passed in 2010. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL). When I retire, I will be buying insurance from a health care exchange just like everyone else and I am proud to live in a country that allows working class families, blue collar workers and former Congressmen to share health care risks and health rewards and equal opportunity for life saving coverage. For Latino families, for Chicago families, and for all families, the extension of coverage to young adults, the eventual extension of coverage to people who cannot afford care, and the security that will be built into our health care system are life changing and tremendously helpful. This will literally help people live who before this law, if they were sick and couldn't afford care or couldn't switch health policies, were sentenced to death or poverty or both. Today's ruling makes a definitive statement about how dearly we hold the values of equality and opportunity in the United States. # # #
06.25.2012	Most of Romney's National "Model" Struck Down, But Most Egregious Portion of SB1070 Will Have Profound Affect June 25, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, the Supreme Court struck down much of the Arizona SB1070 "Show Me Your Papers" Law, but upheld section 2(B), the specific portion that requires local law enforcement to ask people for proof of immigration status if they "reasonably suspect" an individual to be in the country illegally. Gov. Mitt Romney has called Arizona's immigration laws a model for the nation. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The Supreme Court dealt a blow to the anti-immigrant movement, but also dealt a blow to Latinos and immigrants living in the United States. This threatens the safety of all Americans and undermines the fundamental relationship between police and the communities they serve, and I am proud that Chicago is not going down that road. A central part of the law, which requires state and local law enforcement to check someone's citizenship status in the course of their duties, was upheld and will sanction pretextual stops and racial profiling. This gives a green light to Arizona sheriffs and others to use someone's clothing, accent, or appearance to take them to jail and hold them until their immigration status, if any, is sorted out. Experience has shown us that police are highly unlikely to stop an individual with the last name of Kennedy or Roberts on suspicion of not being a legal U.S. citizen, but if you are a Gutierrez or Martinez, watch out. The express goal of the authors of Arizona's SB1070 is to target immigrants for harassment and make their lives miserable, and a key tool in that effort was upheld by the Court. In our nation's history, the Supreme Court has been at its best when it expands freedom and demands that all Americans are treated fairly. This court fell short of that ideal today. Leaders who understand that allowing police to target anyone they choose, including American citizens, simply based on the way they look, or the sound of their voice, is wrong and has no place in our great country. The President and Attorney General fought hard against the Arizona law and deserve praise for their leadership. Much of this decision is a victory for our community. This President is not afraid to do the right thing when faced with injustice. Now the Department of Homeland Security and Department of Justice and the White House have an even more important role in making sure federal immigration laws are not further undermined by and dictated by the states. The President must stand firm because only the federal government can deport someone or turn a routine traffic stop into a lifetime of exile or a family permanently split apart. The President's announcement last Friday is all the more important because the Supreme Court has moved to allow states to pick up thousands of low priority deportable immigrants, who could potentially flood already overtaxed deportation resources. Affirmatively protecting DREAM-eligible young immigrants from deportation will help mitigate the damage done by state legislators and the Supreme Court. Now that leadership from our President is even more vital, it is important to note that Mitt Romney has called the Arizona law -- much of which was just deemed unconstitutional by the nation's highest court -- a "model for the nation." He counts on the main architect of this now-discredited law as a key immigration advisor. Today, the difference in leadership between President Obama and Mr. Romney could not be clearer. I urge Mr. Romney to repudiate his support for a policy now found to be largely unconstitutional. # # #
06.21.2012	Hispanic Voters Have Specific Questions and Romney Gives Vague Rhetoric June 21, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, Governor Mitt Romney spoke at the annual convention of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials (NALEO) and addressed immigration among other topics in what was billed as a major address to a largely Hispanic audience. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a member of NALEO: At NALEO, Mitt Romney's speech perfectly summarized what he has to offer Latinos: nothing. No amount of evasive rhetoric and vague pleasantries will hide the basic fact that Mitt Romney won't stand up for the Dream Act, supports Arizona's discriminatory, anti-immigrant laws and believes immigrants should "self-deport." His views on Latinos and immigration are wrong, extreme and would divide our nation. With President Obama's leadership last week for immigrants, the contrast between Mitt Romney and the President has never been clearer. The President and his sensible shift in policy to prioritize the deportation of criminals over DREAM Act youth has put Romney and the Republicans in a vise-grip. The President called their bluff. Romney can either stand with the anti-immigrant hawks or he can stand with the American people, including the Latino community, but trying to both will fall flat, like today. What I saw was a Republican presidential candidate that clearly will not break with the hardest core positions held by some in his anti-immigration base, which then prevents him from moving towards the sensible middle on immigration. It is a model for the problem Romney and the Republicans have on so many other issues. They are scared of their strongest supporters, which makes it difficult to imagine the Republicans will succeed with other more centrist voters. On immigration, Romney will try to reconcile the gulf between the Republican base and the rest of the country -- and especially Latinos -- by being vague and talking in generalities. He avoids saying anything concrete on immigration to prevent upsetting the majority of the American people on the one hand or causing the anti-immigration wing of his party to explode on the other. So Romney is mum on whether he would deport 800,000 DREAMers and their families by repealing the President's policy. And Romney is mum on what he would do with their families and the rest of the 10 to 12 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S. Romney talks about elements of comprehensive immigration reform, like legal immigration reform and an employment verification system, but will not articulate how to accomplish those reforms without also legalizing some of those already here. He knows that the "self-deportation" fantasy of tens of millions of people leaving the U.S. is not credible, so he would be better off saying nothing, especially when addressing a Latino audience. # # #
06.18.2012	Herbie Pulgar's Poster to Represent Fourth Congressional District of Illinois in U.S. Capitol Art Exhibit Rep. Gutierrez Receives Chicago Teen on Trip to Washington June 18, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- On June 19, fifteen year-old Herbie Pulgar, a resident of the Logan Square neighborhood, will travel to Washington, DC with his mother and be a guest of Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) as his artwork represents the Fourth District of Illinois in the 2012 Congressional Art Contest. Herbie's poster honoring police, fire and medical first responders in the City of Chicago will hang in an exhibit in the Capitol complex. Congressman Gutierrez is very pleased to give Herbie Pulgar, and Chicago's men and women in uniform, this national recognition. The annual Congressional Art Contest is sponsored by the non-profit Congressional Institute each spring and is open to high school students nationwide. Members of Congress submit one visual arts project from their District. Congressman Gutierrez selected Herbie's artwork, which has the word “heroes” across the bottom and honors Chicago’s police officers, firefighters and paramedics. “Herbie is a great kid who deserves recognition and praise for this wonderful and positive piece of art. I think it’s a credit to Herbie and his family that he chose to honor Chicago’s first responders and I’m very proud to have his artwork represent the Fourth Congressional District in Washington, D.C.,” Gutierrez said. In addition to recognition for his art and the poster hanging in the Capitol complex near the Capitol Visitor's Center, Herbie and his mother will receive a flight to and from Washington from the Congressional Institute. Rep. Gutierrez is adding a night at a Washington hotel, dinner with the Congressman, and a tour of the White House and the U.S. Capitol. In February, Herbie's project was selected to be this year's city vehicle sticker, only to have that honor retracted because of a controversy about the content of his artwork. “As Herbie, his mother, and his art teacher have made quite clear, this poster represents a positive vision of our city and shows gratitude to the first responders who give so much to Chicago. I think it’s appropriate that we say ‘good job’ to a good kid who has produced an uplifting piece of art,” Gutierrez said. Herbie’s artwork will be hung in the Capitol complex, in the hallway Members of Congress and visitors use to access the Capitol from the Cannon House Office Building. The installation will be unveiled at a ceremony on June 19 and will remain on display in Washington until next year. # # #
06.15.2012	A Year And A Half After Hispanic Caucus and Gutierrez Ask For Relief, President Follows Their Advice Rep. Gutierrez Overjoyed At News and Proud of President June 15, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, the President and Secretary of Homeland Security are announcing a major initiative to protect young undocumented immigrants raised in the United States from being deported. The policy, contained in a memo by Homeland Security Secretary Napolitano, will give "deferred action," a form of deportation relief and work authorization, to those who are already in deportation proceedings and to those who go through a process to apply affirmatively for relief. They will be granted a two-year deferred action if they meet certain criteria. Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), as Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), led the effort to seek administrative relief for immigrants with clean criminal records and deep roots in their communities, like those who are eligible for the DREAM Act. This included getting arrested in front of the White House at a demonstration in 2012 calling for the White House to grant relief from deportation for select individuals. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez: For a year and a half after the DREAM Act was filibustered, I have been standing with others and saying to the President 'yes you can' prevent the deportation of DREAMers and now he and the Secretary clearly agree and are taking proper action. This could protect 800,000 or more young immigrants with roots here right now, and will be seen in the immigrant and Latino community as a very significant down payment on broader reform. It is the right thing to do and I am overjoyed and proud that the President has acted. DREAMers who came here at a young age have grown up believing that our country would eventually embrace them as much as they have embraced this country and now that is coming true, at least on a provisional basis. No group of young immigrants has fought harder or more bravely for their place in our country than the DREAMers and we have all taken a lesson from their tenacity and leadership. The details of this program are still being finalized, so immigrants across the country should be patient and very skeptical of anyone who claims to have all the answers immediately. I was told the government needs at least 60 days to put things in place and I will work with the President and Secretary Napolitano to get clear and accurate information out about who does and does not qualify for the relief in the Secretary's memo as soon as possible. This will be a process to evaluate each individual case to see if they qualify for the two-year relief, but it is a tremendous first step towards addressing the problems caused by our outdated and inflexible immigration system. But this is a time to celebrate. The DREAMers are not the sum total of the immigration issue and even with today's announcement, the DREAM Act legislation is still needed to give people permanent relief beyond the two-year reprieve. And many other immigrants with no criminal history and deep roots here deserve the same consideration and we will keep fighting for them. This sets the ball in motion to break the gridlock and fix our laws so that people who live here can do so legally and on-the-books and people can come with visas instead of smugglers in the first place. Today the students are being protected, but we have to fix the system for their families and for the country once and for all. # # #
06.14.2012	(Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) issued the following statement reacting to the Senate's long-delayed vote to move the confirmation process forward for Mari Carmen Aponte as U.S. Ambassador to El Salvador. June 14, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) issued the following statement reacting to the Senate's long-delayed vote to move the confirmation process forward for Mari Carmen Aponte as U.S. Ambassador to El Salvador. "Mari Carmen Aponte makes the Puerto Rican community proud and has already played a constructive role in our relations with El Salvador, an important Latin American neighbor. It is about time the Senate approved her appointment. I am pleased that the Senate did not let petty partisan politics derail this highly qualified Latina to serve the United States in a high profile position and that Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid moved the vote forward and tenaciously stuck by her." # # #
05.10.2012	Washington, DC – Responding to the troubling findings of a new PBS documentary, "Crossing the Line at the Border," 16 members of Congress called for justice in the tragic case of Anastacio Hernandez-Rojas and reiterated the need for tougher oversight of Border Patrol personnel to end the abuse of people in the agency's custody. In letters to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, Attorney General Eric Holder and the DHS Office of the Inspector General, they sought answers to pressing questions about Customs and Border Protection's policies regarding the use of force and the investigation of cases of brutality. May 10, 2012 Media Contacts: Douglas Rivlin (Gutierrez) (202) 225-8203 Elizabeth Murphy, (Royball-Allard) (202) 225-1766 Philip Schmidt, (Serrano) (202) 225-4361 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – Responding to the troubling findings of a new PBS documentary, "Crossing the Line at the Border," 16 members of Congress called for justice in the tragic case of Anastacio Hernandez-Rojas and reiterated the need for tougher oversight of Border Patrol personnel to end the abuse of people in the agency's custody. In letters to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, Attorney General Eric Holder and the DHS Office of the Inspector General, they sought answers to pressing questions about Customs and Border Protection's policies regarding the use of force and the investigation of cases of brutality. The full text of the letters can be found here: DHS, DHS IG, DOJ. "The disturbing footage and eye-witness accounts that aired on PBS raise serious questions about the Border Patrol's role in the death of Anastacio Hernandez-Rojas and after two years, we owe it to his family to finally provide some definitive answers," said Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA). "In light of this new evidence, I call on the Justice Department to complete its protracted investigation and take appropriate action." "The violent nature of Mr. Hernandez-Rojas' death, combined with the troubling accounts from witnesses and the newly discovered video of the incident, means that this case merits a full and honest investigation," said Rep. José E. Serrano (D-NY). "I believe that CBP policies need a full review, followed by appropriate reforms. Any ambiguity or lack of accountability that could lead to violence must be eliminated. Our letters make it clear that in the wake of this troubling event and others like it, we must have answers and ensure that such incidents are not repeated by any federal agency." "The disturbing case of Anastacio Hernandez Rojas highlights the tragic consequences of the failed strategy of militarizing our border," said Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO). "While protecting our border is an essential part of fixing our broken immigration system, enforcement alone won't fix the problem." "A thorough investigation must be launched concerning the death of Anastacio Hernandez Rojas and the officers involved," said Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ). "We need to identify, address and correct the larger issues surrounding this incident to ensure that this will not happen again." "For years I have heard serious concerns expressed by the communities along the border that the Border Patrol is occasionally violent and only rarely accountable," said Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. "In the immigration reform bills I have introduced with the support of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, I have called for greater oversight, transparency, and accountability from the Border Patrol precisely for instances like this where excessive force and secrecy combine into a mixture that is toxic to democracy. I hope this incident leads to concrete reforms that prevent such a tragedy from ever happening again." Hernandez-Rojas was killed in June 2010 at a border crossing near San Diego after being struck repeatedly with a baton and tazed five times by Border Patrol agents. While the Patrol subsequently insisted that Hernandez-Rojas—a long-term resident of the United States with five U.S. citizen children—was resisting, cell phone footage and eye-witness testimony gathered by PBS indicate that he was already handcuffed and lying on the ground when agents accosted him. Hernandez-Rojas's tragic death was ruled a homicide by the San Diego Police Department and soon after, the Justice Department launched its own investigation. However, almost two years later, no arrests have been made in the case. Statistics obtained by Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard from the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General (DHS OIG) show that since 2004, 132 Customs and Border Protection (CBP) employees have been convicted of crimes, with 26 arrests and 14 convictions in the past year alone. As a result, the pending Fiscal Year 2013 Homeland Security Appropriations bill mandates a Government Accountability Office audit of Customs and Border Protection ethics, conduct and integrity training programs. For more information see: https://serrano.house.gov/ and https://roybal-allard.house.gov/. ###
05.08.2012	(Washington, DC) --Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) reacted to news out of Washington that the Director of Hispanic Outreach for Mitt Romney's campaign admitted that Romney "is still deciding what his immigration position is," according to several news reports. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a strong immigration reform proponent. Romney Hispanic Outreach Director Indicates Romney "Still Deciding What His Position On Immigration Is" May 8, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) reacted to news out of Washington that the Director of Hispanic Outreach for Mitt Romney's campaign admitted that Romney "is still deciding what his immigration position is," according to several news reports. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a strong immigration reform proponent. Here's a suggestion for anyone who wants to run for the highest office in the land: come up with an immigration policy before you compete in 30 or 40 primaries. Of course, the truth is that Mitt Romney has an immigration policy. He said that laws like those passed in Arizona were models for the country and he promised to veto the DREAM Act. He received his campaign talking points from the strictest opponents of immigration and immigration reform and dug himself a very deep hole with the American mainstream and with voters who follow the immigration issue closely, like Hispanics. Now, as he is hitting the erase button on everything outrageous he said during the primaries, he cannot even say what his basic approach to immigration will be? That isn't just sad, it is disappointing to the millions of Americans whose lives are in limbo because our immigration issues are unresolved and loved ones are deported, kept out, or locked up for years. Mitt Romney can either support a policy based on pure fantasy to drive 10 to 12 million undocumented immigrants and their families out of our communities or he can be for getting them in the system, on-the-books, and incorporated into American society. He either supports the current barriers to legal immigration that feed the black market and smugglers or he supports a sensible legal immigration policy. And he is either for maintaining the record-breaking rate of deportations destroying American families and putting American children in foster care, or he is for fixing what is broken. This goes way beyond Hispanic outreach and really says a lot about the kind of man he is. # # #
05.03.2012	(Washington, DC) -- Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) announced a citizenship workshop to be held in Chicago on Saturday, May 12 at which he will be joined by special guest Mayor Rahm Emanuel. Public Service Announcements produced by Spanish-language broadcaster Univision and their Chicago affiliate WGBO-TV Channel 66 began airing earlier this week. Univision Public Service Announcement Features Congressman and Mayor Inviting Participation In Spanish May 3, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) announced a citizenship workshop to be held in Chicago on Saturday, May 12 at which he will be joined by special guest Mayor Rahm Emanuel. Public Service Announcements produced by Spanish-language broadcaster Univision and their Chicago affiliate WGBO-TV Channel 66 began airing earlier this week. In the 30-second announcement, both the Congressman and the Mayor invite viewers -- in Spanish -- to attend the workshop at Benito Juarez High School on May 12. Video is here: https://youtu.be/zCzd9JlP9Gk A script and English translation are below. "Taping the PSA was fun," Congressman Gutierrez said. "The Mayor is a natural and needed very little coaching on Spanish pronunciation. We usually have good turnout for these events because long-term residents are anxious for help and anxious to become citizens, but having Mayor Emanuel involved will extend our outreach. It is fantastic to have him participating." At the workshop, residents who qualify to apply for citizenship will receive help with the application process, applying for fee waivers, and other steps to successfully apply for citizenship. Anyone who qualifies to apply for citizenship or has questions about the process should attend the event which is open to the public. Citizenship Workshop Benito Juárez High School Saturday, May 12, 2012 1450-1510 W. Cermak, Chicago 10:00 AM to 12:00 Noon The Congressman developed the model for citizenship workshops in his district in the early 1990s when those legalized by President Reagan's immigration reform of 1986 where beginning to be eligible to move on towards citizenship. Rep. Gutierrez, newly elected to Congress, received a special designation as a Community Based Organization from President Clinton's Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS, which later became part of the Department of Homeland Security) to aid residents who qualify in applying for and attaining citizenship. Since that time, more than 50,000 citizens have been helped through the process by the Congressman and his staff. Univision Chicago has pledged to air the PSA featuring Congressman Gutierrez and Mayor Emanuel in "heavy rotation" up through the workshop on Saturday May 12. Both nationally and locally, Univision has been a media partner in the multi-year citizenship and voter registration project known as "Ya Es Hora" (Now Is The Time). Working with non-profit partners across the country, Ya Es Hora has promoted citizenship, participation in the decennial census, and voter registration in Latino communities through diverse media partners. PSA (Translation) "May 12 citizenship workshop" On Screen Congressman Gutiérrez and Mayor Emanuel On Screen --(names under individuals) Luis V. Gutiérrez Rahm Emanuel Congresista Alcalde Audio Gutiérrez - Hello, this is our friend, Rahm Emanuel. Mayor Emanuel -- Hello. Audio Gutiérrez - - I invite you to participate in my citizenship workshop along with our special guest, the Mayor. Mayor Emanuel -- Join us. Gutiérrez -- If you qualify to become a citizen come to the citizenship workshop, Saturday May 12. Graphic On Screen Citizenship workshop Saturday, May 12 10:00 AM to 12:00 Noon Benito Juárez High School 1450-1510 W. Cermak, Chicago. Audio Mayor Emanuel -- Please, arrive early. Gutiérrez -- We will assist the first 500 persons who get in line. On Screen (under the screen shot and through the end) For information, call (773)-342-0774 Audio Mayor Emanuel -- It is time! Gutiérrez -- Become a citizen! PSA (As taped) "May 12 citizenship workshop" On Screen Congressman Gutiérrez and Mayor Emanuel On Screen --(names under individuals) Luis V. Gutiérrez Rahm Emanuel Congresista Alcalde Audio Gutiérrez - Hola, este es nuestro amigo, Rahm Emanuel. Mayor Emanuel -- Hola. Audio Gutiérrez - - Le invito a que participe en mi taller de ciudadanía, junto al alcalde, nuestro invitado especial. Mayor Emanuel -- Venga con nosotros. Gutiérrez -- Si califica para hacerse ciudadano, venga al taller el sábado, 12 de mayo. On Screen Taller de ciudadanía Sábado, 12 de mayo 10:00 AM a 12:00 del mediodía Secundaria Benito Juárez 1450-1510 W. Cermak, Chicago. Audio Mayor Emanuel -- Por favor, llegue temprano. Gutiérrez -- Atenderemos a las primeras 500 personas. On Screen (under the screen shot and through the end) Para información llame al (773)-342-0774 Audio Mayor Emanuel -- ¡Ya es hora! Gutiérrez -- ¡Hágase ciudadano! # # #
04.27.2012	ICE Policy Paper Indicates ICE May Still Turn "A $50 Traffic Violation Into a Broken Family by Deporting a Parent" April 27, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) issued a policy paper responding to recommendations made to ICE by the Task Force on Secure Communities, a panel appointed to recommend reforms for the controversial Secure Communities program that enlists local law enforcement in identifying immigrants for deportation. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), who opposes the Secure Communities program and its vast expansion since President Obama took office, sees the report as a step backwards for the Obama Administration and another indication that the Secure Communities program should be abandoned. "This is tremendously disappointing and the President's deportation policies seem to be headed in the wrong direction," said Congressman Gutierrez. "We are already seeing inadequate, incomplete and inconsistent application of policies announced last year regarding deportations and today's report indicates more of the same, or worse." At issue is how federal immigration authorities respond to state and local police when they arrest someone who could potentially be deported. In 2011, the Obama Administration announced enforcement priorities targeting criminals and the use of discretion to close deportation cases against immigrants with clean criminal records and deep ties to their communities. The civil enforcement guidance issued by ICE directed immigration officials to "exercise particular discretion when dealing with minor traffic offenses such as driving without a license." The policy announced today seems to indicate that minor traffic convictions will, in fact, be grounds to trigger an ICE "detainer" (requesting local police hold on to a suspect until federal authorities can take custody) and possible deportation proceedings. The ICE announcement ignores the Task Force's recommendation that ICE not issue detainers or pursue the deportation of persons based on minor traffic offenses. "ICE and Homeland Security are backpedaling from their position of just a year ago that we should be using our deportation and incarceration resources to go after serious criminals, not filling up local jails and immigration detention facilities with people who should be our lowest priority for deportation," Rep. Gutierrez said. "The Secure Communities program, like the restrictive laws in Arizona and Alabama, are pumping non-criminals into the deportation pipeline and breaking up families who we should be leaving alone. Since they cannot or will not mend the program, they should end it." Rep. Gutierrez also said he was disappointed that the federal government was not acting as a backstop to prevent the deportation of low priority immigrants who land in the criminal justice system through racial profiling, which is common in traffic violations, especially in certain parts of the country. "While most police do their jobs admirably, everyone knows that some cops target immigrant and Latino communities through racial profiling," Rep. Gutierrez said. "But only the federal government can turn a $50 traffic violation into a broken family by deporting a parent. I expect the federal government to be a check and balance to local instances of racial profiling, yet the new policy is telling local authorities that if you can get someone convicted of even minor traffic violations, the Feds will be happy to take them into custody and pursue their deportation no matter what the underlying reality really is." Congressman Gutierrez, who chairs the Task Force on Immigration of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said he is concerned for immigrants whose only violations are minor traffic stops that derive from the fact that they cannot get a driver's license in most states if they are undocumented. The Congressman has been particularly involved in the case of Gabino Sanchez of South Carolina, who is facing deportation because local police have repeatedly issued him tickets for driving without a license over the past decade or so. The Congressman is planning to attend a hearing in immigration court on Mr. Sanchez' case in Charlotte, NC on May 15, which will be the third time Rep. Gutierrez has traveled to the Carolinas to be with Mr. Sanchez as he goes through the deportation process. "Someone like Gabino Sanchez should never have been picked up by ICE and put into deportation proceedings in the first place," Rep. Gutierrez said. "What good does it do to split up his family and leave his two U.S. citizen children without a father when he has lived here since he was a young teen and has built a family and a life and has worked hard and never hurt anybody? It makes no sense, but the policy announced today means even more fathers and longtime residents will be put in the deportation pipeline and even more government money will be wasted on something that is counterproductive in the first place." The Congressman indicated his office receives several requests for help each week from individuals who feel their cases should be evaluated for discretion using the updated criteria from the Obama Administration but whose cases are still being prosecuted. The Obama Administration has not acted to close the Gabino Sanchez case, despite the Congressman's pleas. # # #
04.25.2012	Gutierrez Attends Supreme Court Oral Arguments in Arizona v. U.S. April 25, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) listened to oral arguments before the Supreme Court in the case Arizona v. U.S. related to the state's SB1070 "show me your papers" law and the federal court's injunction against certain sections. The Congressman spoke to reporters after the hearing and also to an enthusiastic crowd of opponents of SB1070 that gathered outside the court. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez: The outcome is important because this tests the basic rights of citizens to walk down the street or drive a car. It defines the pretext for how police stop individuals in our society and rests on the idea that you can tell if someone might be foreign by the way they look, dress, or talk. That opens the door wide for warrantless searches of citizens, non-citizens, and everyone. It may have started as an immigration-related law, but it has huge implications for citizens. For Latinos, this is personal. It affects our families, our neighbors, and even if you are from a family of citizens for generations, like I am, it is still a personal attack. You cannot tell a citizen Puerto Rican from a non-citizen Costa Rican by looking at them or listening to them. You cannot tell if someone is a foreigner, let alone whether their papers are in order, by their dress, accent, or the mud on their work boots. But that is at the heart of this law and laws like it, even if they say in the text "oh, by the way, you can't use this law to racially profile." The case itself will not resolve very much, one way or another. If Arizona's "show me your papers" immigration law is upheld or struck down, we know we need a national immigration policy that allows for legal immigration in a safe and orderly system so that people come with visas and not smugglers and we have sensible enforcement of that system. We know what we are doing now does not work and in many respects makes things worse. We undermine local law enforcement by having a broken immigration system and layering on bad laws like SB1070 and bad programs like Secure Communities and 287(g) make it worse. We break up too many families, many of which include U.S. citizens. We need a modern legal immigration system that meets the needs of our economy and that allows people to keep families together and get legal, in the system and on-the-books. That is how we get from where we are to where we want to be on immigration and the outcome of this case against SB1070 does not change that much. That said, the outcome of this case matters a great deal politically. The Arizona law and copycats in the Deep South -- and now the Supreme Court case -- have all been huge stories engaging Latino citizens and voters for two years or more. It has been the top issue by far in the news and has energized the Latino community like no other issue. Regardless of what happens, for a generation to come, Latinos will remember which side of this fight people were on. # # # Earlier this week, the Congressman wrote an article for U.S. News and World Report, also on the SB1070 law: Arizona's Law Is State Sanctioned Racial Profiling
04.17.2012	Gutierrez Testifies Before Senator Durbin's Subcommittee on Ending Racial Profiling In America April 17, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) testified before the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Human Rights, chaired by Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL). Rep. Gutierrez was one of five Members of the House of Representatives to testify at a hearing on ending racial profiling. The other House Members were Rep John Conyers (D-MI); Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN); Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA); and Rep. Frederica Wilson (D-FL). Rep. Gutierrez focused particularly on the impact of enlisting state and local police in the enforcement of federal civil immigration law. This situation has been exacerbated by the proliferation of "show me your papers" laws like the anti-immigrant measures adopted in Alabama (HB 56) and Arizona (SB 1070) and by the expansion of federal programs like "287(g)" and "Secure Communities." The following is Rep. Gutierrez' opening statement, as prepared for delivery: Thank you Chairman Durbin and Ranking Member Graham for inviting me to testify today. I have traveled from coast to coast to visit dozens of cities and communities and to listen to immigrants' stories. Immigrants everywhere tell me that they are regarded with suspicion. They tell me they are frequently treated differently, because of the way they look, sound or spell their last name. In Alabama, I met 20 year old Martha, a young mother raised in the U.S. One late afternoon while driving she was pulled over for having her headlights off. She was arrested for driving without a license and jailed so her status could be checked. Because her U.S. citizen husband was not present, their Alabama-born, two year old son was taken from the back seat of her car and turned over to the state welfare agency. In South Carolina, I met Gabino, who has been in the U.S. nearly 13 years. He is a married father of two South Carolina-born kids who works hard and owns his own home. Gabino was stopped as he was pulling into his mobile home community, one of three other Hispanic residents stopped in the same place that evening. Gabino was arrested for driving without a license. He was then placed in deportation proceedings. We can all guess why the police chose to stop Gabino and Martha. Profiling Hispanics and immigrants is the most efficient way to get someone deported. But you can't tell if someone is undocumented by the way someone looks or dresses or where they live. In Chicago, a Puerto Rican constituent of mine was detained for nearly five days under the suspicion of being undocumented. There are hundreds, if not thousands, of cases of unlawfully detained U.S. citizens and legal residents in the United States each year, in violation of their constitutional rights. Some are even deported. The federal government took a step in the right direction when it legally challenged the "show me your papers" laws in Alabama, South Carolina and Arizona, because the state laws are unconstitutional and interfere with the federal government’s authority to set and enforce immigration policy. But it makes no sense to file suit against unconstitutional laws on the one hand, and on the other hand allow those same laws to funnel people into our detention centers and deportation pipeline. Gabino has been denied relief from deportation because he has been stopped too many times for driving without a license. The government is complicit in such serial profiling because, while the states cannot deport Gabino and break up his family of American citizens, the federal government is doing just that. And programs like 287(g) and "Secure Communities" end up ensnaring tens of thousands of Gabinos every year, because of the racial profiling the programs incentivize. If we're serious about truly ending racial profiling, we need to back up our lawsuits with actions that protect citizens and families and children and to uphold our Constitution. In the fight for solutions, let's not negotiate away our principles and let's not gamble with families' and young people's lives simply because of politically expediency. # # # VIDEO: https://youtu.be/9NP5nZG18kY
03.29.2012	DOJ Supreme Court Case Against Arizona's Racial Profiling/Immigration Law Reasserts Duty to Address Immigration Sensibly and Federally March 29, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Task Force on Immigration, participated in a telephonic press briefing with Bishop Jaime Soto of Sacramento, former Phoenix Police Chief Jack Harris, Judith Browne Dianis of the Advancement Project and other speakers to discuss the upcoming Supreme Court showdown in U.S. v. Arizona, the case of Arizona's "paper's please" racial profiling immigration law. The case, brought by the U.S. Department of Justice against the State of Arizona's SB1070 law, will be heard before the Supreme Court on April 25. The conference call for reporters was convened by the National Immigration Law Center (www.nilc.org) and moderated by NILC Executive Director Marielena Hincapié. Rep. Gutierrez is one of 68 U.S. Representatives who signed an amicus brief (friend of the court brief) that was filed Monday by Rep. Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ) urging the Justices to rule in favor of the United States in the case and strike down the Arizona law. The following is the opening statement, as prepared for delivery, by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez: The Obama Administration's case against Arizona's SB1070 is an important effort by the Attorney General and the President to take a stand against racial profiling. They are showing that when injustice is condoned by individual states in express violation of the Constitution, the federal government can and will take action to protect the rights of its people. Sixty-eight Members of Congress signed on to an amicus brief to say that we are standing with the President to defend those citizens who will be targeted by this law that was intended to target non-citizens. We are saying that we don't believe you can tell a citizen Puerto Rican from a non-citizen Costa Rican just by looking at him or her or listening to their voice. We believe that the way you dress and the shoes you wear are not probable cause for questioning or arrest. We are saying that a nation that targets laws on someone's appearance or what neighborhood they live in or what job they do is not a nation that is living up to our nation's basic ideals. The Attorney General and President Obama are also taking a stand for non-citizens. They are saying that we will take a different approach to immigration as a nation -- one of the proudest foundations of our society -- and make it a safe, legal, and orderly process and avoid the pitfalls of abuse, division, and political opportunism that have been fostered by our broken immigration system. And what is at the heart of the Supreme Court case is that the solutions must come at the federal level. The Constitution makes that clear. In states like Arizona, Alabama, South Carolina, and Georgia and across the country where they are flirting with or embracing Arizona-style laws, we have seen their Senators turn their backs on efforts to craft bipartisan immigration reform that gets control of our borders. Both John McCain, with whom I worked closely for years, and Jon Kyl were once at the table with Democrats trying to work this out. But cheap partisan political strategies and getting your picture taken at the border with a tough-sounding Arizona sheriff or wagging your finger at the President are what we get now. But this is serious business and should not devolve into simplistic gotcha politics. As the country has been made painfully aware in recent weeks, racial profiling can have deadly consequences. In the type of state-sanctioned racial profiling under review by the court, lives may not be lost directly but they will certainly be changed forever. We deported or removed more than 46,000 parents of U.S. citizens in six months last year and could put an estimated 15,000 U.S. citizens in foster care because of a deported parent in the next five years. Think of the cost in lives, in tax-dollars, in families torn apart, and in futures derailed. This case is only one small part of solving that dilemma but it is an important step. We can turn back the tide of laws that specifically target immigrants for harassment that also end up harming so many others. We can show that we need a Supreme Court that stands with the people and with our laws and will not turn back the clock on hard-won rights. And we can set a tone for the future where the color of someone's face or the dust on their work boots does not make them a target. # # #
03.16.2012	Comments on Puerto Rico GOP Primary in Huffington Post Article March 16, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), a Chicago-born Puerto Rican with a large Puerto Rican constituency, commented today on the Puerto Rico GOP primary on Sunday in an article published today on the Huffington Post. In the article, Rep. Gutierrez says watching the remaining GOP candidates reach out to Latino voters in Puerto Rico "is so forced and ridiculous that it is painful to watch." He cites Sen. Santorum's call for English to be the official language of Puerto Rico and Gov. Romney going out of his way to express his opposition to Associate Justice Sonia Sotomayor's appointment to the Supreme Court. While Rep. Gutierrez is best known for his advocacy on the immigration issue, he has always been an active advocate for the Puerto Rican people and highly critical of the current Governor, a Tea Party Republican who "has unsuccessfully test marketed Republican campaign themes in Puerto Rico." The Congressman writes: "The regime in Puerto Rico has conducted mass firings of public employees, made higher education less accessible to young people, and chooses big construction and petroleum interests over the environment at every opportunity." On immigration, Rep. Gutierrez points out that Puerto Ricans, despite nearly 100 years of birthright citizenship, are not immune to "the racism and divisiveness" of the heated immigration debate. He writes: Both GOP candidates embrace policies designed to drive Latinos out of states like Alabama, Arizona, Georgia, and South Carolina by legalizing the use of appearance as a criteria for stopping or detaining someone to inquire into their immigration status. Ask a Puerto Rican in Arizona or the Deep South if some of the scrutiny has rubbed off on them, despite nearly 100 years of birthright citizenship. Just yesterday, the Southern Mississippi band led chants of "Where's your green card" when outstanding Kansas State point guard Ángel Rodríguez -- a Puerto Rican -- was at the free throw line in an NCAA tournament game. The racism and divisiveness generated by the nation's heated immigration debate spills over to Puerto Ricans, let me assure you. The complete article by Rep. Gutierrez at the Huffington Post is here: https://huff.to/zhi1S4 # # #
03.13.2012	South Carolina Immigrant Granted Continuance Until May 15 At Charlotte Hearing March 13, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus' Task Force on Immigration, attended a deportation hearing in Charlotte, NC for a 27 year old South Carolina man facing deportation. The hearing resulted in a continuance for the man, Gabino Sanchez of Ridgeland, SC, and his attorney, Marty Rosenbluth of the NC Immigrant Rights Project in Durham, NC. Mr. Sanchez, who is married, the father of two U.S. citizens, and has been in the country for more than a dozen years since coming to America as a teenager, will appear in a Charlotte immigration court again on May 15. The Congressman plans to attend that hearing as well. The Congressman, who did not speak at the hearing, took an interest in Mr. Sanchez' case late last year when he traveled to Charleston, SC for Mr. Sanchez' preliminary supervisory hearing with immigration officials. Mr. Sanchez, who has been stopped eight times and charged with multiple misdemeanors for driving without a license, is the type of immigrant with no serious criminal record whose case should be closed, the Congressman feels, particularly because all of his misdemeanors relate directly to his immigration status. Under deportation guidelines announced by the Obama Administration last year, the Department of Homeland Security should be prioritizing the deportations of immigrants who have committed serious crimes like rape and murder and apply prosecutorial discretion to close deportation cases against immigrants with deep ties to the United States and no significant criminal history. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez: It is becoming increasingly clear that the policy the President articulated and the policy being carried out in courtrooms, detention centers, and immigrant neighborhoods are two different things. Gabino Sanchez is a man who has worked peacefully in the U.S. for more than a decade, has a wife and two kids to support, must drive a car to get to work, and is not a criminal in any meaningful sense. We should be deporting rapists and violent criminals with haste and we can free up room on the court docket to do so by closing cases against hardworking fathers like Gabino Sanchez. We will fight this deportation in court, but we will also fight for this policy to be applied and for the case to be dropped before May 15. Getting a continuance was not unexpected and will give his attorney time to prepare his case more thoroughly. But we also have time outside the courtroom to keep bringing the case of Gabino Sanchez, and immigrants like him, to the attention of immigration authorities so that they follow through on the President's policies. I have discussed, and will continue to discuss, Gabino Sanchez' case with everyone at Homeland Security Headquarters and the White House because his case is why I fought hard with many others to secure the use of prosecutorial discretion in prioritizing criminal deportations in the first place. In the short-run, the President should make it clear -- again -- that we are not going to waste resources and man hours deporting the parents of U.S. citizens, DREAM Act youth who were brought to the U.S. as children, the families of members of our armed services, and other assets to our communities who have deep roots in the U.S. Simply put, Gabino Sanchez is not a criminal so the Department of Homeland Security should move on to the next case by closing this one. He is not even a reckless or bad driver. Rather, he is a man who must work and is not allowed to have a driver's license and he has been targeted by his local police. The federal government should not be complicit in breaking up the Sanchez family or removing a father from his children simply because he is unlucky enough to live in rural South Carolina where racial profiling is the norm. In Chicago, in Charlotte, in Charleston, and in cities across the U.S., clergy and advocates and immigrant leaders are coming together to ensure that cases that deserve consideration under the President's policies are receiving it. The first meeting of my Family Unity Advisory Group takes place in Chicago tomorrow and I think these efforts will help us to know if the Obama Administration is serious about changing business as usual when it comes to immigrants. In the long run, we need to fix our immigration system so that immigrants can come legally in the first place within reasonable limits and immigrants like Mr. Sanchez with kids, a wife and a decade or more in the U.S. can get legal somehow. That's how we eliminate unlicensed and uninsured drivers: by getting them in the system and on-the-books. Doing that, while deporting serious offenders and concentrating law-enforcement on actual criminals, is what makes a community safer, not taking a father away from his kids. # # #
03.12.2012	Statement on GOP Primary and Alabama's HB56 March 12, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus' Task Force on Immigration, called on GOP presidential candidates campaigning in Alabama before tomorrow's primary to denounce HB56, Alabama's restrictive law targeting immigrants and Latinos. The Congressman has made several trips to Alabama and is actively engaged in helping immigrants in Alabama and elsewhere who are the victims of racial profiling to have their deportation cases closed under guidelines implemented by President Obama. These guidelines instruct the Department of Homeland Security to prioritize the deportations of immigrants who have committed serious crimes like rape and murder and apply prosecutorial discretion to close deportation cases against immigrants with deep ties to the United States and no criminal history. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL): We have seen grandstanding from Republican candidates as they embrace the anti-immigrant laws passed in Alabama, Arizona, South Carolina and elsewhere. Not speaking out against Alabama's HB56, perhaps the most egregious one so far, sends a clear signal to Latino voters that the GOP is more interested in pandering to the anti-immigrant wing of the party than in leading a nation in need of serious immigration reform. Last week, hundreds of Alabamians retraced the footsteps of the Selma to Montgomery march and proclaimed across racial and ethnic lines their unified support for repealing HB56. Now is the time for the candidates to tell us if they are for realistic approaches, consistent with the Constitution, that maintain civil and human rights or if they support the chaos of 50 state policies on immigration that undermine our unity as a nation. Governor Romney has said laws like the ones passed in Arizona are a "model" for the nation and has campaigned with Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, the architect of the state-by-state campaign to enlist local law enforcement in harassing and driving out immigrants. Romney opposes Department of Justice lawsuits that challenge the constitutionality of states taking national immigration policy into their own hands and said he would veto legislation to legalize immigrants, even those who grew up in the U.S. There is a bright line between the Republicans and Democrats when it comes to immigration. Democrats are for policies that promote legal immigration, keep families together, and get more immigrants into the system and on-the-books. Republicans favor severe restrictions on legality that feed the black market and make divisive Alabama-style policies a wedge issue to be used in campaigns. Rather than use the immigration issue as a campaign tool, GOP candidates should be telling us what they will actually do to find realistic solutions that fix our immigration problems. Embracing policies that break up families, dump new responsibilities on local cops, drive more immigrants underground, or that rely on the fantasy that ten or eleven million people will leave the country is not leadership. # # #
03.07.2012	Statement at Press Conference Convened by Congressional Progressive Caucus March 7, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Ranking Democrat on the Housing, Insurance, and Community Opportunity Subcommittee of Financial Services and a member of the Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC), joined advocates and Members of the CPC at a Capitol Hill press conference calling on Edward DeMarco, Acting Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to write down principal amounts for struggling homeowners. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL): I want to thank my colleagues Keith Ellison and Raul Grijalva for organizing this press conference as well as my other colleagues and all of you for coming. As a homeowner in the City of Chicago, which has been hard hit by foreclosures and of course, as the Ranking Member on the Housing, Insurance, and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, I track housing issues very closely and applaud my colleagues in the Progressive Caucus for calling on the Federal Home Finance Administration to write down principal for homeowners in danger of losing their homes. From a good government, a good business, and a good neighbor perspective, it makes sense for the FHFA to write down principal because it will minimize taxpayer exposure while keeping those same taxpayers in their homes. And we know that businesses in the private sector are already showing results with shared appreciation programs. Ocwen Financial Corporation, among others, has seen very low default rates by judiciously writing down principal amounts and FHFA will find that, if they do the same, it will have a ripple effect across the economy. The goal should be to keep more people in their homes and keep taxpayers from picking up more of the cost in the long-run. That is the way we restore safety and stability to our neighborhoods. That is the way we create the conditions for better schools, thriving neighborhood businesses, and vibrant cities. Writing down principal is one way government involvement in housing markets can help taxpayers, lenders and borrowers at the same time. So I say to Edward DeMarco, Acting Director at the FHFA: If you can't find a way to meet the needs of taxpayers and deserving homeowners, perhaps you should resign. We are facing serious problems in the housing market and we simply can't use someone at FHFA who plugs his ears and refuses try for workable solutions. We do not need you acting as Director if you are not using your position to act like you are helping people keep their homes. I know that there are many, many more Representatives and Senators who will back you up and support you if you step forward and help FHFA be a leader and not a follower on writing down principal. # # #
02.29.2012	February 29, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Ranking Democrat on the Housing, Insurance, and Community Opportunity Subcommittee of Financial Services and a member of the Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC), joined advocates in New York, Washington, D.C. and Southern California in calling on Edward DeMarco, the Acting Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (aka government-sponsored enterprises or GSEs), to write down principal amounts for struggling homeowners. "From a good government, good business, and good neighbor perspective, it makes sense for the FHFA to push for writing down principal," Rep. Gutierrez said. "It protects the tax-payer and the home-owner and businesses in the private sector are already showing results." Rep. Gutierrez pointed to examples like Ocwen Financial Corporation that have seen a very low default rates by judiciously writing down principal amounts on loans they service. "The goal should be to keep more people in their homes and keep taxpayers from picking up more of the cost in the long-run and writing down principal is one way government involvement in housing markets can help taxpayers, lenders and barrowers at the same time," Rep. Gutierrez said. A press release with additional information from Congressional Progressive Caucus Co-Chairs Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) and Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), is available at the CPC website: https://bit.ly/wy6fvJ # # #
02.16.2012	February 16, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Mayor Rahm Emanuel announced today that he would appoint Jose A. Santiago as the new Chicago Fire Department Commissioner (release) to succeed retiring Commissioner Robert S. Hoff. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4): It's a great choice and I congratulate both the Mayor and the new Commissioner. Mayor Emanuel is promoting an excellent and experienced individual and I am so proud to see a talented member of Chicago's Hispanic community elevated to this top public safety position. A veteran, an experienced fire fighter, and a seasoned leader, he will do a great job as Fire Commissioner. I may not have voted for Mayor Emanuel, but I think he is doing a fantastic job and the appointment of Jose A. Santiago is just the latest example. # # #
01.20.2012	"If the first review shows roughly one-in-six…is a person with family, community ties, and a long history in the U.S., we obviously need to step up the process of getting them out of the deportation queue," Congressman says. January 20, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Preliminary data from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) was published in the media on Thursday from the pilot program in Denver and Baltimore to review pending deportations and to close those of individuals with deep ties to the United States and no serious criminal background. This is the first measure of the scope of the deportation policy shift announced last summer by the Obama administration to prioritize serious criminals for deportation. This is also the first step in a review of some 300,000 pending deportation cases announced last year. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), who is a vocal supporter of the policy of exercising prosecutorial discretion to close low-priority deportation cases, traveled the country and was arrested in front of the White House last year in an effort to get the Obama administration to adopt this type of policy. He and allies put pressure on the President to use powers granted to him under existing immigration law because broader legislative fixes are out of reach in the current political environment. With approximately 1,100 people deported per day and 400,000 deported each year, the preliminary data from DHS indicate that a significant number of people -- more than 14% of all deportees -- could potentially benefit from the full implementation of the policy nationwide. According to DHS, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) attorneys reviewed 11,682 cases in the two cities and, of those, recommended 1,637 -- or 14.27% -- be administratively closed pending a complete federal background check. Congressman Gutierrez said: "It is too early to tell how broadly and generously the policy is being implemented, but the data show the scope of the problem we face in our broken immigration system. If the first review shows that roughly one-in-six people we are deporting is a person with family, community ties, and a long history in the U.S., we obviously need to step up the process of getting them out of the deportation queue. It is not in our national interest to deport assets to our country, especially when deporting them means we cannot deport someone else who is a serious criminal or some other type of significant threat. "I want to see this policy implemented across the board through all aspects of our immigration enforcement regime from the border to the neighborhoods to the court house. We need to target scarce resources effectively while also letting people who are contributing to society go on about their lives. We need clarity on what happens to an individual once their case is closed because they have to be able to work and support their family. This is the first data on the first step of the process so we need more evidence to be able to determine how significant this procedural change will be and how many people it will help. But the steps President Obama has taken are positive and will provide at least some temporary relief for those caught up unfairly in our massive immigration dragnet. "Those who say 'deport 'em all' miss the fact that in our deportation zeal, we are breaking up American families -- families of U.S. citizens, military families -- and sending parents, business owners, and working people into exile or farther underground. It does not make us any better off and is taking a significant toll on communities across the country." # # #
01.06.2012	"I am glad that the President is adopting some of the Gutierrez plan to keep families together and make sure that our laws are not unnecessary barriers to legal status and immigration," Congressman says. January 6, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today's announcement in the Federal Register regarding the processing of family immigration applications is a victory for Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) who has spent more than a year urging the Obama Administration to remove obstacles to legal immigration in the absence of any definitive action in the Congress. The announcement indicates that some spouses and children of U.S. citizens who qualify for a family visa could travel overseas to obtain it without facing a mandatory decade-long exile from their families. The Congressman first proposed this paperwork processing policy change a year ago, along with a series of other administrative changes, and toured the country to rally support for the Obama Administration to take action. "I am happy and excited that the President is taking this step," Rep. Gutierrez said. "On the immigration administrative fixes I have been fighting for, the President spent the last year saying 'no I can't' and now he is saying 'yes we can' and the community will get the message. This is movement in a positive direction that will not fix broader issues of immigration, but for a certain number of families caught in a bureaucratic nightmare, this is the common sense solutions I have been urging." "I am glad that the President is adopting some of the Gutierrez plan to keep families together and make sure that our laws are not unnecessary barriers to legal status and immigration," the Congressman said. "When this processing procedure is implemented, some of the families I have been talking to around the country will have an option available to them that gets them in the system and protected from deportation." Today in the Federal Register, the Obama Administration announced its intention to change how it applies rules governing family immigration for citizens who request a visa for their spouses and children. Under current law, many immigrants who qualify for such visas face a tough choice: apply and face up to ten years in exile overseas, often separated from their families, or remain in the U.S. in legal limbo or in an illegal immigration status. By allowing some immediate family to file waivers in the U.S. before incurring the ten year exile, the Obama Administration is increasing the chances that immigrants will apply for and receive the immigration status for which they already qualify. "Most Americans I talk to think that if you are married to a U.S. citizen and have children and other family obligations, it should be fairly easy for you to apply for legal status and are shocked to hear we make that next to impossible," Congressman Gutierrez said. "When people ask 'Why don't immigrants here illegally leave and come back the right way?' this is one of the main reasons why even the wives and husbands of U.S. service members are prevented from doing so by this bureaucratic straightjacket. This step will ease that somewhat, but only for the immediate family of U.S. citizens who already qualify for legal status." The Congressman pushed even harder for this policy change after working on one high profile case in the Chicago area where an Army National Guard soldier, Hector Nuñez, was petitioning for the legal status of his wife (and mother of his young son) who had been brought to the U.S. illegally when she was a girl. The family did not know about the mandatory ten-year exile and in late 2010 were stuck in the Mexican town of Ciudad Juarez with an infant in need of specialized medical care and another troop deployment for Specialist Nuñez on the horizon. Rep. Gutierrez helped draw attention to the case and the family was eventually issued a humanitarian visa that got them back in the country temporarily, but the Congressman knew many families were facing similar difficulties and in a series of meetings, asked the Obama administration to address the problem. The Congressman said, "I talk to families every week that are faced with a choice no family should have to endure: live apart in a dangerous place like Ciudad Juarez for a decade or live under ground in the undocumented population -- but together -- in the U.S. Just by changing how a form is filed makes that dilemma disappear for some lucky families who will eventually benefit from this policy." "If Republicans are serious about supporting legal immigration and having rules families can play by without being split apart, they should thank the President and work with him to implement more common sense changes," the Congressman said. The Congressman said he would work with immigrants, clergy and community organizations to ensure that those who eventually qualify for the "provisional waivers of inadmissibility" actually apply and receive them. He has been working with immigrants across the country since a round of administrative changes to how deportees are prioritized was announced in 2011 and plans to continue his public education and advocacy efforts. "It will take about 30-seconds before hyperbolic immigration hawks on talk-radio and the campaign trail start crying wolf about the new 'Obama Amnesty,' but for families who have had their legal options needlessly blocked, this will be a serious and difficult process that will require experienced legal counsel and a lot of time," the Congressman said. "In the mean time, a lot of fly-by-night opportunists will be trying to fraudulently sign desperate immigrant families up, so we need to get the word out about what this is and what it isn't." Earlier this week, the Congressman wrote an article for the Huffington Post that outlined some of his efforts to make sure that immigrants understand and make use of administrative changes announced by the Obama Administration and called for additional changes, including those related to the ten-year mandatory exile. # # #
01.05.2012	In spite of "Republican obstructionists," Bureau can now execute "full mission of protecting American consumers from bad actors in the financial industry," Congressman says. January 5, 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Yesterday in Ohio, President Barack Obama announced the recess appointment of former Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray to be the first Director of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which was created by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act to protect the interests of consumers. Republicans in the U.S. Senate had been holding up Cordray's appointment in an effort to gut the bureau's oversight powers and to limit its funding. Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) praised the President's action appointing Cordray to the CFPB spot. The Ranking Democrat on the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing, Insurance, and Community Opportunity, Rep. Gutierrez is a strong proponent of the Dodd-Frank law and, specifically, the creation of the CFPB. As the bill was crafted and passed in the last Congress, Rep. Gutierrez fought for a strong CFPB and strong consumer protections regarding pay-day loans, overseas remittances, mortgages, and student loans, as well as measures to uphold the rights of veterans, students, seniors, and all Americans who are vulnerable to financial abuses. He served as the Chairman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit during the 111th Congress. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez: I am very glad that President Obama overcame Republican obstructionists and sent a clear message that consumers matter and their rights will be protected. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), with a strong leader like Richard Cordray, is a threat to the status quo, which is why Republicans tried for a year to oppose its full creation and the appointment of a director. The American people are sick and tired of legislators who put politics over reforms and put bankers ahead of consumers. It is well past time to protect consumers and strengthen our economy. Richard Cordray's appointment will finally allow the CFPB to implement critical consumer protections to prevent the kind of abuses that contributed to the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Without a director, the CFPB did not have the legal authority to oversee payday lenders, private student lenders, or mortgage brokers, so the appointment will enable the CFPB to close loopholes, leveling the playing field between banks and non-banks. Now everyone will have to play by the same set of rules. This will allow the CFPB to execute its full mission of protecting American consumers from bad actors in the financial industry. # # #
12.08.2011	Rep. Gutierrez statements on Insurance Protection Act, RESPA Home Warrenty Clarification Act, and Home for Heroes Act December 8, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing, Insurance and Community Opportunity held a markup of three bills. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-04), Ranking Democrat on the Subcommittee, issued the following statements on each bill: H.R. 3559: Insurance Data Protection Act H.R. 3559 would repeal the authority of both the Federal Insurance Office (FIO) and the Office of Financial Research (OFR) to subpoena data and information directly from insurance companies in their work to monitor the insurance industry for systemically risky activities, authority explicitly granted to them under Dodd-Frank to be used as a last resort in extreme cases. The bill would also give insurance companies additional burden and confidentiality protections when FIO, OFR or any federal regulator seeks to collect data or information directly. Rep. Gutierrez opposes H.R. 3559, stating that it is unnecessary and could harm our ability to anticipate a financial crisis in the future. Rep. Gutierrez believes that H.R. 3559 goes too far, effectively insulating the insurance industry from federal scrutiny in those extreme cases when federal regulators have reason to believe that an insurance company's business practices, size, and interconnectivity could threaten our nation's economic stability. He introduced an amendment to reinstate the provisions that would repeal the subpoena authority of FIO and OFR. "We rely on both FIO and OFR to help monitor financial institutions that might be systemically risky," Rep. Gutierrez said. "Limiting the ability of either office to obtain data on insurance companies and to analyze how interconnected those companies are with other financial institutions could create a regulatory black hole. We cannot take this risk by tying their hands." H.R. 2446: RESPA Home Warranty Clarification Act H.R. 2446 would specifically exclude home warranty services from federal regulation under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 (RESPA), to allow home warranty companies to pay commissions to realtors in exchange for exclusive agreements to advertise and refer clients. The bill would require a written disclosure stating that the home warranty company may pay non-employees for selling and advertising its services. Rep. Gutierrez opposes H.R. 2446 and is concerned about its impact on consumers. He believes that the disclosure provision included in the bill is helpful, but inadequate. He also questions whether home warranty companies need these types of arrangements with realtors in order to be successful, saying that they should be able to market their services to homeowners without exclusive, paid arrangements with realtors. Rep. Gutierrez said: "My opposition to H.R. 2446 is not about the value of home warranties – I agree that they can be very valuable for many homeowners. My opposition is about kickbacks, pure and simple. If realtors are offered commissions just for making referrals to home warranty companies, this creates a very strong financial incentive for them to push home warranties on potentially vulnerable consumers." H.R. 3298: Homes for Heroes Act of 2011 The Homes for Heroes Act, sponsored by Rep. Al Green (TX-09), establishes the position of Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs within the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to coordinate services to homeless veterans and to serve as a liaison to the Department of Veterans Affairs, the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness, state and local governments, and nonprofit organizations. It also requires HUD to submit a comprehensive annual report to Congress on the housing needs of homeless veterans. Rep. Gutierrez strongly supports the Homes for Heroes Act. He applauds Rep. Green, his friend and colleague, for his sponsorship of the bill and his continued dedication to the men and women of our armed forces, who have served our country so bravely. "Now more than ever, we must honor our veterans by acknowledging the challenges that many of them face after returning home," Rep. Gutierrez said. "And we must do everything we can to make government work better for them. The Homes for Heroes Act is an important step in that direction. It creates a vital position within HUD that will help the agency better serve veterans struggling to obtain fair, affordable housing." # # #
12.08.2011	Attorney General Holder Must Get Involved in Puerto Rico's Civil Rights Crisis and Protect LGBT, Women's and Immigrant Rights, Gutierrez says December 9, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez wrote Attorney General Eric Holder today calling for a federal task force to investigate and prosecute hate crimes occurring in Puerto Rico. Earlier in the week, the legislature in Puerto Rico began consideration of Senate bill 2021 to eliminate gender, national origin, and sexual orientation or identity as protected classes related to hate crimes under the Puerto Rico penal code (see Rep. Gutierrez' previous statement from Dec. 5). The Congressman, who has been an outspoken critic of what he considers a broad spectrum of erosions of civil and human rights in Puerto Rico under the current government regime, is now asking AG Holder to get personally and directly involved. "If Puerto Rico doesn't want to protect its residents from attacks, violence and murder, then the federal authorities need to step in and ensure the most basic rights of life and liberty are protected," Rep. Gutierrez said. "The Attorney General has prioritized hate crime prosecutions and here we have the ruling party in Puerto Rico going in the completely opposite direction and it should not be allowed to happen on the Attorney General's watch." Rep. Gutierrez' letter asks the Attorney General consider "steps you can take to protect the communities that the ruling party in Puerto Rico has chosen to specifically put at risk." At least 18 LGBT individuals have been killed in Puerto Rico and a pattern of violence against women, transgendered, gay and lesbian people, and immigrants has been widely reported and was addressed in a landmark Department of Justice report on the systematic abuses of the constitutional rights of the Puerto Rican people by the police department of Puerto Rico. The Congressman writes: All Americans should be proud of the progress we have made in protecting all communities from hate crimes. We should be gratified that the trend in many states in our union is toward equal protection under the law without regard to sexual orientation, gender identity, gender, and ethnic origin. I am greatly disappointed that the ruling party in Puerto Rico is taking active steps to deny justice and equality to all of its residents. I hope that the U.S. Department of Justice will take all possible steps to help protect all of the people of Puerto Rico. The full text of the letter is available here . # # #
12.08.2011	Congressman calls Republican opposition to Cordray and CFPB "a digrace" December 8, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- The Senate failed to overcome a Republican filibuster today that would have allowed a vote on President Obama's nominee, Richard Cordray, to be the first Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), an agency created by last year's Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform bill. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) is the Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Insurance, Housing and Community Opportunity and a strong supporter of the CFPB's mission. Rep. Gutierrez issued the following statement: "It is clear the Republicans do not object to Richard Cordray as a nominee, they object to the position for which he has been nominated. They simply do not want anyone looking over the shoulders of their friends in the banking industry, the insurance companies, or any of the other folks that CFPB would keep watch on in order to protect consumers' interests. The Republicans want less scrutiny when big money companies do business with average American consumers. It is that simple and it is a disgrace." # # #
12.05.2011	"The attacks by the current government of Puerto Rico against the rights of its own people appear to be limitless…" Gutierrez says December 5, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Press reports from Puerto Rico indicate the ruling party there is attempting to amend the penal code in the legislature to make it harder to charge criminals with hate crimes when crimes are committed against people because of their gender, ethnicity, or sexual orientation. Senate bill (Proyecto del Senado) 2021 would specifically remove sexual orientation, sexual identity, gender and national origin as protected classes under the hate crimes section of Puerto Rico penal law. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), an outspoken critic of what he has called a civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico, condoned and driven by the ruling party, issued the following statement to reporters today. To say this is appalling is an understatement. Excluding more people from protections under the law is exactly the wrong thing to do, especially right now. This year, violence has been on the upswing in Puerto Rico, particularly crimes -- including scores of murders -- against women, against members of the LGBT community and against immigrants, especially those from the Dominican Republic. The ruling party is aggressively rebuking these victims. At the same time, the Puerto Rico police department is under a dark and embarrassing cloud for systematically violating people's constitutionally protected civil and human rights, as an extensive Department of Justice probe found. The legislation under consideration condones and excuses the violence and sends the signal that violating someone's civil and human rights is not a crime that should be treated with the utmost seriousness. The party in power in Puerto Rico has attacked labor unions, environmentalists, journalists, the Bar Association, students, the Archbishop of San Juan and now they seem ready to add gender, sexual orientation and ethnic groups to the list of targeted individuals who get fewer rights and protections under Puerto Rican law. The attacks by the current government of Puerto Rico against the rights of its own people appear to be limitless, both in scope and audacity. # # #
12.02.2011	Congressional Hispanic Caucus to Meet with Secretary Napolitano Next Week December 2, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- On November 21, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-04) led a delegation of 11 Members of Congress to Birmingham, Alabama to investigate how the state's new restrictive immigration law is being implemented. An ad hoc hearing was held in Birmingham's City Council Chambers and a mass meeting at the historic 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham launched the "One Family, One Alabama" campaign to repeal the law, HB56. An amicus brief supporting the federal lawsuit to overturn the law was also submitted on November 21 and was signed by 39 House Democrats, including the 11 who traveled to Alabama. On Friday, December 2 at 9:30 a.m. Members of the delegation who traveled to Alabama held a press conference to discuss their trip and what they learned. In addition to Rep. Gutierrez, the Members of Congress present at the press conference included: Rep. Silvestre Reyes of Texas; Rep. Terri A. Sewell of Alabama, Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas, and Rep. Zoe Lofgren of California, who each spoke at the event today. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez is the Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The following are Rep. Gutierrez' prepared remarks from the press conference today. I first want to thank my friends who traveled with me to Alabama just before Thanksgiving, some of whom are here today. We learned a lot at our ad hoc hearing and at the historic 16th Street Baptist Church the evening we were there and some of us learned that Birmingham, despite its central location, is not the easiest city to get to. But I got to say, I have been in Congress a while and have attended a lot of hearings and to have 11 Members of Congress at a hearing for two full hours is a minor miracle in and of itself. But they were there with me and listened with me as the Mayor of Birmingham, the Superintendent of the Schools, and the County Sheriff gave their perspectives on how Alabama's toughest-in-the-nation anti-immigrant law was going to make their lives harder. When municipal governments, educators and law enforcement think the state legislature has gone too far, I think there is pretty clear evidence that they have gone too far. We also heard from members of the community, business owners and parents and teachers, even a radio DJ who had walked clear across the state of Alabama to gather stories. They described the fear and the hurt and the confusion and the students whose families had literally disappeared from the state overnight. A law passed in the name of law and order in the state of Alabama has clearly created a lot less order, a lot more chaos, and is deeply troubling from the perspective of law enforcement. Next week, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus is meeting with Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano to discuss Alabama, deportations, and other issues. Chairman Charlie Gonzalez, who was with us in Alabama but could not be here this morning, helped set up next week's meeting and I for one plan to appeal to the Secretary again to go personally to Alabama. Go and take ICE Director John Morton. I invite the President to go as well and see firsthand what has happened in Alabama. I have been to both Alabama and South Carolina two times each in the last month or so and was just in South Carolina on Wednesday. What immigrants need to know and need to hear from the Secretary is that the federal policies that say immigration authorities will exercise discretion, will target resources at serious criminals for deportation, and will take into account an individual's deep roots in the community - they need to hear that the federal policy will take precedence. In some of these southern towns you literally have the local sheriff's deputies sitting outside the mobile home park where all the Latinos live and just waiting for someone to not use a turn signal, or to go 5 miles over the speed limit so they can pull them over. Then they are booked for not having a license, turned over to federal authorities to be deported, and maybe never to return to their U.S. families. But guess what, the State of Alabama, the State of South Carolina -- even Joe Arpaio himself in Arizona -- cannot deport you. That is the federal government's job. That is what we all emphasized in the amicus brief we signed and submitted in support of the federal lawsuit against the Alabama law. That is what Secretary Napolitano and the President must emphasize as well. My advice to immigrants in Alabama or anywhere else is that if you have U.S. citizen children, carry a copy of their birth certificate with you at all times. If your wife is a U.S. citizen, carry a copy of your marriage certificate. If you have a mortgage, if you have a diploma, if you have papers that show your deep roots in the U.S., carry copies of them with you. We know from the Pew Center's report released just yesterday that two-thirds of the undocumented have lived in the U.S. for a decade or more and that half have minor children, most of whom are citizens. Look, the local cops are still gonna get you for driving without a license or not coming to a complete stop before a right turn on red. But when they take you to Secretary Napolitano's officers at ICE, what should happen is that you show them that you have strong ties and when they run your record and it shows no criminal history, you should be allowed to go free right then and there, back to your wife and children. That is how it should work and that is how the people of Alabama and the people of South Carolina can work with the Constitution to fight back against what the politicians have done to stir up the immigration debate and to pretend like they are putting thousands of people in line to be deported. And that is a lesson I learned in Alabama and that is a lesson I plan to take to Georgia, South Carolina, and wherever else they pass these poorly thought out laws. The evening we left Alabama, we gathered for a remarkable event at the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, a building rich with history, scarred by the bombs of segregationists, and steeped in the faith that brought about the civil rights revolution a generation ago. What happened a generation ago is that the federal law -- the law of the land that called for integrated public accommodations, open housing, desegregated schools, and water fountains that were equal and no longer separate -- the federal law trumped the narrow interests of state politicians that enforced Jim Crow and barred children from school. All that is old is new again. The federal law once again gives us the path forward and gives individuals, organizations, and clergy in every state the tool to fight back when local politics and politicians go off the rails. Those are just some of my impressions having traveled to Alabama and met with the people and the officials and the veterans of past struggles. I have one additional observation I would like to share. And that is that Terri Sewell is a gracious host, a great ambassador for the state of Alabama, for Birmingham and for her entire District, and is -- though only a freshman in this body -- a lawmaker and stateswoman of considerable grace and skill. I would now like to turn it over to my colleagues… # # # The delegation that traveled to Alabama included (in alphabetical order): Rep. Joe Baca of California; Congressional Black Caucus Secretary Yvette D. Clarke of New York; Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chair Charlie Gonzalez of Texas; Rep. Al Green of Texas; Congressional Progressive Caucus Co-Chair Raul Grijalva of Arizona; Congressional Hispanic Caucus Immigration Task Force Chair Luis V. Gutierrez of Illinois Immigration Subcommittee Member Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas Immigration Subcommittee Ranking Democrat Zoe Lofgren of California; Rep. Grace Napolitano of California; Rep. Silvestre Reyes of Texas; and Rep. Terri A. Sewell of Alabama. Links to more information: Press Release: "Rep. Luis Gutierrez Challenges ICE to Adhere to Deportation Guidelines that Prioritize Serious Criminals" 12/01/11 Press Release: "39 Members of Congress Sign Amicus Brief in Support of DOJ Lawsuit" 11/22/11 Press Release: "House Democrats Head to Alabama Monday for Ad Hoc Hearing" 11/17/11 Press Release: "Congressional Delegation to Visit Alabama Nov. 21 for Hearing on Impact of Immigration Law" 11/15/11 Alabama Coalition for Immigrant Justice: One Family, One Alabama Campaign website and Facebook page
11.30.2011	Congressman personally walks cases into South Carolina ICE office as state prepares to implement new immigrant deportation law November 30, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D- IL) escorted Mr. Gabino Sanchez to his first supervisory meeting with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials in Charleston, South Carolina today to ask federal immigration authorities to close Mr. Sanchez' case and to address the cases of two other South Carolina residents facing deportation. A 13-year resident of Ridgeland, South Carolina and the father of two U.S. citizens, Mr. Sanchez is facing deportation after a local traffic stop led to his identification to federal authorities. Rep. Gutierrez went to South Carolina personally because Mr. Sanchez' case is precisely the type of case that should be administratively closed under new deportation guidelines that target serious criminals as a priority for deportation. After the meeting with ICE officials and the Congressman, Mr. Sanchez was released on his own recognizance and joined his family. To ensure that administrative closure is granted for Mr. Sanchez, Rep. Gutierrez made plans to follow-up with the ICE general counsel in Atlanta who can grant administrative closure to Mr. Sanchez at or before his March 13, 2012 court date. "I came because successfully appealing for the closure of Mr. Sanchez' case shows people how to fight on other cases in South Carolina and nationally where deporting a father and working man is not in the best interest of our country," Rep. Gutierrez said after the meeting and before flying to Washington for congressional votes. "Cases like this show whether the Obama Administration is serious about using deportation as a tool to remove serious criminals and not as a tool to split up American families. It also shows the people of South Carolina how the federal law supersedes the new local immigration law they passed and just how you fight back against the fear of deportation." South Carolina recently passed SB20, a stringent anti-immigrant law aimed at criminalizing illegal presence and making it more likely that contact with local police will result in deportation for immigrants in the U.S. illegally. Although the South Carolina law does not go into effect until January 2012, Mr. Sanchez's case is the type of minor traffic stop the South Carolina law is designed to lead to deportation once the law is implemented. "You can fight back," Rep. Gutierrez said in reference to state laws like the one passed in South Carolina. "The federal law prioritizes deportation of serious criminals and takes precedence over state laws designed to turn a broken taillight into a deportable offense. But sometimes you have to push the federal government to apply the law the way it is supposed to be applied. You have to be prepared to say 'I have lived here for years; I came here as a child; here are the birth certificates of my U.S. citizen children; here are my tax returns and mortgage statements' in order to get authorities to recognize you as a low priority and move on to a higher priority like a real criminal." Today, Gutierrez also brought with him to his meeting with ICE officials information about two additional South Carolina residents who are facing deportation over minor traffic stops. Like Mr. Sanchez, they were both brought to the U.S. at a young age, grew up here, and have contributed to their communities and remained crime free and would likely have benefited had the U.S. Senate passed the federal DREAM Act last December (it having already passed in the House). One young man was being held on a federal $10,000 bond by ICE officials in another state and his family could not afford legal counsel or a bond. The young man, 19, had been living in the U.S. for at least six years and immediately after the Congressman's meeting with ICE authorities was being processed for release on his own recognizance without bond from detention in North Carolina. "I talked to the ICE officials and asked 'What good does it do us to deport a young man who has grown up here?'" Rep. Gutierrez said. "They didn't close the case, but they waived his bond and said he would be released from custody, which happened almost immediately. That at least gives him and his family a chance to be together and the ability to prepare their case for a hearing." Rep. Gutierrez led the national effort to push the Obama Administration to reexamine their deportation policies in the wake of a record number, almost 400,000 people, deported by President Obama in the past year. This summer, ICE and the Department of Homeland Security announced new deportation prioritization guidelines that would ensure that a higher percentage of those 400,000 deportees would be serious criminals and not law-abiding immigrants with deep roots and family in the U.S. Fully implementing the new guidelines has been delayed and their application has been erratic, according to studies, but cases such as that of Mr. Sanchez, should result in their deportation cases being administratively closed under the guidelines. Mr. Sanchez was likely a target of racial profiling when he was stopped this month by local police who had set up a traffic stop outside a predominantly Hispanic mobile home community. Despite having no prior contact with immigration authorities, ICE placed a hold on him and initiated deportation proceedings. He was released five days after his arrest under an order of supervision and awaits his court date. Background: Gutierrez Statement on Record Setting U.S. Deportations (10/18/2011): https://bit.ly/LVG_101811 Gutierrez Immigration Page: https://bit.ly/LVG_Immigration Gutierrez Bio: https://bit.ly/LVG_Bio # # #
11.30.2011	Absent Swift and Fundamental Reforms, Secure Communities Will Continue to Fail to Keep our Communities Safe November 30, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today as the House Subcommittee on Immigration Policy and Enforcement convenes for its hearing on the Secure Communities program ("Is Secure Communities Keeping Our Communities Secure?"), Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) calls on Republicans to stop blocking serious immigration reform and the Department of Homeland Security to suspend the deeply flawed Secure Communities program. "Despite record numbers of deportations under the Obama Administration, Republicans have not yet introduced any legislation to comprehensively address our broken immigration system," Rep. Gutierrez said. "Republicans continue to politicize the issue of immigration rather than work with Democrats, in a bipartisan way, to fix our system so that we reestablish legality and control." "I suspect Republicans are holding this hearing on Secure Communities because they want the Department of Homeland Security to follow them down the rabbit hole in pursuit of a United States where 11 million undocumented immigrants with families and roots here magically disappear," said Congressman Gutierrez. "We need only look to Arizona, Alabama, and South Carolina for a view of chaos that happens in communities when overreaching and draconian immigration rules are enacted in the name of law and order: U.S. citizen children stay away from schools in fear, families go deeper into hiding, small businesses go belly up, and whole neighborhoods distrust their own local police." Secure Communities is a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) program that screens the fingerprints of everyone arrested by local and state law enforcement. The program was conceived to identify immigrants who are threats to public safety in the nation's jails and to ensure that those who aim to harm the U.S. are deported. However, the majority of deportees under the program continue to be those who pose no threat to the United States or their local communities, and many have family ties, U.S. citizen children, and deep roots in this country. "Despite reforms announced this summer and a set of recommendations from a DHS task force of experts, Secure Communities continues to fall far short of its purported goals," Gutierrez said. "I ask that DHS not be swayed by Republicans' political posturing and fantasies. Secure Communities should stop snagging and deporting immigrants with broken taillights, and states and localities should be allowed to opt out of the program if they determine it is in the best interest of public safety and the greater good in their own states. I don't think Secretary Napolitano can fix Secure Communities, so it should be suspended entirely." # # #
11.29.2011	"Whoever leads the Financial Services Committee should make it priority number one to continue [Frank's] legacy," Gutierrez says. November 29, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-04), Ranking Democrat on the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing, Insurance, and Community Opportunity, issued the following statement on the announcement by Rep. Barney Frank (MA-04) that he would not seek reelection in 2012. Reporters have been asking me about who should replace Barney Frank on Financial Services and what his departure means for the Democrats. While I posted a few lines reacting to Rep. Frank's announcement on my Facebook page yesterday (https://www.facebook.com/RepGutierrez), there are bigger issues here. We should be helping the American people find jobs and helping them buy or keep their homes and weather this economic storm, not playing the D.C. 'what-if' games that fuel politics. One of the reasons people hate Congress so much is that we immediately start circling a carcass like vultures and don't spend any time thinking about how we are going to do the people's business. We should put the needs of the U.S. people before any speculation on whose political career will be moving forward or back just because a great Congressman has announced his retirement. Rep. Frank leaves a legacy of fighting for consumers and holding financial institutions accountable to the American people that we all should aspire to. Whoever leads the Financial Services Committee should make it priority number one to continue that legacy. Anytime we lose a Democratic champion like Rep. Frank, who has provided so much leadership on financial reform, it leaves a void that his colleagues in his party must fill. # # #
11.28.2011	Gutierrez to help prepare the community for the implementation of South Carolina's harsh new immigration law November 28, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-04) will return to Charleston, S.C., to ensure the implementation of the Administration's deportation policy in individual cases that merit prosecutorial discretion. Gutierrez will accompany Mr. Gabino Sánchez to his first supervision appointment with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) in Charleston, S.C. to ask that his deportation case be closed and to compel ICE and the immigration courts to use their enforcement resources on higher priority targets as their deportation policies dictate. Mr. Sánchez was brought to the U.S. as a teenager and has resided here for 13 years. He has worked in construction and landscaping and is sole provider for his family, which includes two U.S. citizen children, ages 6 years and 8 months. "I learned of Mr. Sánchez' case during my visit to South Carolina a week ago, and he meets the criteria of someone who should be spared deportation under the Department of Homeland Security's deportation priorities," said Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, who chairs the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. "I am returning to South Carolina to personally see that the authorities extend to him the consideration that all individuals in similar circumstances should receive as a matter of course." Sánchez was likely a target of racial profiling when he was stopped by local police this month as he pulled into his mobile home community. Despite having no prior contact with immigration authorities, ICE placed a hold on him and initiated deportation proceedings. He was released 5 days after his arrest under an order of supervision and awaits his court date. Congressman Gutierrez has traveled to more than 20 cities this year urging the Obama Administration to adjust deportation policies that have seen a record number of immigrants deported and announcements from the Department of Homeland Security over the summer indicate that changes are being made. However, ramped up federal enforcement and state level measures in South Carolina and elsewhere have left immigrant communities feeling under siege. This trip is yet another in the Congressman's ongoing effort to ensure the full implementation of President Obama's new policy of prioritizing criminals for deportation. "By accompanying Mr. Sánchez, I hope to show South Carolinians how to prepare for the January implementation of the state's draconian immigration law and to demonstrate to the community that there are federal policies in place to protect those with strong ties to the U.S. from deportation when states overstep their authority in immigration enforcement," said Gutierrez. WHAT: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) visits Charleston, S.C., ICE office with Mr. Gabino Sánchez to urge closure of his deportation case WHEN: Wednesday, November 30, 2011, 9 a.m. WHERE: Charleston ICE Office 170 Meeting St., Suite 501 Charleston, SC Background: Gutierrez Statement on Record Setting U.S. Deportations (10/18/2011): https://bit.ly/LVG_101811 Gutierrez Immigration Page: https://bit.ly/LVG_Immigration Gutierrez Bio: https://bit.ly/LVG_Bio # # #
11.22.2011	Rep. Gutierrez: "As Members of Congress, we stand in opposition to this grossly unjust and unconstitutional law which will harm ALL Alabamans." November 22, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis Gutierrez (IL-4) and 38 other House Democrats signed a brief of amicus curiae in support of the Department of Justice lawsuit against Alabama's anti-immigrant law, HB 56. The amicus brief, which was filed on Monday, November 21st, asserts foremost that the Alabama statute is unconstitutional because it is preempted by federal law. The amicus brief also highlights the harm that the Alabama statute will cause to all Alabamans, including citizens. Rep. Gutierrez led the effort to enlist his congressional colleagues in signing on to the amicus brief and led a delegation of Members of Congress who traveled to Alabama on November 21st to hear directly from Alabamans about the devastating impact of the new draconian law. "The Constitution is quite clear about the federal government’s preeminent role in immigration matters and having 50 inconsistent state policies towards immigrants is a level of chaos the Founders sought to avoid,” said Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, who chairs the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “HB 56 adds layers of punitive measures targeting Alabama residents that are inconsistent with federal policy. Congress has the responsibility to balance many concerns in legislating federal immigration policy, such as law enforcement, the economy, family unity, education, civil rights, and so on. HB 56 has and will cause irreparable harm to communities and families throughout Alabama, but will also cause irreparable damage to Constitutional principles if allowed to stand. We join the U.S. Department of Justice, civil rights organizations, immigrant advocates, educators and people of faith in calling for HB 56 to be stripped from Alabama’s law books.” The Members of the House of Representatives signed on to the amicus brief include Democratic Whip, Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Judiciary Committee Ranking Member, John Conyers (D-MI), Immigration Subcommittee Ranking Member, Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), and Rep. Terri Sewell (D-AL). The complete list is as follows: Congressman Joe Baca Congressman Xavier Becerra Congressman Dennis Cardoza Congresswoman Judy Chu Congresswoman Yvette Clarke Congressman John Conyers Congressman Jim Costa Congressman Ted Deutch Congressman Keith Ellison Congresswoman Anna Eshoo Congressman Charles Gonzalez Congressman Al Green Congressman Raúl Grijalva Congressman Luis Gutierrez Congresswoman Janice Hahn Congressman Rubén Hinojosa Congressman Mike Honda Congressman Steny Hoyer Congressman Jesse L. Jackson, Jr. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney Congressman Jim McDermott Congressman Gregory Meeks Congresswoman Gwen Moore Congressman Jim Moran Congresswoman Grace Napolitano Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton Congressman Pedro Pierluisi Congressman Jared Polis Congressman Mike Quigley Congressman Charles Rangel Congressman Silvestre Reyes Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard Congressman Gregorio Sablan Congresswoman Janice Schakowsky Congressman José Serrano Congresswoman Terri Sewell Congressman Albio Sires Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez # # # Amicus brief
11.17.2011	Rep. Gutierrez: "I am going to Alabama to stand with the good, decent people of Alabama to fight back and defend what I think is right and just." November 17, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE(Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL) and nine other House Democrats are traveling to Alabama on Monday for an ad hoc hearing on immigration and Alabama's HB56 immigration law. A group of five of those traveling held a press conference today in Washington to discuss the trip. In addition to Rep. Gutierrez, who chairs the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, those speaking at today's press conference included Terri A. Sewell of Alabama, Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chair Charlie Gonzalez of Texas, Congressional Progressive Caucus Co-Chair Raul Grijalva of Arizona, Rep. Joe Baca of California, and Rep. Silvestre Reyes of Texas. [Completing the delegation, but not present at today's press conference, are: Secretary of the Congressional Black Caucus Yvette D. Clarke of New York; Rep. Al Green of Texas; Immigration Subcommittee Ranking Democrat Zoe Lofgren of California; and Rep. Grace Napolitano of California.] Details of the planned trip on Monday November 21, including the hearing in the Birmingham City Council Chambers and an evening event at the historic 16th Street Baptist Church, can be found on Rep. Gutierrez' website: https://bit.ly/ALadv. The following are the remarks of Congressman Gutierrez at today's press conference: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez Opening Statement as Prepared for Delivery: As you know, a group of nine Members of Congress is traveling to Birmingham, Alabama for a series of events on Monday. We will hold an Ad Hoc hearing at 3 p.m. in the chambers of the Birmingham City Council to hear from residents. While some of the details are still coming together, we will have a range of people offer their testimony: local elected leaders and law-enforcement, families, educators, farmers, and small business owners and the like. We want a range of people who fit into categories including those who were the intended targets of Alabama's law, but we also want to hear from and those who have proven to be targets, perhaps unintentionally, as the law has begun to be implemented. After the hearing we will meet with leaders of the immigrant advocacy and civil rights community in Birmingham and across the state at a private meeting at the Civil Rights Institute. Then we will walk across the street to the historic 16th Street Baptist Church -- the church where four little girls were killed by an assassin's bomb -- and at 7 p.m. there will be a huge rally that marks the kick off of the "One Alabama" statewide campaign to repeal the law. I was in Alabama in October and I came back to Washington and said to my colleagues, "you have got to go and see for yourself." In other states we have seen anti-immigration bills pass, but in Alabama it has triggered something unique. The fear and chaos in a small, not very well established Latino and immigrant community has run deeper. The feeling of danger and despair is palpable, perhaps owing to Alabama's history of dogs and water cannons and bombings and worse. But that same history also gave me a great deal of hope. All across the state I met people at rallies, at the NAACP state convention, at the Spanish language radio station, and I got a sense that the history of fighting for justice and fighting for basic rights is still alive in Alabama. Indeed, a lot of what we know about social movements, about social change and fighting for justice, we learned from the people of Alabama less than a generation ago. We are seeing what happens when Congress is prevented from passing immigration reform for a decade or two decades. We see the reaction on the ground to an immigration system that is a quarter century out of date. Ironically, the Republican Party in Alabama that pushed this law through is the same Republican Party that has actively blocked immigration reform in Washington. And those few Republicans with whom I and Senator Kennedy and others worked with across the aisle have all drifted away from the negotiating table. In particular, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, in his role on the Judiciary Committee, has played a substantial role in obstructing immigration reform along with a handful of Southern Republican Senators. In order to get control of immigration, we need to strengthen legal immigration and make sure enforcement is both firm and fair. In order to get control over immigration we have to get immigrants who live and work here into the system and on-the-books because we simply will not deport of drive out 10 million people who have deep roots, family, property, and lives here. But Republicans, often led by Senator Sessions of Alabama, have prevented us from moving from the current chaos and blackmarket to a modern, efficient and legal immigration system because they think immigration is a good political football. Perhaps more so than anyone going on this trip, I have been critical of the President because of the one million people he has deported, but I am pleased that the Justice Department is fighting against unconstitutional laws in Alabama, Arizona, South Carolina and elsewhere. We simply cannot have 50 separate immigration laws and the Constitution is clear about that. We will hold President Obama and Secretary Napolitano accountable for sticking to the federal policies they laid out that put a priority on deporting criminals so we can get bad people out of our communities. That means standing up to and not cooperating with the state policies that create broad roundups based on appearance or make it a crime to work or take your children to the library. Anti-immigration laws at the state and local level come with tremendous costs… -- in terms of the slowed economy, businesses that fail and millions of tax dollars paid to lawyers to defend against lawsuits. -- in political terms, these laws have changed the way America thinks about Arizona and Alabama and whether they are modern states or backward-looking ones. -- and at the local level -- from family to family, business to business, and town to town, the divisiveness of playing politics with such an important issue carries a huge cost to the very fabric of a community. There is a very high moral cost. I am going to Alabama to stand with the good, decent people of Alabama to fight back and defend what I think is right and just. # # #
11.16.2011	Leading Voice for Immigration Reform in U.S. Congress Also Visiting Alabama November 16, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez of Chicago will hold a public meeting with immigrants, allies, and leaders in Charleston to discuss state immigration matters in South Carolina and the national picture for immigrants and immigration reform. The Congressman, who is Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Task Force on Immigration, is a leading advocate for immigrants and immigration reform in the U.S. Congress. He has traveled to more than 20 cities this year urging the Obama Administration to adjust deportation policies that have seen a record number of immigrants deported and announcements from the Department of Homeland Security over the summer indicate that changes are being made. However, ramped up federal enforcement and state level measures in South Carolina and elsewhere have left immigrant communities feeling under siege. WHAT: Community Forum on Immigration with Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) WHEN: Sunday, November 20, 2011 Doors Open 2:00 p.m. (ET) | Event Starts 3:00 p.m. (ET) WHERE: Longshoreman's Union Hall Building, 1142 Morris Drive, Downtown, Charleston, SC LOCAL MEDIA CONTACT: Diana Salazar Background: Congressman Gutierrez is also participating in a congressional visit and ad hoc hearing in Birmingham, Alabama on Monday, November 21 along with eight other Members of Congress and in conjunction with the statewide effort to repeal Alabama's new restrictive immigrant law HB56. A press advisory for that series of events is here: https://bit.ly/ucy3F1 Gutierrez Statement on Record Setting U.S. Deportations (10/18/2011): https://bit.ly/LVG_101811 Gutierrez Immigration Page: https://bit.ly/LVG_Immigration Gutierrez Bio: https://bit.ly/LVG_Bio # # #
11.15.2011	Washington D.C. Press Conference Nov. 17 Precedes Congressional Visit November 15, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- A diverse delegation from the House of Representatives will travel to Birmingham, Alabama for a day of events on November 21, including an ad hoc field hearing to examine the impact of Alabama's harsh new "paper's please" immigration law, HB56. The day will culminate with an event at Birmingham's historic 16th Street Baptist Church where a statewide campaign to repeal the law is being launched. A press conference in Washington with many of the 10 Members of Congress scheduled to take the trip will be held on November 17. WASHINGTON PRESS CONFERENCE - NOV. 17 WHAT: Press conference in advance of Alabama Congressional Visit WHEN: 9:30 a.m. ET, November 17, 2011 WHERE: Room B-318 Rayburn House Office Building, Washington, DC WHO: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez and others from the delegation, which includes: Rep. Joe Baca of California; Secretary of the Congressional Black Caucus Yvette D. Clarke of New York; Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chair Charlie Gonzalez of Texas; Rep. Al Green of Texas; Congressional Progressive Caucus Co-Chair Raul Grijalva of Arizona; Congressional Hispanic Caucus Immigration Task Force Chair Luis V. Gutierrez of Illinois; Immigration Subcommittee Ranking Democrat Zoe Lofgren of California; Rep. Grace Napolitano of California; Rep. Terri A. Sewell of Alabama; and Rep. Silvestre Reyes of Texas. ALABAMA CONGRESSIONAL VISIT - NOV. 21 Preliminary Schedule for November 21, 2011, all events are in Birmingham and all times local (CT): 2:00p.m. Press Conference for Members of the Congressional Delegation Location: Birmingham City Council Chambers - Birmingham City Hall, 710 20th Street North 3:00-5:00p.m. Ad Hoc Hearing: The impact of HB56 on families, businesses, agriculture, law enforcement and civil society. Location: Birmingham City Council Chambers 7:00p.m. Members of the Congressional Delegation will participate in the launch of the "One Family One Alabama Campaign to Repeal HB56" Hosted by the Alabama Coalition for Immigrant Justice (ACIJ) Location: Historic 16th Street Baptist Church (1530 Sixth Ave. North) # # #
11.02.2011	"In my nearly 20 years in Congress, I have never heard testimony from a convicted felon. I certainly have never heard testimony from a felon who donated more than $5,000 dollars to the National Republican Congressional Committee during the height of her embezzlement and fraud". November 2, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), a Member of the House Financial Services Committee and Ranking Democrat on the Insurance, Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, participated in an unusual hearing today. The hearing, entitled “Fraud in the HUD HOME Program,” featured the testimony of two criminals convicted of defrauding the government, one of whom was a donor who contributed money to the GOP during the height of her embezzlement, according to FEC records. The hearing was not about the merits of the HOME program, Congressman Gutierrez said, but rather "the purpose today is to score political points and generate exciting headlines" and undermine a program that has helped rebuild neighborhoods in Chicago and elsewhere. The hearing was a joint hearing with the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. More information is on the Committee website: https://financialservices.house.gov/Calendar/EventSingle.aspx?EventID=266369 Congressman Gutierrez delivered the following opening statement: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez Opening Statement as Prepared for Delivery: This is a very unusual hearing. In my nearly 20 years in Congress, I have never heard testimony from a convicted felon. I certainly have never heard testimony from a felon who donated more than $5,000 dollars to the National Republican Congressional Committee during the height of her embezzlement and fraud. I am going to ask our witness about that donation. I am going to ask her if embezzling from the HOME Program helped to free up that extra cash to donate to elect Republicans to Congress. And I am going to ask whether my Republican colleagues have looked into this and returned the funds. I think the absurdity of this hearing speaks to the difficulty the majority is having in making the points they seem determined to make about the HUD HOME program, whether the facts support those points or not. It’s highly irregular to need convicted felons to explain the HOME Program is susceptible to fraud. Usually we have experts or law-enforcement come to speak before us. I have seen whistleblowers testify -- honest Americans who are concerned about potential abuse -- who risk their well-being to help us fix programs. I have listened intently to community organizers, advocates, consumers, academics. These are credible witnesses who help us improve our programs. I have 10 letters in support of the HOME Program and I ask unanimous consent to submit them for the record. One of the letters is signed by 33 different organizations including Habitat for Humanity, National Association of Realtors, the U.S. Conference of Mayors, even the YWCA. These groups have experience implementing HOME honestly. Why didn't you ask any of them to testify before us? I’m really not here today to blame the witnesses. That is up to the legal system. And while I am sure that both of these individuals are very knowledgeable regarding the crimes they have committed, I can't help but wonder what the Majority hopes we will learn from them. It seems to me that a logical explanation of their presence is that the witnesses are here as examples of how our system works. Two people broke the law, violated the rules of the HOME Program for personal gain, and got caught. They were prosecuted and sent to jail. We can and should make sure every federal program is run well and that anyone who abuses the system or breaks the law is caught and punished. However, we can't hope to stop people from attempting to break the law. We can strengthen and improve our efforts to catch people who break the law. If that were the purpose of today's hearing then I would happily and willingly participate. Any weaknesses or vulnerabilities in the HOME program should be addressed. But let’s not be fooled. One way to judge the strength of the accusations against the HOME program is to judge the quality of the witnesses. I believe the way this hearing is being conducted makes it clear that the purpose today is to score political points and generate exciting headlines. I hope in the future we can do better. Now, let's talk about what the HOME Program really is. In my district in Chicago, the HOME Program has created over 15,000 new housing units for low-income households. It has helped low-income families stay in their homes and preserve the only real financial asset that many of them have. Nationwide, for every dollar received from the HOME Program, 3 more are leveraged. In all, HOME has helped communities leverage over $80 billion dollars. The vast majority of HOME funds are managed by honest, responsible, community-oriented professionals who produce great results. The Harold Washington Unity Cooperative in Chicago’s Humboldt Park neighborhood is a perfect example. HOME funds were used to leverage millions of dollars in private investment. The result is a beautiful 87-unit, scattered-site development that will provide affordable housing to people who need it most. It is a community asset that would not have been possible without the HOME Program. So let's keep our eyes on the facts. We will have experts testifying on the second panel. We should listen to what they say about the prevalence of fraud in the HOME Program, and we should acknowledge what HUD has done and continues to do to strengthen its monitoring. Above all, we should not allow the two witnesses in our first panel to speak for the thousands of honest public servants who administer the HOME program across the country. It would be an injustice to them, and also to a program that has done so much to provide for our most vulnerable constituents. # # #
11.02.2011	FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND CONSUMER CREDIT SUBCOMMITTEE Because of Dodd-Frank Transparency, Banks Cannot Conduct "Electronic Stick-Ups" in Secret, Congressman Says November 2, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), a Member of the House Financial Services Committee Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit (and the Subcommittee's former Chairman), participated in a hearing today examining the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and its first 100 days of operations. The CFPB was created by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Law passed in the previous Congress and, like other parts of that bill designed to protect consumers, is under attack by Republican lawmakers. Raj Date, Special Advisor to the Secretary of the Treasury and the man in charge of CFPB, testified at the hearing. More information on the hearing is available on the Committee website: https://financialservices.house.gov/Calendar/EventSingle.aspx?EventID=266367 Congressman Gutierrez, who serves as the Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Insurance, Housing and Community Opportunity, prepared the following opening statement: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez Opening Statement as Prepared for Delivery: To hear some of my colleagues across the aisle talk about the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, you would think we were talking about something truly terrible. Something horrible that small children hide from on Halloween. We hear things like, the CFPB isn't accountable to Congress, or the CFPB has unprecedented power. I would like to suggest, as I have before, that the CFPB is not the boogey man. I believe that, like many important changes, we will soon be asking ourselves how we went so long without a commonsense regulator like the CFPB. I was just reading a quote from the President of the American Bankers Association saying it was "unsound, unscientific, and dangerous." But this isn't a quote about the CFPB; this is a quote from June 16, 1933 about federal deposit insurance. Banks railed against it in 1933, but today you would be hard pressed to find someone who thinks that insuring our bank deposits is "unsound" or "dangerous." The fact is that the CFPB won't be doing anything "dangerous" either. The CFPB issued draft mortgage disclosure rules and even Fox News here in Washington described the disclosure forms as "clear and easy to compare to one another." The CFPB will continue to provide simplified forms and valuable guidance so that customers can actually understand what they are buying or promising to repay. Whether it is a mortgage, a credit card, or a student loan, the CFPB is working to make sure that consumers have all the information they need to comparison shop. The CFPB is creating a more transparent marketplace and it is already benefiting consumers. Take a look at what happened with Bank of America, they instituted a $5 fee to use your debit card to access your money and customers were outraged. The important thing here is that, because of Wall Street Reform and the thinking behind the CFPB, they couldn't do this electronic stick up in secret. If Bank of America or another big bank tries to institute another unfair fee, we'll know about it because of the transparency that we created. The CFPB will help us extend these kinds of consumer protections to other institutions that currently have little or no regulation. The public is crying out for these protections, and the strength and long-term stability of our economy depends on them. Members of Congress would be better off working with the CFPB to make sure that it works as well as it can for all constituents rather than trying to obstruct it at every turn. This train is moving and it's time to get on board. # # #
11.01.2011	"Those who see a great injustice occurring now against the people of Alabama must come to their aid." Congressman says of HB56 immigration law November 1, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL) convenes a meeting of House Democrats Wednesday to plan a trip to Alabama this fall "to call national attention to the injustices happening in Alabama and commit to a national response." The planned trip, the dates of which are still being finalized, follows on a trip Rep. Gutierrez took to Alabama Oct. 21-23 on which he spoke to civil rights, Latino, African-American, religious, immigrant, and municipal leaders about the impact of Alabama's "Papers Please" law that allows police to arrest people on suspicion if they feel like questioning their immigration status. "When it is considered a felony and a deportable offense for a mother without immigration papers to sign her U.S. citizen children up for a library card, clearly we have a national civil rights emergency," Congressman Gutierrez said, referring to reports that all manner of transactions involving immigrants in the U.S. illegally have been criminalized in Alabama. "Justice-loving Americans from around the country were instrumental in shining a light on injustice in Alabama a half-century ago and came to the aid of young leaders like Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and Rev. Fred Shuttlesworth," the Congressman continued, referring to great Birmingham-based civil rights leaders who led civil rights activities starting in the 1950s. "It is no different today. Those who see a great injustice occurring now against the people of Alabama must come to their aid." The meeting takes place Wednesday, November 2 at 12 noon in 1100 Longworth HOB on Capitol Hill. Rep. Gutierrez, who chairs the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, has invited a broad cross-section of his colleagues to the meeting, including key Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, the Congressional Black Caucus, the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, and the Congressional Progressive Caucus as well as the informal grouping of pro-immigrant Democratic Members that helped get the DREAM Act passed in Congress a year ago. Background: Gutierrez discusses Alabama's immigration law with anchorman Jorge Ramos on Univision's Al Punto (in Spanish): VIDEO LINK (10/30/11). Gutierrez remarks to 59th Annual Alabama State Conference Convention of the NAACP: VIDEO LINK (10/22/11). Gutierrez Statement on Alabama Law Ruling: https://bit.ly/LVG_101411 (10/14/2011). Gutierrez Statement on Record Setting Deportations: https://bit.ly/LVG_101811 (10/18/2011). Gutierrez Immigration Page: https://bit.ly/LVG_Immigration Gutierrez Bio: https://bit.ly/LVG_Bio # # #
10.26.2011	Reitera su compromiso de continuar trabajando con fuerza para detener este abuso October 26, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- El Congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez (Il.-4) felicitó hoy a las clínicas de Derecho Ambiental, Servicios Legales de Puerto Rico y otros firmantes a nombre de una gran coalición de comunidades y grupos de defensores del ambiente, por radicar un "Aviso de Intención de Radicar", recurso legal requerido por la "Ley de Las Especies en Peligro de Extinción" federal (ESA), 16 U.S.C. § 1540(g), al menos 60 días antes de radicar una demanda legal para detener la construcción del gasoducto, en caso que el Cuerpo de Ingenieros concediese el permiso. Gracias a la labor de las comunidades, Casa Pueblo, las clínicas legales, la comunidad científica y ambientalista de Puerto Rico y del Congresista Gutiérrez, el proceso de la consideración del permiso del Cuerpo de ingenieros se ha retrasado muchísimo y no se espera una decisión acerca del permiso en le futuro inmediato. "Me alegra mucho saber que la gran coalición del pueblo de Puerto Rico en contra de este embeleco monstruoso, de este abuso que el régimen desea imponerle, continúa dando pasos importantes de avance en nuestra lucha." dijo Gutiérrez. Me alegra mucho saber que estas clínicas legales le dieron buen uso a los documentos que he colgado en mi página cibernética luego de mis esfuerzos por obtener transparencia y documentación de todo este proceso. Seguiré requiriendo y publicando estos documentos. Como sigo totalmente comprometido con lograr una victoria en este caso para nuestro pueblo, estaré participando en una reunión y una actividad pública con mis buenos amigos de Casa Pueblo en Adjuntas y con todos quienes deseen venir con nosotros, el domingo 6 de noviembre," añadió Gutiérrez. Las Clínicas de Derecho Ambiental de las escuelas de Derecho de la Universidad de Puerto Rico de la Escuela de Derecho de la Universidad de Vermont, Servicios Legales de Puerto Rico y otros firmantes sometieron el documento sobre el cual han estado trabajando por meses, con fecha de hoy. # # #
10.21.2011	Congressman visits NAACP Convention in Eufaula and Rally in Birmingham October 21, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL) is visiting Alabama for a series of events on Saturday (10/22) that culminate in an "Alabama United: One Family, One Alabama" community event and rally in Birmingham's Fair Park Arena at 4:00 p.m. CT. The Congressman, who is the Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Task Force on Immigration and a leading proponent of immigration reform, is visiting the state to meet with residents and leaders and to see firsthand the impact of H.B. 56, the recently-passed "paper's please" law that seeks to drive immigrants and Latinos from the state. "Alabama's 'papers please' law has created a huge civil rights crisis for Latinos and all Americans across the nation," Congressman Gutierrez said. "When people are scared to send U.S. citizen kids to school because a state has asserted its alleged right to sow discrimination and division, there is something very wrong in America. When local governments deny access to water unless you can prove your status, when judges say you can only press charges against an abusive husband if you are willing to be deported, when a law turns neighbor against neighbor, we have to shine a spotlight on it and say: this is not America." The Congressman is calling on Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Janet Napolitano to suspend the deportation of immigrants with no criminal background who are picked up by Alabama authorities at least until Attorney General Eric Holder's challenges to the constitutionality of the law have been adjudicated. Congressman Gutierrez led the national effort that resulted in revised federal deportation guidelines announced in August that target serious criminals and national security risks, but direct federal authorities not to pursue prosecution against immigrants with deep roots in their communities and no criminal activity, including military families, DREAM Act students, and the immediate families of U.S. citizens. "Nowhere is it more important for federal authorities to exercise prosecutorial discretion than in Alabama where a state has taken it upon itself to round people up or drive them out because of their appearance, accent, or lack of identification," Gutierrez said. "If Secretary Napolitano is serious about implementing a policy that targets real criminals, she must push back on a state that has decided to target everyone instead." Under Secretary Napolitano, DHS has deported a record number of immigrants each year of the Obama Administration, with 396,906 deported in the last fiscal year. For the most recent year, a slight majority of those deported were categorized as criminals, continuing a trend towards targeting convicted criminals for deportation. During his visit to Alabama, the Congressman will speak at the 59th Annual NAACP Alabama State Conference Convention in Eufaula on Saturday morning and then speak at a rally in Birmingham in the afternoon. He also plans private meetings with community leaders and advocates and to pay respects to the family of Rev. Fred Shuttlesworth, the monumental civil rights leader in Alabama who passed away on October 5. "A generation ago, people fled Alabama for Chicago and other places because they were being systematically denied freedom, equality, and opportunity," Rep. Gutierrez said. "The nation learned a great lesson from the civil rights struggle that was centered in Alabama and the South and led by great Americans like Rev. Fred Shuttlesworth. Indeed, a Puerto Rican born in Chicago could never have had the opportunity to rise to be a Member of Congress were it not for that civil rights struggle. Now Chicago is coming back. I want to see if I can help the decent people who see the situation in Alabama as a great injustice." The Congressman's public events on Saturday, October 22, 2011 are as follows (all times local/CT): 7:30 am Breakfast Remarks / 9:00 am Plenary Keynote 59th Annual NAACP Alabama State Conference Convention, Lake Point Resort State Park, Eufaula, AL 4:00 pm "Alabama United: One Family, One Alabama" Rally Fair Park Arena, 2331 Bessemer Rd. Birmingham, AL Congressman's Remarks scheduled for approx 5:00 pm Hosted by La Jefa Radio and the Alabama Coalition for Immigrant Justice (ACIJ) Additional invited speakers include Mayor William Bell, Birmingham City Council Members, local advocates, leaders and media personalities. Background: Gutierrez Statement on Alabama Law Ruling (10/14/2011): https://bit.ly/LVG_101411 Gutierrez Statement on Record Setting Deportations (10/18/2011): https://bit.ly/LVG_101811 Gutierrez Immigration Page: https://bit.ly/LVG_Immigration Gutierrez Bio: https://bit.ly/LVG_Bio # # #
10.19.2011	Another Positive Step Towards Implementing Dodd-Frank Consumer Protections October 19, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is announcing the appointment of Hubert H. "Skip" Humphrey III to head the Office of Older Americans, a consumer protection office specifically tasked with protecting seniors in their financial dealings. The CFPB and the Office for Older Americans were set up as a result of the landmark Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform legislation that passed in the last Congress. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez of Chicago was and is a strong supporter of the CFPB. He serves on the House Financial Services Committee and Chaired the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit in the 111th Congress. He currently serves as Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Insurance, Housing, and Community Opportunity. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL). I am encouraged that agencies that were once just legislative notions are coming on-line to help Americans navigate complex financial waters and protect themselves from fraud and exploitation. Seniors are among the most vulnerable consumers and have a great deal at risk when considering financial transactions. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's Office of Older Americans will be an important safeguard for them. It is also an important test for those of us that envisioned a strong CFPB that plays an active role in protecting consumers from financial predators. It is all the better that the CFPB has found such a well-known public servant in former Minnesota Attorney General Skip Humphrey to run the Office of Older Americans. He has a track-record of actively fighting for consumer's rights and is an ideal selection for this vital role. # # #
10.18.2011	Congressman Reacts to Release of New ICE Deportation Numbers October 18, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Today, the Department of Homeland Security's Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Bureau released new statistics on how many people are being deported from the United States and who they are. We are virtually at 400,000 (396, 906 to be exact) which is the maximum annual capacity for deportation in our immigration system, according to Administration officials. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), the Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Task Force on Immigration and a leading proponent of immigration reform in the Congress. Nobody can say with a straight face that President Obama is not enforcing our immigration laws vigorously, but that is still the main talking point of the right wing every day of the week and twice on Sunday's talk shows. The fact that we are deporting so many people, even when illegal immigration has slowed to a trickle, is a symptom of our decades-long neglect in fixing the immigration system and the chaos that has resulted from this neglect. The percentage of criminals among the deportees has risen during the Obama Administration but let's be clear, we are still deporting a large number of parents, workers, and others who pose no threat to this country and who contribute to our economic well-being as a nation. It is also important to remember that the definition of "criminal" in such reports is a very broad one and not really reflective of what most people would think of when they hear the term criminal. I am still waiting for the announcement of this past August to really take root within the Department of Homeland Security and to see dramatic decreases in the number of people deported who meet the criteria laid out in ICE Director John Morton's memo. The announcement cannot be merely a pacifier for those of us crying out for justice and compassion. It must actually stop the deportation of those with deep roots in our country like long-term residents, DREAM Act students, military families, and immediate family of U.S. citizens. This is still the goal and the Administration has made a promise and I will continue meeting with immigrant communities and Administration officials to make sure the policy is actually being implemented. We are deporting hundreds of thousands of people who came to the country to work, raise families, contribute to the economy, and want nothing more than to be allowed to live and work here legally. Setting a record for deportations and incurring the huge expense of sending so many people away is nothing to be proud of as a country. This puts yet another exclamation point on the need for a lasting solution to eliminate illegal immigration and to strengthen legal immigration. # # #
10.14.2011	Congressman offers Chicago as a suitable destination to anyone choosing to flee Alabama anyway October 14, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) applauded a ruling by the 11th Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta today that puts on hold parts of Alabama's controversial HB 56, the state's effort to demand papers from immigrants and otherwise make life difficult for Latinos and immigrants in Alabama. Rep. Gutierrez is the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Task Force on Immigration. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez: The 11th Circuit Court of Appeals has issued an injunction and I am happy that the Obama Administration and Attorney General Eric Holder are acting to prevent some of the worst aspects of Alabama's hugely discriminatory law from being implemented. Some people have already been prosecuted and many others have been adversely affected by the Alabama law, so the sooner it is overturned in the federal courts, the better. Today's injunction is a step in the right direction, but unfortunately still leaves the door open for racial profiling. Maybe with the 11th Circuit injunction the feverish anti-immigration exclusionism engulfing Alabama is on the path to extinction, but I offer anyone in Alabama an alternative. When Alabama was not a viable location for African-American families to raise their children back 40, 50 and 60 years ago, many came north to my city of Chicago as part of the Great Migration and revitalized and reinvented Chicago. Already, as Hispanic families are seeing no future for themselves in Alabama regardless of their immigration status or even U.S. citizenship, we are seeing some follow the same trail from Alabama to Chicago. We need all the good, hardworking, and conscientious people we can get in Chicago so Alabama's loss is our gain. We have been fighting to pass immigration reform in Congress for a decade or more to reestablish legal immigration as an alternative to illegal immigration and to get those people already here on-the-books and in the system. It is the only way to return confidence in and law and order to our immigration system and to prevent states from enacting a hodge-podge of 50 state laws on immigration, a subject the Constitution explicitly cedes to the federal government to regulate. Unfortunately, recent efforts to reform immigration have fallen victim to partisan politics and short-sighted wedge-issue campaign tactics. # # #
09.15.2011	El Congresista Gutiérrez alerta a sus colegas que "la negación sistemática de los derechos civiles, humanos y constitucionales a ciudadanos de Estados Unidos es un asunto muy serio." September 15, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE(Washington) – Luego de pronunciar un discurso ante la Cámara de Representantes de Estados Unidos ayer, el Congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) le siguió hoy con una carta de "Estimado Colega" dirigida a todas las oficinas de la Cámara llamando la atención a todos los Miembros del Congreso a dos editoriales de periódicos acerca de la gravedad de la crisis de derechos humanos, civiles y constitucionales en Puerto Rico. Desde febrero pasado y mediante una serie de discursos en el hemiciclo de la Cámara, el Congresista ha estado trabajando para lograr la atención del Congreso sobre cómo la Policía de Puerto Rico ha sido utilizada por el gobierno de Puerto Rico para reprimir derechos humanos básicos, incluyendo aquellos derechos de expresión que son protegidos bajo la Primera Enmienda de la constitución de Estados Unidos. Los dos editoriales, uno del New York Times de hoy (New York Times), y el otro, de la edición del martes de El Nuevo Día El Nuevo Día, el principal diario (traducido al inglés por la oficina del Congresista Gutiérrez) fueron enviados como adjuntos con una carta de presentación del congresista. En su carta, el Congresista Gutiérrez les pidió a sus colegas que presten mucha atención a los próximos pasos que tomen los gobiernos federal y de Puerto Rico respecto a esta crisis: Si los puertorriqueños en Chicago, ó Nueva York, ó Los Ángeles, ó Detroit, ó Toledo estuviesen siendo tratados por su policía local de la manera que la Policía de Puerto Rico ha estado tratando a los puertorriqueños en Puerto Rico, este Congreso hubiese saltado a tomar acción inmediata y decisiva. Los policías que hacen su trabajo de manera honrosa, el pueblo de Puerto Rico y el pueblo de Estados Unidos merecen que se tenga un plan de acción claro. El texto complete de la carta del congresista y de los dos editoriales (en ingles) se encuentran abajo: Dept. of Justice Civil Rights Division's Report on Police Misconduct in Puerto Rico From: The Honorable Luis V. Gutierrez Date: 9/15/2011 Dear Colleague: The Department of Justice Civil Rights Division's recent report on police misconduct in Puerto Rico raises serious issues we in Congress should not overlook. The systematic denial of civil rights, human rights, and Constitutional rights to U.S. citizens is a very serious matter. I want to call your attention to two editorials that underscore the gravity of the report and its findings and the revelations about how the Puerto Rico Police Department, one of the largest Police organizations in the United States, conducts business. An editorial in the New York Times, "Unconstitutional Policing in Puerto Rico," on September 15, 2011, summarizes the report's findings: The investigation found that the Police Department, with 17,000 officers, was “broken,” lacking basic systems of accountability at every level. The result was a “staggering level of crime and corruption” and a longstanding pattern of “violating the Constitution by using force, including deadly force, when no force or lesser force was called for,” as well as the routine use of illegal searches and seizures. The Times urges the Department of Justice (DOJ) to move forward with haste in forcing the Puerto Rico Police Department to reform and restructure, saying: There is an urgent need to get the effort moving. Puerto Rico’s murder rate in 2009 was twice that of Louisiana, the state with the highest murder rate, and is on track this year to reach a record number. If Puerto Rico is to restore order with law, it is essential for the police force to demonstrate that it can do its job without breaking the law. On September 13, 2011, El Nuevo Día, the most important Spanish daily in Puerto Rico, published its own editorial, "The Governor Must Dispel Doubts," [translation by Office of Rep. Gutierrez]. It calls on Gov. Luis Fortuño to act swiftly to clarify mixed messages from his government about a plan to respond to the devastating findings in the DOJ Civil Rights Division report. Governor Luis Fortuño has the responsibility to clarify the contradictory discourse about the grave accusations in the Department of Justice report regarding the Police and make public his own report along with the actions that will lead to the profound and permanent reform of that body, as its being demanded by the country. For example, the Governor's Chief of Staff, who has encouraged the police to use excessive force to disrupt peaceful protests by students and workers, has been placed in charge of the Fortuño Administration's official response to the DOJ report. The El Nuevo Día editorial concludes: It is an incomprehensible contradiction as well to have appointed the Governor's Chief of Staff, who endorsed, inspired and encouraged behaviors of police brutality which are described and censured in detail in the same report, as the person who will conduct and supervise a drastic course change at the Police Department. This function should be discharged by an independent public official, an external monitor who could handle and administer a process of purification of the Police, a process with, let us not forget, a deadline of a scarce one year, and time is already running on it. The Governor has the floor, quite literally, and it is urgent that he speak out. If Puerto Ricans in Chicago or New York or Los Angeles or Detroit or Toledo were being treated by their local police the way Puerto Ricans in Puerto Rico are treated by their local police, this Congress would spring in to immediate and decisive action. The police who do their job honorably, the people of Puerto Rico, and the people of the United States deserve a clear plan of action. I urge you to pay close attention to the findings of the DOJ report and help me monitor the response, both by the federal government and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Sincerely, Luis V. Gutierrez Member of Congress Attachments: New York Times and El Nuevo Día editorials NEW YORK TIMES (Editorial): Unconstitutional Policing in Puerto Rico September 14, 2011https://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/15/opinion/unconstitutional-policing-in-puerto-rico.html The Justice Department has issued a devastating report on the rampant corruption and constitutional violations committed by the Puerto Rico Police Department, the second-largest police force in the United States. It concluded that “lasting reform will require nothing less than federal judicial intervention.” And the sooner, the better. The Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division began investigating in 2008 under a federal law that permits the United States attorney general to initiate civil actions against state and local governments. The investigation found that the Police Department, with 17,000 officers, was “broken,” lacking basic systems of accountability at every level. The result was a “staggering level of crime and corruption” and a longstanding pattern of “violating the Constitution by using force, including deadly force, when no force or lesser force was called for,” as well as the routine use of illegal searches and seizures. The investigation also found that officers were an appalling part of the crime problem. In recent years, there have been almost 2,000 arrests of officers for murder, drug trafficking and other crimes, and almost 1,500 complaints of domestic violence against officers. The federal government has the power to compel Puerto Rico to overhaul its Police Department through the force of a lawsuit or the less confrontational means of a consent decree with the Justice Department about what the police must do. Either way, the police agency will have to be monitored for compliance by a federal judge. The report makes 133 reform recommendations. They include replacing politically appointed leaders with law-enforcement professionals; developing and adhering to high standards for hiring, promotion and firing; training, testing and retraining supervisors and officers; and making the police answerable to the community. Such sweeping restructuring will take time. A similar federal investigation into brutality and corruption in the Los Angeles Police Department — conducted after the Rodney King case — resulted in eight years of federal court oversight before that police agency made sufficient progress to end the monitoring. The Puerto Rico department is twice as large, and its problems are more pervasive. There is an urgent need to get the effort moving. Puerto Rico’s murder rate in 2009 was twice that of Louisiana, the state with the highest murder rate, and is on track this year to reach a record number. If Puerto Rico is to restore order with law, it is essential for the police force to demonstrate that it can do its job without breaking the law. EL NUEVO DÍA (Editorial): The Governor Must Dispel Doubts September 13, 2011 [Translation by Office of Rep. Gutierrez. Original, in Spanish: "El Gobernador Debe Despejar Las Dudas," https://www.elnuevodia.com/editorial-elgobernadordebedespejarlasdudas-1065289.html] Governor Luis Fortuño has the responsibility to clarify the contradictory discourse about the grave accusations in the Department of Justice report regarding the Police and make public his own report along with the actions that will lead to the profound and permanent reform of that body, as its being demanded by the country. In this sense, the Governor is called upon to explain how he would make compatible, on the one hand, the statement by Police Superintendant Emilio Diaz that there are no funds to launch the new and urgent corrective measures that are required for the Police, while at the same time it has been stated that they have already addressed 110 of the 133 deficiencies (found in the DOJ report) that are manifested by the excessive use of force, discriminatory actions and acts in violation of the laws and the Constitution. On its face, the mere recognition of the report and its recommendations, under the pain of this being added to the infamous list of Puerto Rico government agencies under U.S. federal scrutiny or directly under receivership as cities like Detroit, Los Angeles and Miami have been, is the recognition of the existence of the deficiencies. If the situation were different, the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice would have rendered a report of progress and achievements, something that did not occur. But, even if we are to believe the Government's insistence about the supposed start of remedial measures, major questions remain without answer. How much money is needed to fully rehabilitate a police body of 16,000 agents? Where is the money coming from? We are talking about an institution where, according to the report, the bad practices are the operational norm and not the exception. And if we take as good the statement that there is no money to undertake the reforms, then how is it that these reforms were already started and since when? Which results could they show? There are too many questions and these are in conflict with each other, reason for which they should not go unanswered because what is at stake is of too high a value: citizen safety, the protection of human rights, the effectiveness of anti-crime strategies and the people's trust on the institutions, among others. These are questions which could only be addressed by the Governor being accountable to the country, with honesty, precision, and transparency, about the plans, about how much money is needed and where this money would come from. But, unfortunately, what we have seen so far are worrisome reactions of, from high level government officials to police officers union leaders, that oscillate between an attitude of denial to recognizing the report, to the trivialization of its demolishing findings that so minimize their gravity as well as their social impact. It is an incomprehensible contradiction as well to have appointed the Governor's Chief of Staff, who endorsed, inspired and encouraged behaviors of police brutality which are described and censured in detail in the same report, as the person who will conduct and supervise a drastic course change at the Police Department. This function should be discharged by an independent public official, an external monitor who could handle and administer a process of purification of the Police, a process with, let us not forget, a deadline of a scarce one year, and time is already running on it. The Governor has the floor, quite literally, and it is urgent that he speak out. # # # Gutierrez speech to House of Representatives on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico: September 14, 2011: text and video Gutierrez speech to House of Representatives on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico: February 16, 2011 Gutierrez speech to House of Representatives on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico: March 2, 2011 Gutierrez speech to the Colegio de Abogados, San Juan, Puerto Rico, on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico (in Spanish): March 23, 2011 Gutierrez speech to House of Representatives on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico: July 7, 2011 Additional speeches by Rep. Gutierrez on Puerto Rico: https://www.youtube.com/user/RepLuisGutierrez
09.15.2011	Congressman alerts colleagues that "the systematic denial of civil rights, human rights, and Constitutional rights to U.S. citizens is a very serious matter." September 15, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE(Washington) – Following an address to the U.S. House of Representatives Wednesday, Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL) followed up Thursday with a "Dear Colleague" letter to each congressional office calling the attention of Members of Congress to two editorials on the gravity of the Puerto Rico civil, human, and Constitutional rights crisis. The Congressman has been trying to focus congressional attention on how the police are used to repress basic rights, including protected 1st Amendment speech, by the government in Puerto Rico since he began a series of speeches to Congress in February. The two editorials, one from today in the New York Times and one from Tuesday in the largest Spanish-language daily in Puerto Rico, El Nuevo Día, translated by the Congressman's office, were sent as attachments by the Congressman with a cover letter. In his cover letter, Rep. Gutierrez asked his colleagues to pay close attention to the next steps that the federal government and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico take: If Puerto Ricans in Chicago or New York or Los Angeles or Detroit or Toledo were being treated by their local police the way Puerto Ricans in Puerto Rico are treated by their local police, this Congress would spring in to immediate and decisive action. The police who do their job honorably, the people of Puerto Rico, and the people of the United States deserve a clear plan of action. The complete text of the Congressman's letter and the two editorials follows: Dept. of Justice Civil Rights Division's Report on Police Misconduct in Puerto Rico From: The Honorable Luis V. Gutierrez Date: 9/15/2011 Dear Colleague: The Department of Justice Civil Rights Division's recent report on police misconduct in Puerto Rico raises serious issues we in Congress should not overlook. The systematic denial of civil rights, human rights, and Constitutional rights to U.S. citizens is a very serious matter. I want to call your attention to two editorials that underscore the gravity of the report and its findings and the revelations about how the Puerto Rico Police Department, one of the largest Police organizations in the United States, conducts business. An editorial in the New York Times, "Unconstitutional Policing in Puerto Rico," on September 15, 2011, summarizes the report's findings: The investigation found that the Police Department, with 17,000 officers, was “broken,” lacking basic systems of accountability at every level. The result was a “staggering level of crime and corruption” and a longstanding pattern of “violating the Constitution by using force, including deadly force, when no force or lesser force was called for,” as well as the routine use of illegal searches and seizures. The Times urges the Department of Justice (DOJ) to move forward with haste in forcing the Puerto Rico Police Department to reform and restructure, saying: There is an urgent need to get the effort moving. Puerto Rico’s murder rate in 2009 was twice that of Louisiana, the state with the highest murder rate, and is on track this year to reach a record number. If Puerto Rico is to restore order with law, it is essential for the police force to demonstrate that it can do its job without breaking the law. On September 13, 2011, El Nuevo Día, the most important Spanish daily in Puerto Rico, published its own editorial, "The Governor Must Dispel Doubts," [translation by Office of Rep. Gutierrez]. It calls on Gov. Luis Fortuño to act swiftly to clarify mixed messages from his government about a plan to respond to the devastating findings in the DOJ Civil Rights Division report. Governor Luis Fortuño has the responsibility to clarify the contradictory discourse about the grave accusations in the Department of Justice report regarding the Police and make public his own report along with the actions that will lead to the profound and permanent reform of that body, as its being demanded by the country. For example, the Governor's Chief of Staff, who has encouraged the police to use excessive force to disrupt peaceful protests by students and workers, has been placed in charge of the Fortuño Administration's official response to the DOJ report. The El Nuevo Día editorial concludes: It is an incomprehensible contradiction as well to have appointed the Governor's Chief of Staff, who endorsed, inspired and encouraged behaviors of police brutality which are described and censured in detail in the same report, as the person who will conduct and supervise a drastic course change at the Police Department. This function should be discharged by an independent public official, an external monitor who could handle and administer a process of purification of the Police, a process with, let us not forget, a deadline of a scarce one year, and time is already running on it. The Governor has the floor, quite literally, and it is urgent that he speak out. If Puerto Ricans in Chicago or New York or Los Angeles or Detroit or Toledo were being treated by their local police the way Puerto Ricans in Puerto Rico are treated by their local police, this Congress would spring in to immediate and decisive action. The police who do their job honorably, the people of Puerto Rico, and the people of the United States deserve a clear plan of action. I urge you to pay close attention to the findings of the DOJ report and help me monitor the response, both by the federal government and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Sincerely, Luis V. Gutierrez Member of Congress Attachments: New York Times and El Nuevo Día editorials NEW YORK TIMES (Editorial): Unconstitutional Policing in Puerto Rico September 14, 2011https://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/15/opinion/unconstitutional-policing-in-puerto-rico.html The Justice Department has issued a devastating report on the rampant corruption and constitutional violations committed by the Puerto Rico Police Department, the second-largest police force in the United States. It concluded that “lasting reform will require nothing less than federal judicial intervention.” And the sooner, the better. The Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division began investigating in 2008 under a federal law that permits the United States attorney general to initiate civil actions against state and local governments. The investigation found that the Police Department, with 17,000 officers, was “broken,” lacking basic systems of accountability at every level. The result was a “staggering level of crime and corruption” and a longstanding pattern of “violating the Constitution by using force, including deadly force, when no force or lesser force was called for,” as well as the routine use of illegal searches and seizures. The investigation also found that officers were an appalling part of the crime problem. In recent years, there have been almost 2,000 arrests of officers for murder, drug trafficking and other crimes, and almost 1,500 complaints of domestic violence against officers. The federal government has the power to compel Puerto Rico to overhaul its Police Department through the force of a lawsuit or the less confrontational means of a consent decree with the Justice Department about what the police must do. Either way, the police agency will have to be monitored for compliance by a federal judge. The report makes 133 reform recommendations. They include replacing politically appointed leaders with law-enforcement professionals; developing and adhering to high standards for hiring, promotion and firing; training, testing and retraining supervisors and officers; and making the police answerable to the community. Such sweeping restructuring will take time. A similar federal investigation into brutality and corruption in the Los Angeles Police Department — conducted after the Rodney King case — resulted in eight years of federal court oversight before that police agency made sufficient progress to end the monitoring. The Puerto Rico department is twice as large, and its problems are more pervasive. There is an urgent need to get the effort moving. Puerto Rico’s murder rate in 2009 was twice that of Louisiana, the state with the highest murder rate, and is on track this year to reach a record number. If Puerto Rico is to restore order with law, it is essential for the police force to demonstrate that it can do its job without breaking the law. EL NUEVO DÍA (Editorial): The Governor Must Dispel Doubts September 13, 2011 [Translation by Office of Rep. Gutierrez. Original, in Spanish: "El Gobernador Debe Despejar Las Dudas," https://www.elnuevodia.com/editorial-elgobernadordebedespejarlasdudas-1065289.html] Governor Luis Fortuño has the responsibility to clarify the contradictory discourse about the grave accusations in the Department of Justice report regarding the Police and make public his own report along with the actions that will lead to the profound and permanent reform of that body, as its being demanded by the country. In this sense, the Governor is called upon to explain how he would make compatible, on the one hand, the statement by Police Superintendant Emilio Diaz that there are no funds to launch the new and urgent corrective measures that are required for the Police, while at the same time it has been stated that they have already addressed 110 of the 133 deficiencies (found in the DOJ report) that are manifested by the excessive use of force, discriminatory actions and acts in violation of the laws and the Constitution. On its face, the mere recognition of the report and its recommendations, under the pain of this being added to the infamous list of Puerto Rico government agencies under U.S. federal scrutiny or directly under receivership as cities like Detroit, Los Angeles and Miami have been, is the recognition of the existence of the deficiencies. If the situation were different, the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice would have rendered a report of progress and achievements, something that did not occur. But, even if we are to believe the Government's insistence about the supposed start of remedial measures, major questions remain without answer. How much money is needed to fully rehabilitate a police body of 16,000 agents? Where is the money coming from? We are talking about an institution where, according to the report, the bad practices are the operational norm and not the exception. And if we take as good the statement that there is no money to undertake the reforms, then how is it that these reforms were already started and since when? Which results could they show? There are too many questions and these are in conflict with each other, reason for which they should not go unanswered because what is at stake is of too high a value: citizen safety, the protection of human rights, the effectiveness of anti-crime strategies and the people's trust on the institutions, among others. These are questions which could only be addressed by the Governor being accountable to the country, with honesty, precision, and transparency, about the plans, about how much money is needed and where this money would come from. But, unfortunately, what we have seen so far are worrisome reactions of, from high level government officials to police officers union leaders, that oscillate between an attitude of denial to recognizing the report, to the trivialization of its demolishing findings that so minimize their gravity as well as their social impact. It is an incomprehensible contradiction as well to have appointed the Governor's Chief of Staff, who endorsed, inspired and encouraged behaviors of police brutality which are described and censured in detail in the same report, as the person who will conduct and supervise a drastic course change at the Police Department. This function should be discharged by an independent public official, an external monitor who could handle and administer a process of purification of the Police, a process with, let us not forget, a deadline of a scarce one year, and time is already running on it. The Governor has the floor, quite literally, and it is urgent that he speak out. # # # Gutierrez speech to House of Representatives on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico: September 14, 2011: text and video Gutierrez speech to House of Representatives on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico: February 16, 2011 Gutierrez speech to House of Representatives on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico: March 2, 2011 Gutierrez speech to the Colegio de Abogados, San Juan, Puerto Rico, on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico (in Spanish): March 23, 2011 Gutierrez speech to House of Representatives on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico: July 7, 2011 Additional speeches by Rep. Gutierrez on Puerto Rico: https://www.youtube.com/user/RepLuisGutierrez
09.14.2011	Congressman calls for special prosecutor and Grand Jury as follow-up to devastating DOJ Civil Rights report on Puerto Rico's Police September 14, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) addressed the U.S. House of Representatives today and called on the Governor of Puerto Rico to apologize to the Puerto Rican people in the wake of a U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division report detailing systematic abuse of power and repression of civil rights by the Puerto Rico Police Department. The Congressman, who first addressed the Congress on civil and human rights abuses by the police in Puerto Rico in February 2011, was denounced by the ruling party and formally censured by the Puerto Rican Legislature in May for his remarks in the U.S. Congress. Today, Rep. Gutierrez called for the U.S. Department of Justice to follow up the report by appointing a special prosecutor and a Grand Jury and to see the issues detailed in the report through to criminal prosecutions. Video of the Congressman's speech is here: https://youtu.be/JfaM_TTjOtI The text is here: https://bit.ly/mXy8fk What follows are the Congressman's remarks as prepared for delivery at approximately 10:30 a.m. ET today. REP. LUIS V. GUTIERREZ U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES REMARKS ON THE FLOOR SEPTEMBER 14, 2011 Thank you Mr. Speaker. I rise today to ask us to take action on a scathing Department of Justice investigation of a police department that, quote: “regularly violates the constitutional rights of civilians through illegal searches, detentions, and arrests.” That “continues to demonstrate a deliberate indifference to the public’s safety and the civil rights of individuals engaging in protected speech activities during protests,” A police force where, quote: “officers engage in a pattern and practice of unreasonable force and other misconduct to suppress the exercise of protected First Amendment rights.” The report details the abuse the American citizens of Puerto Rico are facing by the Puerto Rico Police Department. Something labor leaders, students, and environmentalists know all too well. On this floor, I said, “I rise to bring the urgent attention of the U.S House of Representatives to a human rights and civil rights crisis." A place "where the right of students to protest and speak their minds is being denied with clubs and mace and pepper spray.” I spoke those words seven months ago. The DOJ report states that the Governor of Puerto Rico has, quote, “supreme authority” over the police. Did he use that “supreme authority” to respond to Puerto Ricans who asked for help? He did. The Governor’s ruling party took immediate action after I detailed the abuse. The ruling party was outraged. At me. Facing a civil rights crisis, the ruling party of Puerto Rico acted without hesitation. It urgently passed legislation – to censure me for speaking out. In part, that censure reads: “Congressman Luis Gutiérrez made false allegations about a supposed human Rights crisis in Puerto Rico; he expressed himself in a denigrating and malicious manner about the honorable Body of the Puerto Rico Police; all of which tends to hurt the image and good name of Puerto Rico.” Here's the problem, the ruling party of Puerto Rico has made clear time and again that they are not concerned about the abuse of their people; only that the world might notice the abuse. They don’t seem to understand that if you love Puerto Rico, you stand up and speak out, not pretend that everything is alright. For standing up, the government gave me 600 words of censure. But the government did not give one – not one – word of censure for what happened to Rachel Hiskes. Here’s how the DOJ describes it: “A student journalist, Rachel Hiskes, entered the Capitol with other individuals and attempted to access the Senate chambers. Puerto Rico Police Department officers, who had been dispatched to the Capitol earlier in the day, stopped Hiskes and hit her. She was not resisting or combative. Hiskes then sat in the hallway with other visitors in protest. A Capitol employee then sprayed Hiskes and others with chemical irritants. As Hiskes tried to get up, an officer hit her across the back with a baton, causing her to fall. An officer continued to push and strike her with his baton, driving her toward the doorway. When she reached the door and had her back to the officer, the officer shoved her out onto the concrete stairs using his baton and hitting her in the neck. Hiskes was never arrested or charged with any crime.” Instead of protecting people like Rachel, the government derided people who love Puerto Rico enough to demand change. This Governor’s chief of staff – a man he has absurdly tasked with responding to the DOJ report – said protesting workers would be treated as “terrorists” and boasted he would kick protesting students off campus. That's love for the people? This government cannot fix a problem they helped to create and expand. The students bloodied with batons deserve more. A U.S. Department of Justice that produced a thorough, important report deserves more. And, to be clear, the many honorable and brave Puerto Rican police officers who are incorruptible, who do their jobs right and risk their lives every day – deserve more. When crimes like these are brought to light, we expect criminal indictments. I want to see the special prosecutor appointed, the Grand Jury seated, the trials begun, and to see those responsible -- and not just the police officers following orders, but those who directed the police to systematically repress free speech -- sent to jail. The goal must be to reestablish the rule of law and to reestablish a police department in Puerto Rico that protects and serves the people of Puerto Rico. The goal must be a police department fighting crime, not committing them. The goal must be that no government can act with impunity against it own people. And I have one last recommendation. The Governor of Puerto Rico should apologize to his people. Puerto Ricans have called out for help. In response, the governor and his ruling party have led an effort to demonize them for standing up for their civil rights. Governor, the Department of Justice has just made clear that your people were right and you were wrong. It’s time to say you’re sorry. # # # Gutierrez speech to House of Representatives on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico: February 16, 2011 Gutierrez speech to House of Representatives on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico: March 2, 2011 Gutierrez speech to the Colegio de Abogados, San Juan, Puerto Rico, on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico (in Spanish): March 23, 2011 Gutierrez speech to House of Representatives on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico: July 7, 2011 Additional speeches by Rep. Gutierrez on Puerto Rico: https://www.youtube.com/user/RepLuisGutierrez
09.08.2011	Congressman's Series of Floor Speeches This Year Warned Nation About Civil Rights Violations and Out-Of-Control Use of Force By Present Ruling Party September 8, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington) – The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) Civil Rights Division released a much anticipated report on police abuse of power and use of excessive force in Puerto Rico that paints a clear picture of systemic and sustained violations of constitutional rights of the Puerto Rican people. The report, dated September 5, confirms what Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) has been warning the nation about with regard to Puerto Rico since he began making a series of speeches on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to call attention to civil rights abuses on the island. "When I started speaking out about the civil rights crisis in Puerto Rico the Governor, the Legislature and everyone else in the ruling party said there was no crisis and that I should just shut up," Rep. Gutierrez said. "But I kept speaking out because it was the right thing to do. When those who are sworn to protect and defend you are instead beating you and spying on you, any sense of justice, security, or faith in democracy goes out the window." The Congressman, who started his series of speeches about civil and human rights abuses in Puerto Rico on the House floor in February (see below), earned an official act of censure from the Puerto Rican legislature in May of this year, which he proudly displays in his Capitol Hill office. He continued to speak out about civil rights on the House floor and in Puerto Rico itself and received widespread criticism by the supporters of the current Governor and his regime. The official response was that there was no civil rights crisis in Puerto Rico, that the Congressman was out of line and had no right to speak, and that in fact, he was being disloyal to his Puerto Rican heritage to suggest that there was a problem. "The ruling party in Puerto Rico can no longer pretend that the island is not facing a civil rights crisis. It is now the responsibility of every Member of this Congress to make sure that immediate and effective steps are taken to protect the rights of the people of Puerto Rico and to stop the abuse of their rights," the Congressman said after reading the DOJ report. The Congressman noted that Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Rep. John Conyers (D-MI) and the national ACLU were also extremely helpful in making sure the DOJ report was released in a timely manner and not watered down to put the ruling party in Puerto Rico in a better light. "For far too long, the ruling party in Puerto Rico devoted its time and energy condemning those who spoke out against abuses instead of stopping those who were being abusive to their own people," Gutierrez said. "This report not only underscores that abuse was taking place, but that it was aimed at suppressing dissent and first amendment rights." The Congressman vowed to make sure that officials at every level of the federal government were made aware of the Department of Justice report. "I will make sure every Member of Congress gets a copy of this report, I will ask that the Judiciary Committee Chairman hold hearings and I will continue to stand up for the rights of the Puerto Rican people. The DOJ report details the depths of this problem, and we all must work together to fix it now. There can be no more pretending that the problem is those who are willing to stand up and speak out." The Congressman, who was born in Chicago to Puerto Rican parents, has lived and worked in Puerto Rico at various times in his life and currently owns a home and visits his family in Puerto Rico regularly. # # # Gutierrez speech to House of Representatives on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico: February 16, 2011 Gutierrez speech to House of Representatives on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico: March 2, 2011 Gutierrez speech to the Colegio de Abogados, San Juan, Puerto Rico, on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico (in Spanish): March 23, 2011 Gutierrez speech to House of Representatives on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico: July 7, 2011 Additional speeches by Rep. Gutierrez on Puerto Rico: https://www.youtube.com/user/RepLuisGutierrez
08.30.2011	New prioritization guidelines came after sustained advocacy campaign targeting President Obama, led by Rep. Gutierrez September 30, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) announced plans for a September 10 Community Forum on Immigration in Chicago to disseminate information about what President Obama's new prioritization policies mean for immigrants facing deportation. The Chicago event, which will be held at 10 a.m. at Benito Juarez High School in Chicago, will kick-off a broader effort led by the Congressman to provide accurate and timely information to lawyers, advocates, immigrants and their families as the new procedures are put in place. The Congressman is concerned that immigrants anxious for legal status or facing deportation will fall prey to scam artists promising to sign people up for a fee to a legalization program that does not and will not exist. "To the community we are saying, 'Be patient and be careful,'" the Congressman said at a press conference in Chicago. "We do not want you to fall victim to false promises and those who would exploit your hopes and fears for profit. We will work hard in the coming days to clarify these new policies and get you correct information." Rumors, misinformation, and outright fraud runs rampant at times like these when a policy has been announced but not clearly defined, so Rep. Gutierrez is working with service providers, legal experts, community-based organizations, and immigrant groups across the country to address the information gap. Next week in Washington, the Congressman is convening senior officials at ICE (Immigration and Customs Enforcement) to discuss how the new policy will work and how Congressional offices that work with constituents whose families are facing deportation can ensure that cases are reviewed. Later today (at 8 and 9 p.m. ET), the Congressman will participate in nationwide conference calls in English and Spanish with tens of thousands of immigrants, advocates and allies to discuss the new policies, part of a national outreach plan. (More information and registration for the conference calls here: https://reformimmigrationforamerica.org/blog/blog/national-call-about-dhs-announcement-on-830/) On August 18, the Obama Administration announced it would review pending deportation cases on a case-by-case basis to remove certain low priority immigrants from the deportation cue. These include non-criminals and those with deep roots in the U.S. like the immediate family members of U.S. citizens and service members and those who have been living in the U.S. from a young age. The new prioritization guidelines came after a sustained advocacy campaign targeting President Obama who has increased deportations rapidly and broadened immigration enforcement since taking office. Ever since the DREAM Act failed to overcome a Republican-led filibuster in the Senate in November 2010, Rep. Gutierrez has been meeting with the President, fighting for reform legislation, traveling the country for rallies and hearing the stories of families being split apart by the escalating deportations. Now the Congressman wants to ensure that immigrants in Chicago and nationwide know the scope of the new policy and what it means for them and their loved ones. "The President recognizes that too many families and innocent bystanders were getting caught up in his effort to deport serious criminals and he has acted to address that, at least in part," Rep. Gutierrez said at the press conference which was held at the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights (www.icirr.org), where he was joined by Chicago immigrant leaders and families who may be able to temporarily avoid deportation because of the new policies. "The new policies move us in the right direction by targeting scarce law enforcement resources at criminals and gang-bangers and making our communities safer," the Congressman said. "Now we have to take the positive actions of the Obama Administration and make sure it translates into actually protecting DREAM Act students and making sure families are not split apart." Flyers for the September 10 Community Forum on Immigration at Benito Juarez High School can be found here: /sites/gutierrez.house.gov/files/images/stories/DHS_FORUM_FLYER_EngSpan.pdf # # #
08.18.2011	"I am proud of the President and Secretary Napolitano for standing up for a more rational approach to enforcing our current immigration laws," Congressman says August 18, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington) – Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) issued a statement reacting to an announcement that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) would review deportation cases based on newly-issued guidelines establishing which cases are priorities for deportation and which are not. The review of pending deportation cases and the instructions to all elements of DHS over how immigrants that meet certain criteria should be handled has come after months of sustained advocacy by Congressman Gutierrez, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, other Democratic leaders in the House and Senate, and determined public pressure by from clergy, advocates, immigrants, and DREAM Act students nationwide. The announcement by DHS will apparently make one of Congressman Gutierrez' key demands a reality: putting a halt to the deportation of young people who were brought to the U.S. as children and who are crime free and pursuing their education; in other words, those who would qualify for the DREAM Act, which was passed by the House of Representatives in 2010 but died in the Senate when only 55 out of 100 Senators voted to move the bill forward. The Congressman was briefed on today's DHS announcement by the Director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) John Morton by telephone yesterday evening. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez: I have been vocal in my criticism of the President and his Administration over the dramatic increase in deportations on his watch and have traveled the country urging him to use his power under existing law to do what he can to help. This is the Barack Obama I have been waiting for and that Latino and immigrant voters helped put in office to fight for sensible immigration policies. Focusing scarce resources on deporting serious criminals, gang bangers, and drug dealers and setting aside non-criminals with deep roots in the U.S. until Congress fixes our laws is the right thing to do and I am proud of the President and Secretary Napolitano for standing up for a more rational approach to enforcing our current immigration laws. Today is a victory not just for immigrants but for the American people as a whole because it makes no sense to deport DREAM Act students and others who can make great contributions to America and pose no threat. It is not in our national interest to send away young people who were raised in the U.S. and have been educated here and want only to contribute to this country's success. I have asked ICE Director John Morton to come to Capitol Hill and brief Members of Congress on how this will affect their constituents as soon as Congress reconvenes. My Chicago office and Congressional offices across the country have been inundated with cases of DREAM Act students, military families, and U.S. citizens whose families are being threatened with deportation or who have actually been deported. Putting the new priorities into practice so that cases can be reviewed and getting the word out to caseworkers in Congressional offices, in the legal community, and to individual immigrants facing deportation is critical and time-sensitive and we will work with ICE and DHS on that immediately. This action does not address all of my concerns, but it is the start of a process that will save many American families and individuals who deserve to live long and productive lives in this country. There are still U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents in families with undocumented immigrants who can obtain legal status under existing law, but who do not do so because of an unfair three- and ten-year penalty barring them from the U.S. if they apply. The rapidly expanding "Secure Communities" state and local enforcement program that undermines public safety and has caught tens of thousands of non-criminals in its dragnet remains a big problem. But today's announcement shows that this President is willing to put muscle behind his words and to use his power to intervene when the lives of good people are being ruined by bad laws. # # #
08.11.2011	Recent ICE Changes Erode "Any Semblance of Legitimacy the Program Ever Had," Congressman Writes August 11, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington) – Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) sent a letter to Immigration and Customs Enforcement Director John Morton renewing his call to end the "Secure Communities" state and local immigration program and objecting in particular to changes in the program that now make it mandatory for all states and localities, even those who have chosen to opt out. The State of Illinois is one of three states, all with Democratic Governors, that are seeking withdrawal from the program that enlists state and local law enforcement in identifying individuals for deportation. The text of the Congressman's letter is below. Dear Director Morton: I have made no secret of the fact that I oppose the Secure Communities state and local immigration program and its rapid expansion because it undermines public safety and has not lived up to its stated goals of identifying and deporting serious criminals rather than non-criminal immigrants. However, the announcement you made last week that the program is now mandatory for all states and localities and that all existing agreements between the federal government and state and local governments are revoked, is simply unacceptable and amounts to little more than reneging on previous commitments for the sake of political expediency. Governors and mayors, including Governor Pat Quinn of Illinois, have demanded removal from this deeply flawed program because of the public safety concerns and unachieved goals. It now seems that your agency is changing the rules in mid-stream to undermine leaders like Gov. Quinn who have acted in the best interest of their constituents. As I go out around the country, the first thing I hear about is the massive increase in deportations followed closely by concerns about how state and local law enforcement are being ordered to participate in those deportations. Adding a whole new layer of suspicion and confusion by changing the rules and declaring it a non-negotiable federal mandate for every state and locality further erodes any semblance of legitimacy the program ever had. Its rules and regulations are a moving target; its effectiveness in accomplishing stated goals has been called into question with credible evidence; and now there is a growing call for investigations and an ever increasing number lawsuits related to the program's implementation and to the transparency with which it has been carried out. I renew my call on you and the President to suspend the expansion of this disastrous and counter-productive program and to work with Congress to eliminate the program and replace it with serious and systemic immigration reform. Sincerely, Luis V. Gutierrez Member of Congress # # # Gutierrez Letter to ICE Director Morton Regarding Secure Communities
08.08.2011	Uniform Obama Administration Definition of "Extreme Hardship" Would Reunite Thousands of U.S. Families August 8, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago) – Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) joined in a welcoming ceremony and press conference at O'Hare International Airport for Janina Wasilewski, a Polish immigrant who returned to the U.S. with her U.S. citizen child, Brian, to be reunited with her U.S. citizen husband, Tony, after more than four years fighting to get back in the country. The New York Times told the Wasilewskis' story in Monday's paper, "A Family Reunited After a Rare Return From Deportation," and they were also the subject of a feature length documentary, Tony and Janina's American Wedding, released in 2010. In September 2007, Congressman Gutierrez invited Tony Wasilewski to testify before the Judiciary Committee's Immigration Subcommittee in Washington, then considering a comprehensive immigration reform bill authored by Rep. Gutierrez and Rep. Jeff Flake (R-AZ). The Congressman's office has provided formal and informal support to the Wasilewskis as they pursued avenues to prevent Janina's deportation in 2007 and a waiver for the ten-year ban imposed by current U.S. immigration laws on immigrants in Janina's situation. Most recently, Congressman Gutierrez wrote to Director Alejandro Mayorkas of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service in April supporting the Wasilewskis' appeal of a denied request for a waiver to the ten year ban. That waiver was eventually granted, clearing the way for Janina's return with Brian from Poland. The following is a statement by Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez at the welcoming ceremony and press conference at O'Hare airport this afternoon. Welcome home Janina and Brian and congratulations to Tony, the Wasilewski family, the entire Polish community of Chicago, all of the advocates, lawmakers, and reporters who didn't let this story die, and to all of you gathered here today. I always hoped Tony and Janina's American Wedding would have a happy ending and knew deep in my heart that it would. The Wasilewskis show that if you have a compelling story and it lands on the right desk at the right time and place, the system works, as it eventually did in this case, but it shouldn't be so random or take so long to get it right. Not everybody has a spouse as tenacious as Tony, who got advocacy groups, the media, and several Members of Congress to come to the aid of his family, not to mention a feature length film about their story. But a lot of people face deportation or the ten years in exile and our bureaucracy is usually opaque, unbending and impassible. It should not come to this. To me, a U.S. citizen whose spouse and child are uprooted to another country is the very definition of "extreme hardship." It should be a matter of policy and practice that the spouses and parents of U.S. citizens are kept together and not deported unless there is a serious criminal history that warrants harsh measures. Reuniting an American family ought to be the default for our immigration laws, not splitting one apart. While I celebrate the return of Janina and Brian, we must realize we will not get any substantive immigration reform out of this Congress with House Republicans driving the agenda heading into an election year, which is why the focus is on the White House and what the Obama Administration can do under current law. We need definitive action to ensure that cases like the Wasilewskis' are resolved without long separations. I would guess there are hundreds of thousands of U.S. citizens and residents who could apply for their spouse's legal status, but don't because they don't want to be separated for a decade or more. The President can do something about that and get these families on a legal footing and playing by the rules by clearly defining "extreme hardship" under current law to mean separation from a spouse or child in the U.S. So, welcome home. Everyone who hears this story will be moved that one family fought so hard against long odds to live together in Chicago. I hope many more families also have happy endings to come. # # #
08.01.2011	August 1, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, announcing his intention to vote for the debt ceiling compromise when it comes before the House, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) recalled a conversation he had Friday with Lynn Sweet, Washington Bureau Chief of the Chicago Sun-Times (which she quoted from in her Sun-Times blog on Saturday). Gutierrez told Sweet that the difference between his rabid reform mentality as a freshman in the House in 1993 and the attitude of House Freshman Tea Partiers today is that "I came to change the institution; I didn't come to burn it down." Today, Congressman Gutierrez released the following statement on why he intends to vote for the debt ceiling compromise. The Tea Partiers and the GOP have made their slash and burn lunacy clear, and while I do not love this compromise, my vote is a hose to stop the burning. The arsonists must be stopped. The damage this bill will do to the people of the Fourth District, Chicago, and the country is real and lasting but pales in comparison to the damage the GOP was willing to do to the American and world economies to make a political point. It isn't worth the risk. We have a choice – compromise or chaos, and I’m choosing compromise. I will vote for the bill and hope we can close this distasteful chapter in American politics. I urge every reasonable legislator in this House to choose an imperfect compromise over a perfect catastrophe. This manufactured crisis that has cost billions already could have cost the country many trillions more. Compromise in the face of a lunatic's demands is an act of sanity. Let's move on. # # #
08.01.2011	Deportations Continue for DREAM-Eligible Youth Raised in U.S. August 1, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) was called back to Washington to vote as part of the debt ceiling negotiations end game. The Congressman had been scheduled to participate in a bill signing with Governor Pat Quinn and Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel as the Illinois DREAM Act was signed into law today at Benito Juarez Community Academy in Chicago. Rep. Gutierrez is a strong supporter of comprehensive immigration reform, including the DREAM Act, at the federal level and played an instrumental role when the DREAM Act was passed as a standalone bill by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2010. He has also been an outspoken critic of President Obama's deportation policies, which continue to threaten DREAM-eligible young people raised in the United States with deportation. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4): While it was imperative I be in Washington to cast an important vote on the debt ceiling compromise, I am disappointed that I missed the opportunity to stand with Mayor Emanuel and others to congratulate Governor Quinn and the State of Illinois in person. I was really looking forward to it. Governor Quinn and the State Legislature are once again making Illinois a national leader and a more inclusive state for immigrants and their families. Because our immigration system has been in a shambles for almost three decades, individual states and localities are having to pick up the pieces. Illinois has been and continues to be visionary in its approach to including immigrants into the fabric of our communities. The Illinois DREAM Act begins to deal with the reality that we have about a million young people nationally who came here at a young age, were raised in the U.S., and do not have legal immigration status, yet they have aspirations for higher education, service, and contributing to the success of this country, the only country they have ever known. President Obama should look no further than his own state in recognizing the value of these young people. He should act under the authority he has under current law to set aside their deportations until the federal government resolves their status on a long-term basis. Senator Durbin and 22 other Senators have called on the President to do the same and I hope the people of Illinois and Chicago will weigh-in with our friend the President to say once and for all, no more DREAM students will be deported on his watch. # # #
07.25.2011	President Has Broad Powers to Target Enforcement at Criminals and Spare Some Immigrants from His Record-Setting Pace of Deportations July 25, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) reacted to President Obama's address to the national annual conference of the National Council of La Raza in Washington. At one point in the President's speech, referring to his ability to exercise discretion in immigration enforcement, the President said, "Now, I know some people want me to bypass Congress and change the laws on my own." At that point, many in the crowd chanted "Si Se Puede" and "Yes You Can," interrupting his speech momentarily. Tomorrow, Rep. Gutierrez will speak on a panel at the NCLR conference (at 10:30 a.m.) and will also address a rally in front of the White House in Lafayette Park (which starts at 3:00 p.m.). The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez: I agree with those in the audience who said "Si Se Puede" and "Yes You Can" when the President said he could not do anything about deportations. I have been traveling the country the past three months asking him not to take the law into his own hands, but to exercise the broad discretionary powers he has under current law that allows him to prioritize individual deportations. Indeed the President acknowledged that his Administration is trying to prioritize deportations for serious criminals and threats, and I have encouraged him to do more to put non-criminals, young people, and the spouses and parents of U.S. citizens at the back of the line. Twenty-three Democratic Senators, two former INS General Counsels, and his own Homeland Security staff agree he has this power under current law. Republicans like Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith and Senator David Vitter have filed bills to take that power away from this President, so I think they agree with me and the audience that he has powers under current law. So far, according to the Obama Administration, they are using this discretionary power in fewer cases than the previous President and they are deporting more people than any previous President. We need the President to fight for us and to make it clear he is doing -- and not just saying -- everything possible to help. The question is whether the President will exercise the powers he has under current law to give DREAM Act students and other immigrants relief from deportation when it is in the national interest of the United States. But he has to expend the political capital to do it, which he has been reluctant to do. The Latino and immigrant voters I talk to -- and those at NCLR conference -- seem to think that his personal investment in helping immigrant families is lacking. This White House is proud of their deportation and increases in border security, but it is simply not the case that the President's hands are tied when it comes to enforcement and people, like those in the audience, know it. # # #
07.21.2011	75 Democrats Sign Letter Opposing Judiciary Chairman's Bill to Limit President Obama's Immigration Enforcement Powers July 21, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – A dozen pro-immigrant Democratic Members of Congress gathered for a press conference today to release a letter to President Obama saying they are opposed to the HALT Act, which they described to the President as "an attack on your integrity that should not pass unnoticed or unopposed." The letter was signed by 75 Democrats. The HALT Act ("Hinder the Administration's Legalization Temptation" Act, H.R. 2497), was introduced last week by Rep. Lamar Smith (D-TX), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, and a companion bill was introduced in the Senate this week by Sen. David Vitter (R-LA). The bill would suspend -- until January 21, 2013 -- certain powers the President has under current law to prioritize the deportation of criminals and suspend the deportation of individuals whose countries have been decimated by natural disasters, whose families serve in the U.S. military, or for whom other circumstances warrant leniency or special consideration. Rep. Gutierrez said at the press conference that the HALT Act is "a mean-spirited affront to the President's integrity" and that the 75 signatures so far -- after only a week of gathering support --represented over half of the votes the House would need to sustain a presidential veto if it ever got to that point. "We are half way there in a week," Rep. Gutierrez said at the press conference, "and at that rate of growth from last week to this week, I am pretty confident the President has nothing to worry about if he vetoes the HALT Act." Rep. Gutierrez (IL) was joined by eleven other Democrats at the press conference, all of whom signed the letter -- Reps. Judy Chu (CA), Yvette Clarke (NY), Lloyd Doggett (TX), Mike Honda (CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX), Hank Johnson (GA), Barbara Lee (CA), Grace Napolitano (CA), Jared Polis (CO), Silvestre Reyes (TX), and Jan Schakowsky (IL) -- who said they would call on the House Democratic Caucus to stand with them in opposing Rep. Smith's bill. Link to letter: /sites/gutierrez.house.gov/files/images/stories/HALT_Act_letter_complete.pdf The following are Rep. Gutierrez' remarks at the press conference as prepared for delivery: Last week, I stood with 10 other Members of Congress at a press conference on Thursday to denounce the HALT Act which had been introduced by Chairman Lamar Smith that Tuesday. Here we are a week later and I hold the signatures of 75 Democratic Members of Congress who say they support President Obama and that they feel the HALT Act is a mean-spirited affront to the President's integrity. Now, let's do the math. It takes a two-thirds vote to override a veto and therefore a one-third vote plus one to sustain a veto. By my quick math, 435, divided by three, plus one is 146. We need 146 commitments to give the President reassurance that if the HALT Act somehow gets to his desk and he vetoes it, we have his back and would vote down any attempt to override his veto. We are half way there in a week and at that rate of growth from last week to this week, I am pretty confident the President has nothing to worry about if he vetoes the HALT Act. But we hope it doesn't come to that. What we are finding is that regardless of how Democrats feel on the broader issues of immigration reform and the need to fix our broken system, regardless of how they voted on the DREAM Act or whatever else, they see the HALT Act as a hollow attempt to play politics with a serious national issue. Why? Because Chairman Smith, when he wrote this bill, said I don’t want to take the power away from the presidency; I want to take the power away from this President. Let me explain. With the resources to deport about 400,000 people per year, the HALT Act says the President must prioritize the deportation of a hardworking family man with a wife and U.S. citizen children and 20 years in the U.S. the same way he prioritizes the deportation of a convicted rapist. But the power to prioritize who is first in line for deportation -- like gang-bangers and murderers -- and who is last in line -- like DREAM Act students and the spouses of U.S. service men and women -- is not a power that no President should have, just a power that President Obama shouldn't have, according to the HALT Act. In Chairman Smith's world, President Obama plans to grant a massive, blanket "amnesty" to every immigrant. The Chairman is holding a hearing about it in Judiciary next week. Now, also in Chairman Smith's mind, all immigrants are criminals and terrorists, even the "legal" ones who come here through the diversity visa program. In his mind, it is perfectly realistic to base our national immigration policy on the fantasy that we will -- or can -- or should -- deport or drive out 11 million men, women, and children from our country who are living here undocumented. Chairman Smith conveniently forgets that he called on previous Presidents to use their power of prosecutorial discretion when they saw that a deportation would cause extreme hardship to American citizens. I marked a copy of his 1999 letter with red pen to highlight the good parts at our press event last week. The Chairman also forgets that President Obama deports more people -- about 1,100 per day -- than the last President or any President in modern history. He conveniently forgets that the Obama Administration told Congress they are granting deferred action and other delays in deportation less than the previous Administration. He also forgets that we are seeing historically low levels of illegal immigration; that communities along the U.S. Mexico border are the most crime-free communities in our nation; and that immigration from Mexico is the lowest it has been in six decades. This is not about facts, it is about fears. He thinks that by stirring up images of immigrants as criminals and terrorists at every hearing and not-so-subtly hinting that President Obama wants to give them all a free ride to citizenship, he can get more scared, disgruntled Americans to vote against their own self-interest and for his Party. Well, this is a law and order issue and the Republicans and Lamar Smith are on the wrong side. This is about targeting the worst criminals for deportation. This is about using the billions we spend in border security and border enforcement wisely to keep us prosperous and safe. The broader issue of immigration reform -- which Lamar Smith and almost everyone in his Party opposes -- is about getting those undocumented immigrants living here already into the system, on-the-books, conforming to the law, and integrated into society so we can weed out the criminals. It is about having a working immigration system so people come after vigorous vetting with visas and not with smugglers in the first place. The Republicans still don't get that the American people are quite practical. They favor solutions over political games. They want us to solve problems rather than just try to blame the other side for problems. They want us to work for them rather than just work towards our next reelection and that is why 75 Democrats are saying to the President we are with you when your legal judgment is under attack. We are with you in standing up to divisive manipulation of the immigration issue -- and other issues -- aimed at splitting the country, not uniting her. And we will do what we can as the minority in the House to make sure these attacks on your integrity, Mr. President, do not go unnoticed or unopposed. Now I want to bring in my colleagues... # # # HALT Act Letter
07.18.2011	Financial Services Committee Member Wants A Strong Leader for New Agency July 18, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (IL), ranking Democrat on the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing, Insurance, and Community Opportunity issued the following statement on the White House announcement that former Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray will be nominated to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Congressman Gutierrez is a strong supporter of Elizabeth Warren, who was passed over for the job and who worked closely with the Congressman throughout the 111th Congress when the Dodd-Frank Wall Street reform legislation creating the agency was debated and passed (and when Rep. Gutierrez was Chairman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit). "I am not familiar with Attorney General Richard Cordray, but a quick Google search was very reassuring. He is the type of strong, experienced leader we need to get the agency fully up and running. He has an opportunity to define the Bureau's identity as a strong advocate for consumers -- and send a message to Wall Street in so doing -- and I look forward to meeting him and working with him. "I am genuinely disappointed that I will not be able to continue working with Professor Elizabeth Warren as directly as I have to define and give life to CFPB. It was her idea and she worked closely with the House and with me personally to bring about an agency that puts consumers first in financial matters. It proves the old adage that no good deed goes unpunished, or in this case, no good deed gets fully recognized and rewarded." # # #
07.14.2011	Judiciary Chair's HALT Act Would Limit President Obama's Immigration Enforcement Powers July 14, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Pro-immigrant Democratic Members of Congress gathered for a press conference today to denounce a new bill filed by the Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX), that would restrict the immigration enforcement powers of President Obama for the remainder of his term. It would prevent the President from prioritizing criminals, terrorists, and other threats for deportation over non-criminal immigrants with deep roots in U.S. society. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (IL) was joined by ten other Democrats -- Reps. Xavier Becerra (CA), Howard Berman (CA), Judy Chu (CA), Yvette Clarke (NY), Lloyd Doggett (TX), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX), Barbara Lee (CA), Zoe Lofgren (CA), Mike Quigley (IL), and Maxine Waters (CA) -- who said they would call on the House Democratic Caucus to stand with them in opposing Rep. Smith's bill. Known as the HALT Act ("Hinder the Administration's Legalization Temptation" Act), the bill would suspend until January 21, 2013 the powers of this president to deprioritize certain deportations in order to prioritize the removal of convicted, serious criminals and other threats. Rep. Gutierrez said at the press conference that the HALT Act bill "is petty partisan politics at its worst and trivializes the immigration issue -- an issue where families and lives are literally in the balance -- and it turns the immigration issue into a game of political 'gotcha.'" The powers the HALT Act would restrict are the same prosecutorial powers that Rep. Smith and others have called on previous presidents to use to prevent the deportation of law-abiding immigrants. Congressman Gutierrez used a red pen to highlight sections of a 1999 letter signed by Rep. Smith, which Rep. Gutierrez had blown up on a poster board and which was distributed at the press conference. The New York Times, in an editorial Wednesday, said Rep. Smith's changed position on the use of prosecutorial discretion was "Hard to explain…although hypocrisy and rank opportunism seem likely." The following are Rep. Gutierrez' remarks at the press conference as prepared for delivery: Thank you for joining us and thank you to my colleagues who have joined me to take a stand against the HALT Act, which was formally introduced into this Congress on Tuesday by Representative Lamar Smith, the Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, and a companion bill will be introduced in the Senate by Senator David Vitter. The HALT Act -- which stands for "Hinder the Administration's Legalization Temptation" -- is a direct attack on the integrity and legal judgment of this President of the United States. It is petty partisan politics at its worst and trivializes the immigration issue -- an issue where families and lives are literally in the balance -- and it turns the immigration issue into a game of political "gotcha." When Americans demand leadership on immigration -- like on so many vexing issues facing the country -- what House Republicans give them is partisan tricks to fan the flames of division, sharpen the lines between the parties, and delay or derail any real progress towards solutions. Let me explain what I mean. The HALT Act suspends until January 21, 2013, the ability of this President to target immigration enforcement at the worst violent criminals, drug dealers, and threats to our nation. It limits the President's arsenal of enforcement tools and says that our immigration agents must deport every deportable immigrant they find regardless of the circumstances of their case and regardless of which other immigrants we would not be able to deport because we are wasting our time, money, court dockets, and detention beds on the law-abiding immigrants we just happened to find. But it is not that Lamar Smith thinks these types of powers should not be used by Presidents of the United States. It is just this President he doesn't like. The powers would be restored to the law after January 21, 2013, the day after the next inauguration. So this President, the Editor of the Harvard Law Review and Professor of Constitutional Law, is deemed not legally competent to wield these powers on behalf of the American people. The Party that demands to see his birth certificate and openly wonders what religion he is, now says this particular President cannot be trusted with the tools to target immigration enforcement at criminals and gangsters. And how do I know that the Chairman of the Judiciary Committee thinks these are powers that the President has and could -- and should -- exercise as part of immigration enforcement? Because in 1999, Lamar Smith wrote to the Attorney General at the time, Janet Reno, and the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, asking them to use more prosecutorial discretion in immigration cases. The letter, signed by 29 Republicans and Democrats -- some of whom are standing here today -- reads in part… "We write to you because many people feel you have the discretion to alleviate some of the hardships [of our immigration system] and we wish to solicit your views on why you have been unwilling to exercise such authority…" It continues, "The principle of prosecutorial discretion is well established…True hardship calls for the exercise of such discretion…" Let me highlight those sections… and Lamar Smith's signature… and if you need a copy, here is the number of Lamar Smith's press secretary who released it to the media. I have traveled the country over the past three months visiting 27 cities and talking to U.S. citizens whose family members face deportation. I have talked to DREAM Act students who were raised in the U.S. and came here at such a young age that they know no other country, but who face deportation and a life of uncertainty. I have heard the hardship. I know that the President has the powers that Lamar Smith wanted a previous President to use and I want this President to use those powers more often. But it is not simply a matter of hardship or compassion. That may be persuasive to you and me, but does not move the so-called law and order proponents on the other side of the aisle. This is a matter of law and order and Lamar Smith is on the wrong side. John Morton, the head of ICE, told Congress last year that his agency has the capacity to deport 390,000 to 400,000 immigrants. Homeland Security is already filling up that quota with deportations, whether people are criminals or not -- and this Administration lifts up the fact that it is deporting more men, women, and children than any other in recent history -- about 392,000 people. But think about it. If our capacity to move people through the system is about 400,000 people and we are at that capacity now, then every time we choose to deport a DREAM Act student or rip a mother from her U.S. citizen child, we are using up a slot that could be used to deport a felon. Every court date we schedule to adjudicate a case against a father of two U.S. citizens with 15 or 20 years of contributions to this country is a deportation slot for a criminal or gangbanger we can't use. Lamar Smith is saying the Obama Administration should deport everyone they find -- even though the ultimate goal of deporting 11 million men, women, and children is a fairy tale every bit as fantastic as the new Harry Potter movie. The Republicans are saying "deport 'em all" and don't bother starting with the thugs, get the maids, the mommas and the babies too. Well, the President and we Democrats say we should deport the people who threaten peace and property and who have proven by their actions that they cannot and should not be part of our society. We should make them the priority and use our capacity to deport people to get them out and keep them out. And the Republicans say that this President cannot be trusted to make such judgments or set such priorities -- as Commander in Chief -- about who is a priority and who is not. That is petty partisan politics at its worst. Now I want to bring in my colleagues... # # #
06.23.2011	Deportations of Families and DREAMers, 'Secure Communities,' and the Need for Immediate Presidential Action will be Highlighted June 23, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) continues his national tour to spotlight the toll that almost 400,000 deportations annually are taking on American children and families with events across the western U.S. June 25-27, culminating in a Chicago rally June 30. Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO) hosts an event in Denver on Saturday, June 25 (details below), followed by events in Seattle with Rep. Jim McDermott on Sunday and in the Portland, Oregon area town of Woodburn on Monday. The advocacy groups Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition (Colorado), OneAmerica (Washington) and CAUSA (Oregon) are organizing the events. This phase of the national tour will conclude with a Chicago rally on June 30 at 6:00 p.m. hosted by the Coalition of Illinois Elected Officials for Fairness for Our Families and Our Students, Priests for Justice for Immigrants, Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, United Neighborhood Organization, Familia Latina Unida and La Fuerza Juventud, and Teamsters Local 705. Denver, Colorado June 25 @ 2:00 p.m. What: Rally to End Senseless Deportations, with Reps. Jared Polis and Luis V. Gutierrez and testimony from families, citizens, and DREAMers who face (or whose loved ones face) deportation, including speakers from Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition, Rights for All People, Mi Familia Vota and SEIU Local 105 Where: Bruce Randolph School, 3955 Steele Street, Denver 80205 When: Saturday, June 25, 2011 at 2:00 p.m. Press Contact: Chris Fitzgerald (Rep. Polis), 202-225-2161 Seattle, Washington June 26 @ 1:30 p.m. What: Public Meeting with Reps. Jim McDermott and Luis V. Gutierrez and testimony from families, citizens, and DREAMers who face (or whose loved ones face) deportation When: Sunday, June 26 at 1:30 p.m. Where: Town Hall, 1119 8th Ave, Seattle Local Press Contact: Charlie McAteer, OneAmerica, 206-452-8402 Media Availability: Interviews with Rep. Gutierrez available immediately following the event Woodburn, Oregon June 27 @ 6:15 p.m. What: Public Meeting with Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez and testimony from families, citizens, and DREAMers who face (or whose loved ones face) deportation When: Monday, June 27, 6:15 p.m. Where: Woodburn High School, 1785 N Front St., Woodburn, OR Local Press Contact: Erik Sorensen, CAUSA, 503-488- 0263 Chicago, Illinois June 30 @ 5:30 p.m. What: Public meeting with U.S. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, State Sen. Antonio "Tony" Muñoz, State Rep. Maria Antonia Berrios, Alderman Daniel S. Solis and testimony from families, citizens, and DREAMers who face (or whose loved ones face) deportation When: Thursday, June 30, 5:30 p.m. Where: Teamsters Hall, 300 S. Ashland Ave., Chicago Press Contact: Douglas Rivlin, 202-225-8203 More immigrants are being deported by President Obama than under George W. Bush or any President since Eisenhower. In recent weeks, the Obama Administration has stepped up its attention to immigration reform by calling on Congress to pass legislation. Meanwhile, the Governors of Illinois, New York, and Massachusetts have moved to withdraw their states from the Obama Administration's signature deportation program, "Secure Communities," while Alabama and Georgia have joined Arizona in passing sweeping new state anti-immigrant measures. New guidelines issued by Immigration and Customs Enforcement last week go part of the way in addressing the concerns of immigrant communities, but more concrete and direct action by the President is needed. Specifically, under current law, the President can stop deporting DREAM Act students and the spouses and parents of U.S. citizens. He can also adjust immigration policies so that spouses and children of U.S. citizen are not required to spend a decade or more in a foreign country waiting for permission to be reunited. And clarification for states and localities on the process to opt out of the "Secure Communities" program is needed because it jeopardizes public safety. Congressman Gutierrez' Campaign for American Children and Families tour, has featured the testimony of citizens and non-citizens whose lives have been turned upside down by deportation at packed events in 24 cities since it was launched on March 31. # # #
06.17.2011	Rep. Gutierrez Says Danger To Children Of Pilsen Must Stop Immediately June 17, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) called on EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson and Illinois Governor Pat Quinn to take immediate action to bring down toxic lead emissions endangering the lives of children in the Pilsen neighborhood of Chicago. Data from air quality monitors put in place by the EPA indicate dangerous concentrations of lead in the air in Pilsen, including at Manuel Perez Elementary School where more than 400 young children attend class daily. Exposure to lead is particularly harmful to young children and can cause severe developmental, cognitive, and learning impairments. In separate letters to Administrator Jackson and Governor Quinn, Congressman Gutierrez asked that the primary polluter, H. Kramer & Co., be either brought into compliance with national lead emissions standards or be shut down immediately. In April of this year, the EPA issued a Notice of Violation to the company for lead emissions that registered at nearly double the national limit. The Congressman commended the EPA for identifying the source of the pollution but asked that meaningful action be taken to protect residents of Pilsen. "The main culprit, H. Kramer & Co., has a long history of noncompliance with environmental regulations. It is reprehensible that the company has been able to earn profits at the expense of Pilsen children and their families who have been forced to endure the hazardous lead pollution from its smelter." # # #
06.10.2011	Deportations of Families and DREAMers, 'Secure Communities,' and Caribbean, African, and Latino Voters and Immigrants to be Highlighted June 10, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) continues his national tour to spotlight the toll that almost 400,000 deportations annually are taking on American children and families with events in Pittsburgh, PA on Thursday, June 16 and Brooklyn, NY on Saturday, June 18. The Brooklyn event will be hosted by Rep. Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY) as part the observance of Caribbean Heritage Month. Families will discuss how current immigration laws put them and loved ones in danger of being separated. Rep. Michael Doyle (D-PA) will participate in the Pittsburgh event, which is hosted by the Pittsburgh Interfaith Action Network (PIIN), a coalition that is building alliances between congregations and communities while uniting African-American, African, Latino and other communities in the Pittsburgh area around shared values and goals. The event will take place in St. Benedict the Moor Catholic Church in the city's historic African-American community known as the Hill District. PITTSBUGH, PA: JUNE 16 @ 7:00 PM Who: U.S. Reps. Mike Doyle and Luis V. Gutierrez What: Public Interfaith Meeting with Testimony from Families, Citizens and DREAMers who face or whose loved ones face deportation When: Thursday, June 16 at 7:00 pm ET Where: St Benedict the Moor Catholic Church (91 Crawford Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15219) BROOKLYN, NY: JUNE 18 @ 4:00 PM Who: U.S. Reps. Yvette D. Clarke and Luis V. Gutierrez What: Immigration Forum: Keep Families Together When: Saturday, June 18 at 4:00 pm ET Where: Kings County Hospital “T” Building Auditorium (451 Clarkson Ave, 2nd Floor, Brooklyn, NY 11203) More immigrants are being deported by President Obama than under George W. Bush or any President since Eisenhower. In recent weeks, the Obama Administration has stepped up its attention to immigration reform by calling on Congress to pass legislation. Meanwhile, the Governors of Illinois, New York, and Massachusetts have moved to withdraw their states from the Obama Administration's signature deportation program, "Secure Communities," while Alabama and Georgia have joined Arizona in passing sweeping new state anti-immigrant measures. With 2012 campaigns baring down and little chance of passing federal legislation to help resolve the problems with immigration, Members of Congress who support the President are focusing their attention on the White House to see what, if anything, President Obama will do to adjust how current policies are carried out. Two-dozen U.S. Senators recently asked the President to halt deportations of students eligible for the DREAM Act until a bill is passed. Experts, including two former INS General Counsels, wrote the President outlining his powers to provide relief to immigrants facing deportation under current law. And the Congressional Hispanic Caucus has been outspoken in opposing the most draconian of the Obama deportation measures. Congressman Gutierrez' Campaign for American Children and Families tour, which has held packed events in 21 cities since it was launched on March 31, was recently extended throughout June and into July. The tour will next visit Denver (June 25), Seattle (June 26), and Portland, Oregon (June 27). # # # Recent Press Coverage: Miami Herald: https://www.miamiherald.com/2011/05/28/2240616/obama-is-deceiving-hispanics-on.html Associated Press: https://fxn.ws/dWouuU MSNBC Andrea Mitchell Reports: https://youtu.be/kS8BmMFzdRw Fox Business Network Lou Dobbs Tonight: https://youtu.be/yybTzgYKDeY The Hill: https://bit.ly/mJjEI7 San Francisco Chronicle: https://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2011/05/11/EDVQ1JEAG6.DTL San Jose Mercury News: https://www.mercurynews.com/bay-area-news/ci_17916025?nclick_check=1 Los Angeles Daily News: https://www.dailynews.com/news/ci_18164081 More Information: https://www.gutierrez.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=639&Itemid=71 # # #
06.03.2011	June 3, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) -- Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Ranking Democratic Member on the Subcommittee on Insurance, Housing, and Community Opportunity, participated in an oversight hearing of the House Financial Services Committee on the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's HOME Program. The following is Rep. Gutierrez' opening statement. Good morning. I would like to thank our witnesses for being here today to discuss HUD's HOME Investment Partnerships Program, the largest federal block grant program in our country that is exclusively for affordable housing serving low-income families. And, I might add, an excellent program. The HOME program was not established last year or even five years ago. The HOME program was authorized in 1990, under the George H.W. Bush Administration, when our economy was certainly better than it is today. HOME also has a long history of impressive accomplishments. In the 20 years of its existence, the HOME program has completed over one million units and has been widely successful-- which by the way is contrary to what was erroneously reported in the recent Washington Post article. What's more important, I think it's really important to point out that all HOME funds are required to benefit low-income families. In that sense, it is the only program of its kind. In the wake of our nation's economic crisis when many families and countless communities are still trying to recover economically, the need for HOME funds is now more critical than ever before. Families and individuals benefitting from HOME funds are not living lofty lives. These are working families; moms and dads earning a minimum wage, if they're even lucky enough to have a job. Let me paint you a picture: 80% of the people living in HOME-funded housing have incomes below 50% of the Area Medium Income (AMI). Below 50%! The 50% AMI for a family of four in Chicago is -- $37,550. These are our janitors, earning a salary of $26,000 annually, or administrative workers, making an average of $35,000 while sustaining their families, trying to provide food on the table and a roof over their heads. This salary is even less after taxes. Do you know that after taxes, this salary is equivalent to approximately $29,000 for a family of four? I challenge anyone here to be able to even support themselves in D.C, or Chicago, let alone a family of four on that paycheck. In my district--the 4th Congressional District of Illinois-- over 16,000 total units have been assisted and completed with HOME funds. I encourage my colleagues to see a snapshot of the HOME units in their districts to see how HOME benefits their constituents. These are thousands of families, the elderly, our veterans, persons with disabilities, and people who used to be homeless who have a place to call home thanks to this vital program. There is a multi-family development called the Harold Washington Unity Cooperative in the Humboldt Park neighborhood in Chicago, located in my district. It was completed in 2005 by the Bickerdike Redevelopment Corporation, a non-profit which has built or rehabilitated more than 1,000 low-income housing since 1967. The Harold Washington Unity Cooperative consists of 18 buildings and a total of 87 units. This development would not have been possible without the commitment of HOME funds. The total cost was $17.5 million and the Chicago Department of Housing committed a 40-year $6.3 million HOME loan. The HOME program closed the financing gap to make sure this development was properly funded and successful. The beauty of a development such as this one is that after 15 years of functioning as rental apartments, each resident will be able to have an opportunity to own a share of the cooperative. Truly, a place that they can call HOME. The investment of HOME funds is critical because it increases the affordability for families at the very lowest income levels. The HOME program helps to revitalize our communities and steer jobs into our neighborhoods. Without a doubt, this is the most important source of federal funds for our state and local governments to provide affordable housing and address the need for more quality housing in our communities. And with that, I look forward to hearing both of your testimonies on this very essential program. Thank you Mr. Chairman. # # #
05.26.2011	May 26, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – The U.S. Congress' Defense Authorization bill, voted on today, contains new layers of bureaucracy preventing the "Don't Ask Don't Tell" policy from being finally and permanently repealed. According to Congressional Quarterly's bill summary, the measure prohibits the Pentagon from implementing a repeal of the "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy that bars gays from serving openly in the military until the chiefs of the Army, Air Force, Navy and Marines certify that the change would not be harmful to the military and "will not degrade the readiness, effectiveness, cohesion and morale of combat arms units." The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4), who voted against the bill. Stick a fork in it already. We voted to repeal Don't Ask, Don't Tell last year and now the Republicans are pushing their out-of-date social agenda back into the defense bill where it doesn't belong. The American people are way ahead of the House Republicans on this and don't appreciate Republicans legislating which of our sons and daughters in the military will be treated with the respect they deserve and which will not. It's over. Get the memo Republicans. No more excuses, no more delays on repealing this turkey of a policy. # # #
05.26.2011	As White House Renews Immigration Reform Legislative Push, Renewed Effort to Hold President Accountable for Deportations WHAT: A Town Hall Immigration Discussion · Testimony by local DREAM Act students, individuals and families facing deportation; · Reaction and remarks by Mayor of Los Angeles Antonio Villaraigosa, Rep. Howard Berman (D-CA) and Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL). · With Angelica Salas, Executive Director, Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles (CHIRLA); Robert Gittelson, Author and Co-Founder of Conservatives for Comprehensive Immigration Reform; Juan Jose Gutierrez, Immigrant Rights Advocate; Rev. Jim Tolle, Los Angeles Pastor, La Iglesia en el Camino; Rev. Marcos Witt, Texas Pastor, Lakeland Church WHEN: Saturday, May 28, 2011 @ 11:30 a.m. PT WHERE: The Church on the Way – La Iglesia en el Camino 14800 Sherman Way, Van Nuys , CA 91405 LOCAL MEDIA CONTACTS: Robert Gittelson (818) 481-0671; Juan Jose Gutierrez (213) 276-4735 Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) of Chicago continues his national tour to spotlight the toll that almost 400,000 deportations annually are taking on American children and families with an event this Saturday at the Church on the Way/La Iglesia en el Camino (14800 Sherman Way, Van Nuys, CA 91405) at 11:30 a.m. PT. Local families and individuals facing deportation and DREAM Act students who would have been eligible for legalization had the bill passed the Senate in 2010 will tell their personal stories. The author of the DREAM Act, Rep. Howard Berman of Los Angeles, and Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa will join Rep. Gutierrez and several evangelical leaders, immigrant advocates, and others to hear the testimony and react. Democrats in Congress who support President Obama and immigration reform, have been outspoken in their call for the President to use the administrative powers available to him under current law to provide relief to certain immigrants facing deportation and to prevent the destruction of their families, including families with U.S. citizens, DREAM-eligible youth, and the families of those serving in the U.S. military. In April, two-dozen U.S. Senators asked the President to halt deportations of students eligible for the DREAM Act until a bill is passed. A team of legal experts, including two former INS General Counsels, outlined for the President his powers to provide relief to immigrants facing deportation under current law. And the Congressional Hispanic Caucus has been outspoken in opposing the most draconian of the Obama deportation measures. With a new, high profile push by the White House and the Obama Cabinet for immigration legislation (including an event at East Los Angeles College on May 27), communities are weighing in on what the President can do now, while more than a thousand people are deported each day waiting for a legislative solution. Congressman Gutierrez' "Campaign for American Children and Families" tour, which has held packed events in 18 cities since it was launched on March 31, has been extended to include at least 10 more cities throughout May and into June and July. # # #
05.26.2011	As White House Renews Immigration Reform Legislative Push, Renewed Effort to Hold President Accountable for Deportations WHAT: A Community Discussion · Testimony by local DREAM Act students, and individuals and families facing deportation; · Reaction and remarks by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL); · Sponsored locally by the Progressive Leadership Alliance of Nevada (PLAN), Alliance for a Just Society, and the Fair Immigration Reform Movement (FIRM) · Media availability immediate following WHEN: Friday, May 27, 2011 @ 6:00 p.m. PT WHERE: Bernice Matthews Elementary School 2750 Elementary Drive, Reno, NV 89512 LOCAL MEDIA CONTACT: Mario Delarosa (775) 378- 7025 Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) of Chicago continues his national tour to spotlight the toll that almost 400,000 deportations annually are taking on American children and families with an event this Friday, May 27 at 6:00 p.m. at Bernice Matthews Elementary School (2750 Elementary Drive, Reno, NV 89512) at 6:00 p.m. A media availability with Rep. Gutierrez will follow immediately afterwards at the same location. Local families and individuals facing deportation and DREAM Act students who would have been eligible for legalization had the bill passed the Senate in 2010 will tell their personal stories. Rep. Gutierrez, who campaigned vigorously for Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's reelection in 2010, will listen to and respond to the testimony presented along with other community leaders and advocates. Democrats in Congress who support President Obama and immigration reform, have been outspoken in their call for the President to use the administrative powers available to him under current law to provide relief to certain immigrants facing deportation and to prevent the destruction of their families, including families with U.S. citizens, DREAM-eligible youth, and the families of those serving in the U.S. military. In April, two-dozen U.S. Senators, lead by Majority Leader Reid, asked the President to halt deportations of students eligible for the DREAM Act until a bill is passed. A team of legal experts, including two former INS General Counsels, outlined for the the President his powers to provide relief to immigrants facing deportation under current law. And the Congressional Hispanic Caucus has been outspoken in opposing the most draconian of the Obama deportation measures. With a new, high profile push by the White House and the Obama Cabinet for immigration legislation (including an event in California, also on May 27), communities are weighing in on what the President can do now, while more than a thousand people are deported each day waiting for a legislative solution. Congressman Gutierrez' "Campaign for American Children and Families" tour, which has held packed events in 18 cities since it was launched on March 31, has been extended to include at least 10 more cities throughout May and into June and July. Upon leaving Reno, Congressman Gutierrez is speaking at the Church on the Way/Iglesia en el Camino, the evangelical mega-church in Van Nuys (Los Angeles) California with Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, Rep. Howard Berman (D-CA), and other leaders on Saturday May 28 at 11:30 a.m. # # #
05.19.2011	As White House Renews Immigration Reform Push, Congressman Spotlights Toll of Deportations on Families May 19, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WHAT: Public meeting with Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez Testimony by local DREAM Act students, individuals and families facing deportation, and local organizations, clergy and dignitaries WHEN: Sunday, May 22, 2011; Event: 3:30 p.m.; Doors Open: 2:20 p.m. WHERE: Iglesia Mision Paz a Las Naciones, 4005 N.W. 79th Avenue, Doral, Florida 33166 LOCAL CONTACTS: Francisco Portillo (305) 962-4089; Rosa Kasse, (786) 525-8795, Helene Villalonga, (754) 423-1796 MEDIA AVAILABILITY: Immediately following the event with Congressman Gutierrez (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) of Chicago continues his national 20-plus city tour to spotlight the toll that almost 400,000 deportations annually are taking on American children and families with an event this Sunday at Iglesia Mision Paz a Las Naciones (4005 N.W. 79th Avenue, Doral, Florida 33166) at 3:30 p.m. (doors open 2:30 p.m.). Local families and individuals facing deportation and DREAM Act students who would have been eligible for legalization had the bill passed the Senate in 2010 will tell their personal stories. The immigration situation is creating tragedy for individual families, but it is also a potential political crisis for the President. In recent weeks, the Obama Administration has stepped up its attention to immigration reform by calling on Congress to pass legislation. Meanwhile, Members of Congress who support the President and immigration reform, are telling the President that the chances of passing legislation, with Republicans in charge of the House, are next to zero. So the attention is back on the White House to see what, if anything, President Obama will do to adjust how current policies are carried out. Two-dozen U.S. Senators recently asked the President to halt deportations of students eligible for the DREAM Act until a bill is passed. Two former INS General Counsels wrote the President outlining his powers to provide relief to immigrants facing deportation under current law. And the Congressional Hispanic Caucus has been outspoken in opposing the most draconian of the Obama deportation measures. Congressman Gutierrez' Campaign for American Children and Families tour, which has held packed events in 17 cities since it was launched on March 31, continues throughout May and into June and July. # # # Coverage of the Campaign for American Children and Families Tour SELECTED TV CLIPS Democracy Now (May 12): "Rep. Luis Gutierrez: Obama Has Discretionary Authority to Advance DREAM Act, Humane Immigration Reform" https://bit.ly/mPPaUu MSNBC (May 10), Rep. Gutierrez discusses President's immigration speech with Cenk Uygur https://youtu.be/7OnfZQ3YEWc MSNBC Andrea Mitchell Reports (May 11), https://youtu.be/kS8BmMFzdRw Fox Business Network, Lou Dobbs Tonight (May 4): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2-G4GnYCe4w Univision (Network) Despierta America (May 4): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YaD760DGkxg KSTS-TV San Francisco Bay Area (Telemundo) (Apr 28): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LArh9XEhGzI KGO-TV San Francisco (ABC) (Apr 27): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FmykbjQWFS0 KNTV-TV San Francisco Bay Area (NBC) (Apr 27): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n8RALJpj5aQ Univision (Network) Despierta America (morning show) (Apr 27): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N7uv2OH7ygo KSTS-TV San Francisco Bay Area (Telemundo) (Apr 27): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D89zi-vGUs4 WBTV-TV Charlotte (CBS) (Apr 20): "Immigration Issue to Spark Debate in Charlotte Tonight" https://bit.ly/hAJaby Fox News Channel (Network) (Apr 19): "Gutierrez: The President Needs to Demonstrate Action on Immigration" https://bit.ly/fp8iXt MSNBC/Andrea Mitchell Reports (Network) (April 19): "Rep. Gutierrez on 20-City Tour To Pressure WH on Immigration" https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kLmDTA36QjM SELECTED PRESS CLIPS The Hill: Juan Williams Column: "Gutierrez has a better immigration solution than Obama" (May 16) https://bit.ly/mJjEI7 South Bend, Indiana (May8): South Bend Tribune, "Immigration Reform Urged" (May 9) https://bit.ly/k7S1wf Los Angeles, California (Apr 30): Ruben Navarrette, Jr., Syndicated Column, "Obama Lacks Nerve on Immigration Issue" https://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2011/05/11/EDVQ1JEAG6.DTL Oxnard, California (Apr 29): Ventura County Star (Apr 29), "Town hall gathering held in Oxnard to protest deportations, "https://www.vcstar.com/news/2011/apr/29/town-hall-gathering-held-in-oxnard-to-protest/ Oakland, California (Apr 28): San Jose Mercury News/Oakland Tribune/Contra Costa Times, "Latino congressman says Obama administration has failed on immigration" (Apr 29) https://www.mercurynews.com/ci_17955029?nclick_check=1 San Francisco, California (Apr 27): Bay City Newswire, "Officials Call On Obama To Fix 'dysfunctional and unfair immigration system' From Steps Of SF City Hall" (Apr 27) https://bit.ly/mFDsH9 San Jose, California (Apr 26): San Jose Mercury News, "Pushing Obama to keep promises" (Apr 23)https://www.mercurynews.com/bay-area-news/ci_17916025 Redwood City, California (Apr 26): El Mensajero, " Gutiérrez le pide acción a Obama" (Apr 28) https://bit.ly/kjm4n7 Phoenix, Arizona (Apr 23): Phoenix New Times - "Luis Gutierrez, Others Blast Barack Obama at April 23 Anti-SB 1070 March" (Apr 25): https://blogs.phoenixnewtimes.com/bastard/2011/04/luis_gutierrez_for_president_a.php Charlotte, North Carolina (Apr 20): Charlotte Observer - "'Moses of the Latinos' calls out for change" (Apr 21): https://bit.ly/ituPx6 Detroit, Michigan (Apr 18): Detroit News (Apr 19) - "Crowd Calls For Reforms at ICE: https://www.detnews.com/article/20110419/METRO/104190365/1409/metro/Crowd-calls-for-reforms-at-ICE Milwaukee, Wisconsin (Apr 17): Wisconsin Public Radio - "Congressman calls on White House to ease up on deportations" (Apr 22): https://ashlandcurrent.com/article/11/04/22/state-headlines-wisconsin-public-radio-april-22 Chicago, Illinois (Apr 16): Associated Press (Apr 16) - "Gutierrez: Support for Obama depends on reform" https://www.chicagotribune.com/news/local/sns-ap-il--immigration-gutierrez,0,1296327.story Houston/Austin/Dallas (Apr 9-10): Al Día (Dallas/Ft. Worth) - "Piden poner fin a deportaciones" (Apr 13): https://bit.ly/fnPPIo Boston, Massachusetts (Apr 4): Boston Globe - "Call for change stirs East Boston immigrants" (Apr 4): https://bo.st/iiSdUX Providence, Rhode Island (Apr 3): Providence Journal - "Ill. congressman visits Providence to talk about immigration policy" (Apr 3): https://bit.ly/f4Gv7A National Tour Launch (Mar 31): Associated Press - "Families urge Obama to end deportations" (Apr 1): https://fxn.ws/dWouuU Previous Press Releases: https://www.gutierrez.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=639&Itemid=71 For more information, contact Douglas Rivlin at (202) 225-8203. # # #
05.17.2011	May 17, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) called on the Secretary of the Army John McHugh to look into the permitting process for a natural gas pipeline construction project across sensitive eco-systems in Puerto Rico. In an effort to bring transparency and public participation into this process, the Congressman is elevating his concerns surrounding the massive project to the highest levels of government. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) is the agency that will issue the permit for the project if it is approved. The Congressman renewed his demand for a Federal Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and for public hearings. He also announced he is adding thousands of new documents related to the project to those already available on his web site, the latest of which come from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and were obtained through the Freedom of Information Act. As the Associated Press reported recently, the 92-mile gas pipeline project, also known in Spanish as the 'Gasoducto,' raises serious environmental and safety concerns. Close ties between the Puerto Rican Governor and construction interests who will profit from the project, raise serious ethical concerns for the Congressman as well. The unusual steps being taken by USACE in the permitting process and the appearance of certain conflicts of interest are specific issues the Congressman called to the Secretary's attention. The letter was a follow-up to an April 6, 2011 letter to the Secretary and is part of a series of inquiries launched by the Congressman into the controversial construction project. The May 16, 2011 letter reads, in part: Since I last wrote you, events involving the USACE Jacksonville District, key current and former personnel, and hired consultants for those hoping to construct the pipeline have come to light in the press that demand your immediate and personal attention. In an unusual move, all of the decision-making related to the permit process, was removed by the USACE from the Caribbean office in Puerto Rico to the Jacksonville District office in Florida. "This is an unwelcome development because it gives the people of Puerto Rico even less direct ability to have input on the permit process of the project," the Congressman wrote. Ties between the USACE's Jacksonville District office and one of the main contractors on the project, BCPeabody, of Tampa, Florida, raises concerns about a potential conflict of interest or 'revolving door' between private sector companies and the regulators who oversee them. In light of the Gulf of Mexico BP oil disaster, and calls by President Obama to look into the "cozy relationship" between regulators and those they regulate, the Congressman writes, Mr. Secretary, we need to make sure that if an accident or explosion occurs involving the proposed pipeline in Puerto Rico, it will be shown that USACE used all of the powers at its disposal to guarantee the public's and the environment's safety. The Congressman asks the Secretary to provide records of all communications between permit evaluators at USACE and the companies, contractors, and subcontractors on the project. These include phone logs, e-mail traffic, and records of in-person meetings. Finally, the Congressman wants the Secretary to look into the conduct of the head of the USACE's Jacksonville office, who told reporters in Puerto Rico that the project would have "minimal" environmental impact and that a decision on the permits would be rendered shortly. These statements seem to contradict claims by the USACE and other federal agencies that additional information is still needed and come without an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), which is the norm for projects of this size and potential risk. The Congressman renewed his call for an EIS before the permit is granted, writing in his letter, "To say that the environmental impact will be minimal before first having conducted a comprehensive, thorough and complete federal Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is irresponsible." The Congressman, through his inquiries with federal agencies, has received thousands of pages of documents, which he is making available through his website. The latest documents loaded on the site this week -- an additional 1,000 pages -- come from a Freedom of Information Act inquiry by the Congressman with the EPA. The Congressman's letter to the Secretary concludes, The safety of four million U.S. citizens who reside in Puerto Rico is at stake. I call on you to ensure all laws, rules and regulations are followed -- in addition to common sense -- and to ensure public safety and the integrity of their environment. # # #
05.10.2011	May 10, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4), Chair of the Immigration Taskforce of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The President's diagnosis of the policy and the political problem is perfect, but his proposed remedy -- waiting for the Congress to pass a bill -- misses the urgency of the problem. As I go around the country, I hear the stories of U.S. citizens, veterans, DREAM Act students, and all types of immigrants and they tell me stories of their families being ripped apart by deportation, the barriers they face for visas and legal status, and their fear that they will lose their children or loved ones. They need relief now. The President should say that we will not deport the wives of U.S. soldiers or the class valedictorians or the parents of U.S. citizens until Congress acts to pass broad and sensible reform. If that sparks a fight with Republicans in Congress, let's have that fight. It is about principle and standing up for what you believe in and what is already in the law. We will not get a bill past the Republicans, who control the House of Representatives, before Election Day 2012 and yet hundreds of thousands of immigrants will be deported and many more thousands of U.S. citizens will see their families destroyed. The President's speech was stirring and showed how persuasive he can be when he puts his mind to it. We have indeed invested a fortune in border security, deportations, detentions, and enforcement and whatever amount we invest will not be enough for some of the President's critics. We deport about 400,000 people a year -- more than under President Bush -- and it is not helping anyone. We have stationed troops on the border and Democrats put mandatory employment verification on the table as part of reform and still Republicans will not come forward to discuss how we move forward. The President is right that we cannot truly secure the border until we have a functioning legal immigration system that people go through rather than go around. And any policy based on removing or driving out the 11-12 million immigrants in the U.S. illegally is a fantasy. He has the power to make things better right now without the Congress having to pass any new laws and I will continue to encourage him to do so. # # #
05.06.2011	"Mi esposa Soraida y yo estamos muy apenados con la noticia del fallecimiento repentino de nuestro buen amigo, Ramón Luis Lugo. Nuestras familias compartimos mucho, y siempre nos mantuvimos en contacto. Ramón era un buen amigo con un espíritu fuerte, de mucha verticalidad y de gran valor. Pero nosotros lo recordamos mejor por su gran sentido de amistad y lealtad, su buen humor y su humanidad. Creo que si bien Puerto Rico ha perdido una persona de gran habilidad política, la familia Gutiérrez ha perdido un gran amigo a quien extrañaremos con mucho pesar. Les deseamos a Marie Olga y a sus hijos que Dios les de mucha fuerza espiritual y los ayude en sus retos futuros, y de todo corazón, les acompañamos en su pena, que también es nuestra." # # #
05.06.2011	As White House Renews Immigration Reform Push, Congressman Spotlights Toll of Deportations on Families In recent weeks, pressure on the Obama Administration to act on immigration has increased. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus, of which Rep. Gutierrez is the Immigration Taskforce Chair, met with the President Tuesday (5/3) to suggest specific administrative actions he can take to prevent the deportation of certain immigrants who have deep roots in the United States. Two-dozen U.S. Senators asked the President to halt the deportation of students eligible for the DREAM Act, the State of Illinois this week pulled out of a controversial federal deportation program, and the President is slated to deliver a major address on immigration in El Paso, Texas next Tuesday (5/10). Congressman Gutierrez' Campaign for American Children and Families tour, which has held packed events in 17 cities since it was launched on March 31, continues throughout May and into June. WHAT: Public meeting with Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez Testimony by local DREAM Act students and individuals and families facing deportation Q+A WHEN: Sunday, May 8, 2011; 6:00 p.m. WHERE: St. Adalbert Catholic Church | 519 South Olive | South Bend, Indiana HOST: Civil Rights and Immigrants Taskforce, Transforming Action Through Power (TAP) MEDIA AVAILABILITY: Immediately following the event with Congressman Gutierrez # # # SELECTED TV CLIPS Fox Business Network, Lou Dobbs Tonight (May 4): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2-G4GnYCe4w Univision (Network) Despierta America (May 4): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YaD760DGkxg KSTS-TV San Francisco Bay Area (Telemundo) (Apr 28): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LArh9XEhGzI KGO-TV San Francisco (ABC) (Apr 27): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FmykbjQWFS0 KNTV-TV San Francisco Bay Area (NBC) (Apr 27): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n8RALJpj5aQ Univision (Network) Despierta America (morning show) (Apr 27): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N7uv2OH7ygo KSTS-TV San Francisco Bay Area (Telemundo) (Apr 27): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D89zi-vGUs4 WBTV-TV Charlotte (CBS) (Apr 20): "Immigration Issue to Spark Debate in Charlotte Tonight" https://bit.ly/hAJaby Fox News Channel (Network) (Apr 19): "Gutierrez: The President Needs to Demonstrate Action on Immigration" https://bit.ly/fp8iXt MSNBC/Andrea Mitchell Reports (Network) (April 19): "Rep. Gutierrez on 20-City Tour To Pressure WH on Immigration" https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kLmDTA36QjM SELECTED PRESS CLIPS Oakland (Apr 28): San Jose Mercury News/Oakland Tribune/Contra Costa Times (Apr 29) - "Latino congressman says Obama administration has failed on immigration" https://www.mercurynews.com/ci_17955029?nclick_check=1 San Francisco (Apr 27): Bay City Newswire (Apr 27) - "Officials Call On Obama To Fix 'dysfunctional and unfair immigration system' From Steps Of SF City Hall" https://bit.ly/mFDsH9 San Jose (Apr 26): San Jose Mercury News (Apr 23) - "Pushing Obama to keep promises" https://www.mercurynews.com/bay-area-news/ci_17916025 Redwood City (Apr 26): El Mensajero (Apr 28) " Gutiérrez le pide acción a Obama" https://bit.ly/kjm4n7 Phoenix, Arizona (Apr 23): Phoenix New Times - "Luis Gutierrez, Others Blast Barack Obama at April 23 Anti-SB 1070 March" (Apr 25): https://blogs.phoenixnewtimes.com/bastard/2011/04/luis_gutierrez_for_president_a.php Charlotte, North Carolina (Apr 20): Charlotte Observer - "'Moses of the Latinos' calls out for change" (Apr 21): https://bit.ly/ituPx6 Detroit, Michigan (Apr 18): Detroit News (Apr 19) - "Crowd Calls For Reforms at ICE: https://www.detnews.com/article/20110419/METRO/104190365/1409/metro/Crowd-calls-for-reforms-at-ICE Milwaukee, Wisconsin (Apr 17): Wisconsin Public Radio - "Congressman calls on White House to ease up on deportations" (Apr 22): https://ashlandcurrent.com/article/11/04/22/state-headlines-wisconsin-public-radio-april-22 Chicago, Illinois (Apr 16): Associated Press (Apr 16) - "Gutierrez: Support for Obama depends on reform" https://www.chicagotribune.com/news/local/sns-ap-il--immigration-gutierrez,0,1296327.story Houston/Austin/Dallas (Apr 9-10): Al Día (Dallas/Ft. Worth) - "Piden poner fin a deportaciones" (Apr 13): https://bit.ly/fnPPIo Boston, Massachusetts (Apr 4): Boston Globe - "Call for change stirs East Boston immigrants" (Apr 4): https://bo.st/iiSdUX Providence, Rhode Island (Apr 3): Providence Journal - "Ill. congressman visits Providence to talk about immigration policy" (Apr 3): https://bit.ly/f4Gv7A National Tour Launch (Mar 31): Associated Press - "Families urge Obama to end deportations" (Apr 1): https://fxn.ws/dWouuU Previous Press Releases: https://www.gutierrez.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=639&Itemid=71 For more information, contact Douglas Rivlin douglas.rivlin@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-8203 # # #
05.05.2011	State Moves to Terminate Federal Agreement That Is Undermining Public Safety Congressman Gutierrez writes in the letter that the Congressional Hispanic Caucus directed him to express to the Governor and State Police Director "our strong support of the vital step you took to protect our communities from this flawed program." Last month, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus approved a letter to President Obama (which was delivered this week) that expressed the Caucus' desire that the President "halt the aggressive expansion of the program to allow for a robust review and evaluation of Secure Communities." An excerpt of the Caucus' letter is included in Rep. Gutierrez' letter to the Governor and Director of State Police. At a meeting at the White House on Tuesday, Caucus members expressed their concerns about the program directly to the President, while discussing other aspects of immigration and steps the President should take to prevent the deportation of noncriminal immigrants. Rep. Gutierrez is the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Taskforce on Immigration. Gutierrez Letter to Governor Quinn # # #
05.03.2011	Congressman and Caucus Reiterate Call for Administrative Action May 3, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) and other Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) met with President Obama at the White House today to reiterate their call for the President to use the administrative powers he has under existing law to provide relief to certain groups of immigrants facing deportation. In particular, the CHC asked the President to prevent the deportation of immigrants who would be eligible for the DREAM Act and for their families, the family members of U.S. citizens, and other immigrants whose deportation is not in the national interest. "It was a productive meeting and there is no longer a debate over whether the President has broad discretionary powers when it comes to deportations," the Congressman said after the meeting. "The question is how broad and how generous the President chooses to be. The meeting was not about granting legal status to the 12 million or so undocumented immigrants, but rather how to prioritize deporting drug dealers and gangsters, but not to deport DREAM Act students and the families of U.S. citizens." The Congressman pointed to a legal memo (https://bit.ly/kCVcxg) written last week by two former General Counsels to the federal immigration service and other legal experts that indicates the President has wide discretion under current law to provide relief from deportation -- at least temporarily -- for some immigrants and to remove barriers that prevent others from getting legal status in this country. The Congressman prepared a similar memo for the President in February and Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus signed a letter to the President earlier this year requesting that he exercise these administrative powers. "The Caucus was clear and emphatic about the need for administrative relief and the extent of the damage the deportations are causing to American families," the Congressman said. "If you had been with me hearing the stories of U.S. citizens whose families are being ripped apart by deportations, you would agree that waiting, hoping, and fighting for legislation is not enough right now when the President can do something about it under current law," Rep. Gutierrez said referring to a national tour the Congressman launched in March to hear the stories of American children and families facing the deportation of family members. "This Sunday, I will be in South Bend, Indiana talking to more families and continuing to put a spotlight on the deportations until there is a definitive indication that relief is on the way." The Congressman launched a nationwide tour of 20 or more cities in late March and the tour has stopped in fifteen cities so far (see https://bit.ly/lREMpg for the latest update). At each event, there is a public meeting where U.S. citizens and non-citizens testify in their own words about how deportations are affecting their families. Almost 400,000 people were deported last year by the U.S. government and fewer than half had criminal records. This rate of approximately 1,100 people per day is higher now than under the Bush Administration. The meeting with the President, requested earlier this year by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus as a follow-up to one held last December, was attended by almost the entire Congressional Hispanic Caucus, which consists of 20 Democratic Members in the House and one in the U.S. Senate. Rep. Gutierrez is the Chair of the Immigration Taskforce of the CHC. # # #
05.02.2011	Congressman plans to congratulate President at Tuesday Meeting May 2, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) issued the following statement in response to the news that the hunt for Osama bin Laden had culminated in a special forces raid in Pakistan that took his life. Congressman Gutierrez is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. The Congressman is in Puerto Rico where he delivered a speech on Sunday and is returning to Washington today. He plans to participate in a scheduled meeting at the White House on Tuesday with President Obama and Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus about immigration and deportations. I commend our men and women in the intelligence community for the successful completion of this focused and meticulously planned attack. Americans are proud to be defended by the outstanding men and women of our armed services who, once again, risked their lives in the effort to bring peace and justice to our world. As we continue to fight the war on terror, we cannot forget the sacrifices of our servicemen and women just as we cannot forget the innocent lives lost on September 11th. I plan to congratulate the President in person tomorrow when the Congressional Hispanic Caucus meets with him a at previously scheduled meeting at the White House to discuss deportations and administrative actions on immigration. # # #
04.29.2011	Series of White House Meetings Taking Place While Rep. Gutierrez Continues Tour April 29, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez' national tour to spotlight deportations and the toll they take on American children and families continued this week to seven cities in California garnering extensive media coverage across the state. Each event features the stories of American citizens, legal permanent residents, and immigrants who face deportation themselves or whose loved ones do. The tour is designed to gather signatures on a petition to President Obama asking that he use powers already available to him under existing law to spare certain immigrants -- those with deep equities in the United States and without a criminal history -- from deportation. The U.S. is deporting people at a record rate and most of them have never been convicted of a crime. "You have to hear the stories from the families to appreciate the fear and dispair being felt in communities," Rep. Gutierrez said. "The families and children they leave behind, the broken homes, and unfulfilled dreams are a national tragedy. It indicates to me that the President must address immigration sooner rather than later with the powers he already has under existing law." President Obama has held a series of meetings on immigration at the White House; focusing on the need for legislation to fix broad issues related to enforcement, legal immigration, workers' rights, and the disposition of 11-12 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S. Most of these undocumented immigrants have lived in the U.S. for more than 10 years and 4 million U.S. citizen children have a parent who is in the U.S. illegally and subject to deportation. "The President is right that we need legislation to change the laws so that they make sense in the 21st century and so that we have a legal immigration system people will use and that works for the American people," Rep. Gutierrez said. "Immigration policies are stuck in a rut based on the fantasy that 11-12 million undocumented immigrants and their families will be forced out, leave on their own, or magically disappear. It is hard to imagine GOP leaders would let anything other than deportation-only bills through the U.S. Congress in the next two years, so the focus naturally shifts where change is possible and that includes Department of Homeland Security policies and procedures under existing law." The Congressman has frequently pointed to a leaked Administration memo (the "Mayorkas memo") that lays out several options the President has under existing law to prevent or deprioritize the deportations of certain individuals and remove barriers that prevent some individuals from getting legal and into the system. "It is not just me who feels the President can act in a positive and fully legal manner to provide relief to immigrants in the U.S.," Rep. Gutierrez said. "I have been joined by Members of Congress at tour stops and there are an increasing number of lawmakers and their constituents calling on the President to use the administrative powers available to him." This week, as part of a seven city California swing, events were held in Redwood City (Apr 26) attended by Rep. Anna Eshoo and other local officials; San Jose (Apr 26) attended by Rep. Mike Honda and other local officials; San Francisco (Apr 27) with City officials; St. Helena/Napa County (Apr 28) and Oakland (Apr 28). It continues today (Apr 29) in Oxnard/Ventura County (5:30 p.m. town hall at Mary Star of the Sea, 463 W. Pleasant Valley Rd., Oxnard) and Saturday (Apr 30) in Los Angeles (11:00 a.m. town hall at St. Agatha’s Church, 2646 S Mansfield Ave., Los Angeles). [The Congressman speaks at a rally in Adjuntas, Puerto Rico on May 1 at approximately 12:30 p.m. local time regarding the environmental impact of constructing a major natural gas pipeline on the Island.] During the Congressman's tour, the main event in each city is a public meeting where U.S. citizens, DREAM Act students, and others testify about the impact roughly 400,000 deportations a year are having on their lives. Each event also includes petitions to President Obama asking him to use powers he has under existing law to provide relief to the families of U.S. citizens, DREAM Act students and their families, and other immigrants with deep roots in their communities. UPCOMING TOUR EVENTS (partial list) South Bend, Indiana (May 8); Maui, Hawaii (May 15); Miami, Florida (May 22); Orlando, Florida (May 23); Reno, Nevada (May 27); and Van Nuys, California (May 28). SELECTED TV CLIPS KSTS-TV San Francisco Bay Area (Telemundo) (Apr 28): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LArh9XEhGzI KGO-TV San Francisco (ABC) (Apr 27): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FmykbjQWFS0 KNTV-TV San Francisco Bay Area (NBC) (Apr 27): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n8RALJpj5aQ Univision (Network) Despierta America (morning show) (Apr 27): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N7uv2OH7ygo KSTS-TV San Francisco Bay Area (Telemundo) (Apr 27): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D89zi-vGUs4 WBTV-TV Charlotte (CBS) (Apr 20): "Immigration Issue to Spark Debate in Charlotte Tonight" https://bit.ly/hAJaby Fox News Channel (Network) (Apr 19): "Gutierrez: The President Needs to Demonstrate Action on Immigration" https://bit.ly/fp8iXt MSNBC/Andrea Mitchell Reports (Network) (April 19): "Rep. Gutierrez on 20-City Tour To Pressure WH on Immigration" https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kLmDTA36QjM SELECTED PRESS CLIPS Oakland (Apr 28): San Jose Mercury News/Oakland Tribune/Contra Costa Times (Apr 29) - "Latino congressman says Obama administration has failed on immigration" https://www.mercurynews.com/ci_17955029?nclick_check=1 San Francisco (Apr 27): Bay City Newswire (Apr 27) - "Officials Call On Obama To Fix 'dysfunctional and unfair immigration system' From Steps Of SF City Hall" https://bit.ly/mFDsH9 San Jose (Apr 26): San Jose Mercury News (Apr 23) - "Pushing Obama to keep promises" https://www.mercurynews.com/bay-area-news/ci_17916025 Redwood City (Apr 26): El Mensajero (Apr 28) " Gutiérrez le pide acción a Obama" https://bit.ly/kjm4n7 Phoenix, Arizona (Apr 23): Phoenix New Times - "Luis Gutierrez, Others Blast Barack Obama at April 23 Anti-SB 1070 March" (Apr 25): https://blogs.phoenixnewtimes.com/bastard/2011/04/luis_gutierrez_for_president_a.php Charlotte, North Carolina (Apr 20): Charlotte Observer - "'Moses of the Latinos' calls out for change" (Apr 21): https://bit.ly/ituPx6 Detroit, Michigan (Apr 18): Detroit News (Apr 19) - "Crowd Calls For Reforms at ICE: https://www.detnews.com/article/20110419/METRO/104190365/1409/metro/Crowd-calls-for-reforms-at-ICE Milwaukee, Wisconsin (Apr 17): Wisconsin Public Radio - "Congressman calls on White House to ease up on deportations" (Apr 22): https://ashlandcurrent.com/article/11/04/22/state-headlines-wisconsin-public-radio-april-22 Chicago, Illinois (Apr 16): Associated Press (Apr 16) - "Gutierrez: Support for Obama depends on reform" https://www.chicagotribune.com/news/local/sns-ap-il--immigration-gutierrez,0,1296327.story Houston/Austin/Dallas (Apr 9-10): Al Día (Dallas/Ft. Worth) - "Piden poner fin a deportaciones" (Apr 13): https://bit.ly/fnPPIo Boston, Massachusetts (Apr 4): Boston Globe - "Call for change stirs East Boston immigrants" (Apr 4): https://bo.st/iiSdUX Providence, Rhode Island (Apr 3): Providence Journal - "Ill. congressman visits Providence to talk about immigration policy" (Apr 3): https://bit.ly/f4Gv7A National Tour Launch (Mar 31): Associated Press - "Families urge Obama to end deportations" (Apr 1): https://fxn.ws/dWouuU Previous Press Releases: https://www.gutierrez.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=639&Itemid=71 For more information on the remaining California events Apr 29-30, contact Jorge-Mario Cabrera at the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles (CHIRLA). # # #
04.26.2011	In advance of May 1 demonstration in Puerto Rico, Gutierrez writes EPA Administrator (for 2nd time) and releases documents obtained on the project April 26, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) announced the release of hundreds of pages of documents he obtained from federal agencies concerning the so-called "Via Verde" -- or "Green Way" -- a 92 mile cross island natural gas pipeline project in Puerto Rico. The Congressman said he was making good on a promise to the Puerto Rican people he made during a speech to the House of Representatives earlier this month. Rep. Gutierrez will participate in a march and rally against construction of the pipeline this Sunday, May 1 in Adjuntas, Puerto Rico. "I am trying to shine a light where there has been too much secrecy," Rep. Gutierrez said. "The way the ruling party in Puerto Rico conducts its business is to consistently duck public scrutiny. But this project is too big, the cost too great and the danger too high for secrecy to prevail, so I am making the information I obtain as public as possible so people can decide for themselves." The Congressman also reacted to a letter, made public on Monday, from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' Chief of Regulatory Affairs in Jacksonville to the Environmental Protection Agency's Caribbean Environmental Protection Division. The strongly-worded letter alleges that EPA regulators have withheld "privileged" information from the Corps and questioning why EPA regulators have apparently reversed their position on the project, saying "We were extremely surprised by the conclusions made by your agency considering that much information is still forthcoming..." So today, Rep. Gutierrez sent another letter to EPA Administrator Lisa P. Jackson reiterating his earlier request for information (in a letter dated April 6, 2011) and requesting a response by close of business on Friday, April 29, saying in part: The people of Puerto Rico, like all American citizens, expect transparency, honesty, and openness from the federal government as agencies consider matters of vital importance to them. The whole "Via Verde" natural gas pipeline affair in Puerto Rico has been sorely lacking in these vital attributes, which are essential to democracy. Rep. Gutierrez addressed the pipeline issue from the floor of U.S. House of Representatives on April 14 (press release and text), noting how normal regulations and procedures have been circumvented for the "potentially dangerous, economically dubious, environmentally disastrous and extremely unpopular project." At the time, the Congressman announced: To shine some light on this matter, I have sent Freedom of Information Act requests to every and all federal agencies that have addressed the pipeline project. I will release the results so that the people know who their government is meeting with, what documents exist, and what studies have been done to show the need for this project. Now he is making good on that promise by releasing documents he has obtained from the US Army Corps of Engineers concerning the project. The hundreds of pages of documents are being released on the Congressman's website: https://www.gutierrez.house.gov/ as the documents are coded and uploaded. The march and rally on Sunday May 1 in Adjuntas, Puerto Rico begins at 10:00 a.m. in front of the offices of Casa Pueblo, an important local environmental watchdog organization (press contact: Arturo Massol -- 787-579-5070). The Congressman is expected to address the rally at approximately 12:30 p.m. ET. Rep. Gutierrez, who is in California all this week for seven events related to his "Campaign for American Children and Families" national tour on immigration and deportations is flying overnight from Los Angeles to San Juan late Saturday in order to make it to this momentous event on May 1. # # # Letter to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson Regarding Gasoducto - April 26, 2011
04.14.2011	"It’s time they stop doing things the 'Via Verde' way and start doing things the right way" April 14, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Continuing a series of speeches the Congressman has delivered on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on the civil and human rights crisis in Puerto Rico, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) today addressed a proposed natural gas pipeline project that is being pushed by the Governor of Puerto Rico and his party. The so-called "Via Verde" -- or "Green Way" -- is a 92 mile cross island project that has not received sufficient study or public scrutiny because it is being promoted as a response to an "energy emergency." Rep. Gutierrez announced he has filed a series of Freedom of Information Act requests for information from all federal agencies that have addressed the project and asked the Army Corps of Engineers to "to deny the permit request for the pipeline until experts testify, permits are applied for, community meetings are held, and environmental impact studies are done." The following are the Congressman's remarks, delivered at approximately 10:00 a.m. ET, as prepared for delivery, REP. GUTIERREZ: Mr. Speaker I rise today to talk once again about Puerto Rico, but this time it's a little different. I rise to note that Governor Luis Fortuño of Puerto Rico has actually said something that I can agree with. Speaking about a proposed gas pipeline, the Republican Governor said, “We can’t continue to depend on fossil fuels. Gasoducto is fossil fuels.” He went on to say that “tying us down to natural gas for 30 years would be a grave mistake.” He was referring to the construction of a natural gas pipeline on an island where the beautiful beaches, mountains and rain forests are both irreplaceable natural resources and part of the economic engine that drives tourism -- a gas pipeline that sounds like a dubious proposition. And I agree. Mr. Fortuño spoke these words two years ago, as a candidate, criticizing his opponent. Sadly, now that he is safely in office, Governor Fortuño has changed his mind. Now, he enthusiastically supports not just gas pipelines, but a much bigger, more environmentally disruptive and more expensive pipeline. And how the construction of this gigantic, super-sized pipeline is being handled is another reason I must speak out -- again -- on the civil rights crisis in Puerto Rico. The ruling party would rather people not notice that Mister Fortuño and Governor Fortuño have opposite positions on gas pipelines. So they are working hard to move this project forward under the cover of night. Every day – the ruling party answers this question: If you wanted to undertake a potentially dangerous, economically dubious, environmentally disastrous and extremely unpopular project – how would you go about it? Here’s the ruling party's answer: You circumvent feasibility studies. You avoid environmental impact studies. You ignore the standard permitting and licensing procedures. And you take every step possible to eliminate public hearings and public scrutiny. But how do you proceed without these necessary safeguards and information? If you are the government of Puerto Rico, and you want to build a 92 mile natural gas pipeline over the mountains; through forests, lakes and rivers; and across critical groundwater systems in Puerto Rico, you would amend a law designed to deal with natural disasters so you can bypass the normal permitting and public process. What this ruling party does is declare an "energy emergency.” This government’s “energy emergency” allows the pipeline to proceed -- despite warnings from the Sierra Club, the environmental group Casa Pueblo, and even the U.S. Fish and Wildlife service. --- Despite residents’ concerns that it will be constructed near schools, churches and residential areas. --- Despite geologists noting it is near earthquake faults and that there have been 2,500 seismic events in the last 3 years and one felt all over the island just 2 days ago. The self-declared “energy emergency” also helps hide the fact that you’ve given a ten million dollar contract to a pal of the Governor’s who has no experience at all in constructing gas pipelines. He does, however, have experience skiing with the governor. And maybe that’s why you run a slick, taxpayer funded PR campaign that renames the project "The Via Verde" -- "the green way." So, instead of speaking to the huge financial, human and environmental costs -- this Orwellian ad campaign calls a gas pipeline over the mountains and through the woods a "green way." Like a lot of people, I think it would be better to name it “Green away"... a magical cleanser you apply to your forests, rivers and lakes, to make them go away...along with millions of green tax dollars. Here’s an even more honest name for the project: the “wrong way.” Because it’s wrong to spend the people's money on a project they don’t want and hasn’t been appropriately studied, as the newspaper El Nuevo Día has shown in a series of reports. Candidate Fortuño was right. Governor Fortuño is wrong. To shine some light on this matter, I have sent Freedom of Information Act requests to every and all federal agencies that have addressed the pipeline project. I will release the results so that the people know who their government is meeting with, what documents exist, and what studies have been done to show the need for this project. Furthermore, I have already urged the Army Corps of Engineers to deny the permit request for the pipeline until experts testify, permits are applied for, community meetings are held, and environmental impact studies are done. Maybe the government can make the case for this project in the light of day. But they shouldn’t be asking for a verdict without presenting their facts to the people first. It’s time they stop doing things the "Via Verde" way and start doing things the right way. # # #
04.14.2011	"We Need UAFA And...It Needs To Be Part Of Immigration Reform" April 14, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) joined Rep. Jerold Nadler (D-NY), the lead chief sponsor, and other Members of Congress, advocates, and families for a press conference to reintroduce the Uniting American Families Act. UAFA would add the term “permanent partner” to sections of the Immigration and Naturalization Act that apply to married heterosexual couples. This legislation would afford equal immigration benefits to permanent partners -- the same benefits as exist for married heterosexuals, and it would impose the same restrictions, enforcement standards and penalties as are currently in immigration law. The following is the text of Rep. Gutierrez' statement, as prepared for delivery, at the press conference that took place on the Capitol grounds at approximately 1:00 p.m. ET. REP. GUTIERREZ: Thank you to my friends and colleagues for organizing this press conference. I will be brief. As I continue around the country on the Campaign for American Children and Families tour -- and we will have activities in Chicago on Saturday, Milwaukee on Sunday, Detroit on Monday and Charlotte next Wednesday -- I am hearing from families that are being split apart by our record-setting rate of deportation and you know what? Those families don't always fit into the nice little boxes of mom, dad, and two kids, but reflect the diversity and complexity of modern families. If deportations or an inflexible visa system or any of the problems of our immigration system are holding back and splitting up American families, it is holding back gay and lesbian families as much or more. That is why we need UAFA and why it needs to be part of immigration reform and why I support Rep. Lofgren's specific efforts on administrative relief from the White House. Our immigration laws ought to reflect reality and provide a legal structure to the way human beings actually are, not try to impose an alternative reality on human beings. Human beings move from place to place and country to country and human beings fall in love. It is our nature. Our laws ought to recognize reality and regulate it so that it works for the American people on our terms. We ought to keep our country secure and welcoming in a way that the rights of individuals already here and those who want to come legally are balanced and respected. It is as simple as that. As it stands now, our laws keep too many people out that we should be welcoming in through a legal process and it kicks too many people out that should be allowed to stay in America because of their deep roots and family obligations -- all while not doing a good enough job keeping out or kicking out people who pose a real threat to us like hardcore criminals. I have made no secret of the fact that I think President Obama can do more to keep families together and that the focus of changes this year needs to be administrative and procedural because legislation is very unlikely. But I see the Uniting American Families Act as a key component of the bigger immigration struggle and we have to hold Members accountable -- in both parties -- on the immigration issue. # # #
04.13.2011	President's Hometown (and Campaign HQ), Labor Strongholds, and Site of 2012 Democratic Convention Are Next Stops for Gutierrez (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez' national tour to spotlight deportations and the toll they are taking on American families is gaining steam and traveling to key Democratic strongholds in the coming week. The Congressman's hometown Chicago is first up (4/16), which is also the President's hometown and site of candidate Obama's national campaign headquarters. Milwaukee (4/17), which is gearing up for a massive May 1 march and rally is next, followed by Detroit (4/18), where immigration agents -- in a break from longstanding policy -- recently conducted an enforcement action at a local school. The tour also stops in Charlotte, NC (4/20), a southern commercial capital with a large and growing immigrant population that will play host to the Democratic convention in 2012. "The fear and dissatisfaction in immigrant and Latino communities is palpable and both parties shoulder some of the blame," Rep. Gutierrez said of the feedback he has received at previous stops (in Providence, Boston, Houston, Austin, and Dallas) of the tour that was launched March 31. "Headed into an election year, the issue I am hearing about most is the record-setting pace of deportations, the price families and communities are paying, and the failure to make progress on immigration." The main event in each city is a public meeting where U.S. citizens, DREAM Act students, and others testify about the impact 400,000 deportations a year are having on their lives. Each event also includes petitions to President Obama asking him to use powers he has under existing law to provide relief to the families of U.S. citizens, DREAM Act students and their families, and other immigrants with deep roots in their communities. CHICAGO, IL Date/Time: Saturday, April 16 | 11:00 a.m. Main Event: Lincoln United Methodist Church | 2242 S Damen Avenue | Chicago 60608 Contact: Emma Lozano |Familias Latinas Unidas/Sin Fronteras MILWAUKEE, WI Date/Time: Sunday, April 17 | 4:00 p.m. Main Event: St. Adalbert's Catholic Church | 1923 W. Becher St. | Milwaukee 53215 Contact: Christine Neumann Ortiz | Voces de la Frontera DETROIT/DEARBORN, MI Date/Time: Monday, April 18 | 6:00 p.m. Main Event: UAW Local 600 | 10550 Dix Highway | Dearborn, MI Contact: Ryan Bates | Alliance for Immigrants Rights & Reform CHARLOTTE, NC Date/Time: Wednesday, April 20 | 6:30 p.m. Main Event: St Paul Baptist Church | 1401 Allen St. | Charlotte 28205 Contact: Ruben Campillo | Latin American Coalition # # # Links to further information on the "Campaign for American Children and Families" tour: Campaign launch press release (March 31): https://bit.ly/g1ZWgj Campaign update press release (April 5): https://bit.ly/fMNVqJ Associated Press - "Families urge Obama to end deportations" https://fxn.ws/dWouuU Washington Times - "Activists fight immigrant roundups" https://bit.ly/hHQStn Boston Globe - "Call for change stirs East Boston immigrants" https://bo.st/iiSdUX Providence Journal - "Ill. congressman visits Providence to talk about immigration policy" https://bit.ly/f4Gv7A Al Día (Dallas/Ft. Worth) - "Piden poner fin a deportaciones," https://bit.ly/fnPPIo WLS-AM - "Connected to Chicago Interview with Rep. Gutierrez" https://bit.ly/fyd8TT # # #
04.07.2011	"Our constituents will not be furloughed from needing assistance, so we won't be furloughed from offering it." April 7, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – With Republicans threatening to shutdown the Government rather than compromise and reach a budget deal, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) said today that his congressional staff would continue to serve the constituents of the 4th Congressional District regardless of what transpires. In the eventuality of a shutdown, his offices will remain open and each staff member will remain at their jobs. The following is a statement by Rep. Gutierrez. I asked my staff and they said they would continue, even if they are not reimbursed for their work because they believe in what we are doing and in the help we provide our constituents. All of the work we do here is essential to my role as a Congressman. I doubt very seriously that the needs of my constituents will decrease because the government shutters its doors. Quite the opposite. Our constituents will not be furloughed from needing assistance, so we won't be furloughed from offering it. None of my staffers are "non-essential." Constituents who ask for my help should know that we will still be there to answer their questions and take their calls, even if no one else in the government is. My legislative work depends on identifying the challenges my constituents face in their communities, with government services, and with overall federal policy, so I consider all of our constituent work absolutely essential to my role as a legislator. A potential shutdown will strike seniors, children, our servicemen and women, and low-income families the hardest. Interrupting pay and benefits and vital services is unwise at any time, but as neighborhoods still recover from the economic downturn, the defunding and shutdown of the government couldn't come at a worse time. I have just launched a national tour to shine a spotlight on the toll that deportations are taking on U.S. citizens, the immigrants in their families, and others with deep roots in America. Our unprecedented rate of deporting people will not slow down with a government shutdown, but all of the critical services provided to immigrants, prospective immigrants, and U.S. citizens like processing visas, renewing work permits, processing passports and taking applications for U.S. citizenship will come to a halt. All of the services that may be suspended have less to do with distinctions between "essential" and "non-essential" functions. Rather, we will see in stark relief our skewed national priorities that devalue vital services to the most vulnerable families, the elderly, the sick, and those who serve in the military. I will work to ensure that we fund these vital services and keep the government open, but my staff will remain in place if we do not. # # #
04.04.2011	"Campaign for American Children and Families" Visits Three Texas Cities (April 9-10) to Spotlight U.S. Citizens and Non-Citizens Whose Families Are Being Split By Deportations (Washington, DC) – After successfully launching a multi-city tour last week in Washington to lift up the voices of families around the country whose lives are being turned upside down by deportations (link to March 31 press release: https://bit.ly/g1ZWgj), Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) participated in packed tour events in Providence and Boston over the weekend. This coming weekend, the Congressman will participate in tour events in Houston (April 9), Austin (April 9) and Dallas (April 10). Almost 400,000 people are deported each year and approximately four million U.S. citizen children have at least one parent who could be deported under current law. Each tour stop will include petitions to President Obama asking him to use his power under existing law to spare immigrants with deep equities in the U.S. -- including citizen family members, military service, and eligibility for the DREAM Act -- from the fear of deportation. Tour stops will typically include a large church gathering with the testimony of these families and students and others caught in the unprecedented number of deportations currently taking place. The tour will stop in at least twenty cities and will continue throughout at least April and May. Texas Events April 9-10 HOUSTON, TX: Saturday April 9 | 12 noon | Church Cosecha Final | 8823 Frey Road | Houston, TX 77034-3501 AUSTIN, TX: Saturday April 9 | 7 pm | Iglesia Catolica Cristo Rey | 2208 East 2nd Street | Austin, TX 78702-4608 DALLAS, TX: Sunday April 10 | 3pm | Iglesia Jesucristo Es Mi Refugio | 2929 S. Westmoreland | Dallas, TX 75233 Boston, Massachusetts (April 3) La Casa De Cultura, East Boston, hosted by Centro Presente and joined by Rep. Michael Capuano (D-MA). "Call for change stirs East Boston immigrants" (Boston Globe): https://bo.st/iiSdUX "Illinois Congressman Holds Immigration Rally In East Boston" (WBZ 1030 AM/CBS-Boston): https://bit.ly/fsdG25 Providence, Rhode Island (April 2) Instituto Biblico de Rhode Island/Biblical Institute of RI, hosted by the Christian Coalition for Political Action "Ill. congressman visits Providence to talk about immigration policy" (Providence Journal): https://bit.ly/f4Gv7A "Large turnout for deportation rally: About 1,000 people in attendance" (WPRI-TV/Fox Providence): https://bit.ly/gRHudi National Tour (Selected Press Coverage) "Families urge Obama to end deportations" (3/31/11 | Associated Press): https://fxn.ws/dWouuU "Activists fight immigrant roundups" (4/1/11 | Washington Times): https://bit.ly/hHQStn "Immigrants Demand That Obama Act on Promises of Reform" (4/1/11 | EFE News Service/Latin American Herald Tribune): https://bit.ly/exeuFy "Bill Cameron: Connected to Chicago Interview with Rep. Gutierrez" (4/3/11 | WLS-AM Chicago): https://bit.ly/fyd8TT # # #
03.31.2011	Focus is on U.S. Citizens and Non-Citizens Whose Families Are Being Split By Deportations March 31, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, at a Capitol Hill press conference, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) was joined by families, community advocates, religious leaders, and other Members of Congress to announce the kick off of the Campaign for American Children and Families. The tour will lift up the stories of families and individuals "whose lives are being turned upside down by deportation," Rep. Gutierrez said, and will focus on U.S. citizens with immigrant parents or spouses whose families are being split apart. Almost 400,000 people are deported each year, a record number, and approximately four million U.S. citizen children have at least one parent who could be deported under current law. At the press conference, three individuals shared stories which are typical of the stories that the tour will highlight. They spoke about what they and their families face every day. Anngie, a high school student from Maryland who was born in Guatemala, is an excellent student who has worked hard in school but faces an uncertain future because legislation that could have given her legal status, the DREAM Act, failed to garner 60 votes in the U.S. Senate last year. Maria, holding her daughter who is a U.S. citizen, told the story of how, after calling the police because of a domestic dispute with her husband, she ended up getting booked and turned over to Immigration and Customs Enforcement and put into deportation proceedings because of a program that enlists state and local law enforcement in identifying immigrants for deportation. Finally, Roberto Aguirre, a U.S. citizen from the Chicago area who said he voted for President Obama, introduced his wife and two children. Dolores, the wife, and one of their children, are currently fighting deportation despite the citizenship of the other members of the family. Eva Millona, Executive Director of the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition in Boston read a statement on behalf of the Fair Immigration Reform Movement (FIRM) and the Change Takes Courage campaign, which is working with the Congressman on his tour. The families at the event were introduced by Emma Lozano, Co-Pastor of Chicago's Lincoln United Methodist Church and President of Familias Latinas Unidas/Sin Fronteras. Tour stops will typically include a large church gathering with the testimony of these families, students who would have been eligible for the DREAM Act had it pass in December, and others caught in the unprecedented number of deportations currently taking place. The tour, which will stop in at least twenty cities and will begin with events in Providence, Rhode Island on Saturday (April 2) and Boston, Massachusetts on Sunday (April 3), will continue throughout at least April and May. Representatives Mike Honda (D-CA), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Keith Ellison (D-MN) and Judy Chu (D-CA) also spoke at the press conference. The following is the text of the prepared remarks delivered by Rep. Gutierrez: # # # Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-4) Remarks (as prepared) at Press Conference to Launch the Campaign for American Children and Families March 31, 2011 Cannon House Office Building REP. GUTIERREZ: I want to thank those who are stepping forward today and those who will be stepping forward over the next several weeks to tell their stories. The national tour we are kicking off today -- the Campaign for American Children and Families -- is a response to a crisis. Across the country, families are being ripped apart by deportations and detention. For the four million U.S. citizen children with an undocumented parent, the fear of deportation for a family member is a daily reality. Do you remember the little girl, Daisy, right here in the Washington, D.C.-area who got a chance to ask the First Lady a question when Mrs. Obama visited her elementary school last fall? She was 7 or 8 years old and said, in almost a whisper, that she heard that Mr. Obama was coming to take her mommy and daddy away because they didn't "have papers" and asked Mrs. Obama if it was true. Daisy was born here, a U.S. citizen just like me, my kids, and my grandson, but Daisy's sister and her parents were born in another country and could probably never get a visa to come here legally or would have to wait years or decades before a visa came through. Her parents left the sister behind with family because they were seeking a better life and to work at jobs they indeed found in this country and Daisy was born here. Now, every day when Daisy goes to school, her government, the U.S. government, in the nation of her birth and citizenship, goes to work every day trying to figure out ways to break up Daisy's family and deport her parents. Just this week, a 4 year-old U.S. citizen named Emily was reunited with her parents in the United States after she was detained at a U.S. port of entry and in effect, deported to Guatemala. Her government, the U.S. government, put her on a plane to another country. Our message is simple: A broad set of immigration reforms is absolutely necessary to fix our broken immigration system in the long run, but in the meantime we must ensure we do not needlessly deport the parents and spouses of U.S. citizens and others who are here working, raising families and contributing to our nation and economic recovery. The DREAM Act received majority support in both the House and Senate last year but still is not the law of the land and approximately one million young people who were raised and educated in this country face the risk of deportation every day. They, like every undocumented immigrant, are a busted tail-light away from deportation. They are a right-turn-on-red in a no right-turn-on-red zone away from being entered into the system and turned over to ICE for deportation as we are seeing with the expansion of programs like 287g and the so-called Secure Communities. So we are going to go out around the country and tell their stories. At each stop -- and we have twenty lined up so far and there are more in the planning stages-- at each stop we will feature the stories of those whose lives are being turned upside down by deportation. We will hear from the U.S. citizen spouses and children of those who are disappearing and those who still live in a precarious limbo because of the inaction in Washington. We are also making a very direct plea to the President of the United States. He has a number of avenues available to him under existing law with which he can instruct the U.S. government to prioritize the deportation of criminals and threats to our community and provide relief in pursuing the deportation of the vast majority of immigrants who are assets to our communities. We want the President to do in fact what his Administration claims it is doing when it talks about immigration enforcement. He must enforce the law, but so far, he has only been looking at one aspect of the law when it comes to immigration. We read in that leaked memo -- the Mayorkas memo -- that he has a great amount of leeway and prosecutorial discretion in how deportation policy is meted out and how resources are targeted in the government he runs. We are asking for balance and for consideration of immigrants with deep, long-term equities in this country and for temporary relief until we are able to get legislation passed and implemented. So petitions to the President asking him to act -- at least -- to stop the deportations of the families of U.S. citizens, young people who should have been legalized via the DREAM Act, and stop the expansion of programs that weaken public safety and serve as a dragnet for law-abiding immigrants by enlisting state and local police in federal enforcement - that is what we are asking. This is not Luis Gutierrez alone. Indeed, the call for action is coming from the grassroots in Chicago, in Boston, in North Carolina, in Texas, in California, in Colorado, and across the country. We know that a process of legalization is what the American people want -- with strong support in the African-American community, the Asian and Pacific Islander community, across every demographic people reject the fantasy that we will drive 12 million men, women and children from our country and our economy and think there should be a way for immigrants to get legal and get in the system. And it will not be me alone who travels to these events. Each will feature the testimonies of affected families and each will be an opportunity for Members of Congress, state and local officials, and the wider community to participate and make their voices heard. Standing with me are Members of Congress who have been the key allies working with me and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus on immigration, on the DREAM Act and on related matters. I want to give a few of them an opportunity to say why they are supporting this initiative and then we will take questions... # # #
03.30.2011	Rep. Gutierrez: Emily's story "emblematic of everything wrong with our immigration system" March 30, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Emily Samantha Ruiz, a four-year old American citizen who was mistakenly deported to Guatemala earlier this month, will return to New York City on Wednesday where she will be reunited with family. In a short time, Emily's story has become a huge international news story and has become a symbol for what is wrong with America's immigration system and the toll that deportations are taking on U.S. citizens and their families. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, issued the following statement. We welcome Emily back home to her nation of birth and citizenship, but her story is a stain on America's proud history. In America, those who are born here are from here. Period. They are every bit as much a citizen of our nation as anyone else, yet with every generation, the children of immigrants meet skepticism, denial and resistance. In this case, the shunning was explicit and extreme as the federal government -- of, by, and for the people -- did not acknowledge that Emily has every right and privilege of any other citizen. Emily is emblematic of everything wrong with our immigration system and especially the inflexible rules and the plight of children. There are four million U.S. citizen children with parents who are undocumented and the federal government's only answer is to split those families apart. There are at least another million children who have grown up here but they themselves are undocumented and the government's only answer is deportation. Our immigration system provides no relief for these young Americans who will grow up and live their entire lives here but for whose families, every day, the threat of deportation is a reality. While a broad set of immigration reforms is absolutely necessary to fix our broken immigration system in the long run, in the meantime we must ensure we do not needlessly deport the parents and spouses of U.S. citizens and others who are here working, raising families and contributing to our nation and economic recovery. As a nation, we must act. # # #
03.29.2011	Rep. Gutierrez Statement Opposing HAMP Repeal Bill March 29, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – As the U.S. House of Representatives debated H.R. 839, a bill to eliminate the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP), Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Ranking Democrat on the Insurance, Housing, and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, submitted the following statement for the record. I rise today in strong opposition to the HAMP Termination Act, or H.R. 839, a bill to eliminate the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP). This is just another attempt by my Republican colleagues to do away with important and necessary programs that help our struggling families and communities cope with the devastation of the housing crisis. Our families are dealing with real emergencies and they want real solutions, yet the Republicans offer no meaningful replacement to help families during this housing and foreclosure epidemic. The Home Affordable Modification Program was put in place by the Obama Administration to provide critical assistance to American homeowners who are working tirelessly to save their homes. While it wasn't meant to save every home on the brink of foreclosure, this program has helped over 600,000 homeowners since it was first launched. This means that because of HAMP, over 600,000 families were given an opportunity they otherwise wouldn't have had to save their home. Approximately 30,000 homeowners are assisted through HAMP each month. If we eliminate this program now, we would be doing a great disservice to these homeowners and to the recovery of our fragile housing market. The ineptitude and noncompliance of banks and mortgage servicers have created a laundry list of mistakes and missteps in handling homeowner mortgages that led us into this devastating housing situation. HAMP has been criticized by all parties because it did not meet its initial projected goals. This is partly because HAMP sets strict requirements for homeowners to qualify for a modification to ensure that American taxpayer dollars are not wasted or misused. Modifications that continue to be made outside of HAMP are done by servicers who avoid meeting the strict requirements and rules under this program which are put in place to protect homeowners. We have a responsibility to our constituents and we can't simply leave the fate of homeowners and struggling families to the banks and mortgage servicers when their bad mortgage lending practices contributed to our nation's housing crisis in the first place. HAMP is not perfect, but there is no question that HAMP has provided critical assistance to homeowners facing avoidable foreclosures. The HAMP program has set affordability standards and, more importantly, this program has created a framework for the private sector to provide assistance. The political theater put together by my Republican colleagues to eliminate HAMP and other valuable housing programs and replace them with nothing, doesn't do anything to alleviate the dire circumstances hundreds of thousands of American families are facing today. Mr. Speaker, ending HAMP now would undoubtedly hamper our nation's economic recovery efforts. Many of my colleagues have mentioned throughout this debate something we all know to be true: not a single witness-- including the Government Accountability Office and the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program -- who was invited by Republicans at the hearing we held earlier this month in the Housing Subcommittee, over which I serve as Ranking Member, supported shutting down any of the housing programs Republicans propose to terminate, including HAMP. Eliminating HAMP would leave American homeowners with fewer options for coping with the worst housing crisis of our generation and would leave our fragile housing market in worse condition than when we started. I urge my colleagues to support American homeowners and vote no on this bill. # # #
03.16.2011	March 16, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), the ranking Democrat on the Insurance, Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee, submitted the following statement for the record during the floor debate of H.R. 861 (The Neighborhood Stabilization Termination Act): I rise today in opposition to the Neighborhood Stabilization Termination Act, or H.R. 861, a bill to eliminate the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP). I would like to shed light on the positive impact the Neighborhood Stabilization Program has had on neighborhoods and communities across the country and particularly in Chicago, Illinois, as well as dispel myths my Republican colleagues have been passing off as the truth. The Neighborhood Stabilization Program is one of several programs targeted for elimination by House Republicans. These are programs that are helping middle-class and working-class Americans avoid losing their homes through the calamity of foreclosure. While imperfect, these programs are literally keeping a roof over people's heads, keeping families together, and preserving the fabric of American neighborhoods. Let's not forget, Congress bailed out financial institutions when they hit rock bottom and Congress acted to shore up the economy when it was on the brink of a deeper crisis. But now Republicans are saying we can't afford programs that lend a hand to American homeowners in their hour of greatest need? That's not the America I know, that's not the America that families need, and that is not the America we were sent to Washington to protect. Let's help our neighbors and our neighborhoods and not leave them to fend for themselves during these tough times. Recently, several worthy and notable organizations, such as Chicanos Por la Causa (CPLC), have been specifically targeted by my Republican colleagues for the funds they've received under the Neighborhood Stabilization Program. Let me make this clear, Chicanos Por La Causa is the lead applicant for a national consortium of non-profit affordable housing developers that have received federal funding to revitalize neighborhoods in eight states and the District of Colombia that have been negatively impacted by foreclosures and abandoned properties. CPLC, which was awarded $137 million to address foreclosed and vacant properties, submitted one of the highest scoring grants. The grant to CPLC increased the equitable allocation of NSP funds by providing the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) with important tools to help American communities. Specifically, it provided HUD with a method for investing through 13 consortium members in a mix of urban and rural communities that have been hardest hit by the foreclosure crisis, and in predominately Latino communities through organizations that provide culturally and linguistically competent services. Currently, there are approximately 1. 3 million Latinos who are in the process of foreclosure or have already lost their homes. There is no doubt the Latino community has been disproportionately affected by the foreclosure crisis. For this reason, Chicanos Por La Causa, together with the National Association for Latino Community Asset Builders, have helped blighted communities repair the devastation and distress that comes with abandoned properties. The Resurrection Project is one of the organizations under this consortium that is in my own backyard in Chicago. The Resurrection Project has served the Back of the Yards community in my district by investing $12 million in NSP funds to help stabilize the community. Back of the Yards is one the poorest and most blighted communities in my district and one of the hardest hit by the foreclosure crisis. These funds will certainly assist with the recovery efforts and revitalize this historic neighborhood in the city of Chicago. Mr. Speaker, our nation is facing extraordinarily dire economic times. American homeowners, our neighborhoods, and our communities do not deserve to have Congress turn our backs on them in the hour of greatest need. I believe the Neighborhood Stabilization Program is vital to our states, to our cities, and to our communities that have been hardest hit by the largest housing crisis of our generation. This is why I am opposing the Neighborhood Stabilization Termination Act. Two weeks ago I submitted a letter for the record during the Insurance, Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee hearing on foreclosure mitigation programs targeted for elimination. The letter was submitted on behalf of the National Association of Counties, National League of Cities, U.S. Conference of Mayors, National Community Development Association, National Association for County Community and Economic Development, Council of State Community Development Agencies, and the Enterprise Community Partners, Inc., all of whom support this very valuable neighborhood revitalization program. I ask my colleagues to stand with our neighborhoods and our communities and vote no on this bill. # # # Letter of Support for the Neighborhood Stabilization Project
03.07.2011	Belated Recognition Came with Help from Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez March 7, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez presented a Purple Heart Medal to Tomas Lozada, 78, who was a Private First Class in the U.S. Army when he was wounded in Korea nearly 60 years ago. Mr. Lozada, a resident of the Fourth Congressional District, suffered severe burns to his face and hands from an enemy grenade in combat and somehow, his sacrifice was not reflected in his official military service record. Today, that injustice was corrected. "Mr. Lozada's service gives me particular pride," Congressman Gutierrez said at a ceremony at the Institute of Puerto Rican Arts & Culture in Chicago. "Not only is he a Chicagoan from my District, but he is Puerto Rican and the embodiment of a long tradition of service to the U.S. military from my fellow Puertoriqueños." Mr. Lozada and the Congressman were joined by family, veterans, a JROTC Honor Guard from Chicago's Roberto Clemente High School, and the Illinois Commander of the Military Order of the Purple Heart, Daniel T. Finn. The Congressman said the ceremony was an opportunity to recognize the contributions of Puerto Ricans, Latinos, Chicagoans, and all Americans to our armed forces, both today and in the past. Tomas Lozada was born in Puerto Rico in 1932. He served in the U.S. Army, in the 65th Regiment, 3rd Infantry Division, a legendary Puerto Rican fighting unit that served with distinction in Korea. Mr. Lozada was wounded by a grenade on September 30, 1951. He was treated at a hospital in Osaka, Japan before returning to his unit in Korea. He was discharged honorably as a Corporal in 1952. His official military service record did not reflect the full measure of the sacrifice he made to his country and this was discovered in 2003 when his granddaughter, Irma Cornier, helped him apply for his military pension. She contacted Rep. Gutierrez's Chicago District Office in 2010 and the Congressman's staff helped straighten out the facts. Some records pertaining to Mr. Lozada being wounded in combat were reportedly lost in a fire at a military records facility in 1973, but after some persistent inquiries by the Congressman at the urging of Mr. Lozada's granddaughter, records showing his hospitalization in Japan eventually convinced the Department of the Army to award Mr. Lozada the Purple Heart "There are few moments more satisfying for a Congressman than when we are helping a constituent right a wrong or when we are helping an individual get something they deserve or something they are due," the Congressman said. "It is an honor and a privilege to play a part in correcting the record and getting Mr. Lozada recognition for his service and sacrifice. He served his country honorably and heroically and he and his family deserve to be recognized for his actions." # # #
03.04.2011	Oversight of Intelligence Agencies, Programs, and Activities Among Duties of Subcommittee of House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence March 3, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) was appointed to the Subcommittee on Terrorism, HUMINT, Analysis and Counterintelligence (THACI). The appointment was announced today by Chairman Mike Rogers (MI) and Ranking Member Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD) of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. This is the first Congress that Rep. Gutierrez has served on this committee. The THACI Subcommittee oversees the programs and activities of the intelligence community that involve counter-terrorism, human intelligence, overseas intelligence activities, and information analysis. THACI oversees the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), the national security elements of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Defense Department counterintelligence organizations, and the intelligence components of the Departments of State, Treasury, Energy, and Homeland Security. "It is an honor to be a Member of the THACI Subcommittee where it will be my job to ensure our intelligence agencies are resourced adequately, supervised, and engaged in the effort to keep our country safe," Rep. Gutierrez said. "Good intelligence and prevention is the best way to protect the United States." Representative Gutierrez, serving his tenth term in Congress, is also a Member of the Financial Services Committee where he serves as Ranking Member of the Insurance, Housing, and Community Opportunity Subcommittee. # # #
03.02.2011	Discurso a la Cámara de Representantes reafirma el compromiso del congresista con la libertad de expresión y asevera no se podrá acallar a los puertorriqueños March 2, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Hoy, el Congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez habló frente a la Cámara de Representantes acerca de la crisis de los derechos civiles en Puerto Rico, reiteró su compromiso con la libertad de expresión, y aseveró que ni él, ni el pueblo de Puerto Rico serán silenciados. "Como miembro del Congreso, es más que mi derecho - es mi obligación hablar cuando las libertades fundamentales son atacadas" dijo Gutiérrez. Añadió que, "Quienes me critican tienen el derecho a la libertad de palabra - aún cuando le niegan ese mismo derecho a otros. Y quiero que entiendan esto: Sus esfuerzos para silenciarme - así como los esfuerzos para silenciar a tanta gente en Puerto Rico que están en desacuerdo con ustedes -- van a fracasar, así como todo intento para obstaculizar el progreso sólo logran que la marcha hacia la justicia sea más poderosa y rápida." El Congresista, además publicó un artículo basado en el discurso en el popular lugar cibernético de blogs, el Huffington Post, titulado "On the Puerto Rican People: 'You Will Not Silence Them and You Will Not Silence Me'" (https://www.huffingtonpost.com/rep-luis-gutierrez/on-the-puerto-rican-peopl_b_830307.html) El texto del discurso preparado para la presentación en la Cámara se puede ver aquí: https://www.gutierrez.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=645%3Aremarks-by-rep-luis-v-gutierrez&catid=48&Itemid=72 Un vídeo del discurso del congresista está disponible aquí: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PUy-cglbAGg Un vídeo del discurso anterior del congresista (16 de febrero) está disponible aquí: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QJhmoV01xQI # # #
03.02.2011	Speech to House of Representatives Underscores Congressman's Commitment to Free Speech, Asserts Puerto Ricans Cannot Be Silenced March 2, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez spoke before the House of Representatives about the ongoing civil rights crisis in Puerto Rico, reiterated his commitment to free speech, and asserted that neither he nor the Puerto Rican people would be silenced. "As a member of Congress, it is more than my right – it is my obligation to speak out when fundamental freedoms are attacked," Rep. Gutierrez said. He went on to say, "My critics have the right of free-speech even as they deny that same right to others. And I want them to understand this: Your efforts to silence me - just like your efforts to silence so many people in Puerto Rico who disagree with you - will fail, just as every effort to blockade progress only makes the march toward justice more powerful and swift." In addition, the Congressman published an article adapted from the speech on the popular and influential blogging site, the Huffington Post, entitled "On the Puerto Rican People: 'You Will Not Silence Them and You Will Not Silence Me'" (https://www.huffingtonpost.com/rep-luis-gutierrez/on-the-puerto-rican-peopl_b_830307.html) The text of the speech as prepared for delivery is available here: https://www.gutierrez.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=645%3Aremarks-by-rep-luis-v-gutierrez&catid=48&Itemid=72 A video of the Congressman's speech is available here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PUy-cglbAGg A video of the Congressman's previous speech (February 15) is available here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QJhmoV01xQI # # #
03.02.2011	Subcommittee Hearing on Bills to Terminate Four Helpful Programs for American Homeowners March 2, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), the ranking Democrat on the Insurance, Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee of the Financial Services Committee, will participate in a hearing chaired by Rep. Judy Biggert (R-IL). The hearing is on Republican bills to terminate programs designed to help consumers keep their homes and avoid foreclosures. The Subcommittee hearing will take place on Wednesday, March 2 at 2 pm in room 2220 Rayburn. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez. The foreclosure mitigation programs we are reviewing today--Home Affordable Modification Program, The Neighborhood Stabilization Program, The Emergency Mortgage Relief Program, and the FHA Refinance Program-- are programs that have been beneficial to my constituents and the constituents of my Republican colleagues. They have helped American communities across the country, yet my Republican colleagues want to put an end to this important assistance, even during these excruciatingly tough economic times. Republicans are willing to give large breaks to the wealthiest in our nation yet they're unwilling to provide the necessary aid to devastated families and distressed communities and this is just the latest example. Simply doing away with these critical programs that serve the American people without offering any real solutions that reforms or replaces these programs does nothing to alleviate our nation's foreclosure emergency. We have a responsibility to our nation's hard-working families and we simply cannot terminate these programs in order to reward wealthy interests and leave American homeowners to fend for themselves. # # #
02.16.2011	Speech to House of Representatives Puts National Spotlight on Puerto Rican Government's Campaign to Silence Student Protestors, Puerto Rico Bar Association February 16, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) delivered a speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to call national attention to the developing civil rights crisis in Puerto Rico. In recent months, certain protests have been banned, demonstrations have been broken up violently by police using clubs and pepper spray, the Legislature has moved to conduct some business behind closed doors, and free speech advocates have been jailed. Severe cuts to the budget of the University of Puerto Rico and a huge increase in tuition and fees sparked the original protests, which were the catalyst for further escalation of demonstrations that have spread to labor unions, parents and alumni of the university, and more broadly. "What far-away land has seen student protest banned, union protesters beaten and free speech advocates jailed?," Rep. Gutierrez asked during his speech to Congress, answering, "The United States of America’s colony of Puerto Rico. Sound outrageous? It is. But true and well-documented. I ask my colleagues in U.S. House of Representatives to turn their eyes to Puerto Rico." Standing before a picture of Judge José A. Fusté, Chief Judge of the U.S. District Court for the District of Puerto Rico, the Congressman denounced the jailing of Osvaldo Toledo, President of the Puerto Rico Bar Association, jailed by Judge Fusté. "What was Osvaldo Toledo’s crime? Educating his members about how to opt out of a politically motivated lawsuit designed to destroy the organization. For me, this attack was the final straw and brought me to the floor to speak out," the Congressman, whose parents were born in Puerto Rico, said in his remarks. Documents that instruct members of the Puerto Rico Bar Association how to opt out of the politically motivated class action law suit were entered into the Congressional Record by Rep. Gutierrez as a way of getting the information out despite the efforts of Judge Fusté to prevent their dissemination. "Attacking free speech doesn’t work in a democracy," the Congressman concluded. "Here is a fact that most of us learned long ago. Here is a lesson the people of Egypt taught the world last week: Brutal laws and secret meetings and armed enforcers don’t extinguish the flame of justice – they are the spark that makes it burn brighter." A video of the Congressman's remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives is available here. The full text of his remarks is available here. Links to the documents the Congressman entered into the Congressional Record are also available at that location. # # #
02.15.2011	Costly "Turkey" Should Be Cut, Not Head Start, Health Centers, Cops, and Firefighters February 15, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – The continuing resolution (the Fiscal Year Continuing Appropriations Act for FY2011, H.R. 1, known as the "CR") to fund the federal government through the end of September 2011 is being debated in Congress today and Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) has introduced an amendment that would cut funding for a helicopter/airplane hybrid that has underperformed and proven extremely costly over its quarter-century of development. At a time when community health centers, the Head Start program, student financial aid, police, firefighters and other crucial investments are facing severe cuts, Rep. Gutierrez said the Pentagon must also tighten its belt. The cut to the V-22 program proposed by Rep. Gutierrez could save $415 million in the current fiscal year. "The Republicans say their proposal makes 'tough choices,' but this turkey should be a no-brainer," Rep. Gutierrez said of his proposed amendment. "Cutting health care for women and children and slashing Head Start and community health centers should be the last cuts we make, not the first, especially when we are buying multi-million dollar airplanes that don't fly like they're supposed to." Rep. Gutierrez said the Republican proposal being considered would make steep cuts in the Head Start program for preschoolers that pays-off down the line in reduced education and criminal justice costs and more tax-revenue from a more educated workforce. Similarly, cutting more than $5 billion from Federal Pell Grants as proposed by the Republicans will reduce financial aid for 61,000 students in Illinois and 1.4 million students nationally. Unless the bill is amended, the COPS and SAFER programs will also lose money, which could result in 1,330 fewer police and 2,400 fewer firefighters on America's streets. "Experts say the cuts will eliminate 127 new community health centers funded by the Recovery Act nationwide that are the frontline for preventive health care in many Chicago neighborhoods, in rural communities, and will hit women and children the hardest," the Congressman said. "That short-sighted budget choice threatens the public health of the nation and is the definition of a 'pound-foolish' cut that will cost us in the long run." "Former Vice President and Defense Secretary Dick Cheney -- who hasn't met many defense programs he doesn't like -- tried to kill the V-22 program four times, so you get a sense for just how wasteful, unnecessary, and unsuccessful this airplane is," Rep. Gutierrez said. "The Pentagon's top weapons tester from 1994-2001 said the V-22 would be safe, 'if used like a truck, carrying people from one safe area to another safe area,'" the Congressman said of the notoriously underperforming program. "The problem here is that we keep buying these $120 million 'trucks' in the hopes that one day, they become military jets. It's not going to happen. It seems to me that if the Republican Party spent more time eliminating turkeys like the V-22, maybe cutting domestic programs that sustain our most important and vulnerable citizens wouldn't have been the only way to keep their campaign promises." # # #
01.25.2011	January 25, 2011 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – As previously announced, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) and Rep. Judy Biggert (R-IL-13) sat together on the Republican side of the House Chamber to listen to the President's State of the Union address. Congressman Gutierrez of Chicago is the Ranking Democratic Member of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Insurance, Housing, and Community Opportunity and Rep. Biggert is the new Chairman of the Subcommittee and also from the Chicagoland area. Rep. Gutierrez is also a member of the House Intelligence Committee, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, and the Congressional Progressive Caucus. The following is a statement by Rep. Gutierrez. I was pleased. The President focused on jobs and the economy and what is needed to bring the country together to continue building our prosperity. I know he sees immigration as a key building block for our economic success and an asset in our international competitiveness, so I am glad it was part of the speech. It is no secret that I am always pushing him to do more to address the issue, but by including immigration in the speech, it makes it clear that the President knows it is not an issue that can be ignored or a problem that will resolve itself without his consistent and persistent attention. I enjoyed sitting with my friend Judy Biggert and there was a good feeling in the room. Those of us, like Judy and I, who know Gabby Giffords and worked closely with her thought it was a fitting tribute to her leadership-by-example in reaching out across the political aisle. Frankly, Judy and I didn't talk a lot of business or map out the agenda for the subcommittee or anything earth shattering. Rather, we socialized and made small talk about our families the way normal coworkers do. It was remarkably unremarkable, but something that unfortunately happens too rarely in this line of work where we are always too busy and caught up in the politics. Maybe I'll have her over to our side next year and bring popcorn. The State of the Union and whether or not people from different parties sit together and how they spin the speech afterwards is all about tone-setting. Sometimes it only lasts through breakfast the next day and sometimes it sets a deeper and more resonant tone with staying power. We'll see. I certainly hope it is the latter and do what I can to keep it going because we will get much more accomplished for the American people that way. # # #
12.21.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202-225-8304) FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, who attended a meeting today at the White House with the President, Sen. Robert Menendez (D-NJ), and Reps. Xavier Becerra (D-CA), Charlie Gonzalez (D-TX) and Nydia Velázquez (D-NY) to discuss immigration reform in the wake of the Republican-led filibuster that effectively killed the DREAM Act for this Congress. We had a good meeting and were able to debrief about the very disappointing DREAM Act result in the Senate. The President shares our frustration that, despite winning strong bipartisan majorities in both chambers, a handful of Senators were able to block the DREAM Act. It is disillusioning that Republicans who once championed the DREAM Act hid behind procedural excuses or just plain flip-flopped and voted to kill this important bill and the hopes and dreams of so many students and young people. The President knows that immigration reform and the DREAM Act are struggles that continue and he indicated he wanted to meet with us again right after the New Year to map out strategy. With the Republicans taking over in the House, whose leaders are strongly opposed to immigration and immigration reform, we will likely be playing a great deal of defense for the next two years. Obviously, the President's veto pen is a crucial weapon against radically anti-immigrant policies. At the same time, we cannot afford to be content with just a defensive struggle, fighting attempts to make legal immigration and legality for immigrants harder than they already are. At the current rate, another 800,000 people will be deported by the time November 2012 comes around, which does nothing to fix our immigration system and rips apart communities and families and the very fabric of our society. The President understands how important this issue is to the Latino community so we have to work together to make progress as soon as possible. # # #
12.18.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Task Force on Immigration of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a key national leader supporting of the DREAM Act and immigration reform. The echo of this vote will be loud and long. We are at the tipping point that will define the political alignment of the Republican and Democratic parties with Latino voters for a generation. The Republican Party could have changed their tune on the immigration issue but passed up the opportunity and did so on national television in practically every Latino home in America. If they are betting that Latino and immigrant voters will forget what happened today in Washington, they will be sadly mistaken. The voting power of Latinos, immigrants, and of a whole generation of young Americans who were fighting for their undocumented classmates will be a force in U.S. politics for as far as the eye can see into the future -- with or without the DREAM Act. The Senate vote was not about politics or procedure, but was a national referendum on the basic civil rights of immigrants, most of whom are Latinos. Can undocumented immigrants ever be part of society under any circumstances? A minority of the U.S. Senate said we will not even discuss the matter and therefore the barriers to legality and full participation in our society remain in place. This was a setback to the core values of liberty and the pursuit of happiness in the United States. These Senators hid behind lame procedural excuses to thwart the hopes and aspirations of the best and brightest of our families and communities, which is both a tragedy and a call to action. Today we mourn, but tomorrow we shift back into gear to fight for justice and inclusion in America. We must not only fight to protect our DREAM Act brothers and sisters, but also their mothers and fathers from the mass deportation policies that are staining and tearing our moral fabric. The deportation of 400,000 people a year is a moral challenge to young people, immigrants, Latinos and every American of conscience. We can change the very course of history and steer America away from the ludicrous policy of trying to drive out or deport 12 million undocumented immigrants. This generation of immigrants, like every generation of immigrants before them, will make their mark on American history and will improve this country and recommit her to her core values in the process. # # #
12.17.2010	Homeland Security Notifies Rep. Gutierrez That Humanitarian Visa Will Be Granted to Soldier's Wife and Child Stuck in Mexico Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202-225-8203) FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) learned today that a humanitarian visa request for Spc. Hector Nunez would be granted so that his wife and young child can return to Chicago before Christmas. Because of draconian restrictions on legal immigration and bad advice from an immigration lawyer, the Nunez family has been separated and Spc. Nunez was worried that his imminent deployment to Afghanistan would happen before he secured a visa for his wife and one-year old son who requires specialized medical care. "I had the honor of telling Hector that his Christmas wish had been granted," said Rep. Gutierrez who called Spc. Nunez five minutes after his Congressional office received word this afternoon that the visa request had been approved. "Getting a positive resolution, and so quickly, is truly a Christmas miracle. I'm so happy for the Nunez family and pleased that Homeland Security acted to correct a great injustice." There are still logistical and bureaucratic details to be worked out, including the delivery of the visa to Nunez' wife, Rosa, who is currently in Mexico with the couple's son, Jason. But the family can begin making travel plans to be reunited in Chicago and the fear that Spc. would redeploy to Afghanistan without having secured his family's safety has been averted. Jason, who suffers from a brain condition, can also resume treatment in the U.S. shortly. "This is great news on the eve of Christmas and I am thankful to Secretary," said Rep. Gutierrez who held a press conference with Spc. Nunez in Chicago on December 6 and spoke personally to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano two days later. "We should be more respectful of our soldiers and not try to deport their families while they are overseas protecting our country," Rep. Gutierrez said. "In this case, we got good news just in time for Christmas, but people fall through the cracks of our overly restrictive and incredibly out-of-date immigration system all the time." # # #
12.09.2010	Rally in Chicago Tonight To Launch National Mobilization for Senate Passage Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) today celebrated the House DREAM Act victory while making plans to get the DREAM Act passed by the Senate and signed into law. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) announced this morning that he will file the House-passed bill for debate on the Senate floor next week. "Senator Reid is a champion of sensible immigration policy and is working very hard to get the DREAM Act signed into law," Rep. Gutierrez said. "The announcement that the Senate will consider the House-passed bill is great news because it gives us the opportunity to get the DREAM Act to the President's desk before we adjourn. We now have the weekend and into next week to launch a national mobilization to get the votes to enact this important bill that could literally change the course of hundreds of thousands of young lives and make our country and our military stronger." The Congressman will attend a rally and celebration in Chicago this evening to stand with DREAM Act-eligible students, their families, and other supporters to immediately launch the Senate vote-gathering effort. [The event will be held at 6:30 p.m. CT at Rebaño Compañerismo Church, 2435 West Division Street, Chicago.] "We saw last night in the House that there is genuine support for the DREAM Act that crosses party lines," Rep. Gutierrez said of the 216-198 vote to pass the bill as an amendment to H.R. 5281. "We forged a coalition of Democrats and a handful of clear-thinking Republicans to put the DREAM Act over the finish line in the House. We can do the same in the Senate if we work hard over the next several days." "In the House, we were inspired by DREAM Act students who have persevered and succeeded against all odds," Rep. Gutierrez continued. "We are trying to follow the example of these young leaders and keep moving forward. When we had been counted out, we stuck with it. The House, the White House, and the broad movement for immigration reform will make it clear to every Senator in both parties that they stand at an historic crossroads. This is not about politics but about the aspirations of families and whole communities across the 50 states. We will not let this opportunity pass without doing everything we can to get a bill to President Obama for his signature." # # #
12.08.2010	DREAM Act Vote Expected Today in House Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – This morning as the House of Representatives opened for the day, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) delivered a "one-minute" address to the House. The House is expected to take up the American Dream Act (HR 6497, aka the DREAM Act) later today. The following is the text, as prepared, of the Congressman's remarks. When I was a school teacher, I never knew how well my kids were doing until I gave them a test. That’s when you find out what you’ve really learned. We need to have a test right here in this chamber today. We need to test our tolerance, our fairness, our sense of justice. We need to vote – today -- on the Dream Act. Will we pass the test? Will we get an "A" or an "F"? Those who will grade this test are watching. A generation of young people are hoping. Their futures are riding on whether we pass this test. Their families and communities are watching to see how we do on this test. Our nation wants to see if we are compassionate and if we have the courage to do what is right. This is a pass or fail test. Our kids – our young people – have all passed. They’ve worked hard. They’ve planned for better futures. They love America. Today, I urge my colleagues not to fail these kids. Call the Dream Act for a vote and let us pass on hope to our next generation. # # #
11.16.2010	Immigration Strategy in Lame-Duck Settles on DREAM Act Push Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), who met with President Barack Obama today at the White House to discuss immigration reform and the lame-duck session of Congress. When I met with the President today, I told him that we need him to join us in fighting for the DREAM Act. I told the President we need him now and that we cannot waste another day and must push for a DREAM Act vote in the House and Senate during the lame-duck. It is not the time to hesitate or be unclear about what we are fighting for. We need the DREAM Act. I see it as a down payment on comprehensive reform and we will continue working towards comprehensive immigration reform today, tomorrow, and until it passes. But I will not pass up the chance to save a million or more children who grew up in the U.S., who know no other country, and who are threatened with deportation unless we act. With the White House, Majority Leader Harry Reid, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and every Democratic Leader in the House and Senate pulling in the same direction, we can pass the DREAM Act before the end of the 111th Congress. Speaker Pelosi has indicated to me personally that she wants the House to move on the DREAM Act. Majority Leader Harry Reid has consistently supported a DREAM Act vote during lame-duck, and now the President and I have had an opportunity to discuss the lame-duck strategy. By passing the DREAM Act, we have an opportunity during this lame-duck session to make a down payment on the immigration reform voters want, our country deserves, and our leaders have promised. We need a clear Democratic commitment in order to persuade Republicans -- who are needed to get us over the finish line -- to step forward. There is a chance to pass the Dream Act if lawmakers and supporters work together across party lines in the weeks ahead. We must show a singular unity of purpose to get this bill to a vote in both chambers to demonstrate that we can put sensible policy ahead of divisive politics. Democrats and those Republicans willing to join us to address an important area of our dysfunctional immigration system can set the tone for the next Congress and the next two years. The DREAM Act is only a first step, but it is an important one in both practical and political terms. Passage of the DREAM Act is achievable right now. It is the only piece of immigration reform legislation that can get broad support from Democrats and has attracted significant Republican support in the recent past. The policy of mass deportation is not working and is ripping apart communities and may only get worse under a Republican controlled House. We cannot squander this opportunity to save a million kids. Obviously, I would prefer that we were talking about comprehensive immigration reform. Only a comprehensive bill will fix our broken immigration system, secure the border, and establish the rule of law. There is no other way. We have to have a functioning legal immigration system and eliminate the pool of immigrants in the U.S. illegally in order to significantly improve security and put our workforce on a stable footing where labor laws are evenly enforced. But in the short-run, the battle is for passage of the DREAM Act. Not some valiant good-faith effort to check a political box, but passage in the House and the Senate and a signature from the President. Support for sensible immigration reform and rejecting the politics of demonization was a winning strategy for Democrats on Election Day. Three U.S. Senators -- Senators Reid, Barbara Boxer, and Michael Bennet -- and many other Democratic candidates in state and federal races, owe their jobs to the support of Latino and immigrant voters who helped fight back against anti-reform politicians whose messages were often ugly and divisive. The bipartisan coalition of lawmakers that once stood strong for comprehensive immigration reform and those who have voted for the DREAM Act or pledged to do so should be given the opportunity to vote for the DREAM Act on its own merits. Just this morning, I met with some young organizers and students from California and they told me that if this President is willing to fight for them, they are willing to fight for him. They told me that their undocumented classmates, siblings, and friends don't have the luxury of giving up saying "I'm tired of fighting" or "it's too hard." They must keep fighting and I told the President you want them to be fighting for you. ###
11.15.2010	National Survey Ranks Gutierrez behind only Justice Sotomayor, Ahead of Mayor Villaraigosa and Anchor Jorge Ramos Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, the Pew Hispanic Center released the results of a bilingual survey of American Latinos aimed at identifying the "most important Latino leaders" in the U.S. Two Puerto Ricans, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez of Illinois and Supreme Court Associate Justice Sonia Sotomayor topped the list ahead of Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and Univision anchorman Jorge Ramos. "There are so many dynamic leaders for this young and emerging segment of American society, so I am honored and humbled to be included along with the likes of Justice Sotomayor and the others," Rep. Gutierrez said. "I believe this may be a response, in part, to people relating to my work on behalf of one of the issues closest to my heart, Comprehensive Immigration Reform. I have dedicated myself to pushing hard for immigration reform to address the injustices of our current system. Having a rational, secure, and generous immigration system that reunites families is key to America's economic growth and national security." Rep. Gutierrez is an outspoken supporter of comprehensive immigration reform who led a nationwide "Familias Unidas/Families United" tour in 2009 to raise the visibility of the immigration issue and the toll that hundreds of thousands of deportations are taking on American families. He is the principal author of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and Prosperity Act (CIR-ASAP or H.R. 4321), a bill introduced by Rep. Solomon Ortiz (D-TX), endorsed by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, and co-sponsored by 103 Democrats. Rep. Gutierrez was reelected this month to his tenth term representing Illinois' Fourth Congressional District in Chicago and recently announced that he would not be a candidate for Mayor of the City of Chicago. He is Chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, a Member of the Judiciary Committee, and Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Task Force on Immigration. Rep. Gutierrez is also a frequent guest on national network and cable news programs, including Face The Nation (CBS), Meet The Press (NBC), This Week (ABC), Al Punto (Univision), and Enfoque (Telemundo). He was recently awarded the Hispanic Heritage Foundation's "Leadership Award" at a Kennedy Center Ceremony in Washington in September 2010. # # #
11.10.2010	"The next Congress shouldn’t be about remaking Democrats, it should be about reminding America what we stand for," Gutierrez writes Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) renewed his call on all House Democrats to support Rep. James Clyburn (D-SC) for Democratic Whip in upcoming House Leadership elections. In a letter to all Illinois House Democrats, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, and in a blog article for the Huffington Post, Rep. Gutierrez said Rep. Clyburn would be "a leader who will remind the American people what Democrats stand for – yesterday, today and tomorrow." In separate letters to Illinois House Democrats (link) and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (link), Rep. Gutierrez said: I am certain that we can and must regain our majority in two years, but we need a leadership team that will stand up for the principles we cherish and effectively communicate why these principles will create more opportunity for all Americans. In his article for the Huffington Post (link), Rep. Gutierrez wrote: A competitive leadership election will be the Democratic Party's first chance to cut through hundreds of millions of dollars of third-party and corporate ads and remind the American people that we’re still standing, and what we stand for. We should make it clear there is no retreating and we stand by the values and policies that make us Democrats. Rep. James Clyburn is running for the number two Democratic Leadership position behind Speaker Nancy Pelosi who is widely believed to be a shoe-in for the role of Democratic Leader in the new Congress. Rep. Gutierrez supports Rep. Pelosi in that bid, as well. Leadership elections will be held sometime before Congress adjourns and could take place as soon as next week. ### Letter to Illinois House Democrats Letter to Congressional Hispanic Caucus
11.03.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) - In addition to his statement here, Rep. Gutierrez wanted to send this additional message to reporters who cover the House Financial Services Committee and related issues: The priority for the Financial Services Committee, as I see it, is to create the conditions for economic growth while carefully monitoring how financial institutions are behaving and especially how they are treating consumers. We need hearings immediately to examine the bank foreclosure and paperwork processing in light of the recent revelations. Both the House and Senate will hold hearings on these and other important issues before the end of the 111th Congress, and I trust they will continue into the next Congress. I look forward to meeting with the new Chair and seeing where we can find common ground to work together. I hope that the significant progress we have made toward strong and popular consumer protections over the past four years will not be reversed. # # #
11.03.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) - In addition to his statement, Rep. Gutierrez wanted to send this additional message to Illinois reporters about his reelection: I am deeply grateful to the people of Chicago for sending me back to Washington to continue working for them. On immigration reform, consumer protections, job creation, and securing a bright future for our children we have much work to do, so I am proud to have won their continued support. Getting anything accomplished in Washington is hard enough, but I fear that losing the House gives some Republicans an even greater ability to obstruct progress towards public policy solutions. I have served in the minority before and have had some success working on immigration and other issues across the political aisle. I will extend my hand and hope Republicans reciprocate so we can make progress on immigration and financial reform and continue working to strengthen the economy. ###
11.03.2010	Both Parties Know Significant Latino Support Is Needed To Win the White House in 2012 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) was reelected Tuesday to a tenth term in the U.S. Congress representing the Fourth District of Illinois in Chicago. In the 111th Congress, Rep. Gutierrez is Chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Task Force on Immigration, and is also a Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. The following is a statement by Rep. Gutierrez. In key states and districts, Latino voters showed their muscle and turned key races. Predictions just a few weeks ago that they would stay home -- and advertising and advocacy campaigns to encourage non-voting -- didn't pan out. Latinos demonstrated in their numbers and engagement that they are a force in American politics. When the GOP deploys harsh anti-immigration politics - demonizing and attacking Latinos - Latino and immigrant voters push back at the ballot box. Nevada is the clearest example, but the two statewide races in California and others races showed the power of this community as a voting bloc. Latino citizens responded to Majority Leader Harry Reid's aggressive pursuit of immigration reform by voting for him in overwhelming numbers. They were clearly the difference in his victory. Senator Reid is a champion for Latinos, immigrants and working people in Nevada and the nation. He embraced immigration reform as his issue and many called him crazy because of it. When we went to him and said it was time to call for a vote on the DREAM Act, he immediately put it on the schedule. He stood by us. He fought for Latinos and immigrant voters and for sensible immigration reform that establishes the rule of law. Facing some of the most vicious political attacks I can remember, he responded with conviction and courage. I am very proud of Majority Leader Reid and the people of Nevada who support him. Arizona's SB 1070 was an undercurrent that charged this election for Latino voters. I saw it campaigning this fall in Ohio, Florida, Nevada, and Illinois. Even if we followed the GOP agenda and somehow shut off immigration tomorrow, the power of the Latino electorate is growing and will have a significant impact on races at the federal, state, and local levels for generations to come. Neither political party can expect to win the White House without a significant percentage of the Latino vote and they both know it. The midterms do not change the fact that we continue to deport 400,000 people a year, more than half of whom aren't criminals, and that we are stretching the capacity of our detention system, legal system, and law enforcement because of our mass deportation approach to immigration. It is unsustainable as a policy and morally indefensible. Immigration is not an issue that will solve itself. The rule of law is not improved but weakened by a fifty state patchwork of laws and implementing whatever tough-sounding gimmick the hardliners come up with next will not solve the problem either. If Republican opposition prevents us from seriously addressing immigration legislatively, then the President must address the toll deportations are taking on American families and neighborhoods through administrative action. ###
10.15.2010	Grants Promote Smarter and Sustainable Planning For Jobs and Economic Growth Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – On Thursday, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) announced $100 million in grants to develop strategies for smart and sustainable housing, a first of its kind program stemming from President Obama's "Partnership for Sustainable Communities." Forty-five regional projects were approved for funding, including three in Illinois, one of which is in Chicago. HUD announced that the funding for Illinois, totally more than $6 million, will support the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning (CMAP), Tri-County Regional Planning Commission, Peoria, and Rockford Metropolitan Agency for Planning. Rep. Gutierrez fully supported the grant made to CMAP and worked with Rep. Mike Quigley to secure the funding. Of the $5 million originally requested to support CMAP, $4.25 million was awarded. Even though the grant is not specifically for the Congressman's Fourth District, he said it was an important to the city overall. "This is a solid federal investment in making Chicago greener, healthier, and more prosperous," Rep. Gutierrez said. "In order to be the best city in the world, we need to invest in economic competitiveness and the vibrancy of all of our neighborhoods. By connecting affordable housing with good jobs, quality schools, and efficient transportation, we create the building blocks for sustainable economic vitality." According to HUD's press release: The Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning grant will link transportation, land use, housing, economic growth, the natural environment, and human and community development, with the overarching goals of improving livability and bringing about sustainable prosperity. The agency will create a new program to instill the region’s existing GO TO 2040 plan and advance the GO TO 2040 Local Technical Assistance (LTA) program creates new resources for technical assistance and coordinates with existing technical assistance activities. It will result in a series of innovative, replicable neighborhood-based projects in the Chicago region that support livability principles, implement GO TO 2040 objectives, and build capacity in local communities. LTA’s focus on the community level is deliberate – in this region, land use regulation is a local responsibility, and the community level is where livability principles and place-based solutions must be applied. "For Chicago to be great, it needs great neighborhoods and for neighborhoods to be great they need people and businesses and the infrastructure to spark economic activity and jobs," Rep. Gutierrez said. "This grant money will help create more housing choices for families and make neighborhoods more attractive to business that can then employ those families. It is an holistic approach to economic development with sustainability at its heart." # # #
10.14.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL): – The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL): When I make important decisions I try to think about Roberto Clemente. Roberto Clemente had everything. A great career. A rifle arm. A big contract. Fans who adored him. And yet, he risked it all to help others. He made a decision that was entirely unselfish. A decision about the greater good of his people. He took on the dictator of Nicaragua, got on a small plane, overloaded with relief supplies, flew into a storm – and gave his life for others. I’m not here to compare myself to Clemente. Not at all. Few people will ever earn that comparison. But I am here to say that as I think about making a decision like running for Mayor of Chicago, I try to learn from his example. And the example he set was this: when you make a decision, do it based on what is best for your people. I love the City of Chicago. I would love to be Mayor of the City of Chicago, and I believe I could do great things for people. For Latinos, for African-Americans, for immigrants, for gays and lesbians, for every person in Chicago who wants a better future for themselves and their families. I believe I could make a difference. And I believe our campaign is in very strong shape. We have lots of funding, and commitments for more. We have plenty of signatures on petitions. We have enthusiasm and support and volunteers. We have a poll that says we are in a very strong position and that the Latino community in particular would rally to my candidacy. It’s an exciting and important opportunity. And so I have weighed that excitement and that opportunity and that possibility alongside of my current opportunity. And my current obligation. I’m honored to serve in Congress. My constituents have sent me back many times. I take their trust seriously. I’m humbled by it. And across this nation, immigrants are counting on me too. The people I’ve talked about today in detail. The people I’ve met in Jersey City and Tampa, in El Paso and San Jose, in Cleveland and Phoenix. Today, our immigrant community is under attack – but we’re fighting back. And I am fortunate enough to be on the frontlines of the battle. Fortunate to stand up for families that are being torn apart and moms and dads who are being deported. To have a direct line to the President of the United States to say “you have to do more.” To go to Phoenix to say “what you are doing here is unjust and must be stopped.” To walk the streets of Pilsen and Little Village and give people hope. To debate anti-immigrant leaders wherever we find them – from the ballot box to the television talk shows. It’s a tough time for those of us who believe in fairness for immigrants. But history is not written by those who give up. And history is not written by those who change battles in the middle of the fight. Today I tell you that I have an obligation to all of my constituents and all of the immigrant families I have met and learned from across this country. I have an obligation to not give up the fight for fairness, for justice and for finally passing comprehensive immigration reform. I have an obligation not to give up on the fight I’ve already begun. I have unfinished business to complete. So I will not be a candidate for Mayor of the City of Chicago. This is an extremely difficult decision, and I thank with all my heart the people who have been working so hard and supporting my candidacy. But it is a decision I make knowing it is the right thing to do. There is one and only one reason I am not running -- I’m already engaged in the most important battle I can commit my energy and time and devotion to winning. I am one-hundred percent committed to fighting for fairness and justice for immigrants, and to continue the battle for comprehensive immigration reform. Standing up for immigrants, and finishing this battle, and winning this fight is far more important than whatever personal disappointment I might feel in not making the race for Mayor of the City of Chicago. I love Chicago. I’ve reached out to other candidates today to tell them I’m not running and to wish them well. I will be engaged in this race and will still be a voice for fairness for all of the people of Chicago. For jobs. For better schools. For safe streets. But I will be that voice while I continue my obligations as Congressman and my crusade for comprehensive immigration reform. I know today – that even though I believe we would have mounted a great campaign, an important campaign, a winning campaign – this is the right decision for the people I represent and for people who count on me. So I thank you. Today is not the end of a fight – it’s the continuation of a struggle for justice – and I invite all of you to join me in this very important crusade. Because with all of you – together – we will win. Thank you very much. ###
10.06.2010	Letter from Reps. Gutierrez and Moore Points to Allegations Against Beneficiaries of TARP Funds Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Two House Financial Services Subcommittee Chairmen, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) and Rep. Dennis Moore (D-KS), called for an immediate investigation into the foreclosure practices of major lenders that received funds from the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Rep. Gutierrez, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, and Rep. Moore, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, said “there is already enough evidence of unwarranted foreclosures and irregularities by lenders and servicers to warrant full investigations into the practices of these financial institutions.” The letter was addressed to Special Inspector General of TARP Neil Barofsky, Senator Ted Kaufman (D-DE), the new Chairman of the Congressional Oversight Panel that oversees TARP, and Acting Comptroller General Gene L. Dodaro of the Government Accountability Office. The letter reads, in part: “Given the apparent widespread disregard of due diligence performed by major financial institutions in processing foreclosures, and given that most of these institutions were rescued by taxpayers through TARP and some remain dependent on taxpayer support, we respectfully request that your organizations initiate an immediate investigation into this matter. […] “The American people helped out these companies and the least they deserve is a guarantee of due process and fairness when faced with something as profoundly life-changing as a foreclosure. It is nothing short of a perversion of the system that these companies in turn put many of these American taxpayers on the street through unwarranted foreclosures and evictions. Your investigation will assist in holding these financial institutions accountable.” A copy of the letter is here . # # #
10.05.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) released letters exchanged between him and Senator Richard Durbin (D-IL) regarding the DREAM Act and comprehensive immigration reform. In Sen. Durbin's letter, dated September 30, 2010, the Senator praised Rep. Gutierrez for his "leadership in the fight to reform our nation's broken immigration system." Senator Durbin goes on to write, "Like you, I remain committed to passage of the DREAM Act this year." A copy of the Senator's letter is here. On October 5, 2010, Rep. Gutierrez replied with a letter that reads, in part, "I am proud that you, our senior Senator from Illinois, are a champion of immigrant students and immigrant workers and their families. Thank you for your leadership." A copy of the Congressman's letter is here . # # #
10.04.2010	Congressional Briefing Looks at Role of Government-Owned Mortgage Companies, Lenders and Community-Based Organizations Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) and Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL) convened a briefing in Chicago on efforts to provide relief to property owners facing foreclosure and the role of government-owned companies (e.g., Freddie and Fannie) in the mortgage and foreclosure crisis. With chaos in Chicago and around the country already -- compounded by confusion over the foreclosure practices of some of the country's biggest lenders -- the hearing was a forum for all sides to discuss the problems they are having with the current process and what can be done to fix these problems. "This is about keeping property values up, keeping streets safe, neighborhoods vibrant, and making sure we keep the economy moving forward to create jobs right here in Chicago," said Rep. Gutierrez, who Chairs the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit. "Even as few as two or three foreclosures in a neighborhood can dramatically lower property values, leaving vacant or boarded properties and driving families out and criminals in; so we have to arm community groups, local governments, and property owners with the tools to avoid foreclosures. And we need the federal and state governments working with the City of Chicago and the private sector to address the problem." The mix of local, state, federal, and private efforts to prevent home loan foreclosures presents a confusing and sometimes contradictory picture for consumers and lawmakers alike. Concerns have been raised about the efficacy of current foreclosure mitigation processes, including the role of government-owned companies in coordination with banks and community groups to prevent additional foreclosures and evictions. “With families across Chicago and the nation struggling, it is essential that we do everything we can to help keep Americans in their homes,” said Rep. Quigley, who represents the 5th Congressional District on Chicago's North Side. “This forum is an opportunity for all sides of the foreclosure debate to come together, communicate directly, and work toward solutions. I also want to thank Rep. Gutierrez for convening today’s panel and his continued commitment to helping Chicagoans through these tough times.” At the briefing, a panel City of Chicago elected officials, including Aldermen Richard Mell and Roberto Maldonado were joined by representatives of community-based groups that help consumers avoid foreclosures. They have often gone above and beyond the call of duty in counseling property owners and in mobilizing the community to ensure that property foreclosures do not negatively impact the surrounding neighborhoods and businesses. Representatives from the two federally-owned mortgage giants, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, were among the witnesses, as were representatives of Wells Fargo home mortgage and the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Representatives of Ally Financial, which has been at the center of the foreclosure documentation controversy nationwide (and in Illinois), were invited to testify, but did not attend the event. An empty chair was placed at the witness table to indicate Ally's no-show status. "Over the last few weeks we have seen a constant stream of reports that big mortgage lenders are not even processing the paperwork properly in a trillion dollar foreclosure industry that is preying on property owners," Rep. Gutierrez said. "I want to get some answers from the industry about why attorneys general. including Attorney General Madigan, are demanding that foreclosure proceedings be halted until further review." Reps. Quigley and Gutierrez praised the efforts of community-based organizations and local government officials, but said they would redouble their efforts in Washington to ensure that state and federal entities and big mortgage lenders in the private sector are doing their part. "I applaud Alderman Mell, Alderman Maldonado, and community groups like the LUCHA and the Albany Park Neighborhood Council for what they are doing," Rep. Gutierrez said. "But at the federal level, we need to make sure every entity is doing what they can to help those on the ground and in the cities and neighborhoods prevent foreclosures and help mitigate damage to the economy when they occur." ###
10.02.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez will address the 'One Nation Working Together rally and march from the steps of the Lincoln Memorial this afternoon (approximately 3:00 p.m.), joined by Rev. Darlene Nipper, Deputy Executive Director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force. The following are his remarks, as prepared for delivery: REP. LUIS V. GUTIERREZ Today, I want to talk about two important words: Hard Work. I want to talk about the men and women who clear the dishes in restaurants. The man who supports his family by working as a janitor. The women bent over sewing machines making our clothes -- the women caring for America’s children – the families picking America’s fruit. It’s hard work. Yet immigrants come to our nation to work at dangerous and sometimes demeaning jobs, to face the risk of discrimination and deportations. They come to do hard work. On TV news, we don’t see many pictures of the immigrant sweeping the floor in the hospital or caring for a sick child. But we see lots of pictures of scary invaders jumping over fences. Of prisoners in handcuffs. For too many people, the two words that come to mind when they think of immigrants are: Go Home. It’s our job to replace them with two words that tell the real story: Hard Work. The people who marched to this spot 47 years ago knew something about hard work. Because the struggle for fairness, for justice, for freedom is hard work too. Protecting our civil rights is hard work. And our immigrant struggle for civil rights is born of the African American struggle for rights. The Latino and immigrant struggle is not a reinvention of the civil rights movement, it is the continuation of the civil rights movement -- growing bigger, growing stronger, picking up new allies along the way, helping each other and letting "nobody turn us around." We cannot achieve justice for immigrants without the words and actions of Dr. King and his brothers and sisters. You don't get Cesar Chavez without Martin Luther King. You don’t get Sonia Sotomayor without Thurgood Marshall. You don't get Roberto Clemente without Jackie Robinson. You don't get Comprehensive Immigration Reform – without the Civil Rights Act. But we did get Sonya Sotomayor. And Roberto Clemente. And Cesar Chavez and – together – we will get Comprehensive Immigration Reform too. People always say the struggle is too hard, the goal too far away. But we know that the “arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice.” We know it’s true. We’ve seen it. It used to be illegal for workers to form a union. It used to be illegal for women to vote. It used to be illegal for blacks and whites to attend the same schools. But because we did the hard work – the arc of the moral universe bent. It bent toward workers' rights, and voting rights and housing rights. But right now – today -- it is illegal for millions of people who live in this country – who have children born in this country -- to work and dream and have the full rights -- and full responsibilities -- of citizenship in America. We are here today to work hard to keep bending that arc until it watches over every immigrant. And I won’t stop fighting until we turn on the news – even Fox news – and see pictures of immigrants doing hard work that makes America great. The fight for justice and jobs and civil rights is a movement. It is a family. A family of workers. Of gays and lesbians. Of Asian-Americans. Of African-Americans. Of women. And of every single immigrant to our nation. Abraham Lincoln, the man we built this memorial to, understood it already 150 years ago – A nation divided against itself cannot stand. So together – together -- as a family – we will rise up, we will stand and we will run toward justice for every American - whether they were lucky enough to be born here or ambitious enough to come here on their own. It’s hard work, but we can do it. Thank you all. # # #
09.30.2010	A March For Jobs, Justice, and Education Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez announced today that he will march and speak at the "One Nation Working Together" march on the National Mall on Saturday, October 2. He joins Rep. John Lewis (D-GA), an icon of the civil rights movement, as one of only two elected officials invited to speak. Rep. Gutierrez will address a pre-rally gathering of Latino and immigrant participants in the morning on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol and then march with them to the Lincoln Memorial. He will address the rally from the steps of the Lincoln Memorial in the afternoon. The "One Nation Working Together" event brings together a broad coalition of black, Latino, Asian, civil rights, feminist, gay and lesbian, union, and environmental organizations, with a crowd of over 100,000 people expected. "It is an honor to be invited and to be in the company of John Lewis who has blazed trail in American history that inspires me and so many others in the struggle for civil rights and justice," Rep. Gutierrez said. "At a time when our politics have become so divided, this march will be a chance to show America's unity. Working class and middle class people of all races, ethnicities, political parties, and geographies want the same things: good jobs, a good education for their kids, and a fair shot at succeeding without the barriers of discrimination, ostracism, or fear." The themes for the march are "jobs, justice and education," and Rep. Gutierrez said his remarks at the Lincoln Memorial will occur during the part of the program dedicated to the theme of "Justice." He said his remarks would not be political, but would appeal to the historic location of the event and the deep connections between the civil rights movement of the past and struggles we face today. "Decent housing, fair wages, basic rights, and a recognition of the humanity of everyone in our society are universal themes that are just as important today as when John Lewis and Dr. King spoke at the Lincoln Memorial 47 years ago," Gutierrez said. "Breaking down barriers for Latinos and immigrants and young people and working people are continuations of the civil rights struggle, part of the on-going work of the American people to ensure that our laws and our society comport with our highest ideals." The Congressman, who was awarded the Hispanic Heritage Award for Leadership on Wednesday at a Kennedy Center ceremony, is in his ninth term representing the Fourth District of Illinois on Chicago's West Side. He was born and raised in Chicago and his parents came originally from Puerto Rico and live there today. He is married with two adult children and one grandchild. ### Schedule: Pre-march gathering for Latino and immigrant marchers West Lawn, U.S. Capitol Grounds 10 - 11:00 am ET (Gutierrez remarks expected approx. 10:45 am) One Nation Working Together Main March Lincoln Memorial 12 - 4:00 p.m. ET (Gutierrez remarks expected 1:30 p.m.) More information: One Nation Working Together
09.30.2010	Senate Bill Parallels Congressional Hispanic Caucus Bill In House Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – As promised, Sen. Robert Menendez (D-NJ) introduced his comprehensive immigration reform bill in the Senate on Wednesday. Sen. Menendez was joined by Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-VT) as an original co-sponsor. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), the Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus' Task Force on Immigration and the principal author of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and Prosperity Act (CIR-ASAP, H.R. 4321), which has 103 co-sponsors in the House and has been endorsed by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The Senator and the rest of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus have been very clear: we need comprehensive immigration reform to reestablish law and order and reestablish sanity in our immigration system. Senator Menendez promised to lead us forward on the issue in the Senate and he has kept his promise. We need to get undocumented immigrants into the system because we do not have the capacity or the will to drive more than 10 million men, women, and children from our country and it is economic suicide and a moral crisis to continue trying to do so. We need legal ways for people to come to the U.S. for legitimate purposes that gives us control over the process and puts criminal smugglers out of business. We must make businesses follow the law and construct a visa system that provides an alternative to the illegal marketplace. And we need to target our resources on removing and keeping out those individuals who aim to do us harm or who do not play by the rules, but we need an efficient, fair process for those who -- like every generation of immigrants to these shores -- aim to build us up. We cannot achieve meaningful border security until we pass comprehensive immigration reform, so I applaud Sen. Menendez for moving us down the road towards a solution. Of course, the politics of immigration reform are ugly and will remain so as long as politicians see an advantage in stoking fears and dividing the American people on the issue. The fact is that we have been following the deportation-only side of this debate for decades and it has led to less law and less order and we need a new and more sensible approach. By modernizing our system and making legality and personal responsibility paramount, we can take control and make immigration work for 21st Century America the way it worked America in the 20th Century and before. The American people know that immigration is a uniquely American phenomenon that defines who we are as a nation. And Americans demand that it work for us on our terms. That is what comprehensive immigration reform will do. We have a plan that combines enforcement with legal channels; we have a plan that combines AGJOBS, with the DREAM Act, and provisions for families and employers and that demands that people already here get legal. And the sooner we make it clear that we have a sound plan that can pass and that will solve the problems we face, the sooner we can blow by the obstructionists who just want to fan the flames of an anxious electorate. In Washington, passing anything is next to impossible and passing serious, thoughtful legislation to solve a tough public policy issue is harder than that. But it starts with a first step. This bill and the bill we crafted in the House are steps towards resolving the immigration issue in a rational way. When stacked up against the fantasy of mass deportation or mass exodus for tens of millions of immigrants and their families, the common sense approach -- the comprehensive approach of making people play by the rules -- is the only path forward. ###
09.30.2010	Mayor Bloomberg, Rupert Murdoch Testify Before House Subcommittee on Immigration and the Economy Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) had the opportunity today to question New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg and News Corporation (Fox, Wall Street Journal) Chairman and CEO Rupert Murdoch on the role of immigrants in the American economy. As a Member of the Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law, Rep. Gutierrez welcomed the opportunity to highlight business, conservative, and Republican leading voices on the need for comprehensive immigration reform and addressed Mayor Bloomberg and Mr. Murdoch as "partners" in the fight for immigration reform. Mayor Bloomberg came to meet with Rep. Gutierrez about immigration reform at his Chicago office over the Martin Luther King holiday this year and they have talked on a number of occasions since then. They discussed strategies to broaden the coalition fighting for reform and to energize the majority of Republicans who favor the comprehensive approach to the deportation-only approach. "Mayor Bloomberg and I have had a chance to discuss immigration reform at length and he is taking on a national leadership role on the issue," Rep. Gutierrez said. "As a Mayor, a business leader, and a Republican, he has the ability to exert a great deal of influence on the immigration debate and to make it less partisan and divisive and to get us closer to a solution." Rep. Gutierrez is also a regular guest on the Fox News Channel and Fox Business Channel, both as the leading voice for immigration reform in the U.S. Congress and as Chair of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit. Mr. Murdoch has joined Mayor Bloomberg as a Republican and business leader speaking out in support of comprehensive immigration reform, even if that means paying higher wages to all workers across the board. "Mr. Murdoch is an employer, a very influential conservative, and an immigrant citizen himself, so his voice in support of comprehensive immigration reform is very, very welcome," Rep. Gutierrez said. "I go on Fox News all the time and I wish Mr. Murdoch could go on with me sometime so that his own message on immigration could reach his considerable audience." ###
09.29.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Medical Debt Relief Act (H.R. 3421), which would expunge paid-off medical debts from consumer credit reports. The Medical Debt Relief Act was introduced by Rep. Mary Jo Kilroy (D-OH) on July 30, 2009 and has 107 co-sponsors, including Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL). It would help American families whose credit reports have been damaged by medical debts, but who have since paid them off. Credit reports, used in a variety of ways in the modern day economy, can prevent people from getting jobs or otherwise impede a family's ability to support itself. As Chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, Rep. Gutierrez has chaired three hearings this year on the use and impact of credit information on consumers and recently held a town hall meeting in Chicago on the use of credit reports for employment purposes. The following is a statement by Rep. Gutierrez: "Medical debt affects millions of hard-working Americans who have their lives and financial histories turned upside down because a catastrophic health problem or an insurance company decision puts them in the hole. Then, for years after they have paid off the debt, they still pay the price on their credit reports. We started to put an end to that today. I applaud Representative Kilroy for her perseverance in pursuing this vital legislation and I call on the Senate to act expeditiously so that this important bill becomes the law of the land as soon as possible." ###
09.29.2010	In Introducing American Community Investment Reform Act of 2010, Gutierrez Joined by Reps. Maxine Waters, Al Green, Eddie Bernice Johnson Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chair of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, introduced the American Community Investment Reform Act of 2010 (ACIRA), a bill he authored that will modernize and update the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). He was joined as an original co-sponsor by Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA), Chair of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), and Rep. Al Green (D-TX). "Traditional lending covered under CRA didn't cause the current economic crisis, despite all of the heated Republican rhetoric to the contrary. Instead, it was the failure to include more of the financial services industry under the standards of CRA that contributed to this crisis or at least made it much worse," Rep. Gutierrez said. "We've learned that had mortgage brokers, the subsidiaries of bank holding companies, and those that helped to finance so many of these toxic, predatory mortgages been held to the standards of the CRA, we might have avoided this crisis. That's one of the main goals of this bill." The ACIRA updates the CRA to reflect the changes that have occurred within the financial services marketplace since the CRA became law in 1977. Specifically, ACIRA would: Expand the CRA beyond banks to the institutions that provide financial products in the modern financial services marketplace; Strengthen the examination process to decrease the current problem of grade inflation and require regulators to give negative CRA credit to institutions that offer products that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) finds to be unfair or deceptive; Encourage safe and responsible lending in our communities through the creation of a "Community Development" test in addition to the current "Lending, Investment and Service" tests. Create an "Outstanding" rating to award banks for a genuine and extraordinary commitment to their community along with restructuring the current rating system to reduce grade inflation and add more opportunities to enforce the CRA. Make the ratings and review process of financial institutions more open to public review and comment. "The CRA has done a good job of making capital available to working class, low-income, and middle class neighborhoods and we need more of that, not less," Gutierrez said. "This is an important first step on the road to reforming and modernizing the CRA to better meet the needs of our communities and address the new financial marketplace. We are laying the groundwork for next year, identifying priorities, and evaluating what we have been able to fix and what remains to be fixed in our financial markets. Making the economy healthy, inclusive, and equitable for the long haul is the goal and this bill contributes to achieving it." ###
09.28.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – On Wednesday, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez will be honored at the 24th Annual Hispanic Heritage Awards ceremony held at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, DC. The glitzy ceremony will feature musical performances and celebrity appearances, including film and TV actress, America Ferrera. Rep. Gutierrez is receiving the Foundation's "Leadership Award," which was awarded last year to Sen. Robert Menendez (D-NJ). "I am humbled by the honor and to join those who have gone before me," Rep. Gutierrez said. "Fighting for immigration reform and fair treatment of America's working families is as hard a job as it has ever been. When you see how unpopular the U.S. Congress is and when you read the hate mail my office gets every day from the vocal minority in the anti-immigrant and anti-Latino crowd, it's nice to get a little recognition and be with people who appreciate what we are trying to do to make America better, more welcoming, and more just." In a press release, Jose Antonio Tijerino, President and CEO of Hispanic Heritage Foundation (HHF), said "More than ever, it is important for HHF, our partners and sponsors to promote the accomplishments and contributions of Latinos, which will help America move forward.” According to the event's organizers, "The Hispanic Heritage Awards are considered the highest honor for Latinos by Latinos and what makes the program unique is how cultural superstars stand alongside physicians, educators, public officials, community and business leaders, and even young leaders, in celebration of their achievements." ###
09.27.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) – On Monday, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez will join Alderman Ricardo Muñoz and regional leaders of FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) to encourage anyone who is eligible for FEMA relief related to the July floods in Chicago to do so before the deadline of October 18, 2010. There has been a certain amount of confusion, especially in the Latino community hardest hit by the flooding, about who can and cannot apply for FEMA relief and what the process entails. FEMA, a division of the Department of Homeland Security, can be an intimidating bureaucracy to access; especially for immigrants, those for whom English is not a first language, or those who may live in sub-standard housing. Alderman Muñoz and Congressman Gutierrez will explain the rules and procedures and announce the help they are providing through their offices to flood victims in conjunction with FEMA officials. Families who have already gone through the process of applying for and receiving FEMA benefits will also be on hand to relate their experiences about what the process does -- and does not -- entail. The event will be held in Piotrowski Park, in the heart of the area of Chicago most affected by the torrential rains that caused widespread flooding and damage in July of this year. Homeowners, renters, and business owners may be eligible for FEMA disaster aid. To qualify, eligible individuals must submit the forms by October 18, 2010. Additional information can be found on the flyers below. Constituents from the 4th Congressional District are invited to reach out to the Chicago office at (773) 342-0774 with additional questions. ### Information for individuals seeking FEMA benefits Disaster Assistance Made Easy - English FEMA Assistance - English FEMA Assistance - Spanish FEMA Disaster Aid Application - English FEMA Disaster Aid Application - Spanish FEMA Disaster Assistance on Wednesdays - English FEMA Disaster Assistance on Saturdays - English
09.23.2010	"Relying Upon Credit Reports [in Hiring] Will Continue to Have a Harmful Impact..." Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chair of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, convened a Subcommittee Hearing on H.R. 3149, the Equal Employment for All Act, a bill introduced by Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN) in July 2009 that has 55 co-sponsors, including Chairman Gutierrez. The following is Chairman Gutierrez' opening statement. The “Equal Employment for All Act” was introduced by Representative Steve Cohen on July 9, 2009 and currently has 55 co-sponsors. I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of this bill and to have discussed its importance at hearings, briefings and town hall meetings. This legislation, if enacted, would be a significant step forward in eliminating unfair hiring practices and open up more good jobs to those unemployed Americans who, aside from a poor credit report, are otherwise qualified to do these jobs. H.R. 3149 would amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) to prohibit an employer from using a consumer report for either employment purposes or for making an adverse action -including promotions, transfers and terminations- if the report contains information that bears upon the consumer’s creditworthiness, credit standing, or credit capacity. This prohibition applies even if the consumer consents to the use or procurement of a consumer report for employment purposes or in connection with an adverse action concerning employment. The bill provides certain exemptions to this prohibition that we feel are proper, including jobs that require a national security or FDIC clearance, jobs with a state or local governmental agency that specifically require a credit check, or employment that is at a supervisory, managerial, professional or executive level at a financial institution or is otherwise specifically required by law. This legislation does not prohibit the use of background screening for a criminal background, even when it is not required by law. This subcommittee has held two hearings this year - on March 24 and May 12 - in which we reviewed the methodology, impact of and the use of consumer reports under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) and discussed the potential impact of H.R. 3149, along with other reform proposals. We heard from various industry representatives, consumer advocates and others. More recently, on August 30, I held a town hall meeting in Chicago that was attended by hundreds who came from Detroit, Boston, L.A. and elsewhere to express their concerns about the increasingly widespread use of credit checks for employment purposes. This practice unfairly hurts the chances of otherwise qualified candidates to get a job. Credit reports are simply inappropriate for use in most hiring decisions. An individual’s credit history is often marred by circumstances beyond their control, such as income loss, medical problems and the breakup of families which often leads to bankruptcy. The Consumer Bankruptcy Project has estimated that 85% of bankruptcies are caused by these issues and a bankruptcy can have a strongly negative impact on your credit report. The industry’s own studies indicate that bankruptcy, when noted in a credit report, is something that potential employers take into account when making employment decisions. Along with many others in Congress, I am concerned that relying upon credit reports will continue to have a harmful impact on many, especially on communities of color as minorities have disproportionately worse credit reports even when income is taken into consideration. No fewer than 8 separate studies in the past 15 years conducted by the Federal Reserve, the Federal Trade Commission, the Brookings Institution and Fair Isaac itself have documented the disproportionately lower report quality of minorities. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has repeatedly expressed their concern that the use of credit reports for employment purposes might violate Title VII of the Civil Rights Act. Even if there is no overt bias on the part of an employer against an applicant based on their credit report, there is the potential for a subconscious bias against those who have more negative data on their reports versus those who do not. You simply cannot tell a person’s character, integrity or how well they will perform their job by looking at their credit report. A credit report should not be one of the determining factors of whether someone gets hired. The fact that someone has a credit report that is not superior to another job candidate does not make them less able to do the work at an office or a factory nor does it make them more or less likely to steal from their employer. Four states, including my own state of Illinois, have already passed legislation at the state level that will ban the widespread use of credit reports for employment purposes. Seventeen other states have legislation on this topic pending before them as well. Congress should act to make these sensible protections available to all Americans, not just those lucky enough to live in a state that is willing to protect them from this practice. We have heard testimony from the Consumer Data Industry Association (CDIA), from Experian, TransUnion and Equifax, from FICO and VantageScore and others about how credit reports are prepared and used. Among other witnesses, today we will hear from the National Association of Professional Background Screeners (NAPBS) about how its members use, prepare and provide background checks and consumer reports to employers. We will also hear from the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) about how its members use a current or prospective employee’s consumer or credit report to make employment related decisions. I welcome and thank the witnesses who are appearing with us today. ###
09.21.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) issued the following statement after a cloture vote in the Senate on the National Defense Authorization Act, S.3454, failed to gain the 60 votes needed to proceed with the debate. The vote, generally along party lines, means that the DREAM Act immigration bill (S.729, sponsored by Sen. Richard Durbin) will not proceed as hoped for this week. The Republicans squawked about procedure and insisted on being able to debate every aspect of the Defense Bill thoroughly, but they showed their true stripes when they proposed a process of debate of unlimited amendments -- as long as no amendments were related to immigration. They do not want to debate immigration, they do not want to defend their mass-deportation approach, and they will do almost anything to avoid even discussing it with Democrats or the American people. All we need is a small handful of relatively brave Republican Senators to step up to let the debate move forward, which could happen tomorrow if they choose to put the people before politics. Senators would rather whine about election year politics and the boogeyman of "amnesty" than to do what is right for America's men and women in uniform and the young immigrants who dream of embracing the only county they have ever known. The fight is not over and I will continue to support Sens. Harry Reid, Dick Durbin and Bob Menendez in their efforts to make the DREAM Act a reality. Rep. Gutierrez chairs the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) and is the principal author of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and Prosperity Act (CIR-ASAP/H.R. 4321), a comprehensive immigration reform bill with 103 co-sponsors that is supported by the CHC and which includes a version of the DREAM Act among its provisions. ###
09.21.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington) - Below is a letter from Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) that was sent to every U.S. Senator today regarding today's vote on a Motion to Proceed on the Defense Reauthorization Bill (National Defense Authorization Act, S.3454) and inclusion of the DREAM Act (S. 729) immigration bill as an amendment. The letter reads in part: "I believe there are at least 218 votes in the House to pass the DREAM Act. President Obama and the Pentagon have voiced their strong support for including the DREAM Act within the National Defense Authorization Act. An affirmative vote in the Senate would bring these exceptional young people one step closer toward fulfilling their dreams. The only thing standing in the way of giving these kids a fighting chance in adulthood is an affirmative vote in the Senate on the DREAM Act. We have already begun to hear the excuses from those who would wish our immigration, high school drop-out and military recruitment challenges away, rather than lead our nation to solve the problems we were sent to Washington to solve. We have heard the cynical political talk of naysayers--who selfishly benefit from inaction--so often we could script it ourselves. The only way our country, our military and our economy will benefit from all these students have to offer is if you vote to support them." Letter from Rep. Luis Gutierrez to Senators Regarding DREAM Act
09.16.2010	"There are at least 218 votes in the House to pass the DREAM Act. The House is ready to act." Gutierrez says. Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) met with President Barack Obama and Sen. Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and Rep. Nydia Velázquez (D-NY) at the White House today to discuss plans for moving immigration reform legislation forward this year before Election Day. The meeting comes one day after the three Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus laid out their fall strategy to get the DREAM Act immigration bill approved as a starting point for broader immigration reform (see the release from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus here) and one day after President Obama, in a speech to the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute's annual awards gala said: "You have every right to keep the heat on me and keep the heat on the Democrats, and I hope you do," referring to immigration. "But don't forget who is standing with you, and who is standing against you." "I think the White House, the Democrats, and the allies that support serious immigration reform are going on offense and the President is our quarterback," Rep. Gutierrez said after the White House meeting Thursday. "I have been pushing hard to get us all pointing in the same direction on this issue and now with the White House standing with us and the Senate poised to act, I think we are seeing that effort begin to bear fruit. There are at least 218 votes in the House to pass the DREAM Act. The House is ready to act. We call on the Senate to pass the bill." Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) announced Tuesday that there would be a clean up or down vote on the DREAM Act in the Senate as part of the Defense Department reauthorization bill in the coming week or two. Sen. Menendez announced this week that he intends to introduce a comprehensive immigration reform bill in the Senate as soon as possible. Today, the three Members of Congress also spoke to the President about the 400,000 deportations occurring each year and the need to concentrate on only serious violent criminals. At least half of those deportations are non-criminals and are splitting families apart. "This was a big day, a big week and the next couple of weeks will be a turning point for immigration reform," Rep. Gutierrez said. "We know the clock is ticking, we know Republicans are being pressured to say 'no' to everything -- including sensible Democratic solutions that solve big national problems -- but we also know the country wants and needs a secure, legal, and fair immigration system that protects and serves the American people and strengthens the economy. Getting a vote on the DREAM Act is a step in that process that could help a lot of very talented young people achieve their American Dream." Senator Menendez, Chair of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, is a key leader on immigration and the only Hispanic Member of the U.S. Senate. Rep. Velázquez is the Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC). For all of his 18 years in the House, Rep. Gutierrez has been the leading voice calling for comprehensive immigration reform, halting deportations that rip families apart, providing relief for undocumented immigrant youth brought to the U.S., and instituting a fair and generous immigration policy for the nation. He introduced the first bill aimed at helping young undocumented immigrants gain access to higher education and legal status, a bill which was the forerunner of the DREAM Act that the Senate will consider in the coming week or two. On May 1 of this year, when DREAM Act students marched from Florida to Washington to call attention to the plight of immigrant youth, Rep. Gutierrez was arrested at a demonstration outside the White House to support their advocacy and to take their place symbolically so that they would not risk deportation if arrested themselves. In 2005, he was part of the bipartisan team that crafted landmark immigration reform legislation that was approved by the Senate in 2006 but blocked by House Republican Leaders. That team included Senators Ted Kennedy (D-MA) and John McCain (R-AZ) and two House Republicans from Arizona and Rep. Gutierrez has continued to work with Members of Congress in both parties to craft and introduce subsequent bills. In 2009 he launched a tour of American cities called the "Family Unity" tour to focus on the massive deportation program breaking families apart and the inability of family members to immigrate to the U.S. legally. The tour brought the stories of immigrant communities to light and created a platform for national immigration reform allies like Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and civil rights icon Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) to speak out on the issue. This effort brought out tens of thousands of immigrants across the country and kept the pressure on the (then) new Obama Administration to follow-through on immigration reform. In 2009, Rep. Gutierrez, who chairs the Immigration Task Force of the CHC, crafted the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and Prosperity Act, a comprehensive immigration reform bill based largely on his previous bipartisan immigration reform bills. The bill, known as CIR-ASAP (H.R. 4321), has 103 House co-sponsors and is supported by the CHC. # # #
08.30.2010	Congressional Briefing and Town Hall on H.R. 3149, the Equal Employment for All Act Statement by Rep. Luis Gutierrez Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) - At a time when Americans’ credit histories are being wrecked by job loss, foreclosures and medical debt, more and more employers are using credit checks as a way to screen out job applicants. Civil rights and consumer groups contend that credit checks result in discrimination against African Americans and Latinos, while also placing job seekers in a “Catch-22” – unable to pay their bills because they don’t have a job, and unable to get a job because they can’t pay their bills. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez held a Congressional Briefing and Town Hall on the Equal Employment for All Act, H.R. 3149, sponsored by Rep. Steve Cohen (D- TN) and co-sponsored by Rep. Gutierrez that would ban employment credit checks and put Americans back to work. The briefing highlighted the need to break the vicious cycle caused by credit checks, coming just three weeks after Gov. Quinn signed an Illinois State bill that prohibits this unfair practice that results in discrimination. Monday’s hearing will launch a national legislative campaign to take credit histories out of the employment process. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit. Welcome everyone. First of all I would like to thank you all for coming today, especially those of you who have traveled here from Detroit, Boston and Los Angeles to participate in today’s event. I would also like to thank UNITE HERE! and Henry Tamarin for helping to organize this town hall and the good people of the First United Methodist Church for generously allowing us to use their sanctuary for this event today. We're here today to speak about the use of your credit reports by potential employers to determine whether or not you should be hired. Your credit report is a compilation of your credit history, including things like your payment history and use of credit cards, car loans and mortgages. But a credit report isn't limited to your current accounts. It includes when one of your accounts has gone into collection, as well as if you've ever filed for bankruptcy, had a lien or a judgment against you. The amount of negative information on these reports has increased dramatically: according to the Federal Reserve, since the beginning of this year, the number of people with foreclosures on their reports is up 8.7% and the number of reported bankruptcies has risen a remarkable 34%. It hasn't only been the effect of the recession over the past few years. The number of people who have collections on their credit reports has doubled over the last ten years. Today, 14% of all consumers have a collection on their report. Now, all of this information might be and should be useful to a loan officer at a bank who is deciding whether or not to give you that car loan or what rate your mortgage could be. But your credit reports are also being used for a much different purpose. As the economy has worsened and employers have more and more applicants to choose from for each job, they are increasingly using your credit report to determine whether or not you should be hired. A recent survey by the Society for Human Resource Management indicated that 60% of employers now run credit checks on job applicants, and 76% of them run a check after you've been hired for the job! They appear to feel that by looking at your credit report, it can tell them your character, whether or not you can perform the job well and whether or not you will rob or steal from them. I couldn't disagree with this concept more. Credit reports can in no way tell an employer how well you can do a job nor can they give an adequate idea of how likely you'd be to steal from someone or some company. How do you think Bernie Madoff's credit report looked? What about Ken Lay, the executive who destroyed Enron? You cannot tell the character of a person by their credit report and it should not be one of the determining factors of whether you get hired. Just because someone has build up debt or missed a few payments because of the illness of a loved one or because they've been a victim of a predatory mortgage does not make them less able to do the work at an office or a factory, nor does it make them more likely to steal from their employer. That's the reason that I'm an original co-sponsor of H.R. 3149, the Equal Employment for All Act introduced by Rep. Steve Cohen that would prohibit the use of credit reports in all but a few job positions where we believe it is absolutely necessary. Background criminal checks may be relevant and should be allowed for circumstances like uncovering a criminal conviction when applying for a job in, say, banking or a nursing home. This legislation does not prohibit these kinds of background checks, it only prohibits using credit reports to make employment decisions. I'm glad to be working with Unite Here!, the National Council of La Raza, the Lawyers Committee on Civil Rights and many others to get this important protection for workers into place. The unemployment rate in Illinois right now is 10.5%, higher than the national average of 9.5%. Congress must do everything that we can to eliminate one more stumbling block for the unemployed to get the jobs they need to take care of their families. Illinois has already led the nation by passing similar legislation offered by Rep. Jack Franks and Sen. Don Harmon that was signed into law earlier this month by Gov. Quinn. 47 years ago, the Reverend Martin Luther King Jr. said that he looked forward to a time when we are judged by the content of our character, not by the color of our skin. I and those who join with me in this effort look forward to a day when a potential employee is judged by the content of his character as well, and not by the content of his credit report. In the next few weeks when we return to Washington I will work with Rep. Cohen and the others who support this bill to get the nation to follow Illinois' lead and get this legislation passed out of the Financial Services Committee and the U.S. House of Representatives. Thank you again for being here today. We're now going to hear from our panelists, some of whom have traveled a very long way to be with us today. ###
08.27.2010	Claims of "Amnesty" or Legalization are Overblown and Prey on Emotions Surrounding Immigration Debate Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE(Washington, DC) – Reports in the Houston Chronicle, the New York Times, and elsewhere have characterized a policy change instituted by the Department of Homeland Security's Immigration and Customs Enforcement bureau. The headlines read that ICE is halting the removal proceedings of certain immigrants in the process of being deported, but some have misinterpreted this to mean there is some new immigration policy in effect, a new path to legal status, a new protection from deportation, and none of those are actually true. A copy of the memo encouraging ICE authorities to use their discretion in certain circumstances is here. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a leading advocate for immigration reform. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has instructed their officials to stop wasting time and money trying to deport people who qualify for legal immigration status under current U.S. immigration law. It is that simple. It is a sensible and very narrow way of addressing a long-standing problem in our immigration bureaucracy; namely that one part of the Department of Homeland Security is sometimes trying to deport someone who is already being considered for legal status by another part of DHS and this will resolve those discrepancies without burdening the already overloaded immigration courts. There is no legalization. There is no new way to "get legal" or new way to fight or prevent deportation. All of those affected by this sensible change in policy have to have a legitimate claim to legal status anyway under existing law. This is simply making sure that the government doesn't go through the expense of trying to deport someone before eventually determining that they won't be deported, saving time and a lot of money before reaching the same outcome in the end. For example, if someone married to a U.S. citizen would qualify for a green card based on that relationship, the new policy allows ICE authorities to close those deportation proceedings, which would eventually happen anyway for such an individual, if the ICE authorities are able to certify that the immigrant has no criminal record. According to John Morton, the Assistant Secretary in charge of Immigration and Customs Enforcement within the Department of Homeland Security, this could affect around 17,000 individuals currently in the process of having their deportations adjudicated. The U.S. detained 383,524 foreign nationals in 2009, deported 393,289 people, and there are an estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S., so this is a small drop in the bucket in terms of the bigger issues. With the immigration court docket overwhelmed by a record backlog of cases, a record number of deportation proceedings, a record number of deportations, and a record number of immigrants in immigration detention, this administrative streamlining will clear a little space on the docket of the courts, which will, unfortunately, be used to deport more people who actually are deportable. All of the talk about some "backdoor amnesty" or a "new way for immigrants to get legal" are lies, exaggerations, or cynical attempts to fan the emotional flames of the immigration debate. These claims come from two sources: the anti-immigration side that wants to stir up opposition to any sort of sensible reform; and unscrupulous lawyers or purveyors of immigration advice and services who might prey on the hopes undocumented immigrants have for some sort of legal status. It is important that the news media not mischaracterize what this minor policy change is actually about. ###
08.11.2010	Illinois Delegation Leads Effort to Fund and Preserve Critical Holocaust Historic Site Media Contacts: Rep. Gutierrez: Douglas Rivlin: (202) 225-8203 Rep. Quigley: Ben Strauss: (202) 225-4061 Rep. Schakowsky: Sarah Baldauf: (202) 226-6898 Illinois Holocaust Museum: Jamie Crain: (312) 573-5484 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) – Chicago and Illinois leaders, dignitaries, Holocaust survivors, diplomats and Members of Congress gathered at the Illinois Holocaust Museum and Education Center in Skokie to mark the recent announcement by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton that the U.S. government would invest $15 million in the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation in Poland to preserve and maintain the site of one of the most notorious death camps of the Holocaust. The grant, which will be paid out in five years beginning in 2012, will help protect the Auschwitz-Birkenau site as a museum and historical site of conscience, thereby preserving the memory of the Holocaust. The Polish and German Consuls General in Chicago attended the event along with leaders of the Jewish and Polish communities in the Chicago area. The President of the Illinois Holocaust Museum's Board, Fritzie Fritzshall, herself a Holocaust survivor, also spoke at the event. Forty-five House Members signed a letter in September 2009 to Secretary Clinton urging the U.S. government to contribute to the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation. Three of the Chicago-area Members of Congress who signed that letter, Representatives Luis V. Gutierrez, Mike Quigley, and Jan Schakowsky, also attended and spoke at the event held Wednesday morning. "As a Jewish American, I feel deeply the importance of preserving the Auschwitz-Birkenau site in Poland," said Rep. Jan Schakowsky, whose Congressional District includes the Illinois Holocaust Museum. "It is essential that we preserve that terrible place – where the systematic murder of Jews occurred during the Holocaust – as a permanent reminder that we must never revisit history’s darkest hour. It is fitting that we meet here today at the Holocaust Museum and Education Center, which is dedicated to the same mission and in Skokie, a place where so many Holocaust survivors found a new home. We must never forget the lives lost during the Holocaust and we must honor their memory by preventing future genocides." “This summer, I visited the Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial in Poland and saw first-hand a place that witnessed such staggering human suffering and loss of life,” said Rep. Quigley. “I left with a renewed commitment to preserving the memory of what happened inside those walls and I thank the Obama Administration for joining in that effort, one that has great significance to Americans, Jews, and Poles alike.” "When I heard about the disrepair and the jeopardy facing the Auschwitz-Birkenau site, I wanted to do something, said Rep. Gutierrez, who spearheaded the bipartisan House effort. "So I reached out to my colleagues in the House to get a letter to the President and Secretary Clinton. The response was great, especially from my colleagues in Illinois. I think there is a special connection to Poland and special connection to the events of the Holocaust here in the Chicagoland area, so it is fitting and appropriate that the Illinois delegation took the lead." In addition to Reps. Schakowsky and Quigley, the Gutierrez letter urging the U.S. government to contribute to the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation was signed by Illinois Reps. Daniel Lipinski, Bobby Rush, and Aaron Schock. The letter, addressed to Secretary of State Clinton and dated September 16, 2009, reads in part. "Too many turned a blind eye to the Nazi's genocide during this dark period in our history. An international symbol of the profound horrors that were committed, Auschwitz-Birkenau was the site of more than 1.1 million murders through systematic starvation, forced labor, individual execution, and gas chambers. The United States must be a leader in the fight against hatred and bigotry by safeguarding an honest record of our history, so that future generations may learn from it. We simply cannot afford to neglect the preservation of this rapidly degrading site." Secretary Clinton announced the $15 million grant in July of this year, which will be part of a 120 million Euro endowment for the preservation of the historic site. ###
07.30.2010	Stresses Need for Legislation Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) applauded Thursday's announcement by Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Chairman Jon Leibowitz of a new FTC Final Rule to protect consumers of debt relief services. “The FTC Final Rule will help provide fairness to consumers of debt relief services and transparency to the business of debt settlement companies. It is a welcome and much-need measure," Gutierrez said. The FTC Final Rule, and further information on the Rule, is available at: https://ftc.gov/opa/2010/07/tsr.shtm In May, Rep. Gutierrez, Chair of the House Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, introduced the “Debt Settlement Consumer Protection Act” (H.R. 5387), a bill that would protect consumers from opportunists that claim to provide debt settlement assistance. H.R. 5387 would amend the Consumer Credit Protection Act to provide for regulation of debt settlement services by, among other things, mandating greater disclosure to consumers, limiting fees that debt settlement firms can charge, and providing additional enforcement power to state and federal officials to crack down on abusive and predatory companies. The Gutierrez bill is the House companion to a bill recently introduced by Senator Charles Schumer (D-NY) in the Senate. "The debt settlement industry practice of misleading and preying on consumers is widespread and simply unconscionable. Companies are taking advantage of consumers when they are at their weakest and the lack of sufficient oversight and regulation from the government is a combination that is a recipe for disaster. I welcome the new FTC rule to address this situation at the regulatory level. At the same time, legislation is needed in order to fully protect consumers of debt relief services and help us crack down on these scam artists. My bill, H.R. 5387, aims to do just that,” said Rep. Gutierrez, whose subcommittee has held hearings on the use of credit information and its impact on consumers. He said he plans to address consumer protection issues through comprehensive legislation later in the year. # # #
07.28.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – This afternoon’s ruling regarding Arizona's S.B. 1070 on the basis of federal preemption will prevent certain aspects of the law from going into effect at midnight tonight. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Taskforce on Immigration of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and the principal author of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and Prosperity Act (CIR-ASAP or H.R. 4321), which has more than 100 Democratic co-sponsors in the House. I am pleased that the judge ruled to block the most egregious parts of the Arizona law. Arresting people based on their appearance and holding them until you can investigate their immigration status is patently un-American and unconstitutional. The federal government should set and enforce a uniform, national immigration law and this will help head off the rush to having 50 state laws and hundreds of county and municipal laws. The lawsuit is part of the federal government asserting its preeminence, and the Obama Administration is absolutely right to sue Arizona and any other state that makes the same mistake. But the next step is just as important: the federal government should reform the laws so that there are clear rules that immigrants, employers, state and local governments and everyone else can actually follow. The Democrats have a plan on the table to end illegal immigration and establish the rule of law and so far, not one Republican in either the Senate or the House is doing anything to help. We need the President, the Speaker of the House, the Majority Leader in the Senate and the whole Democratic Party to call their bluff and move legislation forward. We will see who is really for legal immigration, law and order, and a national system to regulate, not scapegoat, immigrants and immigration. The President should call us all together tomorrow so we can respond with a clear federal solution to put before both Houses of Congress immediately. That is the proper response to Arizona's law and the lawsuit. ###
07.22.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), participated in a U.S. Capitol press conference with other Members of the House and Senate to call on President Obama to appoint Harvard University Professor Elizabeth Warren to the post of Director of the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Rep. Gutierrez is Chair of the Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee and was a conferee that helped work out the final House/Senate version of the "Dodd-Frank" Wall Street Reform bill that created the CFPB. The following is his opening statement from today's press conference: Yesterday was a historic day, as President Obama signed into law the landmark Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. I am proud to have contributed to this legislation that will benefit and protect consumers and taxpayers. But the success of this legislation depends in large part on the agencies that must implement its mandates. One of the lynchpins of this law is the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). In Congress, we created the framework and basic contours of this new agency. But the person who will be the first Director of this new agency will be responsible for truly shaping the agency and its role, through vision, leadership, experience, and knowledge. That first Director should be Professor Elizabeth Warren. This new agency needs a captain who knows the ins and outs of the ship. Who envisioned it even before its creation. Who helped build it. Who fought tenaciously against others who would have rather crafted an unstable or unseaworthy ship, or no ship at all. Who battled those who attempted to carve out exceptions that would have turned the ship into an empty vessel. Who knows full well where the financial icebergs and economic shoals are likely to be. And whose moral compass is set to the interests of the consumer and of Main Street, and who won't be distracted by the siren songs of Wall Street and their lobbyists. I can't think of a better captain than Elizabeth Warren. Can someone else do an acceptable job as the new director of the CFPB? Sure. But why settle for anything less than the best? Elizabeth Warren is simply the best. I strongly urge President Obama to appoint Professor Warren as the first Director of the CFPB. # # #
07.21.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – The President signed the Wall Street Reform bill into law today at a Washington ceremony attended by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the House Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee and a conferee on the committee that hammered out the final House-Senate version of the "Dodd-Frank" bill. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez: We have accomplished a lot in this Congress and the Wall Street reform bill is one of the most important achievements on behalf of taxpayers and consumers. It sets in place the structures that will help prevent the kind of economic meltdown that started a few years ago when oversight and accountability in the financial markets and on Wall Street completely collapsed. The regulations, laws, and oversight bodies this legislation puts in place will create the accountability the American taxpayers deserve and demand. I fought hard for a strong consumer financial protection agency and think Elizabeth Warren would be an excellent choice to lead it. We were able to secure new transparency rules for people wiring remittances internationally that will help protect consumers, especially immigrants. We stood up for the smaller community banks that help drive the economy and invest in small businesses in neighborhoods like the ones in my Chicago district. We also increased the level of insured deposits under FDIC to modernize the level of protection for consumers. The benefits of this legislation will pay out to taxpayers and consumers for many years to come but the confidence it gives Americans that there is a new era of oversight and accountability with regard to financial institutions should be immediate. It is an example of what this President and this Congress can achieve when we roll up our sleeves and get to work. I hope we are able to put the same level of effort into other matters of critical importance to the American people before Election Day, not the least of which is comprehensive immigration reform to address border security and fix our immigration system. # # #
07.19.2010	With help from Rep. Gutierrez, Dream of Citizenship and Voting Finally Fulfilled for Mexican Immigrant Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago) – Ignacia Moya is one of the oldest and newest Americans. Today, at a ceremony in the Pilsen neighborhood of Chicago, Mrs. Moya, age 106, raised her right hand and swore the oath of citizenship and became a U.S. citizen. The event was sponsored by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) who helped Mrs. Moya -- and several members of the Moya family -- through the citizenship process. It was also attended by local elected officials, including Alderman Daniel Solis, Alderman Ricardo Munoz, Cook County Commissioner-Elect Jesus Garcia, and by officials from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service. "She told me she wanted to vote and that she needed our help to navigate the immigration and citizenship process, so that's when my office stepped in," said Rep. Gutierrez, whose office was in touch with USCIS to keep the application moving through the bureaucracy. "It was her sincere wish that she be able to vote in the nation she adopted more than 30 years ago and that makes me very proud of my country." Mrs. Moya is originally from Mexico and has lived in the U.S. since the 1970s. She had previously applied for citizenship in 1986, but her English-language skills prevented her from passing the examinations. Now, with failing eyesight and hearing, she was granted a special waiver at Congressman Gutierrez' request and completed the final interview with USCIS officials on Friday. She also recently received certification from the Chicago Police Department that she has been crime free for at least the last five years. "She wanted it and you really have to want citizenship to get it these days," said Rep. Gutierrez. "The paper work, the fees, the unresponsive bureaucracy, these all discourage immigrants from applying, but their determination to become Americans wins out in the end." According to USCIS, Mrs. Moya is not the oldest person to have ever been sworn in (that honor goes to a woman, 117, originally from Turkey, sworn in in 1997). But she is the oldest person to go through Rep. Gutierrez' citizenship program, which has helped 50,000 immigrants apply for citizenship since the Congressman took office in 1993. ###
07.15.2010	ELECTED LEADERS STRESS URGENCY OF ISSUE FOR FAMILIES FACING SEPARATION AND EXILE Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC – A coalition of Congressional leaders joined advocates for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) immigrant families on Capitol Hill today to press for passage of an immigration reform measure which would end discrimination against the LGBT community. Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, Congressional Progressive Caucus and the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus all expressed support for a legislative package which includes the Uniting American Families Act (UAFA) and the Reuniting Families Act (RFA). The UAFA and RFA include provisions to allow LGBT Americans to sponsor their foreign-born partners for residency in the United States. Lawmakers joined Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), lead sponsor of the UAFA in the House of Representatives, and Congressman Mike Honda (D-CA), lead sponsor of the House RFA bill, at a Congressional press conference this morning. According to the Immigration Equality Action Fund, numerous LGBT binational families will face separation, or exile, if Congress fails to act on the bills this year. “As the urgency for comprehensive immigration reform increases nationally, and the debate in Washington widens, it is essential to ensure that the LGBT community is included in the reforms we propose and pass,” Congressman Nadler said. “In particular, binational LGBT couples must be granted the right to sponsor their permanent partners for immigration, just as other committed and straight married couples can. To that end, I am joining a diverse coalition of legislators, advocates and LGBT groups calling on Congress to include my critical legislation -- the Uniting American Families Act -- in immigration reform, and to make sure that immigration reform is truly deserving of the term ‘comprehensive.’” Honda, whose legislation addresses a number of obstacles faced by immigrant families, including LGBT families, added that, “With the Reuniting Families Act, we go further to realize American ideals. We do that by ensuring that all immigrants – irrespective of race, religion, and sexual orientation - are afforded the same rights and responsibilities as the immigrants who came before them, including a legal path to citizenship. We do that by reuniting families – spouses, children, siblings, parents, same-sex partners – who have been separated for decades. We do that by ensuring that families are included in comprehensive immigration reform. We cannot afford piecemeal approaches issue-by-issue or state-by-state, nor can we financially afford at the federal level the continued non-citizenship of 12 million undocumented immigrants. The President has called on Congress to address immigration reform, and I stand ready to heed that call and support an effort that is inclusive of LGBT families.” Advocates for binational families praised Nadler, Honda and other speakers at today’s event for their call-to-action. “Every day that Congress fails to take action, American families are separated or forced into exile, including more than 17,000 families raising young children,” said Rachel B. Tiven, executive director of the Immigration Equality Action Fund. “For those families, and their loved ones, today’s clear call to action, from key Congressional champions, could not be more welcome or more timely. We are proud to stand with those leaders, and with immigrants and their families across our country, in working to fix our broken immigration system. The LGBT community can be a steadfast partner in that effort, and Immigration Equality is proud to mobilize allies in support of inclusive immigration reform.” Other lawmakers, from both chambers, also reiterated their strong support in statements issued today. Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT), the Senate’s lead sponsor for UAFA and Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, commended the House leaders for their support of the measure. “It is long past time to apply our immigration laws fairly to all persons,” Leahy said. “The Uniting American Families Act strikes language from our immigration law that has a discriminatory impact on same sex couples. This pro-family measure should be included when Congress considers immigration reform legislation. Immigration reform will not be comprehensive if we do not make our laws fair for all Americans and their loved ones.” “Our immigration system must reflect the reality of our economy and society, and how we treat same-sex couples and families is just one example,” said Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), a member of the CHC. “We should modernize our laws to facilitate legal immigration so that we keep families together and individuals do not have to twist themselves in knots to conform to our outdated laws. Right now, too many same-sex, binational couples face an impossible choice: to live apart or to break the law to be with their partners, families, and children. That's not good for them and it is not good for the rest of us either. That's why I think the provisions of UAFA must be part of any comprehensive immigration reform bill.” “We are a nation of immigrants and, as a result, our diversity is our greatest strength,” Congressman Jared Polis (D-CO) added. “Unfortunately, our out-dated immigration system contains laws that discriminate against LGBT families and hinder our economy, our diversity, and our status as a beacon of hope and liberty to people across the world. To be truly comprehensive and achieve real, long-lasting reform, we must provide all domestic partners and married couples the same rights and obligations in any immigration legislation.” Illinois Congressman Mike Quigley also praised the effort. “Immigration equality must be a lesson in inclusion, rather than an exercise in division and comprehensive reform must live up to its name by truly including everyone,” said Quigley. “Our march in the direction of progress and justice for families across this country cedes its moral high ground unless we say to say to LGBT families that this is their movement, too.” A group of 37 immigration, LGBT, faith and civil rights organizations issued a joint statement today, also praising the lawmakers and calling for passage of an inclusive immigration reform package. The complete statement is available at www.immigrationequalityactionfund.org. # # # Immigration Equality Action Fund advocates on Capitol Hill for equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and HIV-positive immigrants and their families. To end discrimination in U.S. immigration law, Immigration Equality Action Fund works to pass the Uniting American Families Act and LGBT-inclusive Comprehensive Immigration Reform. The Action Fund lobbies legislators and other policy makers, builds coalitions, and empowers LGBT immigrant families around the country to fight for change.
07.15.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez made the following remarks today at a press conference on U.S. immigration law and same sex couples and families. From the outset of our fight for comprehensive immigration reform, I have been trying to highlight the needs of families. The underlying part of any comprehensive immigration bill is family unity and I am here today because I think we need to speak more clearly, more articulately, and more frequently that the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community, and same-sex couples and their binational relationships, are part of families. Our immigration system must reflect the reality of our economy and society, and how we treat same-sex couples and families is just one example. We should modernize our laws to facilitate legal immigration so that we keep families together and individuals do not have to twist themselves in knots to conform to our outdated laws. Right now, too many same-sex, bi-national couples face an impossible choice: to live apart or to break the law to be with their partners, families, and children. That's not good for them and it is not good for the rest of us either. That's why I think the provisions of UAFA must be part of any comprehensive immigration reform bill. Remember a few weeks ago, that little girl who whispered to Michelle Obama her fear that President Obama’s government might come one day to take her mommy away? That little 7-year-old is why we are fighting for immigration reform. In that brief, 20-second exchange, that Maryland second-grader made it crystal clear what is wrong with our immigration mess. Unfortunately, her plight is all too common. We need ways for immigrants like her mother to enter the U.S. legally in the first place. We need to make legal immigration a realistic alternative for the people who feel the only way for them to come and work in America is to walk across the desert of Arizona or pay a smuggler to get them here. We need a way for undocumented immigrants like the mother of that Maryland girl to come forward, pay a fine, go through a process including criminal background checks, and get legal as a condition of staying and working in this country. And I am here to say that as far as I am concerned, it doesn’t matter to me whether that little girl has one mommy or two mommies. It’s none of my business; it is none of the government’s business, and it should not make a difference when it comes to our immigration policies. On a more political note, I am confident that we can pass immigration reform that includes the provisions of UAFA this year. Including UAFA makes the tent that much bigger and makes the coalition that much stronger. The goal must be to have an immigration system that keeps families together, enhances America’s security, strengthens the economy, and is true to the core values of this nation that guarantees freedom and protects the basic human and civil rights of every individual. In order to get there, we need comprehensive immigration reform and we need UAFA and together – working as a team – we can make that goal a reality. ###
07.15.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – This afternoon’s Senate passage of the conference committee report on H.R. 4173, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, means the President will sign the bill into law shortly. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the House Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee made the following comments: "I am pleased that the Senate has finally passed the Wall Street reform bill which will bring greatly needed reforms to our nation’s financial industry. It has been over two years since the beginning of this crisis and seven months since the House passed this legislation and its time has finally come. This bill represents a victory for consumers and taxpayers, and strikes a blow against the greed and recklessness of Wall Street and others who ran roughshod over Main Street. I look forward to the President signing this bill into law in the coming days." The legislation encompasses reform of nearly every aspect of the financial services industry, from the oversight of 'systemically significant' firms to consumer protections to enhanced investor rights. The legislation (summary here): Creates a strong consumer protection agency to act as a national watchdog for consumer rights; Enacts the first federal regulations of the derivatives market, one of the main causes of the financial crisis and one of the ongoing threats to the health of our financial system; Overhauls the regulation and oversight of the largest and riskiest financial firms to prevent the kind of reckless behavior that caused the last financial crisis; and Creates a resolution process that, combined with assessments on the largest financial firms, would end "Too Big To Fail" by allowing for systemically significant firms to fail without threatening to spread contagion through the financial system and without using taxpayer money. Rep. Gutierrez said he is proud to have been responsible for numerous reforms within the bill that not only offer greater protections to consumers, including those who send remittances abroad, but also protections for community banks that are so vital to local economies. ###
07.14.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – The House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law held a hearing on the "Ethical Imperative for Reform of our Immigration System" (https://judiciary.house.gov/hearings/hear_100714.html). Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4), who is a Member of Subcommittee and is Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Task Force on Immigration, issued the following statement: I am so pleased to welcome today's leaders from the faith community because their authoritative, steady voice has made a tremendous contribution to efforts to fix America's immigration system. When House Republicans voted to criminalize all undocumented immigrants in 2005, threatening to put family members, clergy, and landlords in legal jeopardy, it was the faith community that first sounded the alarm. That helped spark the massive demonstrations against immigrant criminalization and for comprehensive immigration reform in 2006. Immigration reform is still possible this year. The President, in his speech at American University and the Justice Department's lawsuit against Arizona's law, is asserting the preeminent federal role in setting and enforcing immigration policy and that makes it incumbent on Congress to follow through by passing a reform bill. The American people demand law and order and secure borders and comprehensive immigration reform is the only way to get there. Democrats and Republicans agree on 80% of a reform package: border security, legal immigration, a secure worker verification system, and deportation for serious, violent criminals. All of those elements are in my bill, H.R. 4321, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and Prosperity Act. The main obstacle is that some Republicans are holding out for the fantasy that more than ten million immigrants will leave on their own or be driven out of the country. The premise of their approach to immigration is that the estimated 10.8 million undocumented immigrants -- two-thirds of whom have been here more than a decade, half of whom live in families with children that are mostly U.S. citizens -- are going to abandon the United States. The Democrats have a much more practical and popular approach that would get immigrants who are here illegally registered with the government, in the system, and on-the-books. Even House Republicans say we can get a bill passed in the House this year. Mario and Lincoln Diaz-Balart each stated on a conference call with reporters last week sponsored by Conservatives for Comprehensive Immigration Reform that a bill could pass tomorrow. I think once we get past the Arizona GOP primary that sparked the most recent anti-immigration reform eruption, we will have a chance of getting some of the Republicans in the Senate to also come forward and work with Democrats to get a bill passed. ###
07.06.2010	Rep. Gutierrez: "Unless we create legal immigration alternatives to illegal immigration, all the Arizona laws in the world will not fix the problem." Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Task Force on Immigration, issued the following statement in response to today's Department of Justice announcement regarding the Arizona immigration law, SB 1070. The lawsuit builds on the President's speech last week and makes it clear that the Obama administration is beginning to fully engage on the immigration issue. The Arizona law is a law-enforcement nightmare that potentially turns witnesses and crime victims into suspects and will make legitimate law-enforcement work much more difficult. The federal government has a responsibility to step in when states get U.S. law so fundamentally wrong. But, the problem of illegal immigration is bigger than the state of Arizona and requires a national, federal response. The President made clear in his address at American University that we have to go beyond the strategies we have been using if we are to address border security and illegal immigration successfully. Tripling, quadrupling, or quintupling the manpower on the border hasn't worked and won't work in isolation from strategies to channel immigrants through our legal process and reduce the lucrative smuggling business. Unless we create legal immigration alternatives to illegal immigration, all the Arizona laws in the world will not fix the problem. The Attorney General is right to step in and hold the Republicans in Arizona accountable to the law, even if it plays into the hands of the local politicians who prefer to stir up fear and animosity towards the immigrant community. The Arizona GOP is inflicting a tremendous cost on the people of Arizona, not only in the cost of defending the state against legitimate legal challenges, but also in terms of their reputation nationally and internationally. ###
07.01.2010	Rep. Gutierrez: "I am very encouraged" Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Taskforce on Immigration, was at American University to hear President Obama's speech today. The following is a statement by Rep. Gutierrez. I am very encouraged. The President made a strong case for immigration reform from a law and order, economic, and moral perspective. This was not the warm and fuzzy "Let's give immigrants a free ride" speech; this was a hard-nosed argument for why reform will benefit America. The President is bringing new allies to the table with evangelical, law enforcement, and state and local officials and they can help us reach out and bring Republicans to the table. There is a lot of frustration with our government leaders for talking about immigration reform for a decade and not coming to agreement and passing a definitive plan. The President was very clear about what to do: combine border and workplace enforcement with a functioning legal immigration system and get the millions of undocumented immigrants already here into the system and right with the law. That is the plan that more than 100 House Democrats support and that we can pass if we have some Republicans join us. It is the plan that Senator Obama supported along with Senator Kennedy, Senator McCain, and people in both parties have supported in the past. Now we need to move it forward. We have been waiting for the President to lean forward and push with us on the immigration issue the same way he did as a presidential candidate. We hope this is the start of a sustained push. We don't need more of the current chaos. We cannot achieve law and order or secure our borders unless we follow a comprehensive approach. We need solutions that work and the President has clearly proposed one. ###
07.22.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), participated in a U.S. Capitol press conference with other Members of the House and Senate to call on President Obama to appoint Harvard University Professor Elizabeth Warren to the post of Director of the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Rep. Gutierrez is Chair of the Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee and was a conferee that helped work out the final House/Senate version of the "Dodd-Frank" Wall Street Reform bill that created the CFPB. The following is his opening statement from today's press conference: Yesterday was a historic day, as President Obama signed into law the landmark Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. I am proud to have contributed to this legislation that will benefit and protect consumers and taxpayers. But the success of this legislation depends in large part on the agencies that must implement its mandates. One of the lynchpins of this law is the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). In Congress, we created the framework and basic contours of this new agency. But the person who will be the first Director of this new agency will be responsible for truly shaping the agency and its role, through vision, leadership, experience, and knowledge. That first Director should be Professor Elizabeth Warren. This new agency needs a captain who knows the ins and outs of the ship. Who envisioned it even before its creation. Who helped build it. Who fought tenaciously against others who would have rather crafted an unstable or unseaworthy ship, or no ship at all. Who battled those who attempted to carve out exceptions that would have turned the ship into an empty vessel. Who knows full well where the financial icebergs and economic shoals are likely to be. And whose moral compass is set to the interests of the consumer and of Main Street, and who won't be distracted by the siren songs of Wall Street and their lobbyists. I can't think of a better captain than Elizabeth Warren. Can someone else do an acceptable job as the new director of the CFPB? Sure. But why settle for anything less than the best? Elizabeth Warren is simply the best. I strongly urge President Obama to appoint Professor Warren as the first Director of the CFPB. # # #
07.21.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – The President signed the Wall Street Reform bill into law today at a Washington ceremony attended by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the House Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee and a conferee on the committee that hammered out the final House-Senate version of the "Dodd-Frank" bill. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez: We have accomplished a lot in this Congress and the Wall Street reform bill is one of the most important achievements on behalf of taxpayers and consumers. It sets in place the structures that will help prevent the kind of economic meltdown that started a few years ago when oversight and accountability in the financial markets and on Wall Street completely collapsed. The regulations, laws, and oversight bodies this legislation puts in place will create the accountability the American taxpayers deserve and demand. I fought hard for a strong consumer financial protection agency and think Elizabeth Warren would be an excellent choice to lead it. We were able to secure new transparency rules for people wiring remittances internationally that will help protect consumers, especially immigrants. We stood up for the smaller community banks that help drive the economy and invest in small businesses in neighborhoods like the ones in my Chicago district. We also increased the level of insured deposits under FDIC to modernize the level of protection for consumers. The benefits of this legislation will pay out to taxpayers and consumers for many years to come but the confidence it gives Americans that there is a new era of oversight and accountability with regard to financial institutions should be immediate. It is an example of what this President and this Congress can achieve when we roll up our sleeves and get to work. I hope we are able to put the same level of effort into other matters of critical importance to the American people before Election Day, not the least of which is comprehensive immigration reform to address border security and fix our immigration system. # # #
07.19.2010	With help from Rep. Gutierrez, Dream of Citizenship and Voting Finally Fulfilled for Mexican Immigrant Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago) – Ignacia Moya is one of the oldest and newest Americans. Today, at a ceremony in the Pilsen neighborhood of Chicago, Mrs. Moya, age 106, raised her right hand and swore the oath of citizenship and became a U.S. citizen. The event was sponsored by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) who helped Mrs. Moya -- and several members of the Moya family -- through the citizenship process. It was also attended by local elected officials, including Alderman Daniel Solis, Alderman Ricardo Munoz, Cook County Commissioner-Elect Jesus Garcia, and by officials from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service. "She told me she wanted to vote and that she needed our help to navigate the immigration and citizenship process, so that's when my office stepped in," said Rep. Gutierrez, whose office was in touch with USCIS to keep the application moving through the bureaucracy. "It was her sincere wish that she be able to vote in the nation she adopted more than 30 years ago and that makes me very proud of my country." Mrs. Moya is originally from Mexico and has lived in the U.S. since the 1970s. She had previously applied for citizenship in 1986, but her English-language skills prevented her from passing the examinations. Now, with failing eyesight and hearing, she was granted a special waiver at Congressman Gutierrez' request and completed the final interview with USCIS officials on Friday. She also recently received certification from the Chicago Police Department that she has been crime free for at least the last five years. "She wanted it and you really have to want citizenship to get it these days," said Rep. Gutierrez. "The paper work, the fees, the unresponsive bureaucracy, these all discourage immigrants from applying, but their determination to become Americans wins out in the end." According to USCIS, Mrs. Moya is not the oldest person to have ever been sworn in (that honor goes to a woman, 117, originally from Turkey, sworn in in 1997). But she is the oldest person to go through Rep. Gutierrez' citizenship program, which has helped 50,000 immigrants apply for citizenship since the Congressman took office in 1993. ###
07.15.2010	ELECTED LEADERS STRESS URGENCY OF ISSUE FOR FAMILIES FACING SEPARATION AND EXILE Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC – A coalition of Congressional leaders joined advocates for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) immigrant families on Capitol Hill today to press for passage of an immigration reform measure which would end discrimination against the LGBT community. Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, Congressional Progressive Caucus and the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus all expressed support for a legislative package which includes the Uniting American Families Act (UAFA) and the Reuniting Families Act (RFA). The UAFA and RFA include provisions to allow LGBT Americans to sponsor their foreign-born partners for residency in the United States. Lawmakers joined Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), lead sponsor of the UAFA in the House of Representatives, and Congressman Mike Honda (D-CA), lead sponsor of the House RFA bill, at a Congressional press conference this morning. According to the Immigration Equality Action Fund, numerous LGBT binational families will face separation, or exile, if Congress fails to act on the bills this year. “As the urgency for comprehensive immigration reform increases nationally, and the debate in Washington widens, it is essential to ensure that the LGBT community is included in the reforms we propose and pass,” Congressman Nadler said. “In particular, binational LGBT couples must be granted the right to sponsor their permanent partners for immigration, just as other committed and straight married couples can. To that end, I am joining a diverse coalition of legislators, advocates and LGBT groups calling on Congress to include my critical legislation -- the Uniting American Families Act -- in immigration reform, and to make sure that immigration reform is truly deserving of the term ‘comprehensive.’” Honda, whose legislation addresses a number of obstacles faced by immigrant families, including LGBT families, added that, “With the Reuniting Families Act, we go further to realize American ideals. We do that by ensuring that all immigrants – irrespective of race, religion, and sexual orientation - are afforded the same rights and responsibilities as the immigrants who came before them, including a legal path to citizenship. We do that by reuniting families – spouses, children, siblings, parents, same-sex partners – who have been separated for decades. We do that by ensuring that families are included in comprehensive immigration reform. We cannot afford piecemeal approaches issue-by-issue or state-by-state, nor can we financially afford at the federal level the continued non-citizenship of 12 million undocumented immigrants. The President has called on Congress to address immigration reform, and I stand ready to heed that call and support an effort that is inclusive of LGBT families.” Advocates for binational families praised Nadler, Honda and other speakers at today’s event for their call-to-action. “Every day that Congress fails to take action, American families are separated or forced into exile, including more than 17,000 families raising young children,” said Rachel B. Tiven, executive director of the Immigration Equality Action Fund. “For those families, and their loved ones, today’s clear call to action, from key Congressional champions, could not be more welcome or more timely. We are proud to stand with those leaders, and with immigrants and their families across our country, in working to fix our broken immigration system. The LGBT community can be a steadfast partner in that effort, and Immigration Equality is proud to mobilize allies in support of inclusive immigration reform.” Other lawmakers, from both chambers, also reiterated their strong support in statements issued today. Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT), the Senate’s lead sponsor for UAFA and Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, commended the House leaders for their support of the measure. “It is long past time to apply our immigration laws fairly to all persons,” Leahy said. “The Uniting American Families Act strikes language from our immigration law that has a discriminatory impact on same sex couples. This pro-family measure should be included when Congress considers immigration reform legislation. Immigration reform will not be comprehensive if we do not make our laws fair for all Americans and their loved ones.” “Our immigration system must reflect the reality of our economy and society, and how we treat same-sex couples and families is just one example,” said Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), a member of the CHC. “We should modernize our laws to facilitate legal immigration so that we keep families together and individuals do not have to twist themselves in knots to conform to our outdated laws. Right now, too many same-sex, binational couples face an impossible choice: to live apart or to break the law to be with their partners, families, and children. That's not good for them and it is not good for the rest of us either. That's why I think the provisions of UAFA must be part of any comprehensive immigration reform bill.” “We are a nation of immigrants and, as a result, our diversity is our greatest strength,” Congressman Jared Polis (D-CO) added. “Unfortunately, our out-dated immigration system contains laws that discriminate against LGBT families and hinder our economy, our diversity, and our status as a beacon of hope and liberty to people across the world. To be truly comprehensive and achieve real, long-lasting reform, we must provide all domestic partners and married couples the same rights and obligations in any immigration legislation.” Illinois Congressman Mike Quigley also praised the effort. “Immigration equality must be a lesson in inclusion, rather than an exercise in division and comprehensive reform must live up to its name by truly including everyone,” said Quigley. “Our march in the direction of progress and justice for families across this country cedes its moral high ground unless we say to say to LGBT families that this is their movement, too.” A group of 37 immigration, LGBT, faith and civil rights organizations issued a joint statement today, also praising the lawmakers and calling for passage of an inclusive immigration reform package. The complete statement is available at www.immigrationequalityactionfund.org. # # # Immigration Equality Action Fund advocates on Capitol Hill for equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and HIV-positive immigrants and their families. To end discrimination in U.S. immigration law, Immigration Equality Action Fund works to pass the Uniting American Families Act and LGBT-inclusive Comprehensive Immigration Reform. The Action Fund lobbies legislators and other policy makers, builds coalitions, and empowers LGBT immigrant families around the country to fight for change.
07.15.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez made the following remarks today at a press conference on U.S. immigration law and same sex couples and families. From the outset of our fight for comprehensive immigration reform, I have been trying to highlight the needs of families. The underlying part of any comprehensive immigration bill is family unity and I am here today because I think we need to speak more clearly, more articulately, and more frequently that the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community, and same-sex couples and their binational relationships, are part of families. Our immigration system must reflect the reality of our economy and society, and how we treat same-sex couples and families is just one example. We should modernize our laws to facilitate legal immigration so that we keep families together and individuals do not have to twist themselves in knots to conform to our outdated laws. Right now, too many same-sex, bi-national couples face an impossible choice: to live apart or to break the law to be with their partners, families, and children. That's not good for them and it is not good for the rest of us either. That's why I think the provisions of UAFA must be part of any comprehensive immigration reform bill. Remember a few weeks ago, that little girl who whispered to Michelle Obama her fear that President Obama’s government might come one day to take her mommy away? That little 7-year-old is why we are fighting for immigration reform. In that brief, 20-second exchange, that Maryland second-grader made it crystal clear what is wrong with our immigration mess. Unfortunately, her plight is all too common. We need ways for immigrants like her mother to enter the U.S. legally in the first place. We need to make legal immigration a realistic alternative for the people who feel the only way for them to come and work in America is to walk across the desert of Arizona or pay a smuggler to get them here. We need a way for undocumented immigrants like the mother of that Maryland girl to come forward, pay a fine, go through a process including criminal background checks, and get legal as a condition of staying and working in this country. And I am here to say that as far as I am concerned, it doesn’t matter to me whether that little girl has one mommy or two mommies. It’s none of my business; it is none of the government’s business, and it should not make a difference when it comes to our immigration policies. On a more political note, I am confident that we can pass immigration reform that includes the provisions of UAFA this year. Including UAFA makes the tent that much bigger and makes the coalition that much stronger. The goal must be to have an immigration system that keeps families together, enhances America’s security, strengthens the economy, and is true to the core values of this nation that guarantees freedom and protects the basic human and civil rights of every individual. In order to get there, we need comprehensive immigration reform and we need UAFA and together – working as a team – we can make that goal a reality. ###
07.15.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – This afternoon’s Senate passage of the conference committee report on H.R. 4173, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, means the President will sign the bill into law shortly. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the House Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee made the following comments: "I am pleased that the Senate has finally passed the Wall Street reform bill which will bring greatly needed reforms to our nation’s financial industry. It has been over two years since the beginning of this crisis and seven months since the House passed this legislation and its time has finally come. This bill represents a victory for consumers and taxpayers, and strikes a blow against the greed and recklessness of Wall Street and others who ran roughshod over Main Street. I look forward to the President signing this bill into law in the coming days." The legislation encompasses reform of nearly every aspect of the financial services industry, from the oversight of 'systemically significant' firms to consumer protections to enhanced investor rights. The legislation (summary here): Creates a strong consumer protection agency to act as a national watchdog for consumer rights; Enacts the first federal regulations of the derivatives market, one of the main causes of the financial crisis and one of the ongoing threats to the health of our financial system; Overhauls the regulation and oversight of the largest and riskiest financial firms to prevent the kind of reckless behavior that caused the last financial crisis; and Creates a resolution process that, combined with assessments on the largest financial firms, would end "Too Big To Fail" by allowing for systemically significant firms to fail without threatening to spread contagion through the financial system and without using taxpayer money. Rep. Gutierrez said he is proud to have been responsible for numerous reforms within the bill that not only offer greater protections to consumers, including those who send remittances abroad, but also protections for community banks that are so vital to local economies. ###
07.14.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – The House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law held a hearing on the "Ethical Imperative for Reform of our Immigration System" (https://judiciary.house.gov/hearings/hear_100714.html). Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4), who is a Member of Subcommittee and is Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Task Force on Immigration, issued the following statement: I am so pleased to welcome today's leaders from the faith community because their authoritative, steady voice has made a tremendous contribution to efforts to fix America's immigration system. When House Republicans voted to criminalize all undocumented immigrants in 2005, threatening to put family members, clergy, and landlords in legal jeopardy, it was the faith community that first sounded the alarm. That helped spark the massive demonstrations against immigrant criminalization and for comprehensive immigration reform in 2006. Immigration reform is still possible this year. The President, in his speech at American University and the Justice Department's lawsuit against Arizona's law, is asserting the preeminent federal role in setting and enforcing immigration policy and that makes it incumbent on Congress to follow through by passing a reform bill. The American people demand law and order and secure borders and comprehensive immigration reform is the only way to get there. Democrats and Republicans agree on 80% of a reform package: border security, legal immigration, a secure worker verification system, and deportation for serious, violent criminals. All of those elements are in my bill, H.R. 4321, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and Prosperity Act. The main obstacle is that some Republicans are holding out for the fantasy that more than ten million immigrants will leave on their own or be driven out of the country. The premise of their approach to immigration is that the estimated 10.8 million undocumented immigrants -- two-thirds of whom have been here more than a decade, half of whom live in families with children that are mostly U.S. citizens -- are going to abandon the United States. The Democrats have a much more practical and popular approach that would get immigrants who are here illegally registered with the government, in the system, and on-the-books. Even House Republicans say we can get a bill passed in the House this year. Mario and Lincoln Diaz-Balart each stated on a conference call with reporters last week sponsored by Conservatives for Comprehensive Immigration Reform that a bill could pass tomorrow. I think once we get past the Arizona GOP primary that sparked the most recent anti-immigration reform eruption, we will have a chance of getting some of the Republicans in the Senate to also come forward and work with Democrats to get a bill passed. ###
07.06.2010	Rep. Gutierrez: "Unless we create legal immigration alternatives to illegal immigration, all the Arizona laws in the world will not fix the problem." Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Task Force on Immigration, issued the following statement in response to today's Department of Justice announcement regarding the Arizona immigration law, SB 1070. The lawsuit builds on the President's speech last week and makes it clear that the Obama administration is beginning to fully engage on the immigration issue. The Arizona law is a law-enforcement nightmare that potentially turns witnesses and crime victims into suspects and will make legitimate law-enforcement work much more difficult. The federal government has a responsibility to step in when states get U.S. law so fundamentally wrong. But, the problem of illegal immigration is bigger than the state of Arizona and requires a national, federal response. The President made clear in his address at American University that we have to go beyond the strategies we have been using if we are to address border security and illegal immigration successfully. Tripling, quadrupling, or quintupling the manpower on the border hasn't worked and won't work in isolation from strategies to channel immigrants through our legal process and reduce the lucrative smuggling business. Unless we create legal immigration alternatives to illegal immigration, all the Arizona laws in the world will not fix the problem. The Attorney General is right to step in and hold the Republicans in Arizona accountable to the law, even if it plays into the hands of the local politicians who prefer to stir up fear and animosity towards the immigrant community. The Arizona GOP is inflicting a tremendous cost on the people of Arizona, not only in the cost of defending the state against legitimate legal challenges, but also in terms of their reputation nationally and internationally. ###
07.01.2010	Rep. Gutierrez: "I am very encouraged" Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Taskforce on Immigration, was at American University to hear President Obama's speech today. The following is a statement by Rep. Gutierrez. I am very encouraged. The President made a strong case for immigration reform from a law and order, economic, and moral perspective. This was not the warm and fuzzy "Let's give immigrants a free ride" speech; this was a hard-nosed argument for why reform will benefit America. The President is bringing new allies to the table with evangelical, law enforcement, and state and local officials and they can help us reach out and bring Republicans to the table. There is a lot of frustration with our government leaders for talking about immigration reform for a decade and not coming to agreement and passing a definitive plan. The President was very clear about what to do: combine border and workplace enforcement with a functioning legal immigration system and get the millions of undocumented immigrants already here into the system and right with the law. That is the plan that more than 100 House Democrats support and that we can pass if we have some Republicans join us. It is the plan that Senator Obama supported along with Senator Kennedy, Senator McCain, and people in both parties have supported in the past. Now we need to move it forward. We have been waiting for the President to lean forward and push with us on the immigration issue the same way he did as a presidential candidate. We hope this is the start of a sustained push. We don't need more of the current chaos. We cannot achieve law and order or secure our borders unless we follow a comprehensive approach. We need solutions that work and the President has clearly proposed one. ###
06.30.2010	Rep. Gutierrez Applauds Consumer Protection, Remittances Disclosure Provisions, and an End to "Too Big To Fail" Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – This evening, the House approved the conference committee report for the most sweeping financial reform legislation to pass Congress in over 70 years. On a vote of 237 to 192, the House sent the conference report on H.R. 4173, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to the Senate for its approval, the final stop before the President's desk. "This legislation is a direct response to the greedy, abusive, and irresponsible behavior of Wall Street, which caused the ongoing mortgage crisis, the credit crisis of 2008, and the ongoing recession that has cost millions of Americans their jobs and lost trillions in real wealth," Rep. Gutierrez, (D-IL) said. "Democrats in Congress drove these reforms through the legislative process, despite the ongoing opposition of the Republican party." The legislation encompasses reform of nearly every aspect of the financial services industry, from the oversight of 'systemically significant' firms to consumer protections to enhanced investor rights. The legislation: Creates a strong consumer protection agency to act as a national watchdog for consumer rights; Enacts the first federal regulations of the derivatives market, one of the main causes of the financial crisis and one of the ongoing threats to the health of our financial system; Overhauls the regulation and oversight of the largest and riskiest financial firms to prevent the kind of reckless behavior that caused the last financial crisis; and Creates a resolution process that, combined with assessments on the largest financial firms, would end "Too Big To Fail" by allowing for systemically significant firms to fail without threatening to spread contagion through the financial system and without using taxpayer money. [Link to full summary from House Financial Services Committee website is here.] Rep. Gutierrez, who is Chairman of the House Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee, is proud to have been responsible for numerous reforms within the bill that not only offer greater protections to consumers, including those who send remittances abroad, but also protections for community banks that are so vital to local economies. Rep. Gutierrez is particularly proud of his work on remittances because due to his changes, those who send money abroad to family and loved ones will now have greater disclosure of all the costs and fees associated with remittance transfers, as well as a private right of action to address any abusive or illegal practices. The legislation also includes a permanent increase in the FDIC's $250,000 deposit insurance to protect the bank accounts of Americans from bank failures as well as a change in how banks are assessed fees to this fund. "Throughout this legislation, we not only increase protections for consumers, especially those who send remittances, but we also create a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to help protect consumers from the predatory lending practices that led to this crisis," Rep. Gutierrez stated. # # # For more information, see the following: Press Release: Rep. Gutierrez: Statement on Financial Reform Conference Meeting (Including Pre-funded Dissolution Fund) (6/29/10) Press Release: "A Major Victory For 'The Millions Who Send Billions'" - Remittance Consumer Protections In Wall Street Reform Bill (6/25/10) Press Release: Rep. Gutierrez Urges Colleagues to Include Strong Volcker Rule in Wall Street Reform Bill (6/23/10) Press Release: Rep. Gutierrez Disillusioned by Dissolution Fund Compromise (6/23/10) Press Release: Rep. Gutierrez Vows to Keep Fighting for Consumers Seeking Auto Dealer Car Loans (6/22/10) Huffington Post Article: Time for Wall Street to Ex Ante Up! (6/17/10) Press Release: Durbin and Gutierrez Vow to Restore Fairness to Electronic Payment System (6/13/10) Press Release: Protecting the Little Guys from the Fat Cats: Gutierrez Vows Defense of Consumer Protections in Wall Street Reform Bill (6/9/10)
06.29.2010	Arizona Law Has Sparked Renewed Optimism and Action Towards Serious, Federal Immigration Reform Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4), Chairman of Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), was among the more than 20 Members of the CHC to meet with President Obama today at the White House. Rep. Gutierrez is the chief proponent of comprehensive immigration reform in the House and helped write the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and Prosperity Act (CIR-ASAP/H.R. 4321). The bill is sponsored by Rep. Solomon Ortiz (D-TX) and co-sponsored primarily by members of the Congressional Black Caucus, Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, Progressive Caucus, and Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The following is a statement from Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez: The President was very clear that he will work with us to frame the immigration issue for the American people in a new and aggressive way and he will start with his speech on Thursday. The Republicans in Arizona are playing politics with immigrants and the constitution and it is a civil rights crisis, but more importantly, the Democrats have the solution teed up and ready to go. Our country needs a legal immigration system that works, an end to illegal immigration, a secure border, and rules that employers, immigrants and everyone else will follow. That can only be achieved through comprehensive immigration reform and over 100 co-sponsors have signed on to my bill, CIR ASAP or H.R. 4321. There is no good reason why we cannot have comprehensive immigration reform this year if a handful of Republicans put solving problems ahead of playing politics. The votes are there if just a few Republicans step up to the plate. In the mean time, we have Republican elected leaders calling every single immigrant who is in the country illegally an agent of the drug cartels, which reveals a lot about how the Republican Party feels about Hispanics. We have every reason to believe the Attorney General and the President are serious about fighting the Arizona law in the courts because it does so much to undermine law enforcement and the constitutional. More importantly, we are encouraged that the President is taking a stand against the type of rhetoric we have seen recently out of Arizona. ###
06.29.2010	Including Pre-Funded Dissolution Fund Would Have Avoided This Hiccup Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4), Chairman of the House Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee, was the original author of the amendment that added the pre-funded or ex-ante fund to the House version of the Wall Street reform bill (H.R. 4173). He also fought for a ex-ante fund in conference (see Huffington Post column 06/17/2010 "It is Time For Wall Street To Ex-Ante Up" https://huff.to/9bl7Tc). The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez. I am pleased that we have found a way to solve the funding problem for the Dodd-Frank bill. However, I find it ironic that many of the very Senators who have such a problem with filling the $20 billion hole are the ones that created it in the first place by going out of their way to kill the ex-ante dissolution fund! But now that we have addressed their concerns, I hope they will support this important legislation and side with consumers and Main Street over the big banks on Wall Street and their lobbyists. ###
06.25.2010	Important New Disclosure and Consumer Protections Championed By Rep. Gutierrez In The House Included in Conference Report Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and a conferee on the Wall Street reform bill, declared that a significant and hard-fought victory for consumers, especially immigrant consumers, was included in the final conference report on the Wall Street reform bill. Remittances -- the money sent from a person in the U.S. to family and loved ones in a foreign country -- will now be governed by basic consumer protections and oversight. "I have been trying to establish basic consumer protections in this multi-billion dollar industry for more than a decade," Gutierrez said. "This is a major victory for the millions who send home billions. This will give them a little more piece of mind, a little more transparency, and a lot more confidence that they can fight back if they are getting ripped off." Among the most significant of the protections for remittance senders included in the legislation are: Mandating transparency: the fees, exchange rate, total cost of the transaction, and the amount to be received (in the relevant currency) on the other end of the wire must be included and clearly disclosed on a consumer's receipt; Requiring that the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau establish strong standards for clear and concise signage in each store that will detail the cost of remittances, the rights of a consumer to correct any errors in a transaction, and the contact information of appropriate state and federal regulators if they have a complaint; Ensuring that language is not a barrier to being treated fairly: all disclosures under these new consumer protections will be made in the language that the transfer was advertised, negotiated, or finalized in; Inclusion of these protections in the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, which allows for a private right of action against anyone who violates these protections. "It's just adding common sense to the process," Rep. Gutierrez said. "When you go to a restaurant, you get an itemized bill that says how much each part of your meal sets you back, including the tax. You don't get a total that includes the tip. Thisensures the fees are not hidden, the cut for the wire transfer company is not a secret, and you know who to talk to if you think someone is stealing your money. It shouldn't have taken us so many years to get to this very fundamental starting point." Individuals in the United States sent about $137.7 billion in remittances last year with Mexico receiving about $21.5 billion, India receiving $13.3 billion and China $12.8 billion in 2009, according to research conducted by the Congressman's office staff. "I got involved in this issue because my constituents and many others throughout the country were being taken advantage of by unfair fees and exchange rates," Rep. Gutierrez said. "By including these important terms in the receipt, consumers will have the information they need to shop around, get the best price for their transaction, and avoid confusing and abusive fees and rates." The reforms to remittance transfer disclosures and additional consumer protections were included last night in a much larger package of historic financial reforms, H.R. 4173, The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The remittance disclosure reforms were championed in the Senate by Sen. Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) and were agreed to during conference committee negotiations Thursday. They are merely one of a long list of reforms included in the legislation that Rep. Gutierrez fought for during the conference. The legislation is expected to be passed by both chambers next week with the goal of being on the President's desk for signature by July 4. ###
06.24.2010	Legislative Clock Ticking; Arizona Law A Call To Action Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4), Chairman of Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, held a press conference today with dozens of other Members of Congress to recognize the milestone of 100 co-sponsors for the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and Prosperity Act (CIR-ASAP/H.R. 4321). The bill is sponsored by Rep. Solomon Ortiz (D-TX) and co-sponsored primarily by members of the Congressional Black Caucus, Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, Progressive Caucus, and Congressional Hispanic Caucus. More information on the bill is available here. Some of the Members of Congress who attended the press conference: Joe Baca (CA), Judy Chu (CA), Yvette Clarke (NY), Joseph Crowley (NY), Charles Gonzalez (TX), Gene Greene (TX), Raul Grijalva (AZ), Mike Honda (CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX), Barbara Lee (CA), Grace Napolitano (CA), Solomon Ortiz (TX), Jared Polis (CO), Gregorio Sablan (D-Northern Marianas), Jan Schakowsky (IL), Jose Serrano (NY), Nydia Velázquez (NY), Anthony Weiner (NY), and Lynn Woolsey (CA) The following is the opening statement delivered by Rep. Gutierrez: We have reached the milestone of 100 co-sponsors for the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America Security and Prosperity bill - a bill I helped put together with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and which has been embraced and supported by the Congressional Black Caucus, the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, and the Congressional Progressive Caucus. We will hear from the leaders of each of these caucuses today, as well as a number of other Members who are not only committed to reform themselves, but are helping us reach out to other Members and build support. We know the legislative clock is ticking. We know people are getting deported at the highest rate in modern history. We know that the inter-related problems of illegal immigration, clogged and unattainable legal immigration, border security, deportation, detention, and a two-tiered labor market that hurts all workers will not solve themselves. We know that the Arizona law -- which, unless something happens, will go into effect in about one month -- is a call to action. It is a cry of frustration. It is not a rejection of comprehensive immigration reform but an alarm bell that the American people are angry, they want solutions, and they want a rational legal immigration system that secures the border and gets all immigrants into the system and playing by the rules. This next month will be critical. After the August recess, we all know the chances of major action dwindle and that if the Arizona law is allowed to go into effect, it will cause massive disruptions and set a dangerous precedent. As American leaders, we must show the way to fix an American problem: our broken immigration system. The American people want action, and they want law and order restored to the immigration system. My fellow Democrats, we support the policy the American people actually want; the policy the American people see as pragmatic, and the policy they see as the law and order approach to the immigration issue. Now we must be brave enough to fight for it. Where Republicans see voter frustration and want to exploit it, we should be smart enough to respond to voter frustration by solving the problem that actually frustrates them. Americans know that trying to drive out 12 million immigrants is not going to happen. And most immigrants are not leaving on their own, no matter how tough we make it. We simply cannot expect to get rid of a population about the size of Ohio (or their 4 million U.S. citizen children). They will not magically disappear. So an immigration policy based on a fantasy no longer flies with the American people. It has no credibility. The American people want a different, more realistic solution. We need a rational solution. We need a practical solution. We need a fair solution. That solution, CIR ASAP, is on the table and it should not languish there while the American people demand action. ###
06.23.2010	"There is no reason why we should allow these banks to continue to play at the roulette wheel in the casino of capitalism..." Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and a conferee on the Wall Street reform bill, today reiterated his support for inclusion of a strong "Volcker Rule" in the bill currently being deliberated. The following is a statement by Rep. Gutierrez: I am a strong supporter of the “Volcker Rule” and I urge my colleagues to support it and make it part of the bill. Banks who benefit from subsidized funds - whether they borrow them from the Fed or simply are allowed to take insured deposits- shouldn’t engage in proprietary trading. There is no reason why we should allow these banks to continue to play at the roulette wheel in the casino of capitalism, as they have in the past. Proprietary trading has contributed to the financial crisis by using derivatives trading to decrease the capital standards banks are held to while not decreasing any of the risk involved in lending. The Volcker Rule constitutes an important measure to adequately protect taxpayers, to protect depositors, indeed, to protect our economy. Does it attempt to kill hedge funds or private equity firms, some of which have legitimate uses? Not at all. Hedge funds and private equity firms can still exist and can make tons of money. Just not on our dime. By separating commercial banking from proprietary trading, the Volcker Rule ensures that our bank deposits won’t be used to back-stop risky and reckless hedge funds when their luck runs out. At the same time, the Volcker Rule calls for higher levels of capital to serve as a cushion for those investment banks whose failure could cause systemic risk, and it also strikes at the heart of the unconscionable conflicts of interest we’ve seen by the likes of a Goldman Sachs, when banks bet against the very same securities that they conceive, design, and then market. Finally, I recall the words of John Reed, the former Chairman of Citigroup, who testified on the Volcker Rule in the Senate earlier this year, and has done a mea culpa of sorts for the repeal of Glass-Steagall. Mr. Reed has said: “I’m sorry…We learn from our mistakes…I would compartmentalize the industry for the same reason you compartmentalize ships. If you have a leak, the leak doesn’t spread and sink the whole vessel.” Let’s heed the words of Paul Volcker and John Reed, former captains of industry who know all too well the dangers of financial high-rolling and are siding with the people and calling on us to put an end to the practice of allowing taxpayer funds to protect and support proprietary and speculative activities. ###
06.23.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and a conferee on the Wall Street reform bill, today expressed his disappointment at the latest tentative agreement on the bank dissolution or funeral fund. "The dissolution process as established in both versions of HR 4173 is much better for the nation than what we had before but we haven't gone far enough," Rep. Gutierrez said. "By failing to include the funeral fund pre-funded by the big Wall Street banks, we fell short. I'm very disappointed that we are not forcing the banks to 'ante-up' to pay for the next mess they will inevitably create." The compromise version as it currently stands creates a system where banks would be assessed for the cost of a dissolution fund after, not before, the FDIC makes the determination that extra-funds are needed to safely wind-down and dismantle a failed "systemically significant" financial institution. "Banks need to pay for the messes they create and they should do so in a way that insulates the taxpayer from losses as much as possible. Today's change to the dissolution authority is very disappointing for me, especially because without it, we have a $20 billion cost to the taxpayers. In my view, we need to make sure that the banks pay for this, not hardworking Americans." ###
06.22.2010	Auto Dealer Amendment Defeated By One Vote, But Congressman Vows to Keep Fighting for Consumer Protections Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) offered an amendment to the Wall Street reform bill being deliberated in a House-Senate conference committee that would extend the protections of a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to consumers who get their auto loans from auto dealers. The amendment was defeated by one vote, 10-9. The amendment would have simply extended the oversight of the CFPB to transactions for auto loans originated through auto dealerships if and when the Federal Trade Commission fails to exercise oversight. "We find ourselves on the verge of treating auto loans made through dealerships differently and less rigorously than any other credit transactions," Rep. Gutierrez said. "For most people, a car is the biggest or second biggest purchase they ever make. Leaving the auto dealers out leaves a consumer credit loophole you can drive a big honking SUV through. The predators in the car loan industry must have oversight just like every other financial institution." Rep. Gutierrez's changes have the support of none other than the Pentagon, which has been repeatedly calling for regulation of the auto loan sector because many in the military run into financial problems with their car loans when on deployments. It is a source of hardship for soldiers and their families, but it is not limited to military families alone. "It isn’t just the Pentagon that makes a strong argument against this carveout," Rep. Gutierrez said in a statement introducing the amendment. "Let's remember that President Obama has announced his strong opposition to this carveout, that Elizabeth Warren remains firmly against it and that both Chairman Frank and Chairman Dodd have spoken eloquently in opposition to this unprincipled carve-out." Rep. Gutierrez continued, "The amendment I offered didn't go as far as it should, but what it does is say that if the Federal Trade Commission -whose oversight over auto dealers I would maintain- fails to act on deceptive practices by auto dealers in a timely manner, then the CFPB would be able to step in and act as a backstop to stop abusive loan practices." While Rep. Gutierrez narrowly lost the vote today, he said the fight is not over. "Now the focus will be on the Senate conferees and the burden is on them to enact strong consumer protections for car buyers," Rep. Gutierrez said. "This is just one of the key consumer and taxpayer protections I am fighting for and I will not give up on these protections until the final gavel falls." Rep. Gutierrez is also a strong proponent of the CFPB, the bank-funded ex-ante fund to pre-pay the cost of bank failures, fair regulations on international remittances, the so-called Volcker rule, and a number of other key provisions that protect consumers and tax-payers from the overindulgence of the credit and banking industries. ###
06.21.2010	Family Who Paid $5,000 for Non-Existent Legal Services Joins Congressman to Highlight Serious Problem Affecting Immigrant Communities Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) held a press conference in front of the Pilsen offices of a legal services operation that allegedly ripped off at one least one immigrant family seeking legal advice. The family, headed by Luciano Arevalo, who also attended the press conference, came to Gutierrez' office after spending more than $5,000 for services that, according to the family, were not rendered. The Arevalo family paid the firm at the storefront marked "Servicios Legales" to file paperwork with the Department of Homeland Security - which oversees immigration -- related to legal immigration status for family members. According to Rep. Gutierrez, the papers were never filed and the legal status of at least one family member was put in jeopardy. "Unfortunately for Mr. Arevalo," Rep. Gutierrez said at the press conference, "he has paid Servicios Legales more than $5,000 for direct legal help on behalf of his daughter, two sons and his wife. In return, he received nothing. And only because of the assistance of my office is his family not facing very serious trouble with their applications." Rep. Gutierrez said he had contacted the Cook County State's Attorney about the matter and was calling on the U.S. Attorney, the Cook County State’s Attorney, and the Illinois Attorney General "to express my concerns and to ask how we can all work together to crack down on anyone who exploits immigrants." Rep. Gutierrez said what had happened to the Arevalo family was a symptom of the larger problem this country is having resolving the issue of immigration reform. "The Arevalos are the reality of immigration today. Good people. Hard-working people. Decent people who have a dream. To live in America legally," Rep. Gutierrez said. "We will solve our immigration crisis when we allow good people to come out of the shadows and contribute to our society. We will solve our immigration problem when we have a legal immigration system people can use efficiently so fewer feel they have to go around it illegally. Until then, immigrants will be victims and vulnerable to predators. They will be at the mercy of storefronts like Servicios Legales. They will be at the mercy of employers who refuse to pay them or keep them safe. They will be at the mercy of politicians who use them to get a few extra votes." ###
06.14.2010	Chicago Father's Day Weekend Citizenship Event June 19 Announced (Chicago, IL) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) has been assisting Chicago residents in accessing and completing the U.S. citizenship process for fifteen years and this coming Father's Day weekend, the 50,000th person to move through the program is expected to participate in a special citizenship workshop. "Ayudando como Hermanos a los Nuevos Ciudadanos" ("Helping Our New Citizens Like Brothers") - the citizenship workshop model developed by Congressman Gutierrez and now replicated all over the country, began in 1995. At a press conference today at his Chicago District office on West North Avenue, the Congressman was joined by community leaders and local elected officials as he announced that there will be special recognition given to the 50,000th citizen. "Fifteen years ago, I had to ask special permission from the then-Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service to conduct workshops to help eligible immigrants navigate the bureaucratic barriers to U.S. citizenship." Rep. Gutierrez said. "Now, what we started in Chicago is a model for Congressional Offices and non-profit groups across the country." The 50,000th person to move through the program on the road to U.S. citizenship will participate in the Citizenship Workshop hosted by Rep. Gutierrez, in conjunction with Centro Sin Fronteras and the New American Initiative, scheduled to begin at 10:00 a.m. at West Side Tech (2800 S. Western) on June 19. See accompanying flyer for more details. At the press conference Monday, Rep. Gutierrez was joined by State Representative Luis Arroyo, State Representative Maria Antonia Berrios, State Senator William Delgado, Cook County Commissioner Jesus Garcia, State Senator Iris Martinez, Alderman Ricardo Munoz, Cook County Commissioner Edwin Reyes, Alderman Daniel Solis, State Representative Cynthia Soto, and community leaders who have worked with Rep. Gutierrez' to promote citizenship. "There is no more important step an immigrant can take than to step up, go through the process, and take the oath of citizenship," Rep. Gutierrez said. "The U.S. makes it too hard and too expensive, but with a little help, we have helped almost 50,000 aspirants become new Americans. That is huge benefit to Chicago and the nation and it goes way beyond the tens of thousands of families. It strengthens our community and our democracy and I couldn't be prouder of anything we have accomplished for the Fourth District and Chicago." ###
06.13.2010	Congressman is Member of Conference Committee Negotiating Final Version of Wall Street Reform Bill June 13, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) – As the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate begin ironing out the differences in their respective Wall Street reform bills, U.S. Representative Luis Gutierrez today announced his support for an amendment authored by U.S. Senator Dick Durbin to help reduce the interchange or “swipe” fees that small businesses pay on every credit and debit card sale. Durbin’s amendment was included in the Senate’s Wall Street reform bill, but was not included in the House-passed bill. “Higher swipe fees mean higher costs for retailers and consumers,” said Durbin. “Every time you make a purchase with plastic, Visa and MasterCard require the merchant to send a cut of the sale amount to the bank that issued your credit or debit card. American businesses and consumers are getting nickled and dimed by the big banks, who end up making billions from these hidden fees. Swipe fees need to be kept at a reasonable level so working Americans don’t get shortchanged.” "I will work with Senator Durbin and conferees to make sure the amendment that is finally adopted brings fairness to our electronic payments system while avoiding unintended consequences for community banks, credit unions, and consumers," Rep. Gutierrez said. Gutierrez is Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and a member of the conference committee charged with negotiating the final House/Senate compromise Wall Street reform bill. The bill will bring accountability to Wall Street through the strongest consumer financial protections in the nation’s history. Durbin and Gutierrez said the current interchange system is unsustainable for America’s business and consumers and profoundly affects America’s charities, government agencies, universities and other entities that accept cards as a form of payment. For example, last year the City of Chicago paid $7.5 million in interchange fees, and the Illinois Tollway paid $11.6 million in interchange fees. The two lawmakers noted that budget-strapped cities and transit agencies could put their taxpayer dollars to far better use. “When you use a credit or debit card to contribute to a charity, that charity only receives a portion of what you intended. If you swiped a card to ride the L or take a CTA bus, the CTA had to pay a fee to the banks and card companies. Nearly $50 billion was collected last year every time a consumer swiped a credit or debit card -- and 80 percent of this money went to just ten large banks,” said Durbin. “There is virtually no competition and no recourse for merchants exploited by the rate structure and fees mandated by Visa and MasterCard.” In a normal market, banks would compete with one another to win merchant business by lowering swipe fees to cover only the processing costs. But the credit and debit card markets are not normal markets. Visa and MasterCard unilaterally set swipe fee rates that apply to all banks within their card networks and the credit card giants do not allow banks to compete to reduce rates, nor do they allow banks to negotiate with merchants over rates. The Durbin interchange amendment would reduce the debit interchange fees imposed on businesses to a “reasonable” level, and would allow businesses to offer more discounts to their customers without threat of penalty from Visa and MasterCard. ###
06.09.2010	June 9, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, was named to the conference committee charged with negotiating the final House/Senate compromise Wall Street reform bill. A press conference scheduled for this morning by Rep. Gutierrez with members of Americans for Financial Reform, including the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights and Human Rights and the Center for Responsible Lending, but it was canceled at the last minute due to flight delays. Rep. Gutierrez had planned to offer a preview of the consumer protection and taxpayer protection priorities he intends to carry with him as the conference committee begins its work. In place of that press conference, the following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez. We are on the eve of the financial reform conference committee and the final opportunity to put the interests of the American people in front of those of the Wall Street banks and their armies of lobbyists that we will continue to see over the next few weeks. I have been working alongside organizations like Americans for Financial Reform -who represent the interests of a broad spectrum of the American people- as we put together this bill. The coalition of organizations that make up Americans for Financial Reform have worked hard to put strong, effective consumer protections into this legislation and I welcome their continued support during the conference committee. I would like to highlight three key issues that we believe are vital to protecting consumers and taxpayers from the greedy and risky practices of Wall Street that they have suffered under for the past few decades. The most vital issue when we’re talking about protecting taxpayers and ending taxpayer-funded bailouts is creating a dissolution fund that is pre-funded by the very institutions it will be used to resolve in case of their failure. We cannot rely on a complicated funding scheme that opens up the possibility that taxpayers will pay for another bailout. You think there won’t be a taxpayer cost with the Senate solution? Then why is there a pay-go problem with their dissolution fund? The solution to preventing another round of taxpayer-funded bailouts is simple: put the House pre-funded dissolution fund in the bill and make the banks, not taxpayers, pay to clean up the messes the banks create. Let me be very clear on one point: this is not a bailout fund, this is a dissolution fund. This is essentially the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund writ-large. If you think this process is a bailout fund, talk to any of the 81 banks that have failed this year alone across our country and ask them if they’ve been bailed out. The Republicans really missed the boat when they were talking about “death panels” during the healthcare debate. There were no death panels in that legislation, but there’s one here: this is a death panel for “too big to fail” institutions. In order to protect consumers from the greed of Wall Street, the conference committee needs to include a strong, effective and independent consumer protection agency in the legislation. After all the abuses our consumer have experienced from predatory mortgage loans, abusive credit card practices and payday loans, consumers need their own watchdog in the federal government. Financial institutions have their own independent agencies, free of political influence, and consumers deserve the same. To do less for hard-working Americans is nothing short of insulting. We also need to guarantee the consumer agency an independent source of funding to make sure they can put the necessary number of ‘cops on the beat’ to enforce the rules they will create. To prevent consumers from being taking advantage of by different players in the industry offering essentially the same products, we need to make sure that the consumer protection agency has jurisdiction over types of financial products and not just focus on those who offer them. False distinctions like exempting auto dealers from oversight by the agency -but not banks or credit unions who offer the exact same auto loan- is only asking for abuses like we saw from ignoring mortgage brokers while heavily regulating mortgages originated by banks. This concern is not limited to Americans for Financial Reform and other organizations. Banks and credit unions are also opposed to an auto dealer carve out, and President Obama has made it very clear that he is opposed to the auto dealer carve out. Even the Pentagon believes this is a matter of military preparedness and national security and is strongly opposed to an auto dealer carve out. Last but not least, we need to work together to enact a strong version of the Volcker Rule which would ban banks from using their customer’s money or federally subsidized funds to trade for their own profit. Large Wall Street banks have for too long relied on making money off of market trading at the expense of their traditional form of profit generation: lending to Main Street and American families. We need to roll back the clock to where banks could use government subsidized funds to engage in productive lending for the good of society, not just to pad their books. For too long, the big banks of Wall Street have run roughshod over our country and the American consumers. The conference committee which begins tomorrow will be the last chance for Congress to show the American people that we are the servants of the people, not Wall Street. I look forward to that opportunity. ###
06.08.2010	June 8, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) met with student and young-adult representatives of groups backing the DREAM Act in his Chicago office today to discuss strategy and tactics for passing comprehensive immigration reform. Rep. Gutierrez is the principal author of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and Prosperity Act (CIR ASAP; H.R. 4321), which includes a version of the DREAM Act as a component of the larger bill. The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez. I recognize how important students and young people are to this movement and the meeting reminded me of the integral role they play in fighting for immigration reform. I am committed to further meetings and closer collaboration with these young leaders to continue the process of hashing out and executing coordinated strategies and tactics to pass comprehensive immigration this year. Further, I agreed to continue my advocacy and reiterate my strong encouragement to fellow Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to become co-sponsors of the DREAM Act. ###
06.07.2010	June 7, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) – Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) held a press conference in Chicago with airline industry employees and union representatives to underscore the potential downsides of the planned merger of United Airlines and Continental Airlines. He said while the merger could be good for Chicago -- United headquarters here and the new merged airline would be headquartered here, too -- aspects of the merger raise serious concerns, especially from the standpoint of consumers, passengers, and airline employees. Rep. Gutierrez, who said he was neutral on whether Congress should approve the merger, said he would work to raise his concerns about the merger with his colleagues in the House. Specifically, Rep. Gutierrez pointed to the $523 million revenue for United and Continental in combined baggage fees and $1.2 billion in combined revenue from all passenger fees in 2009, all while United recently announced passenger-unit revenues up 25%, topping pre-recession levels. "That's good news for United -- and a good time to review the fairness and necessity of these fees," Gutierrez said pointing to a suitcase with the $523 million baggage fee price tag affixed. "I believe the new United should have a new outlook about fee after fee that digs deep into consumers' pockets." Gutierrez also said he was receiving complaints from constituents about difficulties, restrictions, and expenses when trying to cash-in frequent flyer program miles. He said that while the airlines do not release details, he calculated at least 18 billion miles saved by consumers in United's Mileage Plus program, which they have few opportunities to actually use. "Congress has a responsibility to stand up for consumers and protect their interests when they are regularly promised something only to find out that receiving what is promised is next to impossible," Gutierrez said of frequent flyer programs. Rep. Gutierrez was joined by several airline employees and union representatives who detailed how lost jobs and wages within the industry are already taking a toll. Captain Herb Hunter represented the Air Line Pilots Association, Christine Schlegel spoke on behalf of the Association of Flight Attendants, and Rich Petrosky spoke on behalf of the Teamsters union. Each expressed their concerns over the potential for further loses related to the merger. "In the past few years, as so many airlines have cut wages and benefits, they realized that they could also save money by cutting maintenance jobs and contracting out critical aircraft maintenance to the lowest bidder," said Petrosky, a forty-year employee of United who is a union shop foreman at UAL's San Francisco maintenance facility. "I’m not talking about changing a light bulb in the lavatory. I’m talking about critical maintenance; engine work, flight controls, landing gear, airframe repairs…work that, if not held to the highest standard, puts you, your family and my fellow United Airlines employees at risk." Rep. Gutierrez spoke of the safety net provided to Continental executives if they choose not to stay on with the new company that includes $27 million in "Golden Parachute" bonuses for just three executives. "Other top-level executives who are affected by the merger are in line for similar paydays," Rep. Gutierrez said. "Again, multi-millions in salaries to a few in an atmosphere where union after union has made concessions and worker after worker has lost their job." Finally, the Congressman said, "I plan to bring the concerns and issues that we will hear about today directly to Congress, directly to the committee of jurisdiction, and directly to the feet of Continental and United executives to demand that they do the right thing by their workers and their customers." ###
05.27.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), introduced an amendment to the Defense Reauthorization bill, being debated on the House floor, which calls on the Secretary of Defense to reevaluate all defense contracts with BP and consider debarring BP if it is determined not to be a "responsible source." According to the Federal Acquisition Regulations, all federal contractors must meet the definition of a "responsible source," one provision of which states that the prospective contractor "has a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics." "There is ample evidence leading up to and including the current disaster in the Gulf of Mexico that BP is not a 'responsible source' and shows a consistent disregard for federal law and the lives and livelihoods of Americans," Rep. Gutierrez said. "All I am asking my colleagues to do is to join me in asking the Secretary of Defense to take a very close look at BP's Bad Behavior and Broken Promises, and levy the Big Penalty of cutting them off the Billions in Profits they make, partially from defense contracts." According to the USASpending.gov, in 2009, BP had $2 billion worth of business under federal contracts with the Department of Defense. The Gutierrez amendment, Amendment #125 to H.R. 5136 - the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 -- would preserve the discretion of the Secretary to determine if BP remains a "responsible source" and what course of action to take if they are not. But, he said, "By passing the amendment, the Congress will be making a clear statement that they want the Secretary to look into BP's contracts and consider debarment if he feels -- as the Congress does -- that action is warranted. Business as usual is not sound business when it comes to BP." "In this economic climate where great attention is paid to ensure that every taxpayer dollar is well spent, it should not be difficult for the Department of Defense to find an alternative source for the services that BP provides and one that actually follows the law and protects its workers and the environment," Rep. Gutierrez said. "The safety and readiness of our troops is not jeopardized by asking that the Department of Defense insist on minimum standards of acceptable performance and integrity." In introducing his amendment, Rep. Gutierrez cited multiple violations of safety and environmental laws by BP, including violations related to BP's Texas City refinery explosion in 2005 and violations related to BP's Toledo, Ohio plant just two months ago. The Congressman also pointed to BP's own corporate website, quoting excerpts from BP's "Code of Conduct" for employees during his floor speech to introduce the amendment. "BP states that they are 'committed to providing all BP employees...with a safe and secure work environment where no one is subject to unnecessary risk,'" Rep. Gutierrez said, quoting the BP website. "These words ring hollow when you consider the lost lives, hundreds of OSHA violations and millions of dollars in fines. Their actions speak much louder than words and now 37 days into what may be the worst ecological disaster in our history, it is clear BP does not meet its own 'commitment to integrity.'" ### Recent floor speeches by Rep. Gutierrez in response to the BP Gulf oil disaster can be viewed at the Congressman's YouTube channel, including speeches on 5/27, 5/26, 5/25, 5/19, and 5/18.
05.24.2010	Joined By Rep. Mike Quigley, Rep. Jared Polis, and LGBT and Immigrant Community Leaders in Chicago, Gutierrez Outlines Unified Plan to Pass Immigration Reform with UAFA Provisions Congressman Gutierrez: “The Uniting American Families Act is important and I will fight for UAFA and its inclusion in any comprehensive immigration reform bill." Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), today joined Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL) and Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO) to announce his unwavering support for allowing legal family-based immigration for same-sex couples as part of any comprehensive immigration reform plan that moves forward in Congress. The leader in Congress of efforts to pass comprehensive immigration that reunites families and restores fairness and the rule of law to the system, Gutierrez is the lead sponsor of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America’s Security and Prosperity Act of 2009 (CIR ASAP / H.R. 4321). Gutierrez, Quigley, and Polis were joined at a noon press conference in Chicago by leaders of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgendered (LGBT) community in Chicago, supporters of immigration reform, and same-sex binational couples who benefit from a law known as the Uniting American Families Act (UAFA / H.R.1024). The following are excerpts from Congressman Gutierrez’ opening statement: Today, I am joined by my good friends and colleagues Mike Quigley and Jared Polis to make it clear that comprehensive immigration reform must be truly comprehensive and by that I mean that the provisions of the Uniting American Families Act – or UAFA – that would help same-sex bi-national couples secure legal immigration – must be a part of immigration reform. I told my fellow Members of Congress and leading groups in the LGBT community in December when we introduced the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for American Security and Prosperity Act – H.R. 4321 – that I was committed to making UAFA a part of immigration reform when it moved in the House. What has changed is that we have not had the developments in the House we hoped for and the coalition supporting the CIR-ASAP bill is much stronger and broader today and the coalition supporting UAFA is in a powerful place to help us get across the finish line. The Uniting American Families Act is important and I will fight for UAFA and its inclusion in any comprehensive immigration reform bill that passes this Congress. We need to recognize that one of the main problems facing the U.S. when it comes to immigration is that our legal immigration system is so dysfunctional and restrictive that we have created incentives for people to go around our system rather than going through it. Nowhere is this more true than for committed same-sex couples who have to make a painful choice between their family and the immigration laws of the U.S. that do not recognize these family units for the purposes of immigration. By disallowing legal immigration and family unity for these couples and families, our immigration laws are separating families and to preventing the reunification of families separated by borders because of immigration bureaucracy and restrictions. From the outset, I have been trying to highlight the family unification aspects of immigration reform. That little girl who whispered to Michelle Obama her fear that President Obama’s government might come one day to take her mommy away is why we are fighting for immigration reform. In that brief, 20-second exchange, that Maryland second-grader made it crystal clear what is wrong with our immigration mess. Unfortunately, her plight is all too common. As part of our Families United/Familias Unidas tour, I travelled to at least 30 cities and heard from tens of thousands of families that fear deportation or can’t get a visa to bring a close family member or a child here legally. We deported almost 400,000 people last year – and let’s be clear, President Obama is deporting people at a faster rate than even the George Bush administration – and what are we getting for those almost 400,000 deportations? A lot of fear, a lot of disruption, huge costs to our pocket-books and our values as a nation, but even at a rate of 1000 deportations a day, we are not solving our immigration problems. We need legal ways for immigrants like the mother of that second-grader to enter the U.S. in the first place. We need to make legal immigration a realistic alternative for the people who feel the only way available to them to come and work in America is to walk across the desert of Arizona or pay a smuggler to get them here. We need a way for undocumented immigrants like the mother of that Maryland girl to come forward, pay a fine, go through a process including criminal background checks, and get legal as a condition of staying and working in this country. And I am here to say that as far as I am concerned, it doesn’t matter to me whether that little girl has one mommy or two mommies. It’s none of my business; it is none of the government’s business, and it should not make a difference when it comes to our immigration policies. UAFA has a lot of support inside and outside the LGBT community, but UAFA alone can’t fix what is wrong about our current immigration mess. Likewise, comprehensive immigration reform is necessary, but not sufficient to fix what is wrong with our immigration system if some same-sex couples and families are still left out. I’m committed to working with Mike Quigley and Jared Polis, who have each demonstrated incredible leadership in the U.S. Congress.. And I’m committed to bringing the immigration reform movement together with the coalition supporting UAFA to fight for inclusion of same-sex families. The goal must be to have an immigration system that keeps families together, enhances America’s security, strengthens the economy, and is true to the core values of this nation that guarantees freedom and protects the basic human and civil rights of every individual. In order to get there, we need comprehensive immigration reform and we need UAFA and together – working as a team – we can make that goal a reality. Thank you. ###
05.24.2010	Press Contacts: Douglas Rivlin/Guiterrez: 202-225-8203 Aviva Gibbs/Quigley: 773-267-5926 Lara Cottingham/Polis: 202-5693 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) – Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) joined Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL) and Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO) to announce their unwavering support for allowing legal family-based immigration for same-sex couples as part of any comprehensive immigration reform plan that moves forward in Congress. They were joined at a noon press conference in Chicago by leaders of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgendered (LGBT) community in Chicago, supporters of immigration reform, and same-sex binational couples who would benefit from a law known as the Uniting American Families Act (UAFA / H.R.1024). Congressman Gutierrez is considered the leader in the U.S. Congress of efforts to pass comprehensive immigration that reunites families and restores fairness and the rule of law to the system and is author of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America’s Security and Prosperity Act of 2009 (CIR ASAP / H.R. 4321). "The Uniting American Families Act is important and I will fight for UAFA and its inclusion in any comprehensive immigration reform bill that passes this Congress," he said. Also speaking at the event were Bernard Cherkasov, CEO of Equality Illinois, the state's largest LGBT rights organization, and same-sex binational couples and families who would benefit from comprehensive immigration reform that includes the provisions of the UAFA bill. Under current federal law, same-sex couples and families are not recognized for the purposes of applying for immigration visas or applying to adjust one's legal immigration status. Under the immigration reform proposal Rep. Gutierrez authored, LGBT individuals in the country illegally would be eligible to apply for legal status and eventual citizenship if they meet certain criteria, pay fines and submit to criminal background checks -- just like any other individuals. But, the addition of the UAFA provisions would treat same-sex couples equally when it comes to applying for legal immigration benefits through the family immigration system. ###
05.21.2010	Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – StoryCorps, a national initiative to document the unique stories of Americans, arrived May 20 in Illinois to collect and preserve the stories of Chicago's Latino residents, as part of its Historias Initiative. Historias, which means stories in Spanish, is an ongoing initiative to honor and celebrate the diversity of Latino culture. On Monday, May 24, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4) will participate in the Historias initiative by recording an interview with his daughter Jessica. These conversations are unscripted, so it is unclear what the Congressman and his daughter, a recent college graduate, will discuss. Ensuring that the stories of the Latino experience will be preserved for future generations to listen to, all StoryCorps interviews -- including Rep. Gutierrez' -- will be added to the archives at the Library of Congress in Washington, DC. Excerpts of selected StoryCorps interviews air on NPR's Morning Edition every Friday. Since 2003, over 50,000 everyday people have shared stories and life experiences with their family and friends through StoryCorps. "I think it's a great opportunity for Latino families throughout Chicagoland to tell their stories and make sure that our family histories are included in this archive of American history," Rep. Gutierrez said. "I'm excited and a little nervous about what my daughter may ask," he said with a wink. The StoryCorps MobileBooth, an Airstream trailer outfitted with a recording studio, will be parked at the National Mexican Museum of Art for 6 weeks. Reservations are open and can be made through StoryCorps 24-hour reservation line, 1-800-850-4406, or at StoryCorps.org. StoryCorps. Historias plans to collect 120 interviews during its stay in Chicago. After their conversation is recorded, the Congressman will be available to speak with reporters WHAT: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez and daughter Jessica Gutierrez to record conversation for the StoryCorps Historias project WHEN: Recording session (approx 40 minutes) at 10:15 CT, Monday, May 24, 2010 Followed by press availability approximately 11:00 a.m. WHERE: StoryCorps Historias Mobile Recording Studio Outside the National Museum of Mexican Art, 1852 West 19th Street, Chicago, Pilsen neighborhood, adjacent to Little Village MORE INFO: Diana Velez-Griffen, StoryCorps 646.723.7020 x65 (o) or 917.743.8922 (c) or Dvgriffen@storycorps.org WEB: StoryCorps Historias (English)StoryCorps Historias (Spanish) ###
05.21.2010	Statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez on Senate Passage Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chair of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, was joined by Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) and Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) at a press conference Thursday (video here) to discuss how key consumer and taxpayer protections passed by the House have been watered down in the Senate bill. After the Senate bill passed late Thursday, Rep. Gutierrez issued the following statement: We passed the Wall Street Reform bill in the House last December and the Senate passed its version last night. But it’s not over ‘til it’s over. The big bank barbarians will now be at the gate trying to weaken the bill as it goes to conference. They will sic their lobbyists on the conference committee to attempt to carve out exemptions and water down the final product. Well, I want to send them a clear message from the get-go: You will not succeed. I will fight tooth and nail to make sure that the bill we send to the President to sign into law provides for a real overhaul of our financial system, with a strong framework to protect consumers and taxpayers and to prevent the risky and reckless behavior of firms that contributed to the recent financial crisis. Among other measures, I will continue to work to ensure that the consumer protection agency in the bill is as free from political influence as the banking regulatory agencies; to make sure there’s no exemption for auto dealers under the consumer protection agency; and to preserve the “Dissolution Fund” we included in the House bill, a fund that will be used to protect taxpayers from paying the costs of winding down failed financial institutions that is paid for in advance by those institutions. My goal is for us to send the bill to the President by July 4, when Americans will finally be able to declare their independence from the greed and recklessness of Wall Street. ###
05.20.2010	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez, the sponsor of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America’s Security and Prosperity Act of 2009 (CIR ASAP), and a national leader of the fight for immigration reform and fairness efforts, will join with LGBT leaders to hold a press conference in Chicago on Monday to announce his strong support for inclusion of same-sex couples and their families in comprehensive immigration reform efforts in Congress this year. Congressman Will Be Joined By Rep. Mike Quigley, Rep. Jared Polis, and LGBT and Immigrant Community Leaders in Chicago to Outline Unified Plan to Pass Immigration Reform andEnsure Same-Sex Couples and Their Families are Protected Congressman Gutierrez: “Our efforts to fix our broken immigration system and protect basic civil rights are not truly comprehensive if we exclude same-sex couples.” May 20, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez, the sponsor of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America’s Security and Prosperity Act of 2009 (CIR ASAP), and a national leader of the fight for immigration reform and fairness efforts, will join with LGBT leaders to hold a press conference in Chicago on Monday to announce his strong support for inclusion of same-sex couples and their families in comprehensive immigration reform efforts in Congress this year. CIR ASAP (H.R. 4321), Gutierrez' comprehensive bill cosponsored by 97 other members, does not currently include a specific provision extending legal immigration benefits to bi-national same-sex couples and their families. However, the Congressman is recommitting himself to inclusion of a specific provision that would allow an American citizen in a committed same-sex bi-national relationship to petition for an immigrant visa for their permanent partner in the same manner as an heterosexual couple would. This would ensure that all American families can remain together through the immigration process. As many as 40,000 couples – many with American citizen children – would benefit from the provision. Other key provisions of CIR ASAP, including legalization provisions for undocumented residents, asylum policy reforms, and treatment in detention, already apply to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgendered persons. Congressman Gutierrez will be joined at the press conference by Reps. Mike Quigley (D-IL) and Jared Polis (D-CO), who are each strong supporters of LGBT inclusion in immigration reform. Leaders from the LGBT and immigrant communities in Chicago are also invited to speak. Together they will announce their support for including same sex couples and their families in comprehensive immigration reform. They will also address the need for the LGBT and immigrant communities to be united in their efforts to pass legislation this year. Also participating in the press conference will be individuals who would benefit from the provision and who will tell their personal stories of their families being separated by America’s broken immigration system. WHAT: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Rep. Mike Quigley, Rep. Jared Polis, LGBTcommunity leaders and advocates announce plans to include same-sexcouples and their families in immigration reform WHEN: 12 noon CT, Monday, May 24, 2010 WHERE: The Center on Halsted3656 N. HalstedChicago, Illinois WHO: Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-4)Congressman Mike Quigley (D-IL-5)Congressman Jared Polis (D-CO-2)LGBT and Immigrant Leaders and Families, TBD ###
05.19.2010	(Washington, DC) – Three progressive Members of the House of Representatives who have been watching the Senate Financial Reform bill closely will gather at a press conference to express their dismay at how key consumer and taxpayer protections passed by the House have been watered down in the Senate bill. Members Express Serious Concerns Over Weakened Consumer Protections in Senate Financial Reform Legislation Reps. Gutierrez, Ellison, Welch SeeInfluence of Wall Street Banking Lobbyists in Senate Bill May 19, 2010Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELASE (Washington, DC) – Three progressive Members of the House of Representatives who have been watching the Senate Financial Reform bill closely will gather at a press conference to express their dismay at how key consumer and taxpayer protections passed by the House have been watered down in the Senate bill. They will demand that the Senate not further weaken the bill as it prepares to vote on final passage. Several changes to the Senate bill, including gutting the "dissolution fund" to protect taxpayers when large banks fail and weakening the consumer protection agency, stand to leave American consumers and taxpayers vulnerable. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chair of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit (and the author of the dissolution fund amendment to the House bill), will be joined by Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) and Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT). WHAT: Press Conference on urgent need to keep strong consumer and taxpayer protection provisions in financial reform bill WHEN: 9:30 a.m., ET, Thursday, May 20, 2010 WHERE: Room 2220, Rayburn House Office Building WHO: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) ###
05.18.2010	Luis V. Gutierrez Pens Letter to Interior Secretary, Uses Floor Speech, Blog Post to Urge Colleagues to Join Him May 18, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELASE (Washington, DC) – U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) has written a letter to Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar demanding that future oil drilling leases be ruled out and current oil leases reexamined for the giant corporation BP. Rep. Gutierrez said that when it comes to profiting from American oil production and exploration, the U.S. government should consider BP to stand for "Banned Permanently." Rep. Gutierrez is circulating the letter to his colleagues urging them to join him as signatories to the letter. He also used a speech before the U.S. House of Representatives and a blog article to publicize his effort. "We kick kids out of school, ban athletes from sports, and give people life sentences with fewer warnings than we have given BP and BP is responsible for much more serious and life-threatening catastrophes over the years," said Rep. Gutierrez. "At some point the Congress and the American people have to stand up and say enough is enough, no more warnings, no more deaths, no more spills, you're out of here, bye-bye." Rep. Gutierrez said on the House floor today (at approximately 2:00 p.m. today): Almost a month into one of our worst manmade environmental and economic disasters and BP has worked harder to minimize public understanding and outrage than to minimize destruction to the Gulf of Mexico. Citing the company's environmental and worker safety record in recent decades, the Congressman's letter to Secretary of the Interior Salazar says, in part (full text here): Given this appalling record of misconduct and disregard, we ask that BP be banned permanently from receiving any future drilling leases. Their conduct at other operation sites indicates a blatant disregard for the lives of their workers, the preservation of the environment, and the millions of U.S. citizens who could be impacted by an environmental disaster. In a blog article posted at Huffington Post, the Congressman wrote: The President has used tough words and Secretary Salazar is pledging to get to the bottom of what happened and what BP can do now to clean up the disaster and compensate the families who lost loved ones or lost livelihoods due to BP's mistakes. But I want to take this a step further: Prove to the American people you have changed your ways, BP, before we even consider another license from the American people to make astronomical profits from our oil. The Congressman said he would recruit signatories to his letter to Secretary Salazar throughout the week and then keep up pressure on the Secretary and the Obama Administration until he receives a satisfactory response. ### To see a video of the Congressman Gutierrez's floor speech, click here.
05.14.2010	Subcommittee Chairman Luis V. Gutierrez Carefully Watching Commercial Real Estate Credit Crunch for Signs of Possible Broader Economic Problems May 14, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 Media Advisory FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Problems affecting the commercial real estate market nationwide and in Chicago could be harbingers of more serious economic problems ahead. In the same way that the home mortgage crisis pre-dated and contributed to the broader economic meltdown that the country has been experiencing, a credit crunch in the commercial real estate market could have wide-ranging implications throughout the economy and particularly in the Midwest. This concern is at the heart of a rare field hearing of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations of the U.S. House of Representatives that is being held in Chicago on Monday. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, will listen to testimony and press the witnesses to explain why we need to pay attention to the commercial real estate market and what can be done legislatively or by federal regulators to ensure that a cold in the real estate market does not develop into serious pneumonia for the broader economy. "This time around, as we see credit growing tighter and foreclosures looming in the commercial real estate market, my colleagues and I on the Committee want to be proactive," said Rep. Gutierrez, who represents the 4th District in the heart of Chicago. "For the past several months I have been reaching out to other Members of Congress to draw their attention to the looming wave of commercial real estate losses and get ahead of the curve through legislative or regulatory approaches. Monday’s hearing in Chicago is part of this effort." Press Availability: At 12:30, immediately before the hearing starts at 1:00 pm, Rep. Gutierrez, Subcommittee Chairman Dennis Moore (D-KS), Ranking Member Judy Biggert (R-IL) and other Members of Congress will be available for interviews. Additional interviews may be accommodated after the hearing concludes (at approximately 4:00 p.m.), time permitting. WHAT: Congressional Field Hearing: “Commercial Real Estate: A Chicago Perspective on Current Market Challenges and Possible Responses” Convened by the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations WHEN: Hearing: 1:00 p.m. CT, Monday, May 17, 2010 Press Availability: Immediately preceding at 12:30 p.m. CT WHERE: Room 2525, Dirksen Federal Courthouse, 219 S. Dearborn St., Chicago, Illinois. HEARING DETAILS: Witness List Panel One – Businesses and Banks: • Mr. Peter Borzak, Principal, Pine Tree Commercial Realty, LLC, on behalf of International Council of Shopping Centers • Mr. G. Joseph Cosenza, Vice Chairman and Director of The Inland Real Estate Group, Inc., and President, Inland Real Estate Acquisitions, Inc., on behalf of National Association of Realtors and Illinois Association of Realtors • Mr. William E. Askew, Senior Policy Advisor, Financial Services Roundtable • Mr. Thomas W. Hough, CEO and Chairman, Carrollton Bank, on behalf of the Illinois Bankers Association • Mr. Greg M. Ohlendorf, President & CEO, First Community Bank, on behalf of Independent Community Bankers Association and Community Bankers Association of Illinois Panel Two – Bank Regulators: • Mr. M. Anthony Lowe, Regional Director, Division of Supervision and Consumer Protection, Chicago Regional Office, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation • Mr. Bert A. Otto, Deputy Comptroller, Central Office, Office of Comptroller of the Currency • Mr. Daniel T. McKee, Regional Director, Central Region, Office of Thrift Supervision • Ms. Cathy Lemieux, Senior Vice President, Supervision and Regulation, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago Panel Three – Securitization and Valuation: • Ms. Paula Dubberly, Associate Director, Division of Corporation Finance, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission • Mr. Kevin Stoklasa, Assistant Technical Director, Financial Accounting Standards Board • Mr. Leslie Sellers, President, Appraisal Institute • Mr. Kent Born, Senior Managing Director, PPM America, Inc., on behalf of CRE Finance Council • Mr. Bruce R. Cohen, CEO, Wrightwood Capital, on behalf of Real Estate Roundtable ###
05.13.2010	Following Hearing, Rep. Gutierrez Joins Reps. Kilroy and Cohen to Stress Need to Address Credit Fairness and Equality Issues May 12, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC)– Immediately following a hearing of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, Chairman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) joined Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN) and Rep. Mary Jo Kilroy (D-OH) to discuss legislative approaches to protecting consumers in matters related to the uses and potential abuses of consumer credit scores and reports. In 2009, Rep. Cohen introduced H.R. 3149, the “Equal Employment for All Act,” to restrict the use of credit reports for certain employment purposes and Rep. Kilroy introduced H.R. 3421, the “Medical Debt Relief Act of 2009,” to prohibit the inclusion of medical debts that have been fully paid or settled from remaining on a consumer credit report. Rep. Gutierrez indicated that these bills and others would become part of a comprehensive bill to protect consumers in matters of consumer credit scores and reports. "My concerns and the concerns of this Subcommittee that there are serious issues with the way consumer credit reports are compiled, used, and in some cases, misused were validated by today's hearing," Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, said at a press availability today immediately following the hearing. "Low- and middle-income families and especially racial and ethnic minorities need to know that a powerful determinate of their credit worthiness -- their credit score -- is a tool that has far ranging consequences for them and their families." “It is not fair to use someone’s credit history against them when they are applying for a job,” said Congressman Cohen, who sponsored the Equal Employment for All Act to prohibit employers from using credit checks as part of the hiring process unless the position involves national security, FDIC clearance or tremendous financial responsibility. “A person’s credit history has no bearing on their job performance. We should be doing everything in our power to help people land jobs during these tough economic times – not hinder them.” Added Rep. Gutierrez, "We don't want to catch people in an unending cycle of debt. If someone can't get a job because their bad credit score, it stands to reason that they will have a harder time paying off debts that would improve their credit score and allow them a better chance of landing a job that would help them and their family. It's a vicious cycle that doesn't serve anyone." On the issue of medical debts hurting a person's credit score, Rep. Mary Jo Kilroy said, “I introduced the Medical Debt Relief Act to help hard-working Americans who play by the rules, pay or settle their medical debts, yet find their economic well-being and their credit scores adversely affected for years to come. Today, we’re taking an important step in the right direction to deal with this issue.” On that theme, Rep. Gutierrez said, "Americans don't choose when they get sick and their credit history shouldn't be unfairly damaged by their inability to pay increasingly exorbitant medical debt on time. Chemotherapy is completely different from overextending your finances to buy a second HDTV and your credit report should reflect this reality as well." Rep. Gutierrez indicated that he was working on comprehensive consumer protection legislation that would incorporate proposals like those introduced by Reps. Kilroy and Cohen and address issues raised at today's hearing and at other hearings in the series that have examined consumer credit issues. ### Rep. Gutierrez' opening statement from today's hearing, "Use of Credit Information Beyond Lending: Issues and Reform Proposals," is available here: https://bit.ly/b2GvHC A live stream/recording of the hearing is available here: https://bit.ly/bd5NE0
05.12.2010	Gutierrez Chairs House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit's Second Hearing in a Series Examining Consumer Credit Fairness and Equality Issues May 12, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC)– Today at a hearing of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, Chairman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) raised issues concerning how credit scores and reports are used in a variety of ways beyond simply checking if a person is a good candidate for a loan. Practices such as checking credit ratings before a person is hired for a job or is able to obtain insurance can perpetuate a cycle of debt and could also multiply the impact of credit scoring, which many find to be discriminatory against racial and ethnic minorities and low-income individuals. The point of the hearing was to examine what additional oversight, regulation, or legislation is needed to protect consumers and ensure that the system is working for, not against, all Americans. The following is the opening statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit. A live stream/recording of the hearing, "Use of Credit Information Beyond Lending: Issues and Reform Proposals," is available at https://bit.ly/bd5NE0. This morning’s hearing is about the use of credit information in areas such as insurance underwriting and employment purposes. We will hear about important yet complex and often opaque processes concerning credit based insurance and insurance scores in the first panel, and in the second panel we will hear about the equally important and –to a vast number of consumers- little known or understood uses of credit information for hiring and firing decisions, and the effect medical debt has on one’s consumer report, even after it’s paid off. When legislators or regulators attempt to fully grasp an issue such as credit based insurance scores, they see a complex system, laden with algorithms and ever-changing computer applications and models. But it is precisely this complexity that should make us here in the Congress delve further into an issue that affects every single American who owns or rents a house, a car, has insurance, has a job or is looking for a job, or is likely to incur medical debt. Do most consumers know that their car or homeowner’s insurance rates may go up due to their credit score? Do they know that if one of their medical bills goes to a collection agency and they pay it in full or settle it, it will still affect their credit report for up to 7 years? Do people realize that, even in these tough economic times, pre-employment consumer credit checks are increasingly widespread, trapping many people in a cycle of debt that makes it harder to pay off their debts and harder for them to get the job that would allow them to pay off their debts? Indeed, the current system facilitates the denial of employment to those who have bad debt, even though bad debt often times results from . . .the denial of employment. That is why this subcommittee is holding this hearing, the second so far this year on the issue of credit reports, credit scores and their impact on consumers. We will look at reports and studies about the predictive nature of insurance scores and traditional scores, among other things. But as we do so, we also need to look at the basic guiding principles of equity, fairness and transparency. Some may contend that there is no disparate treatment of minorities in credit based insurance scores. Some will say that, even if there is a disparate impact on some groups, the system still doesn’t need to be changed. The question of how predictive a credit based insurance score is of an insured’s likelihood to file a claim is important, as is the predictive value of traditional credit scores used for credit granting. But as long as there continue to be disparities in the outcomes of the current system for racial and ethnic groups and along class or geographic lines, I believe that the system needs strenuous oversight and may need fundamental change. How to correct the disparities in the system -with its disproportionately negative impact on minorities and low-income groups- while maintaining the core framework of credit information as a risk management tool, is the challenge we should take on. For example, on issues like the use of credit information for developing insurance pricing and the inclusion of medical debt collections in determining a consumer’s risk of default, I have doubts as to whether these are bias-free uses of data: The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Federal Reserve, the Brookings Institution, the Federal Trade Commission and the Texas Department of Insurance have all found that racial disparities between African Americans, Latinos and whites in credit scoring exist and, as we will see, this has wide-ranging implications beyond simply obtaining consumer credit. Defending a system where decisions such as determining car insurance rates or even something as vital as whether or not to hire someone that are based on something that has been shown to possess a degree of bias -- that is difficult, to say the least. But I welcome the testimony this morning of those who believe the system works, and of those who believe the system needs to be changed to work in a more equitable, fair and transparent fashion. In this same spirit of transparency, I’m making it clear at the outset that I side with this latter group. I don’t think you needed any sort of score or algorithm to predict that. In order to persuade this committee from moving forward on legislation that would strongly limit what we believe to be unfair practices, the industry witnesses before us must prove to me that not only are the practices we call into question scientifically predictive, but more importantly, that they are fair and equitable to all Americans. ###
05.11.2010	Chairman Gutierrez' Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Looks Into the Uses and Potential Misuses of Credit Scores in the Second in a Series of Hearings on Consumer Credit Information Issues and Reform Proposals May 11, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC)– Credit scores and reports are used in a variety of ways beyond simply checking if a person is a good candidate for a loan. They are used by insurance companies to predict the likelihood that a person will file an insurance claim and credit histories are now routinely checked by landlords and employers. U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit of the House Financial Services Committee, is holding a hearing on Wednesday looking into these "other" uses of credit scores and related information. The goal is to determine if practices in the market place are going too far and if additional legislation is needed to protect consumers. "Most Americans probably don't know that credit scores and reports are used by insurance companies to pick their customers and are used to exclude those most likely to file a claim if they get sick, if they have an accident, or if their home is damaged," said Rep. Gutierrez, who will chair the subcommittee hearing. "Congress needs to let the insurance companies and the employers and landlords who are using this information know that we are watching very closely and will take action if and when we find their practices are out of line." Press Availability: Immediately following the hearing, Rep. Gutierrez will be joined by Rep. Mary Jo Kilroy (D-OH) and Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN) to discuss their legislation to protect consumers from abuses of the use of credit information. In 2009, Rep. Cohen introduced H.R. 3149, the “Equal Employment for All Act,” to restrict the use of credit reports for certain employment purposes and Rep. Kilroy introduced H.R. 3421, the “Medical Debt Relief Act of 2009,” to prohibit the inclusion of medical debts that have been fully paid or settled from remaining on a consumer credit report. WHAT: Hearing on the "Use of Credit Information Beyond Lending: Issues and Reform Proposals" Immediately Followed by Press Availability with: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL)Chair, Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN) Rep. Mary Jo Kilroy (D-OH) WHEN: Hearing: 10:00 a.m. ET, Wednesday, May 12, 2010 Press Availability: Immediately after hearing, approximately 11:45 a.m. ET WHERE: 2128 Rayburn House Office Building HEARING DETAILS: Panel I · Hon. Michael T. McRaith, Director, Illinois Department of Insurance, on behalf of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners · Mr. David Snyder, Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Public Policy, American Insurance Association · Mr. John Wilson, Director, Analytics, LexisNexis Risk Solutions Panel II · Ms. Chi Chi Wu, Staff Attorney, National Consumer Law Center · Mr. Mark Rukavina, Executive Director, The Access Project · Mr. Stuart K. Pratt, President and CEO, Consumer Data Industry Association · Ms. Anne Fortney, Partner, Hudson Cook, LLP ###
04.29.2010	I am pleased to see Majority Leader Harry Reid, Sen. Chuck Schumer, and Sen. Robert Menendez taking the lead and preparing a bill for introduction. The details matter and I am anxious to see them, but the most important thing to me is the forward progress. April 29, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington) – The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, a Member of the Judiciary Committee, and chief author of H.R. 4321, The Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security Act (CIR ASAP), which was introduced in the House in December 2009 and has 96 co-sponsors. I am pleased to see Majority Leader Harry Reid, Sen. Chuck Schumer, and Sen. Robert Menendez taking the lead and preparing a bill for introduction. The details matter and I am anxious to see them, but the most important thing to me is the forward progress. The issue of immigration is one of the most complex and politically difficult issues because there is so much passion on all sides. It literally goes to the very heart of what it means to be an American and so I praise the leadership we are seeing in the Senate and I respect their courage. Right now, we need to roll up our sleeves and get to work on solving the difficult problems of our broken immigration system. We are running out of time to have a bill introduced, debated, and passed in the Senate, sent over to the House for further action, and to complete the process by sending a bill to the President's desk. The policy details matter, but at this point, concrete steps in the process of passing a bill matter much, much more and the details will become clearer when a bill is introduced. The Democrats need to make it crystal clear where we stand on comprehensive immigration reform. We should clearly articulate our approach, make it unmistakable that we are serious and sincere in our effort to pass a bill, and invite the Republicans to join us at the table we have set. Then, if no Republicans come forward, we will know whether they are serious about solving problems, standing up for what they believe in, or caving in to the lowest common denominator anti-immigration politics of some in their base. In the Senate, as in the House, the Democrats will provide 90 percent of the votes for immigration reform and we will need 10 percent of the votes to come from the other side of the aisle. Whatever happens, we need the President to step up his effort to move legislation forward and we need his full court press to get a result. For myself, I know I am going to keep the pressure up on the White House, on the Leadership in my Party, and on the Members across the aisle. We need to get a bill passed this year. If we lose hope or lose momentum or lose sight of our goal, disasters like the Arizona bill are the result. We cannot afford to let the American people down and we cannot afford to allow the continued assault on immigrant families that we are seeing from coast to coast. Ironically, the actions of Republicans in Arizona have lit a fire in immigrant and Latino neighborhoods and have galvanized national support for a serious immigration overhaul. We have been flirting with immigration reform for years, but I think if we keep the pressure up in this political year, we can enact reform that respects working people, reunites families, secures the border, and ends illegal immigration. ###
04.27.2010	Today’s Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations hearing on the involvement of Goldman Sachs in the causes of the financial crisis has generated revelations about their actions that some of us have long suspected: Goldman Sachs played a significant part in creating and selling the financial products that caused the current economic crisis. April 27, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington)– The following is a statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) who is Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit of the House Financial Services Committee. Today’s Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations hearing on the involvement of Goldman Sachs in the causes of the financial crisis has generated revelations about their actions that some of us have long suspected: Goldman Sachs played a significant part in creating and selling the financial products that caused the current economic crisis. The documents released by the committee show that not only did Goldman Sachs finance some of the worst, most egregious and abusive subprime mortgages but that they securitized these subprime mortgages and then used synthetic collateralized debt obligations (CDO’s) to bet against the very types of mortgages they financed. The most telling of all of these revelations is the extent that Goldman Sachs was involved in the CDO market. According to the company’s own internal documents, Goldman Sachs was among the top five of all the CDO underwriters in the nation and among these were a significant amount of “synthetic” CDO’s. In my opinion, synthetic CDO’s appear to have no legitimate benefit to the American economy. Warren Buffett warned that CDO’s were “financial weapons of mass destruction” and I agree with him. These synthetic CDO’s created by Goldman Sachs and others did nothing to help our economy. They do not create any new investment. In fact, the only reason that many of them were created in the first place was to place casino-like bets on assets that were not owned by either side of the CDO. With the information released today and my own observations over time, I can come to only one conclusion: Goldman Sachs is a leading merchant of these financial weapons of mass destruction. Their reckless profiteering warrants further investigation and prompt action. Goldman Sachs' involvement in the CDO market needs to be investigated further, especially if we are to truly understand the causes of this crisis. ###
04.26.2010	U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-04) will join with organizations and individuals from Chicago's Latino community at a meeting this evening to discuss the lack of representation in Governor Quinn's State Government. April 26, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL)– U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL-04) will join with organizations and individuals from Chicago's Latino community at a meeting this evening to discuss the lack of representation in Governor Quinn's State Government. Under the Governor, the Latino community has lost resources -- in terms of investments in education and schools, social services and grants, contracts with Latino owned businesses -- and the number of appointments to positions in Governor Quinn's administration for Latinos is down. In fact, in a state where the largest minority is Latinos and they make up over 15% of the population -- over 2,000,000 individuals -- the Governor does not have one Latino in his Cabinet. WHAT: Meeting with Latino Community to Discuss to Discuss Latino Representation in Governor Quinn's Administration WHEN: Monday, April 26, 2010 at 5:30 p.m. CT WHERE: Mi Tierra Restaurant, 2528 S. Kedzie, Chicago, IL 60623-4007 HOST ORGANIZATIONS: Illinois Hispanic Association of State EmployeesCasa AtzlanCentro Sin FronterasCuban American Chamber of CommerceFamily Focus AuroraFrida Kahlo Community OrganizationGads Hill CenterInstituto del Progresso LatinoMujeresLatinas en AccionEl Valor ###
04.23.2010	Congressman Also Reacts to President Obama's Remarks on Arizona Anti-Immigrant Measure and Immigration Reform April 23, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago)– U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) announced that he would travel to Phoenix, Arizona to join immigrant and Latino leaders at a rally at the State Capitol on Sunday. He also reacted today to remarks delivered by the President of the United States at a Rose Garden naturalization ceremony where 24 immigrant servicemen and women were sworn in as U.S. citizens. The President addressed the Arizona state legislative measure (SB 1070) that Gov. Jan Brewer will either veto, sign, or allow to become law by Saturday afternoon and the President addressed comprehensive immigration reform. The following is a statement from Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez. We held a press conference this week at the U.S. Capitol, with my colleague from Arizona Rep. Raul Grijalva, calling the nation's attention to the serious civil rights catastrophe that Republicans in Arizona are unleashing on immigrants and all Latinos in the state. Now the national spotlight is focused squarely on Arizona and people from all over the country are making their way to Phoenix to stand up with and stand up for immigrants and Latinos in the state. I am going there to let the people of Arizona know that they are not alone in fighting against bigotry and hatred and thousands will join me this weekend at the State Capitol. I have not seen the Latino community nationwide react in such a forceful way to an attack on immigrants since 2006, just after House Republicans passed a measure to criminalize and deport all undocumented immigrants and their families. It is remarkable how citizens and non-citizens, faith leaders, labor unions, and community-based groups from across the country have responded to the call to help defend the people of Arizona from the short-sighted political stunts of their own legislature playing election year politics with people's lives and families. The President is clearly concerned about the situation in Arizona, the legality of the measure before the Governor, and I welcome the President's call for the federal government to monitor the law enforcement and civil rights conduct in Arizona very, very closely. If there is any silver lining to all this, the legislative overreach by Arizona Republicans to inject harsh anti-immigrant politics into the brewing Election Year stew is focusing the President's attention on the need for the federal government to take charge and the urgent need for him to use his office to make something happen on immigration reform in Congress this year. I am encouraged by what we have seen and heard from Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Majority Leader Harry Reid, Dick Durbin, the Senior Senator from my home state, and others and I think we will have a serious debate on immigration reform in the Senate in the coming weeks. I know that if the Senate acts decisively and passes a bill, we can also pass a good bill in the House. As Senator Durbin says about the issues competing for time on the agenda, we can find the time to do important things and this is important. I am also heartened to see courageous supporters of sensible immigration policy in the Republican Party coming forward, like Sen. Dick Lugar of Indiana who stood up with Senator Durbin in calling for a halt to deportations of immigrant students. We need more leaders in the Republican Party to come forward and work with us to enact reform. I will be reaching out to House Republicans to begin laying the groundwork for the debate when it comes to our side of the Hill, as I expect it will later this year. This is the area that the President can be most helpful in: making the case to the nation and to lawmakers on the other side of the aisle that we need action now to address immigration, to cut-off illegal immigration, and promote border security and we need the President to roll up his sleeves and do it. The President is right -- I fully agree that inaction at the federal level has created a vacuum and wrong-headed ideas and political opportunists have rushed in to fill it. Arizona Republicans have kicked a hornet's nest on immigration and it will come back to sting them. I call on all justice loving Americans to join us in Phoenix. Join us in denouncing this law, join us in calling for its veto, and join us in standing up against hatred when people paint all immigrants and all Latinos as criminals. In so doing, we will be living by a fundamental truth articulated by Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., that injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We need to take a stand. # # #
04.20.2010	U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), was joined by Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ) at a press conference on the U.S. Capitol grounds to denounce the Arizona state legislative measure (SB 1070) headed to Gov. Brewer's desk this week for signature or veto. The measure would subject everyone in the state of Arizona to arrest and booking on misdemeanor criminal trespassing charges and possible deportation if they are suspected of being an undocumented immigrant. While the proposed bill will have a devastating impact on immigrant communities in the state, the broad scope of the bill threatens the civil rights of all citizens, legal residents, tourists, and foreign visitors to the state. U.S. Capitol Press Conference Draws National Attention to Arizona Crisis April 20, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), was joined by Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ) at a press conference on the U.S. Capitol grounds to denounce the Arizona state legislative measure (SB 1070) headed to Gov. Brewer's desk this week for signature or veto. The measure would subject everyone in the state of Arizona to arrest and booking on misdemeanor criminal trespassing charges and possible deportation if they are suspected of being an undocumented immigrant. While the proposed bill will have a devastating impact on immigrant communities in the state, the broad scope of the bill threatens the civil rights of all citizens, legal residents, tourists, and foreign visitors to the state. The following is a statement from Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez. The Governor should veto the bill and if she doesn't, the President should assert the federal governments' preeminent role in regulating and enforcing our nation's immigration laws. The lunacy of rounding up people because they look a certain way or are suspected of being in violation of immigration statutes can only lead to one thing: profiling. I am Puerto Rican, I was born in Chicago, and my family has been U.S. citizens for generations, but look at my face, listen to my voice: I could get picked up. Is this what we want in America? The police departments in Arizona raising concerns about the burden this puts on their law enforcement work are right. The Governor should listen to them. The civil rights groups who see a wide open door to civil rights violations and profiling are right and the Governor should listen to them. The business groups who worry that shoppers from Mexico and tourists from around the world will be hesitant to spend their money in a state where looking foreign can get you questioned and arrested, and they are right and the Governor should listen to them and veto this bill. But in the end, it all comes back to the President and whether he will put his back into the push for comprehensive immigration reform. It is critically important from a moral point of view to defend immigrants, keep their families together, and give them a place at the table if they are willing to come forward and earn it. The economy requires that we address immigration and the dysfunction of our legal immigration system and the legal status of undocumented immigrants. The political imperative could not be more clear. A headline today (in The Hill) said I would encourage Latino voters not to vote for Democrats if the President and Congress fail to enact immigration reform and I want to say I don't think that is what I said. What I did say is that Latino and immigrant voters are likely to stay home if their options are a Republican Party actively pushing them away and Democratic Party doing little or nothing to draw them in. They don't need me to tell them to stay home and I haven't, but the very real problem exists for the President and my Party that Latino and immigrant voters remember the promises they heard and are tuned-in enough to see they haven't been kept. # # #
04.20.2010	Many of the opponents of strong financial services reform have argued that the dissolution fund that was included in the House legislation passed in December and the legislation that is currently under consideration in the Senate contains a "bailout fund" to rescue failing financial institutions. This is simply not true and anyone who believes it to be true is either lying or has not read the legislation. April 21, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit of the House Financial Services Committee issued the following statement. I would like to directly and clearly address the arguments we have heard this past week regarding the so-called "bailout fund." Many of the opponents of strong financial services reform have argued that the dissolution fund that was included in the House legislation passed in December and the legislation that is currently under consideration in the Senate contains a "bailout fund" to rescue failing financial institutions. This is simply not true and anyone who believes it to be true is either lying or has not read the legislation. I wrote the dissolution fund language in the House and the Financial Services Committee amendment that included it in H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009 and I will unequivocally state today what I said back then: this fund does not bail anyone or anything out. Instead, it was created to pay for any costs associated with the ultimate failure of the firm. The money in this fund comes from risk-based assessments charged to the riskiest financial firms proportionate to the risk they pose the financial system. The funds can only be used if the regulators make a determination that the firm cannot survive and bankruptcy is not an appropriate option for its failure. For an analogy everyone can understand: this is not an auto repair shop where you take your car to get it fixed by a mechanic so you can drive it back home. This fund is a junkyard where you take your car to be torn apart and sold for scrap. Democrats have made a commitment to this country that taxpayer funds will never again be lost in the cleanup of a failed financial institution and our dissolution fund maintains that commitment. Contrary to what many have said this week, a resolution fund that is not pre-funded by financial institutions would open the door to using taxpayer money until banks and others could be assessed. This is unacceptable and would only codify the existing status-quo. There is no bailout fund, period. I challenge anyone who thinks otherwise to point out exactly where this so-called bailout fund is in the legislation. ###
04.20.2010	Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, made the following statement at a hearing of the House Financial Services Committee entitled, “Public Policy Issues Raised By The Report of The Lehman Bankruptcy Examiner." "Public Policy Issues Raised By The Report of The Lehman Bankruptcy Examiner" April 20, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, made the following statement at a hearing of the House Financial Services Committee entitled, “Public Policy Issues Raised By The Report of The Lehman Bankruptcy Examiner." Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this hearing. With the release of the examiner's report this past month I am glad to see the committee taking up the case of the Lehman failure and its subsequent significant effects on the world financial markets. The failure of Lehman Brothers was caused by numerous noteworthy factors, all of which combined led to the largest corporate bankruptcy in U.S. history. Lehman’s overexposure to subprime residential mortgage-backed securities, some of which were originated by its own subsidiaries, BNC Mortgage and Aurora, created a situation where the firm's real losses were hiding behind opaque contracts and led to what can only be described as a bank run. Lehman’s failure was also brought about by over-leveraging that was significantly hidden through an investment vehicle called Repo 105. This involved the firm parking its highly leveraged assets to deceptively and artificially lower its net leverage right before its regular quarterly reports. Another significant factor was a dramatic misalignment in the compensation structure of the firm whereby they allowed for millions of dollars to be awarded as compensation for short term profits with little or no regard to the investments value or sustainability beyond the short term. The failure of Lehman Brothers, while causing the loss of billions of dollars of real world wealth for investors great and small throughout the world, can also be a cautionary tale about how to move forward. This failure represents perhaps one of the best justifications for the financial services regulatory reform package that the House passed in December and the Senate is currently considering. I firmly believe that if this legislation had been enacted in the years prior to 2008, Lehman may have survived and its failure may have not caused systemic risk. In short, we would not have faced the crisis that we did in 2008. The Consumer Financial Protection Agency, as created under the House legislation (H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act), would have prevented the origination of many of the underlying mortgages of the mortgage-backed securities that brought down Lehman. Strong consumer protections would have eliminated the threat to the financial system that was created by the rising defaults on subprime mortgages. Language contained in the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act would have required all derivatives to pass through an exchange thus allowing their underlying contents to be examined publicly and requiring adequate capital to be set aside in case of their failure, much as insurance companies are currently required to do. Ultimately, one of the main reasons the financial system froze up after the failure of Lehman Brothers was the lack of certainty regarding the firm’s bankruptcy filing. Because no one understood who would lose what in the days following Lehman’s failure, corporate credit markets dried up and caused a financial crisis not seen in this country for more than 70 years. The legislation passed by the House requires not only that firms maintain a “living will” that would answer many of the questions left unanswered during the Lehman failure, but creates a resolution process for “too big to fail” institutions. A key component of this resolution process is an amendment that I introduced in the House language that creates a dissolution fund, paid for by the riskiest institutions, which would cover any short-term costs associated with the dismantling of a failed systemically significant financial institution if it could not otherwise be resolved under bankruptcy proceedings. If one lesson is to be taken away from the failure of Lehman Brothers, it is that we need a strong resolution authority to clean up failed financial institutions that pose a systemic threat to our economy. The dissolution fund, combined with the resolution authority created by H.R. 4173, is the keystone in the system to prevent another failure like Lehman Brothers from threatening the livelihoods of everyday Americans ever again. ###
04.20.2010	Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, made the following statement at a hearing of the House Financial Services Committee entitled, “Public Policy Issues Raised By The Report of The Lehman Bankruptcy Examiner." "Public Policy Issues Raised By The Report of The Lehman Bankruptcy Examiner" April 20, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, made the following statement at a hearing of the House Financial Services Committee entitled, “Public Policy Issues Raised By The Report of The Lehman Bankruptcy Examiner." Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this hearing. With the release of the examiner's report this past month I am glad to see the committee taking up the case of the Lehman failure and its subsequent significant effects on the world financial markets. The failure of Lehman Brothers was caused by numerous noteworthy factors, all of which combined led to the largest corporate bankruptcy in U.S. history. Lehman’s overexposure to subprime residential mortgage-backed securities, some of which were originated by its own subsidiaries, BNC Mortgage and Aurora, created a situation where the firm's real losses were hiding behind opaque contracts and led to what can only be described as a bank run. Lehman’s failure was also brought about by over-leveraging that was significantly hidden through an investment vehicle called Repo 105. This involved the firm parking its highly leveraged assets to deceptively and artificially lower its net leverage right before its regular quarterly reports. Another significant factor was a dramatic misalignment in the compensation structure of the firm whereby they allowed for millions of dollars to be awarded as compensation for short term profits with little or no regard to the investments value or sustainability beyond the short term. The failure of Lehman Brothers, while causing the loss of billions of dollars of real world wealth for investors great and small throughout the world, can also be a cautionary tale about how to move forward. This failure represents perhaps one of the best justifications for the financial services regulatory reform package that the House passed in December and the Senate is currently considering. I firmly believe that if this legislation had been enacted in the years prior to 2008, Lehman may have survived and its failure may have not caused systemic risk. In short, we would not have faced the crisis that we did in 2008. The Consumer Financial Protection Agency, as created under the House legislation (H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act), would have prevented the origination of many of the underlying mortgages of the mortgage-backed securities that brought down Lehman. Strong consumer protections would have eliminated the threat to the financial system that was created by the rising defaults on subprime mortgages. Language contained in the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act would have required all derivatives to pass through an exchange thus allowing their underlying contents to be examined publicly and requiring adequate capital to be set aside in case of their failure, much as insurance companies are currently required to do. Ultimately, one of the main reasons the financial system froze up after the failure of Lehman Brothers was the lack of certainty regarding the firm’s bankruptcy filing. Because no one understood who would lose what in the days following Lehman’s failure, corporate credit markets dried up and caused a financial crisis not seen in this country for more than 70 years. The legislation passed by the House requires not only that firms maintain a “living will” that would answer many of the questions left unanswered during the Lehman failure, but creates a resolution process for “too big to fail” institutions. A key component of this resolution process is an amendment that I introduced in the House language that creates a dissolution fund, paid for by the riskiest institutions, which would cover any short-term costs associated with the dismantling of a failed systemically significant financial institution if it could not otherwise be resolved under bankruptcy proceedings. If one lesson is to be taken away from the failure of Lehman Brothers, it is that we need a strong resolution authority to clean up failed financial institutions that pose a systemic threat to our economy. The dissolution fund, combined with the resolution authority created by H.R. 4173, is the keystone in the system to prevent another failure like Lehman Brothers from threatening the livelihoods of everyday Americans ever again. ###
04.15.2010	Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, made the following opening statement at a hearing entitled, “Perspectives and Proposals on the Community Reinvestment Act." Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, made the following opening statement at a hearing entitled, “Perspectives and Proposals on the Community Reinvestment Act." So much of the news we see and hear concerns Wall Street and bankers. Today we will focus on the other end of the spectrum. We will look at the safeguards for the little guy. The Community Reinvestment Act is one of the programs that keeps our communities moving and keeps the economy moving. It literally ensures that the life-blood of the economy -- small businesses, home ownership, and investments in low- to moderate-income communities -- keeps flowing. The Community Reinvestment Act is one of the most important legacies of the civil rights struggles of the 1960’s that resulted in landmark consumer rights legislation such as the Fair Housing Act, the Equal Opportunity Credit Act and the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act. These laws have become indispensable for consumers and are often taken for granted in our current political environment. These laws have helped to give all of our citizens access to affordable credit. Credit that is safe, free from bias, and free from discrimination based on income, race, or even something as simple as the zip code someone lives in or the ward in which they vote. As good of a job as the CRA has done over the past 30 plus years, there remains so much more for this committee and this Congress to do. Minority communities have been targeted by non-CRA mortgage brokers for predatory loans and many in all of our communities continue to rely on high-cost lending for paycheck to paycheck survival. Lending to underserved communities has increased by the CRA. That is a documented fact. At the same time, however, the FDIC announced in December that even though 75% of the banks they surveyed were aware of significantly underserved populations in their market area, only 18% of them included expanding access to credit to these communities a priority in their business strategy. That is unacceptable. The CRA has done amazing things for our communities: as Mr. Taylor of the NCRC says in his written testimony, $4.6 trillion have been invested in our neighborhoods since the passage of the CRA through bank commitments, including $60 billion in small business lending in 2008 alone. And this is at a time when lending on all other fronts was decreasing nationwide. In order to help our constituents recover from the current recession, to help them stop paying outrageously high fees for check cashing and payday loans and to help our small business owners buy that new truck or new oven and hire those new workers, we must do what we can to expand the CRA obligations beyond its current scope. We must find ways to give Americans increased access to credit as well as find new ways to incentivize lenders to increase lending in our underserved communities. I look forward to working with the financial services industry, stakeholders in low- to moderate-income communities, federal banking agencies and Members of Congress, to help make the CRA's goal -- of affirmatively providing affordable access to credit to all of our communities -- a reality. And before I close, I thought I would save the other side some time and allow them to focus on more substantive remarks and questions by stating that in no way did the CRA cause, facilitate or exacerbate the mortgage crisis. I don’t think I can be clearer than that. Chairman Bernanke. Chairman Bair. Comptroller Dugan. Federal Reserve empirical studies. BusinessWeek. The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission. What do they have in common? They all agree that the CRA did not cause this crisis. Let’s bear in mind that CRA was adopted to end “red-lining”, a practice by which banks would literally draw a red line on a map around neighborhoods -- usually where minorities live -- in which they did not want to offer financial services or capital to grow the economy. Let’s talk about how to more effectively combat “red-lining” today, and not about the “red herring” of CRA allegedly causing the current financial crisis. That’s a non-issue. So now that you don’t have to deal with that distraction, we will have much more time to talk about constructive issues like how to incentivize participation in the CRA and expand the benefits of this law to more and more Americans struggling to build a better life for themselves, their families, and the communities in which they live and work. ###
04.14.2010	Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) applauds the use of American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds for the ENERGY STAR Appliance Rebate Program in Illinois. Program Will Help Jumpstart the Economy, Save Consumers Money, Promote Energy Efficiency April 14, 2010 Media Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) - Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) applauds the use of American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds for the ENERGY STAR Appliance Rebate Program in Illinois. "The ENERGY STAR Appliance Rebate Program will help jumpstart the economy while saving consumers money and promoting energy efficiency," Gutierrez said. "The partnership between the federal government and the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity allows these funds to be spent in a way that will be truly beneficial to Illinois, the economy, the environment, and the people of Chicago." On April 16, 2010 at 8a.m., local time, the State of Illinois will kick-off Phase II of the ENERGY STAR Appliance Rebate Program. This much anticipated program provides a 15 percent (up to $400) point-of-sale rebate on the following ENERGY STAR qualified appliances: clothes washers, dishwashers, refrigerators, freezers, and room air conditioners. Participating retailers will operate the program from 8a.m. to 9p.m., from Friday April 16th through Sunday April 25th or until funds are exhausted. For more information or a list of participating providers please go to the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity website. ###
04.08.2010	U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) requested a meeting with Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and Assistant Secretary for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) John Morton to discuss his "extreme disappointment and unequivocal condemnation of the series of reports...regarding DHS and ICE enforcement activities." Leaked Memos, Inspector General Report Raise Serious Concerns about "Misguided Enforcement In Our Communities" April 8, 2010 Press Contact: Douglas Rivlin (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) requested a meeting with Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and Assistant Secretary for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) John Morton to discuss his "extreme disappointment and unequivocal condemnation of the series of reports...regarding DHS and ICE enforcement activities." Specifically, the Congressman wants to know why what the Secretary and Assistant Secretary are saying to Congress and the American people is so at odds with what has been revealed about what the agency is actually doing. The Congressman's request comes after a series of internal ICE memos were published by the Washington Post that indicate that the job performance of ICE enforcement officers is measured by arrest quotas for immigrants with simple civil immigration status violations and an Inspector General's scathing report on the program, known as 287(g), by which state and local police agencies are enlisted to enforce federal civil and criminal immigration laws. I am astounded by how inconsistent these reports are with your stated priorities, and am left to wonder what your true priorities are, or to what degree agency directors and agents in the field actually understand and/or follow your stated priorities... I consider the recent reports to be both a crisis of leadership at the agency and a human crisis in our communities and ask to meet with you as soon as possible next week. The full text of the letter is attached as a pdf file. In December, Congressman Gutierrez introduced the Comprehensive Immigration Reform - American Security and Prosperity (CIR-ASAP) Act (HR 4321), which would, among other things, rescind 287(g) agreements. The bill currently has 94 cosponsors. ### Letter to Secretary Napolitano and Assistant Secretary Morton
03.24.2010	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, made the following opening statement at a hearing entitled, “Keeping Score on Credit Scores: Credit Scores, Credit Reports, and Their Impact on Consumers." March 24, 2010 Media Contact: Karl Haddeland (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, made the following opening statement at a hearing entitled, “Keeping Score on Credit Scores: Credit Scores, Credit Reports, and Their Impact on Consumers." "As we begin this hearing on credit scores and reports, we must recognize that the American consumer faces a very different landscape than that of 30 years ago. Credit cards are so widespread that they are routinely marketed to college students; your local bank (that is, if you are lucky enough to have one in your neighborhood) is more than likely owned by some faceless Wall Street Corporation and you can even shop for loans and car insurance online, something that wasn't even imagined thirty years ago. In large part, what has made all this possible are the now ubiquitous credit scores and reports created and provided largely by the companies that sit before us today. Driven by an increasingly impersonal and homogenized lending environment, lenders, insurance companies, utilities and even cell phone companies are relying more and more on credit scores and reports to determine whether a consumer is worthy of their attention and their services. I know the increased use of credit scores has expanded credit to previously ineligible borrowers and the standardization of this system has minimized some of the bias present in any economy, but this system has created new concerns and dangers for consumers, especially for Blacks and Latinos that we have to address. A good credit score and a correspondingly favorable credit report have become the passport to a stable economic future for today's consumer. But these "passports" are being issued by thousands of private, for-profit companies that few can identify, using opaque formulas that are hidden from the American people and hidden from Congress. In a democracy, there is something unseemly in having one's life judged and possibly even guided, no matter how benignly or unintentionally, by private, for-profit companies through a system where it is impossible for one to opt out of. This fact alone causes me to doubt the fairness of the current system and structure! For instance, as Mr. Hendricks will mention in his testimony, consumers are not commonly allowed access to the scores that lenders and other institutional consumers of data actually use to make lending decisions. Instead, you are sold an "educational score" that is not the score used by the lender to determine your credit cards rates can be very different from that used to determine the rate they qualify for. So what's going on is they're selling you a product that is never actually used to make any decisions about your creditworthiness. How is that educational!? On top of that, lenders use their own private data to further determine what rate or fee they want to charge a consumer. For an industry that is supposed to be focused solely on accuracy and predictability, there seems to be quite a bit of effort going on behind the scenes to prevent consumers from seeing how things really work. Americans do not know where these scores are coming from and how they're created! I have strong reservations about allowing the use of credit reports to determine employability and insurance fees. For example, 22% of Latinos have 'thin files' and are given a worse rate for loans and insurance and can even lead to them being rejected for a loan! At a time when Americans are dealing with 10 percent unemployment rates (which in fact is actually higher in many of our communities), I don’t believe that our constituents should have to worry about whether or not their credit report is entirely accurate or even worry about it at all when they should be focused on finding a way to pay their rent and feed their kids. We shouldn’t allow the secrecy of the current system to affect consumers’ livelihoods without their knowing the rules of the game and what they can do about it before it’s too late. Consumers should know that a medical debt they already paid off will affect their credit for 7 years to come, or that being away on military service might not be much of a mitigating factor for the credit bureaus and institutional consumers of credit scores and reports, or that recent immigrants’ creditworthiness is often lower than the general population, regardless of how good their credit history was in their home country. These are just some of the concerns that make it clear that the current system has not reached acceptable levels of fairness or transparency. Finally, I have serious concerns that with banks and others taking credit away from consumers due to the bank’s own problems (not the consumers), your formulas are not accurately predicting a consumer’s true likelihood of default. Just because some bank is consolidating the credit lines they have out there for ALL their customers doesn’t mean that every single one of them is a greater credit risk. There are many legislative proposals circulating right now on credit scores and reports, some that I have cosponsored and some that I plan to introduce myself. We will be holding further hearings on these proposals after we give a harder look at credit-based insurance scores in the near future. Many of the concerns that I have are with the institutional consumers of credit scores and reports, so I can assure you that we will be inviting them to sit down and have their own 'pleasant' discussion with our subcommittee about this as well." ###
03.23.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) Tomorrow, Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, will hold a hearing to examine the role consumer credit scores and reports play in today’s economy. Credit scores and reports are ubiquitous in the current financial marketplace and are used for everything from credit card and mortgage approval to setting car insurance rates and even judging whether or not someone is employable. “Consumers’ credit scores and credit reports have become their passports in our financial world,” Rep. Gutierrez said. “Yet many consumers do not fully understand how these increasingly important scores and reports are created and used by lenders and others, how consumers can obtain copies of their credit scores and reports and use them to their best advantage, and what they can do in order to correct inaccuracies in their credit reports.” The subcommittee hearing will focus on how credit scores and reports are formulated, who purchases them and for what purpose. The hearing is also intended to provide a discussion of relevant issues of particular concern to consumers and several Members of Congress, including the impact of rising medical debt on credit scores and reports and their use for hiring purposes. Witnesses will include FICO, VantageScore, and the three major credit bureaus - Equifax, Experian and Transunion. The Federal Reserve and the Federal Trade Commission will also testify to their recent and ongoing oversight efforts over the consumer credit scoring industry. Who: Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit What: Hearing: “Keeping Score on Credit Scores: An Overview of Credit Scores, Credit Reports and their Impact on Consumers” When: Wednesday, March 24 2:00 p.m. Where: Room 2128, Rayburn House Office Building Witness List: First Panel: Mr. Evan Hendricks, Editor/Publisher, Privacy Times Mr. Stuart K. Pratt, President and CEO, Consumer Data Industry Association Mr. Tom Quinn, Vice President, Global Scoring Solutions, FICO Mr. Barrett Burns, President & CEO, VantageScore Solutions, LLC Mr. Chet D. Wiermanski, Global Chief Scientist, Analytic Decision Services, TransUnion LLC Mr. Stan Oliai, Senior Vice President, Decision Sciences, Experian Decision Analytics, Experian Ms. Myra K. Hart, PhD., Senior Vice President, Analytical Services, Equifax Inc. Ms. Anne P. Fortney, Partner, Hudson Cook, LLP Second Panel: Ms. Sandra Braunstein, Director, Division of Consumer and Community Affairs, Federal Reserve Board of Governors Mr. David Vladeck, Director, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission ###
03.21.2010	(Washington, DC) Today, at a rally on the National Mall in Washington D.C., Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Immigration Taskforce, addressed a crowd of approximately 100,000 marchers who gathered from across the nation to demonstrate the real and urgent need for comprehensive immigration reform. March 21, 2010 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) Today, at a rally on the National Mall in Washington D.C., Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Immigration Taskforce, addressed a crowd of approximately 100,000 marchers who gathered from across the nation to demonstrate the real and urgent need for comprehensive immigration reform. His remarks are as follows: I want to thank you. All of you. It looks like a few people decided to come to Washington today. Now – we need a few people in that building to listen to the immigrants of America. Well, I know how to be heard. We raise our voices. I promise you —if today we will raise our voices in hope— then soon we will raise our voices in victory. Because our day is coming. Together, we will turn today’s hope into tomorrow’s victory. We stand here at the front door of American history. Tens of thousands of immigrants are filling America’s front yard. The very same space where the overlooked and the dispossessed have always traveled to seek redress for their claims. What history will we make at this spot today? At one end of America’s front yard —behind all of you— sits Abraham Lincoln. The great emancipator. In 1863, with one signature, he turned hope into victory for millions of African-American slaves. Injustice and cruelty were attacked —and defeated— by a courageous man with this weapon — a pen. Because when Abraham Lincoln moved his pen across the Emancipation Proclamation, he moved African-Americans out of the desperate shadows of slavery and into the bright sunlight of freedom. And 100 years later, when America had broken its promise to them, hundreds of thousands of people again came to America’s front yard — just as we do today— to demand true freedom. On that day, another great American, Martin Luther King, had a simple message: Justice cannot wait. On this mall, in 1963, when Dr. King said justice cannot wait, he was right. And I say it to you today. Justice for immigrants cannot wait. It cannot be delayed because of the fears of politicians. Today, we are flipping over a new page on the calendar. Yesterday’s page was one of “fear,” and “finger-pointing” and “waiting.” We are turning to a new day that says “justice.” And you know what else the new immigrant calendar says? It says, “now.” Justice. Now. Let me hear you say those words. Justice. Now. Justicia. Ahora. I like those words. We will repeat them again and again until we turn our hope into victory, and we are heard. After Dr. King said “justice now,” in that building, Congress passed the Civil Rights Act, and President Lyndon Johnson made equality real for African-Americans. How did he do it? With a pen. A simple pen. Abraham Lincoln had a pen. Lyndon Johnson had a pen. My friends, Barack Obama has a pen. President Obama’s pen can turn our hope into victory. We want Barack Obama to use his pen. We want him to use it now. Because we can’t wait any longer. Our friends, our families and neighbors have waited. For too long. We have waited for Democrats to lead. We have waited for Republicans to lead. And while we wait, we are blamed. If America has a problem it can't solve, our enemies blame immigrants. Lost your job? Blame immigrants. Costly health care? It’s those immigrants. But you know what? I say the blame game is over. For today, we’ve come to the front door of American history, to say that the wait is over. The time is now. We are ready to turn hope into victory! So today, I want to leave you with this message: we've been patient long enough. We've listened quietly, we've asked politely. We've turned the other cheek so many times our heads are spinning. Here —in this place where Americans facing injustice travel to have justice delivered— we need to present our demands. What is it we want? To me, it’s simple. It’s time to let immigrants come out of the shadows into the light, and for America to embrace them and protect them. The sun is shining on our future today. Today, I’ll tell you what I want. I want the light of justice to bring its glow to every immigrant in every city and town in our nation. What do I want? I want the sunlight of fairness to drive away the darkness and shadows that immigrants have been forced to live and hide in. What do I want? I want to end the deep and real fear that children of immigrants feel every day of becoming orphans because their parent might be deported. I want to end parents vanishing and disappearing in the middle of the night. What do I want? I want to stop the pain of women working the fields until their hands are calloused and bloody. I want them protected from bosses who threaten them. I want those who exploit immigrant women to be jailed for their crimes. What do I want? I want the day laborers across the nation to know that for eight hours of hard work they will receive eight hours of fair pay. What do I want? I want safe borders where greedy and violent smugglers can’t get away with treating human beings like cattle and infesting our communities with drugs. What do I want? It’s simple. I want millions of people, who risked it all to come to a new country to build better lives —to build a better America for all of us — to reach their dreams of becoming American citizens. What do I want? I will tell you what I want. I want comprehensive immigration reform. I want justice and I want it now. I see the light. I see the light of a brighter day coming. I see the light of justice shining on immigrant soldiers from Mexico and the Philippines and Poland and Panama and Haiti and Ethiopia who have risked and lost their lives so that all Americans can live freer and safer. I see the light of justice illuminating the future of young children who pray every night that they won’t lose their mommy because she crossed a border when they were just babies to give them a better life. And I see the light of justice shining on this Capitol where comprehensive immigration reform will be passed and the White House where Barack Obama will take his pen and finally sign that bill into law. Can you see it? I see it and I feel its warmth. For immigrants, it has been a long, cold season. But spring is in the air. That doesn’t mean we can stop fighting and pushing. We have to keep marching and praying and working. But we are closer to turning hope into victory. So today, I am optimistic but determined. The President must keep his word. I am gratified that we have traveled so far, but I know the last few miles are the hardest. But we’re closer. I know that we have had many cold nights. After decades of midnights, it has often felt like morning was a lifetime away. But we’re beginning to see the light of dawn. I want it to shine on every immigrant. On the woman on her hands and knees all day – digging onions in Salinas – until her knees are almost gone. On the man washing dishes – thousands of dishes in El Paso – until he can barely feel his hands anymore. On the woman in a sweatshop – in the basement, with no union, no rights in New York City – for a few dollars to support her kids. And I want it to shine on Barack Obama — our President and our leader. I want the light of justice to guide his actions and make him our ally and our protector. And I want it to guide his pen, so that he can keep his promise to our nation of immigrants. It’s time to step out of the shadows and for the sun to shine. To shine finally; to shine warmly and brightly; to shine now and forever on America’s immigrants. Together, we are going to make that sun come up. Thank you and si se puede. ###
03.21.2010	(Washington, DC) Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez voted "yes" on an historic piece of health care reform legislation that makes coverage more accessible and affordable, reduces overall costs, stops the practice of denying coverage for preexisting conditions and strengthens Medicare for the future. March 21, 2010 Media Contact: Nicole Dinis (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Gutierrez says the time for comprehensive immigration reform is now (Washington, DC) Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez voted "yes" on an historic piece of health care reform legislation that makes coverage more accessible and affordable, reduces overall costs, stops the practice of denying coverage for preexisting conditions and strengthens Medicare for the future. "I had many concerns about voting for the Senate passed healthcare bill. In particular, I remain opposed to a provision that will not allow undocumented immigrants to use their own money to buy health insurance in the exchanges. I believe this is counter to public health and to justice. After many conversations with the President, I feel confident that he understands that germs don't respond to borders, germs respond to medicine and good preventative care. I believe he agrees that in order for health care reform to work, we need to enact comprehensive immigration reform legislation to ensure that everyone has access to coverage and preventative care. I am pleased that my conversations with the President were productive and, as the 100,000 people who marched for comprehensive immigration reform today will tell you, the time for comprehensive immigration reform is now. Until we address the injustice of our immigration laws, families will continue to be torn apart, workers will continue to be exploited, and 12 million undocumented individuals will continue living in the shadows." ###
03.18.2010	Discussions with Obama ensure we can have a victory for health care and for the immigrants of our nation. March 18, 2010 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Discussions with Obama ensure we can have a victory for health care and for the immigrants of our nation (Washington, DC) Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Immigration Taskforce made the following statement at a press conference with fellow members of the CHC: "I've spent the past week speaking at length with the President and his staff. In fact, I spoke with him again just this morning. I shared with him that I believed that we could have a victory for every American who deserves affordable, high-quality health care and for the immigrants of our nation. "I told President Obama I would not sacrifice either goal. After extensive discussions with the President, I believe we have a health care bill I can vote 'yes' for, and I believe we have a commitment to move forward on a comprehensive immigration reform package as soon as possible. "Comprehensive immigration reform is simply too important to wait, and there is no legislative issue that is not impacted by our failure to pass it. The President knows that germs don't respond to borders, germs respond to medicine and good preventative care. He gets that we cannot ensure the health of our nation if we continue to ignore the 12 million undocumented immigrants living in the shadows. And he agrees that if we are going to have health care that works, if we are going to have a system that cuts costs and streamlines the delivery and keeps our children healthy, then we fundamentally need to enact comprehensive immigration reform. "I understand the difficulties that exist given the rules of this legislative process, which do not allow for changes to the health care bill's immigration provisions. Given that, we have an obligation and an opportunity to enact change at a comprehensive level. I believe that as tens of thousands prepare to march in Washington this Sunday for a fair and sensible solution to our crisis, that the President will lead us in getting comprehensive immigration reform across the finish line." ###
03.02.2010	(Chicago, IL) The birth certificates of more than 50,000 Illinois residents will soon be invalidated due to a new law passed by the government of Puerto Rico. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-04) is reaching out to the Puerto Rican community in Chicago to make them aware of the change that, as of July 1, 2010, will require new birth certificates for anyone born on the island. The law may affect individuals who are seeking to fulfill such diverse purposes as applying for passports, satisfying school entrance requirements, filing license applications, or seeking insurance or government benefits. March 2, 2010 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) The birth certificates of more than 50,000 Illinois residents will soon be invalidated due to a new law passed by the government of Puerto Rico. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-04) is reaching out to the Puerto Rican community in Chicago to make them aware of the change that, as of July 1, 2010, will require new birth certificates for anyone born on the island. The law may affect individuals who are seeking to fulfill such diverse purposes as applying for passports, satisfying school entrance requirements, filing license applications, or seeking insurance or government benefits. The birth certificates of more than 50,000 Illinois residents will soon be invalidated due to a new law passed by the government of Puerto Rico. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-04) is reaching out to the Puerto Rican community in Chicago to make them aware of the change that, as of July 1, 2010, will require new birth certificates for anyone born on the island. The law may affect individuals who are seeking to fulfill such diverse purposes as applying for passports, satisfying school entrance requirements, filing license applications, or seeking insurance or government benefits. The law, enacted in December, is intended to combat identity theft by invalidating all previously issued Puerto Rican birth certificates. In the past, many common official and unofficial transactions in Puerto Rico unnecessarily required the submission, retention, and storage of original, official birth certificates. As a result, hundreds of thousands of such birth certificates were stored without adequate protection, making them easy targets for theft. "Clearly, this will pose a major inconvenience for people who have played by the rules all their lives, and that's not fair," said Rep. Gutierrez. "But it's even more unfair that honest people have had their identities stolen. As much as 40 percent of passport fraud in the U.S. involves birth certificates from Puerto Rico. That's outrageous, and frankly, action to stop it is long overdue. The problem has made Puerto Rico-born citizens vulnerable to identity theft, ruined credit, stolen Social Security benefits, and increased 'random' security checks at airports, among others things." "However, while this change is a positive step towards preventing identity theft, I am still very concerned that more people are not being made aware of it," continued Rep. Gutierrez. "This affects more than four million people across the country, including 1.3 million born in Puerto Rico and living on the mainland." According to the Puerto Rico Federal Affairs Administration, many birth certificates have been stolen from schools and other institutions, sold on the black market for prices up to $10,000 each, and used to illegally obtain passports, licenses, and other government and private sector documentation and benefits. Many common Hispanic names of individuals born in Puerto Rico made the birth certificates highly desirable on the black market. U.S. citizens born in Puerto Rico but residing elsewhere may obtain a copy of the new birth certificate by filling out a Birth Certificate Application form from the Puerto Rico Vital Statistics Record office on or after July 1, 2010. Until July 1, 2010, all birth certificates will remain valid. Residents without Internet access to complete the form can call Congressman Gutierrez' office for assistance at (773) 342-0774. The government of Puerto Rico recommends that not everyone go about the renewal process right away. Rather, they are encouraging only people who have a specific need for their birth certificate related to the usage of the document for official purposes (such as passport application, etc.) to request a new birth certificate immediately. Those who wish to obtain a new copy of their birth certificate for their records are encouraged to do so at a later date to prevent a rush of applications and to ensure that those individuals with a specific need are able to obtain them in a timely fashion. ###
02.26.2010	Following Thursday's Hearing in the House Judiciary Committee, Gutierrez Sent the Following Letter to Comcast & NBC Executives, Highlighting and Clarifying Concerns over Portrayals of Women on Telemundo Programming and the Lack of Resources Provided to Local News. February 26, 2010 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 26, 2010 Jeff Zucker President and Chief Executive Officer, NBC Universal David L.Cohen Executive Vice President, Comcast Dear Mr. Zucker and Mr. Cohen: Thank you for publicly responding to my concerns during the Judiciary Committee hearing on Thursday, February 25th. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate and clarify the issues and concerns that I brought to your attention during the hearing and discussed with your executives in a meeting on Wednesday, February 24th. I strongly believe that the news plays a pivotal role in educating, shaping and enabling the success of our communities. By informing and engaging, the news empowers us as voters and consumers, as mothers and fathers, as teachers and students. It brings much-needed attention to our concerns, struggles and victories, further strengthening and unifying us. Unfortunately, I was, and continue to be, deeply disappointed in the lack of resources committed to the Telemundo news program. As I expressed to your executives, and have stated many times in the past, when NBC purchased Telemundo there seemed to be a lack of investment and concern for providing what is a vital service to the Hispanic community in Chicago. In the city of Chicago, NBC is largely perceived as being disinterested in ensuring that its news program can compete. Your news staff in Chicago is highly talented and professional and they should be measured on that standard, not undervalued because of their national origins. If NBC invested in the local Telemundo network, even a portion of the resources that it invests in the NBC news program, I would be assured that the gifted reporters, cameramen, producers, editors and hardworking staff at every level of Telemundo could strongly compete. I would also like to convey that my comments at the Judiciary hearing were unprepared and, therefore, perhaps not as clear as they could have been. In fairness, I should have more clearly alluded to, and made exception for, the excellence and professionalism demonstrated by the women at Telemundo. They demonstrate the standard by which all women in the media should be measured. I apologize for this serious oversight. My comments regarding the portrayal of women on Telemundo were meant to apply to programming in general. In this regard, I do strongly stand by my sentiments that the exploitation of women through inappropriate sexual innuendo or negative character portrayals is unacceptable and only serves to further ingrain negative ideals and stereotypes. When I catch in a cab in Chicago I want my cab driver to tell me that he loves Telemundo because the content reflects the needs of the community and not because of the clothing of the women in its programming. During the hearing on Thursday, a commitment was made to invest more resources into the news of Telemundo network, and I encourage you to do so as soon as possible. Our community and the talent at Telemundo deserve a news program that is financed and supported on the same level as NBC's news programming. Sincerely, Luis V. GutierrezMember of Congress
02.22.2010	(Washington, DC) Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, announced that landmark reforms to the credit card industry will go into effect today thanks to the Credit CARD Act. The law, which was passed by this Congress and signed by President Obama last year, will end unfair industry practices and protect consumers from abusive tactics like retroactive rate increases, misleading late fee charges and over-limit fee traps. Rep. Gutierrez Commends Consumer Protections, Common Sense Reforms February 22, 2010 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, announced that landmark reforms to the credit card industry will go into effect today thanks to the Credit CARD Act. The law, which was passed by this Congress and signed by President Obama last year, will end unfair industry practices and protect consumers from abusive tactics like retroactive rate increases, misleading late fee charges and over-limit fee traps. “When so many American families are struggling to make ends meet, consumers deserve to be treated fairly by their credit card companies,” said Rep. Gutierrez. “That’s what this new law will do: level the playing field for consumers.” The new law bans retroactive interest rate hikes on existing balances (except when payments are more than 60 days late), double-cycle billing and due-date gimmicks. Additionally, it stops companies from charging over-the-limit fees unless the consumer opts in. Consumers will save at least $10 billion a year from curbs on interest rate increases alone, according to the Pew Charitable Trust which tracks credit card issues. The Credit CARD Act is part of our long-term plan to rebuild our economy in a way that works for middle-class families and rewards responsibility and hard work – not high-flying finance schemes. For that reason, Rep. Gutierrez also introduced an amendment to the Act that requires any payment made by a consumer toward his or her credit card bill to go toward paying off the highest APR balance before tackling any lower APR balance. This reversal of previous, underhanded tactics enables consumers to pay off their highest interest rates first and helps them to avoid becoming caught in a never-ending cycle of debt. “The people of the 4th district work hard and play by the rules; they deserve fair treatment from their credit card companies. The Credit CARD Act gives Americans the information and rights they need to make smart, informed decisions about their financial lives,” continued Rep. Gutierrez. Specifically, the law increases notice of any rate hikes going forward on new purchases to 45 days, requires card companies to fairly credit and allocate payments and prohibits charging fees just to pay a bill by phone. It also protects young consumers by requiring that before cards can be issued to anyone under 21, a parent must co-sign or an ability to pay must be demonstrated. ###
02.03.2010	Banks and Federal Regulators Must Act in Better Interest of Communities Banks and Federal Regulators Must Act in Better Interest of Communities February 3, 2010 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) Today, U.S. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit made the following statement: "Barely two weeks ago, I chaired a hearing on the condition of financial institutions, focusing on community bank failures and using the recent seizure of FBOP and its sale to U.S. Bancorp as a case study for lessons learned. During the hearing, I asked Mr. Richard Hartnack, Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp, about his bank’s commitment to its community —especially given FBOP/Park National Bank’s strong record in this regard— and asked him to put it in writing. Unfortunately, before I ever received a response, U.S. Bank announced its plans to lay off hundreds of employees at four Illinois facilities, including one in Chicago, one in Oak Park and one in Oakbrook Terrace, beginning in March." "This disturbing news is further evidence of the unacceptable consequences stemming from the increasing trend of bank failures and consolidations. U.S. taxpayers have not invested billions of dollars of their money in the banking industry so that big banks —with little warning or notice— can continue to lay off workers and tear apart our communities. It's time for banks to start focusing on job creation, not job elimination." "And the onus is not on banks alone. It is my hope that regulators look at these announced layoffs by U.S. Bank as further evidence of the human consequence of bank closures and consolidations; there should be no excuse for overlooking the impact these actions have on our local communities and civic organizations. Bank failures are a reality we need to deal with, and regulators have a job to do. Regulators must look beyond the standard CRA rating and assess a purchasing bank’s knowledge of the market it is moving into, as well as a bank’s record of commitment to community investment and support. If we as a country are to continue on the road to financial recovery, they must do their part in accounting for the foreseeable consequences that bank closures and consolidations have on our communities." ###
01.21.2010	(Washington DC) Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit made the following opening statement at a hearing entitled, “The Condition of Financial Institutions: Examining the Failure and Seizure of an American Bank.” January 21, 2010 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit made the following opening statement at a hearing entitled, “The Condition of Financial Institutions: Examining the Failure and Seizure of an American Bank.” Ever since the beginning of this financial crisis in 2008 we have all heard about the big financial firms and banks that have failed: Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch. But for every large bank that fails, there have been dozens of smaller, community banks that have also failed. Banks with names like People’s First Community Bank, St. Stephen State Bank and even banks like Park National Bank, that was supported by a largely successful holding company, fail every week. While the focus of this hearing is the failure of one particular bank holding company, it is my intention to shed light on lessons learned from recent bank failures and the insolvent bank resolution process. Last year alone 140 banks failed across this nation, and so far this year four banks have failed, including three just last Friday. Through this hearing I hope to provide our banks better insight into the factors used by their regulators when they make these decisions, and for the regulators to have a better understanding of the impact that bank closures and consolidation have on our local communities and civic and community organizations like our schools and faith-based institutions. We should also examine today the FDIC's flexibility in accounting for factors such as a purchasing bank's knowledge of the market it is moving into, as well as a bank's record of community investment and support beyond the standard CRA rating. If the FDIC requires a change in the current laws to be able to account for our communities' well being, then by all means we should have that discussion now, before more and more banks fail and consumers suffer even more than they already have. Finally, I want to stress the importance of banks that focus on lending to their communities and not simply on using their money to make profits through trading on Wall Street. Real economic growth in this country happens when we invest in Main Street. It is based on old-fashioned lending: through a loan to a bakery to buy a new commercial oven; helping to finance the expansion of a local school; helping to put a child through college; or simply offering them a reasonable and affordable loan. The economic crisis that we face was created by trading in confusing and all too ephemeral products like credit default swaps and mortgage backed securities, not by financing the expansion of the hardware store down the street. This kind of trading is still based too much on greed. Just take a look at the decrease in lending last year, and compare that to the increase in bonuses doled out by many of the largest —and yet most vulnerable— institutions. And as our local lenders close all around us, these banks continue to play financial roulette. It's fundamentally backwards and quite simply counterintuitive. I believe that in order to stabilize our financial system we must re-examine what it means to be a successful bank in this country and encourage a return to the fundamentals of lending. I am glad to hear that President Obama will be addressing this very issue later today when he announces his plans for limiting the ability of commercial banks to conduct proprietary trading with their depository funds. Finally, I want to thank all of you who came to this hearing, in particular those who made the long journey by bus. I applaud your interest and your involvement in these important issues which are vital to the sustainability of all our communities. I look forward to hearing the testimony of those before us today. ###
01.20.2010	(Washington, DC) – Tomorrow, U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, will hold a hearing to examine the condition of our nation’s financial institutions by focusing on a recent example of a bank failure. January 20, 2010 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) Tomorrow, U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, will hold a hearing to examine the condition of our nation’s financial institutions by focusing on a recent example of a bank failure. The process behind the FDIC’s failed bank resolution procedure will be examined along with the federal government’s ongoing efforts to restore stability to our nation’s financial system. The Subcommittee will hear from banking regulators, community banks, and community representatives regarding the challenges facing both our lending institutions and our local economies. WHO: Luis V. Gutierrez, Chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Panel One Mr. Steven McCullough, Chief Executive Officer, Bethel New Life Mr. Michael E. Kelly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, FBOP Corporation Mr. Richard Hartnack, Vice Chairman, U.S. Bank Mr. Jeff Austin III, Vice Chairman, Austin Bank Panel Two Mr. David Miller, Director of Investments, U.S. Department of the Treasury Ms. Jennifer Kelly, Senior Deputy Comptroller for Midsize/Community Bank Supervision, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency Mr. Mitchell Glassman, Director, Division of Resolutions and Receiverships, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation WHAT: Hearing on the Condition of Financial Institutions: Examining the Failure and Seizure of an American Bank WHEN: 10:00 a.m., Thursday, January 21, 2010 WHERE: 2128 Rayburn House Office Building ###
12.15.2009	(Washington D.C.) Today, members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) joined with more than 90 House Democrats to introduce the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America’s Security And Prosperity (CIR ASAP) Act of 2009, H.R. 4321, legislation that secures our nation's economy, keeps families together and secures our borders while fixing our broken immigration system. Gutierrez Remarks Upon Introduction of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and Prosperity Act of 2009 December 15, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington D.C.) Today, members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) joined with more than 90 House Democrats to introduce the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America’s Security And Prosperity (CIR ASAP) Act of 2009, H.R. 4321, legislation that secures our nation's economy, keeps families together and secures our borders while fixing our broken immigration system. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, chair of the CHC Immigration Task Force made the following remarks at a press conference introducing the bill: "Many people are responsible for this legislation today. I thank you all for your work. I want to particularly thank the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. We stand together today as cosponsors of this comprehensive immigration bill. I’m proud to be a member of a caucus that is leading the fight for real immigration reform. In the immigration debate, some things are constant. They never change. One is that opponents of immigration reform will use it as a wedge issue and will blame everything from unemployment to rising health care costs on immigrants. Of course, why stop with jobs or health care. Global warming? Rough stock Market? Bad traffic? Lousy weather? Too many immigrants. Your favorite lost on Dancing with the Stars? Let’s blame immigrants for that one, too. The immigrant blame game is constant. Cynical politicians believe it drives poll numbers, cynical commentators believe it drives TV ratings. The immigrant blame game is one of the most predictable, and most deplorable, elements of public debate in our nation. But something else has been predictable, and constant, and honorable.That is the way that our nation’s immigrants have responded to the immigrant blame game. In Congress, we’ve responded year after year with legislation, often bipartisan. While many immigrant opponents would never even come to the table to craft a workable solution to our urgent crisis, we’ve sat patiently at that table, often making concessions, often suggesting compromise. In the public debate, while commentators and critics have targeted immigrants with blame and bullying, our nation’s immigrants have simply kept on working, kept on contributing, and kept on hoping for a solution. They’ve marched – hundreds of thousands strong in peaceful unity asking for fairness. They’ve attended community meetings. Last summer, I hosted a family unity tour where mothers and fathers and daughters and sons expressed one simple hope – for a fair immigration policy that would stop tearing families apart. Together: labor leaders and teachers, community organizers and clergy, grape pickers and bricklayers, nurses and janitors. Together immigrants rose above the immigrant blame game with patience and tolerance and dignity. In fact, we all have learned something from our religious leaders, who have reminded us of these words from the good book: “You have heard it said, ‘An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth’; but I say unto you, whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also.” Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also. I believe our immigrant community has turned so many cheeks that our heads are spinning like tops. I’m not complaining. I say it with pride. Because it’s easy to be angry and frustrated. But still, we’ve turned the other cheek. We’ve stayed at the table, and negotiated, and compromised. And the patience, and the tolerance, and the dignity of our immigrant community has brought us to this moment -- to this bill, to this final push for comprehensive reform. You have detailed summaries of this comprehensive bill – I want to give you a simple summary of it: This bill should be our nation’s immigration policy. This bill is not complicated. What we need to do – right now -- is not complicated. Our nation’s immigration policy should be pro-family, pro-jobs and pro-security. Family, jobs and security. This bill accomplishes all three. It keeps families together, but understands we must secure our borders. It keeps people working, but understands the needs of our economy. It gives a pathway to citizenship, but understands that immigrants must learn English, pay taxes and contribute to their communities. It’s pro-family, pro-jobs and pro-security. And the time to pass it into law is right now. We’ve waited long enough. Just because we turn our cheek, doesn’t mean we should turn away from what’s right. Just because we’ve been patient, doesn’t mean we can wait forever. Gandhi was a man who knew something about patience. About turning the other cheek. He said, “All compromise is based on give and take, but there can be no give and take on fundamentals. Any compromise on mere fundamentals is a surrender. For it is all give and no take.” We have given. And we have waited. And we have compromised. But there are some fundamentals that simply cannot be negotiated away and cannot be waited for one minute longer: The ability of a mother to stay with her son. For an honest person to work hard. For all families in our country to be safe. Our families. Our jobs. Our security. Three simple principles. Three American principles. Not just for immigrants, but for all of us. Every American will benefit from this bill, from the heightened national security, from the commitment to family unity, from the common-sense approach to jobs and our economy. Every American will benefit from putting an end to the immigrant blame game. As a candidate for President, Barack Obama said: “We need immigration reform that will secure our borders, and punish employers who exploit immigrant labor; reform that finally brings the 12 million people who are here illegally out of the shadows by requiring them to take steps to become legal citizens. We must assert our values and reconcile our principles as a nation of immigrants and a nation of laws. That is a priority I will pursue from my very first day.” I take my friend the President at his word. I agree with him. He’s right. We have waited a year, the time for action is now. The immigrant blame game wants us to forget that immigrants are just people. Not statistics. Not anonymous. Not perfect. Not evil. Just people trying to do their best. But immigrants are different in one important way. They desperately want something that far too many of us take for granted. They want to be Americans. This bill is the right way to allow these people to reach their dreams. We’ve waited too long. Now, with this bill, let’s end the blame game and turn our immigrants -- into Americans." ###
12.11.2009	(Washington D.C.) On Tuesday, December 15, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) will introduce new legislation, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and Prosperity Act of 2009 (CIR ASAP), to the U.S. House of Representatives. Gutierrez will be joined by members of many different faiths and backgrounds, including the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Black Caucus, Asian Pacific American Caucus and Progressive Caucus. December 11, 2009 Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington D.C.) On Tuesday, December 15, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) will introduce new legislation, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and Prosperity Act of 2009 (CIR ASAP), to the U.S. House of Representatives. Gutierrez will be joined by members of many different faiths and backgrounds, including the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Black Caucus, Asian Pacific American Caucus and Progressive Caucus. Who:Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-4), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Immigration Task Force Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-12), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Rep. Yvette D. Clarke (NY-11), Whip of the Congressional Black Caucus Rep. Mike Honda (CA-15), Chair of Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus Rep. Silvestre Reyes (TX-16), Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Rep. Lynn Woolsey (CA-6), Co-Chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus Rep. Joe Baca (CA-43) Rep. Xavier Becerra (CA-31) Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) Rep. Judy Chu (CA-32) Rep. Joseph Crowley (NY-7) Rep. Sam Farr (CA-17) Rep. Charlie Gonzalez (TX-20) Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34) Rep. Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15) Rep. Grace Napolitano (CA-38) Rep. Solomon P. Ortiz (TX-27) Rep. Pedro R. Pierluisi (PR-At large) Rep. Jared Polis (CO-2) Rep. Jan Schakowsky (IL-9) Rep. Jose E. Serrano (NY-16) Rep. Anthony Weiner (NY-9) Other Members of Congress What:Introduction of Comprehensive Immigration Reform Legislation When:12:30 pm, Tuesday, December 15, 2009 Where:Room 2261, Rayburn House Office Building "We have waited patiently for a workable solution to our immigration crisis to be taken up by this Congress and our President," said Rep. Gutierrez. "The time for waiting is over. This bill will be presented before Congress recesses for the holidays so that there is no excuse for inaction in the New Year. It is the product of months of collaboration with civil rights advocates, labor organizations, and members of Congress. It is an answer to too many years of pain —mothers separated from their children, workers exploited and undermined security at the border— all caused at the hands of a broken immigration system. This bill says 'enough,' and presents a solution to our broken system that we as a nation of immigrants can be proud of." Press should confirm their attendance with Rebecca Dreilinger at 202-225-8203 or via email at Rebecca.Dreilinger@mail.house.gov. ###
11.18.2009	(Washington DC) Today Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, will introduce an amendment to the Financial Stability Improvement Act to prevent "too big to fail" banks from relying on taxpayer bailouts ever again. Rep. Gutierrez' proposed creation of a Systemic Dissolution Fund would be paid for by big firms like Goldman Sachs themselves, rather than the taxpayer, in the event of collapse. Systemic Dissolution Fund to Require "Too Big to Fail" Banks to Clean Up Their Own Mess November 18, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Today Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, will introduce an amendment to the Financial Stability Improvement Act to prevent "too big to fail" banks from relying on taxpayer bailouts ever again. Rep. Gutierrez' proposed creation of a Systemic Dissolution Fund would be paid for by big firms like Goldman Sachs themselves, rather than the taxpayer, in the event of collapse. "If we think of a failing bank like a totaled car, then the Systemic Dissolution Fund is like a salvage yard where you go to disassemble and sell the parts that still work, not a full auto-body repair shop to get you back on the road, driving erratically all over again," said Rep. Gutierrez. The fund would serve as an emergency resource for firms that fundamentally cannot be salvaged by their own means, and it would ensure their orderly dissolution. It would be paid for only by firms with assets larger than $10 billion, according to the potential strains they place on the financial services industry, their assets and liabilities and their activities in the marketplace. The firms that pose the greatest potential for systemic risk to the system will pay the majority of the costs of the creation of this $200 billion fund. "It's simple: we need a plan that says the riskiest firms will pay an assessment proportionate to the risk they pose to the system," said Rep. Gutierrez. "If a firm has more than $10 billion in assets and does not pose a significant risk to the system it will not pay much into the creation of this fund. By the same token, small and community banks will not be put on the line for the consequences of large firms taking big risks." "If my colleagues think the wolves on Wall Street are the most vulnerable among us, then they shouldn't vote for this amendment. But if, like me and like Chairman Frank, they think that those who are losing their pensions, those who are losing their homes and those who are losing their jobs and livelihoods are the most vulnerable, then they should join me in supporting this needed change to the system." "We will never be able to legislate away the financial crises that continue to burden so many hardworking taxpayers, but we can take steps so that the riskiest financial institutions —and not the taxpayers— pay for the costs of any future crisis." ###
11.17.2009	November 17, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) On Saturday, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) will hold a Financial Literacy Fair to help Chicago area residents who are seeking assistance in getting their financial affairs in order. The event will be held in collaboration with the office of the City Treasurer of Chicago. Accredited counselors will provide free financial counseling sessions in English and in Spanish. Topics will include improving credit scores, installment loans, FHA loans and predatory lending. Attendees will have the opportunity to view their credit reports, learn budgeting and foreclosure prevention techniques and access information for homebuyers. Who: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez What: Financial Literacy Fair and Free Financial Counseling Where: Clemente Community Academy 1147 N. Western Avenue Chicago, IL 60622 When: Saturday, November 21, 2009 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. "With so much talk in Washington about banks that are 'too big to fail' we often don't talk enough about the people who have suffered most in the financial crisis," said Rep. Gutierrez. "Too many Chicago area consumers have been impacted by foreclosure scams, predatory lenders, excessive interest rates and unreasonable fee hikes. With the holiday season right around the corner, families are considering how to make ends meet now more than ever. It's my hope that this fair will help them start the New Year with the tools they need for financial stability." ###
11.16.2009	November 16, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) – U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-04) today made the following statement regarding the tragic passing of Chicago School Board President Michael Scott. "By fighting every day for our youth, Michael Scott fought for our city's future. He made Chicago a better place for all of our kids to learn and to grow. I had the honor of working with him in various capacities for 30 years and saw firsthand his dedication to our city. Chicago changed a lot in that time, but Michael's commitment to public service never wavered. Michael will be deeply missed. I extend my heartfelt condolences to his wife Diana and his children." ###
11.04.2009	(Washington DC) Reversing a plan that would have unnecessarily saddled taxpayers with the costs of the failure of “too big too fail” institutions, the House Financial Services Committee today took up consideration of an improved Financial Stability Improvement Act. The bill is now expected to adopt a proposal championed last week by Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez, Chairman of the Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee: Make large firms prepay "premiums" in the event of dissolutions. November 4, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Reversing a plan that would have unnecessarily saddled taxpayers with the costs of the failure of “too big too fail” institutions, the House Financial Services Committee today took up consideration of an improved Financial Stability Improvement Act. The bill is now expected to adopt a proposal championed last week by Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez, Chairman of the Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee: Make large firms prepay "premiums" in the event of dissolutions. The bill would create an ex-ante resolution fund to be paid for by the big firms like Citigroup and Goldman Sachs themselves, rather than the taxpayer, thereby facilitating the orderly dissolution of any failed systemically significant firm in the future. Rep. Gutierrez praised the leadership of Chairman Frank for taking on this approach, and further called on Secretary of the Treasury, Timothy F. Geithner, to follow suit and commit to the creation of an equitable assessment system. "It's simple: we need a plan that says the riskiest firms will pay an assessment proportionate to the risk they pose to the system," Rep. Gutierrez said during today's Committee markup. "If you think the wolves on Wall Street are the most vulnerable among us, then you shouldn't vote for this legislation. But if you think that those who are losing their pensions, those who are losing their homes and those who are losing their jobs and livelihoods are the most vulnerable, then you should join me in voting for this legislation." "We will never be able to legislate away the financial crisis that continues to burden so many hardworking taxpayers," Gutierrez continued, "but we can take steps so that the riskiest financial institutions —and not the taxpayers— pay for the costs of any future crisis." In addition to creating a "resolution fund" for too big to fail institutions, the bill would create an oversight council made up of the principal financial regulators. That council would, among other things: monitor emerging threats to the system; identify systemically significant firms; subject those firms to higher prudential regulatory standards; and improve federal regulatory oversight by merging the OTS and OCC into a single federal banking regulator. ###
10.29.2009	Systemic Risk Fund Should Act Like Insurance, Not a Bailout October 29, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Today, members of the Financial Services Committee evaluated comprehensive reform of our financial system, directing questions to Secretary of the Treasury, Timothy F. Geithner. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, made the following remarks: Mr. Secretary, I'd like to thank you for appearing before us today; I just had a few comments about the systemic risk proposal that was revealed on Tuesday night. While I support most of this legislation, I do have apprehensions about the way you have proposed to create a fund to pay for the costs associated with the resolution of failed, systemically significant financial institutions. As most Americans know, when you get a life insurance policy, you pay into the fund month after month, year after year, certainly hoping that you do not die very soon but knowing that if you do, the family you leave behind and the debts you accumulated during your life will be taken care of. But nobody is ever granted an insurance policy retroactively after they die so why should Congress give exactly that ability to big banks after they have failed? This is what the current plan proposes, and I have strong concerns about it. We need to establish a systemic risk fund that acts like an insurance fund, not a bailout fund, against the losses incurred by "too big to fail" institutions, and we need to treat it like insurance. Institutions covered by this fund should have to pay into it on a regular basis, much like banks currently do with the current Deposit Insurance Fund. I am especially pleased to see that Chairman Bair of the FDIC has endorsed this concept in her testimony this morning as well. Now, I know that some in the industry are complaining that it is unfair for them to pay in advance to a fund that might be used to rescue others. I hate to break the news to them, and I don't mean to call them hypocritical, but some of them are in the insurance industry, and that's exactly what they provide: insurance! In my opinion, what is truly unfair is that the financial services industry has forced the American people to bail them out to the tune of billions upon billions of dollars because of foolhardy and greedy bets that they made over the past few years. And it is especially unfair that this same consideration is not being given to the thousands of small, community financial institutions that are struggling to help small businesses make loans and help our families get back on their feet. A fund created to resolve the losses of a failed institution should NOT be funded after that institution has failed for one very simple reason. Should an institution of this size and complexity fail in the future, it will likely be as a result of a system-wide problem which would invariably affect the other financial institutions. As we have seen during this crisis, asking banks to put even more money into an insurance fund in the middle of an economic crisis has proven disastrous for both consumer and small business lending. Doing so would have a pro-cyclical effect on any crisis, worsening the situation for institutions that might already be teetering on the brink themselves. What we want to create is an anti-cyclical funding mechanism where financial institutions contribute during the good times and prevent them from paying huge amounts at times when that money should be used to spur lending in our communities, which is exactly the situation our banks find themselves in today.I urge this committee to consider a way to charge assessments to these systemically significant institutions in a way that is fair and based on their risk to the system as a whole. The Bank Accountability and Risk Assessment Act (HR 2897), legislation that I have introduced, and many on this committee support, would assess banks based on their size, complexity and risk to the system and create a fund that can be used along with the proposed resolution authority to prevent a failed institution from threatening the rest of the system. ###
10.28.2009	Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) today lauded signing of the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act into law. The law represents the first federal legislation to extend important protections to victims of violent hate crimes committed based on a person's actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender, gender identity and/or disability. It also strengthens existing hate crimes protections for a variety of other categories, including race, color, religion, national origin and ethnicity. October 28, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) today lauded signing of the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act into law. The law represents the first federal legislation to extend important protections to victims of violent hate crimes committed based on a person's actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender, gender identity and/or disability. It also strengthens existing hate crimes protections for a variety of other categories, including race, color, religion, national origin and ethnicity. In a statement, Rep. Gutierrez said: "Our constitution does not specify equality for a few or justice just for those we agree with. This law is built on the very basic and fundamental premise this country was founded on: that all men and women are created equal and held as equals under the law. There is never any excuse to tolerate senseless violence in this country, and we will not allow anyone to be targeted based upon the color of their skin, religious belief, national origin, sexual orientation, or their gender identity. I applaud President Obama for signing this needed legislation into law, and I hope it will be only the first of many steps toward a legal system that does not discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity." ###
10.22.2009	Committee strengthens regulation to protect consumers from deceptive and abusive financial products October 22, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC — Today, the Financial Services Committee approved legislation that will establish a new, independent federal agency solely devoted to protecting Americans from unfair and abusive financial products and services. As called for by President Obama, the Consumer Financial Protection Agency (CFPA) represents one of the most significant efforts by Congress to bring about long overdue financial reform and ensure that Americans are able to take advantage of capitalism’s benefits without falling victim to industry abuses. As last year’s crisis demonstrated, deceptive financial products – such as predatory mortgages and hidden credit card fees – not only damage the livelihoods of American families, but can destabilize the entire economy. The creation of the CFPA will finally put the interests of consumers at the forefront of the federal government’s attention and enforcement efforts. As outlined in H.R. 3126, the agency’s mission will be to promote a fair and transparent marketplace for financial products and to safeguard the American public from abusive industry tactics. In an unprecedented move, the bill also extends federal supervision to a host of financial industries, such as payday lenders and mortgage originators, which have long escaped oversight. A summary of the bill, which was approved by a vote of 39-29, can be viewed here. The committee today also defeated a large number of Republican amendments intended to prevent or weaken the CFPA." We have experienced the failings of our current regulatory structure in which the agencies that are charged with protecting consumers from predatory practices have fallen asleep at the wheel. And the consumers who are most vulnerable to predatory products have gone largely unprotected," said Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit. Rep. Gutierrez continued, "By relieving safety and soundness regulators like the Federal Reserve from having to oversee consumer products, we’re improving the odds that predatory practices in mortgages and credit cards --­as well as the payday lending and remittance industries-- will be stopped before they can do more harm to the millions of American consumers who use them everyday. The status quo is unacceptable. Taxpayers deserve an institution that guards them from misuse and abuse of their hard-earned dollars. And we are long overdue in providing them the watchdog they deserve." Currently, consumer protection rule-making and authority is spread across several different agencies, all of which have failed repeatedly to use the tools provided by Congress to protect Americans. H.R. 3126 addresses this inaction by transferring consumer protection authority from the Federal Reserve and other federal regulators to the CFPA. The consolidation of these powers at the CFPA also ensures that financial firms will no longer be able to shop around for the weakest regulator to supervise their products. In addition, the agency will closely monitor the marketplace for any new financial products or services that could potentially harm consumers as well as the larger economy. Once the agency identifies these threats or abuses, it will have the power to write rules that can regulate, restrict or ban them. It will also have the power to establish guidelines so that companies issue clear and fair disclosures to customers on products such as credit cards and mortgages. ###
10.13.2009	(Washington DC) At a rally today on the west lawn of the United States Capitol, U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) addressed a crowd of thousands who demanded change to our nation's broken immigration system. Rep. Gutierrez' address responded to a recent call from the immigration advocacy community to introduce comprehensive immigration reform in the House of Representatives. October 13, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) At a rally today on the west lawn of the United States Capitol, U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) addressed a crowd of thousands who demanded change to our nation's broken immigration system. Rep. Gutierrez' address responded to a recent call from the immigration advocacy community to introduce comprehensive immigration reform in the House of Representatives. Rep. Gutierrez has been actively talking to advocacy and civil rights groups, faith-based groups, labor groups and his colleagues on the Hill to identify the most essential components of such a comprehensive bill. Today he outlined some of those core principles. In a statement, Rep. Gutierrez said: "We simply cannot wait any longer for a bill that keeps our families together, protects our workers and allows a pathway to legalization for those who have earned it. It is time we had a workable plan making its way through Congress that recognizes the vast contributions of immigrants to this country and that honors the American Dream. I am preparing such a plan, and will introduce it in the near future. It will include the following core principles:" Pathway to legalization for undocumented workers: "Immigration reform will not work unless it takes a practical approach to dealing with the 12 million undocumented immigrants living, working, and raising families in the United States. We need a bill that says if you come here to hurt our communities, we will not support you. But if you are here to work hard—if you are here to make a better life for your family—you will have the opportunity to earn your citizenship.""Our immigrants are hardworking, and they are up to the challenge. Give them the opportunity to earn their citizenship, and they will go through the background checks; they will pay their fair share of taxes; and they will learn English. It’s not an easy process, but it is a fair process." Professional and effective border enforcement: "We need professional and effective border enforcement. That means 21st century enforcement strategies that both make our nation’s physical and economic security stronger and stay true to our nation’s values. We need to require the federal government to make a real, working partnership with border communities and other stakeholders when designing and executing border enforcement policies." Smart and humane interior enforcement: "Inside the country, my plan will promote fair immigration proceedings, humane treatment of immigration detainees and policies that respect the tenets of community policing." Protecting workers: "Immigration reform will not work without a strong commitment to America’s labor force. Without it, too many employers will continue to pervert the system. We must expand the labor rights of workers and punish those dishonest employers who continue to exploit immigrants in order to undermine their honest competitors." Verification systems: "We must fix the current employment eligibility verification system, not only to protect Americans who are denied the right to work because of errors in the government’s databases, but also to prevent employers who would exploit the system and undermine workers’ rights. A vastly improved verification system is fundamental to reducing illegal immigration."Family unity as a cornerstone of our immigration system: "Family is the bedrock of our society, and immigration reform must support strong, united families and treat all immigrant families fairly and equally. Right now, our broken immigration system keeps too many American families apart for years and even decades, when they have done everything legally. We need a system predicated on family values by developing laws that better value families — a system that keeps families strong and, most importantly, keeps husbands and wives, parents and children together." Future flows of workers: "Our country attracts the best and brightest and the hardest workers from around the globe. That is a source of strength. But our current employment-based immigration laws are often at odds with the needs of our labor market and our economy. Many of our guest worker programs are badly broken, and they undermine workers’ rights. At the same time, our visa quotas are determined by politics, not by labor and economic need. My plan will create an employment-based visa system that is fair to workers and employers. It will ensure full labor rights for all workers, and it will create a commission to align visa numbers with actual labor market demands and economic needs, not political winds." AgJOBS: "Agriculture plays a fundamental role in our nation’s economy and in securing our nation's food supply. Comprehensive immigration reform must provide an agreement between labor and agribusiness that allows farm workers to access legal protections and immigration status while enabling employers to ensure a legal workforce and stabilize their businesses." DREAM Act: "We all want a country that is better educated, better motivated and better prepared for the future. My plan will strengthen the DREAM Act, making it quicker and easier for students who grew up in America and know no other home to fully participate in our society. Immigrants brought here as children should not be punished with fines or other means; rather, they should be fully integrated into our society as the Americans they truly are—and as quickly as possible." Promoting immigrant integration: "For years, state and local governments have taken the lead in helping new immigrants become new Americans. Recent arrivals face many challenges when navigating this process, yet the federal government has done little to help. I plan to recommit federal resources to promoting and assisting immigrant integration. It is about staying true to our nation’s success story of welcoming newcomers and helping them become part of the fabric of America." "If we are to truly fix any of these critical issues, we must address all of them." ###
10.09.2009	October 9, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington D.C.) On Tuesday, October 13, immigration advocacy groups from across the country will rally on Capitol Hill as Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) outlines the fundamental principles of a progressive, comprehensive immigration bill. On September 17, the immigration advocacy community called upon Rep. Gutierrez to introduce a bill in the House of Representatives. In the weeks since, the Congressman has been actively talking to advocacy and civil rights groups, faith-based groups, labor groups and his colleagues on the Hill ­-- ­particularly members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) and Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) -- to identify the most essential components of such a comprehensive bill. Who: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Immigration Task ForceRep. Nydia Velázquez, Chair of the Congressional Hispanic CaucusRep. Michael Honda, Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus What: Immigration Rally & Outlining of Core Bill Principles When: 3:00 pm Prayer Vigil3:30 pm Statements to Press Where: West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol "I am overwhelmed by the support of immigrant, faith-based and community-based organizations in urging me to introduce comprehensive immigration legislation. I look forward to joining them on Tuesday so that I can share with them more specifically the key principles that will form the basis of such a bill," said Rep. Gutierrez. "We simply cannot wait any longer for a bill that keeps our families together, protects our workers and allows a pathway to legalization for those who have earned it," continued Rep. Gutierrez. "Saying immigration is a priority for this Administration or this Congress is not the same as seeing tangible action, and the longer we wait, the more every single piece of legislation we debate will be obstructed by our failure to pass comprehensive reform." "We need a bill that says if you come here to hurt our communities, we will not support you; but if you are here to work hard and to make a better life for your family, you will have the opportunity to earn your citizenship. We need a law that says it is un-American for a mother to be torn from her child, and it is unacceptable to undermine our workforce by driving the most vulnerable among us further into the shadows." "I believe the support base for this kind of compassionate and comprehensive legislation is strong and far reaching, and I believe the votes are there to pass it. I have always said that immigration reform will not be easy; but it is time we had a workable plan working its way through Congress that recognizes the vast contributions of immigrants to this country and that honors the American Dream." ###
09.30.2009	(Washington DC) Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) will introduce legislation to prohibit any company from betting against the lives of its employees through corporate-owned life insurance policies. Employers Betting Against the Lives of Employees Would Face Criminal Penalties September 30, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) will introduce legislation to prohibit any company from betting against the lives of its employees through corporate-owned life insurance policies. "Every day, 14,000 people in this country loose their health insurance; but instead of investing in the health, life and longevity of its employees, much of Corporate America is investing its resources in the deaths of its employees," said Rep. Gutierrez. As highlighted in Michael Moore's new film, "Capitalism: A Love Story," a corporation is allowed to take out life insurance on its employees —often without their knowledge or consent— and cash in, in the event of their death. These policies are being taken out on American workers ranging from top-level CEOs to janitors and factory workers. The only beneficiary of these countless policies is the company itself. “A company should benefit when it invests in the well being or education of its employees,” said Rep. Gutierrez. “A company should never benefit when it instead gambles on the demise of its employees. My bill is intended to reverse this fundamentally backwards set of priorities. This is about human capital.” The Employer Owned Life Insurance Limitation Act would unequivocally prohibit the practice of taking out employer-owned life insurance on any employee. The single exception pertains to those individuals making $1 million or more in salary, whose death would pose significant financial risk to the company. For such individuals, a company would have 30 days to notify the employee of the policy. Should the employee move on to another job, the company would have 30 days to cancel the policy. This will stop the practice of taking out policies without an employee's knowledge and maintaining them long after the employee has moved on to another company. Any employer who takes out a policy on an employee earning less than $1 million in salary may be found guilty of a misdemeanor, fined $500,000 and imprisoned for up to one year. Any employee, or the family of a deceased employee, who has had a policy taken out on his or her life, in violation of these provisions, would also have grounds to bring civil action against the employer. The family or employee would be entitled to either $500,000 OR three times the amount of benefits specified in the insurance policy, whichever is greater. ###
09.17.2009	(Washington D.C.) Today, at rally in Washington DC, advocacy groups from across the country called upon Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) to present a progressive, comprehensive immigration bill. Rep Gutierrez agreed that he will outline the fundamental principles of such legislation by October 13 and introduce a comprehensive bill soon thereafter. September 17, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington D.C.) Today, at rally in Washington DC, advocacy groups from across the country called upon Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) to present a progressive, comprehensive immigration bill. Rep Gutierrez agreed that he will outline the fundamental principles of such legislation by October 13 and introduce a comprehensive bill soon thereafter. In a statement, Rep. Gutierrez said: "I am overwhelmed by the support of immigrant, faith-based and community-based organizations in urging me to introduce comprehensive immigration legislation. We simply cannot wait any longer for a bill that keeps our families together, protects our workers and allows a pathway to legalization for those who have earned it. Saying immigration is a priority for this Administration or this Congress is not the same as seeing tangible action, and the longer we wait, the more every single piece of legislation we debate will be obstructed by our failure to pass comprehensive reform." "In the next several weeks, I will be actively talking to faith-based groups, labor groups and my colleagues on the Hill ­-- ­particularly the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) and Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC). We need a bill that says if you come here to hurt our communities, we will not support you; but if you are here to work hard and to make a better life for your family, you will have the opportunity to earn your citizenship. We need a law that says it is un-American for a mother to be torn from her child, and it is unacceptable to undermine our workforce by driving the most vulnerable among us further into the shadows." "I believe the support base for this kind of compassionate and comprehensive legislation is strong and far reaching, and I believe the votes are there to pass it. I have always said that immigration reform will not be easy; but it is time we had a workable plan working its way through Congress that recognizes the vast contributions of immigrants to this country and that honors the American Dream." ###
09.16.2009	(Washington D.C.) On Thursday, 45 members of Congress will call upon President Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to join the international community in committing funds to the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation, which seeks to preserve the decaying Nazi death camp to ensure that the atrocities of the Holocaust never occur again. While commitments have been made by the Polish, German, British and French governments, as well as the European Union, the United States has so far committed to little more than a promise to "review" the Foundation's plans. As International Community Works to Preserve Auschwitz Concentration Camp, U.S. Has Fallen Behind on Commitment of Funds September 16, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington D.C.) On Thursday, 45 members of Congress will call upon President Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to join the international community in committing funds to the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation, which seeks to preserve the decaying Nazi death camp to ensure that the atrocities of the Holocaust never occur again. While commitments have been made by the Polish, German, British and French governments, as well as the European Union, the United States has so far committed to little more than a promise to "review" the Foundation's plans. Auschwitz-Birkenau was the largest Nazi concentration camp, the site of more than 1.1 million murders through systematic starvation, forced labor, individual execution and gas chambers. The Foundation is seeking to accumulate $160 million for the conservation of the grounds, buildings, and artifacts of the death camp. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-04), joined by House colleagues of many faiths and on both sides of the aisle, is calling upon the Obama Administration to at least match the highest contribution pledged to the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation, as soon as possible. Who: Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) Congresswoman Shelley Berkley (D-NV) Congressman Steve Cohen (D-TN) Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY) Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) Guy Billauer, Associate Director National and Legislative Affairs, American Jewish Committee What: Press conference calling on U.S. to commit funds for preservation of Auschwitz concentration camp When: Thursday, Sept. 17, 2009 12:30pm Where: House Triangle (The East Front for the U.S. Capitol); Rain Location: 2103 RHOB "This month marks 70 years since the beginning of World War II, and while time is taking its toll on this rapidly deteriorating historic site, it has not diminished violent ideologies of anti-Semitism and racism that still run rampant today," said Rep. Gutierrez. "The only way we can work toward the eradication of these painful and dangerous mentalities is to preserve, remember and teach others about the atrocities of the past. The United States must be a leader in the fight against hatred and bigotry by safeguarding an honest record of history, so that future generations may learn from it." ###
09.11.2009	(Washington DC) Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez today released the following statement remembering the lives lost on September 11, 2001 and the sacrifice of the first responders, service men and women, firefighters and police officers who answered the call of those in need. September 11, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez today released the following statement remembering the lives lost on September 11, 2001 and the sacrifice of the first responders, service men and women, firefighters and police officers who answered the call of those in need. "Each year on September 11, America remembers the nearly 3,000 lives cut short by unspeakable tragedy. Today we recall the heroes who answered the call to save their countrymen and women. And in their memory, we honor the principles of freedom, equality and democracy that define our nation. We will never forget their sacrifice, the families who mourn them or the values they died for." "Congress has established September 11 as a National Day of Service and Remembrance. As Part of the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act --and as a tribute to Senator Kennedy's lifelong commitment to public service-- this day is a call to all Americans to come together in service to our country and to teach our children about the privilege of freedom." ###
08.26.2009	August 26, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Immigration Taskforce, released the following statement regarding Senator Kennedy’s passing: "Senator Kennedy will always be a true American hero. Throughout his life, he took on the hard issues -- the issues that were not always politically popular -- and the issues that would define the very direction of this country. Though he is truly an irreplaceable leader, his example is something we should all aspire to by honoring his legacy and pursuing the change he envisioned for America. Senator Kennedy fought for a country that treated all people with humanity, fairness and equality. He fought for a country that honored a proud tradition of immigrants seeking the American Dream. He fought for people regardless of race, religion, or national origin, and he fought for comprehensive immigration reform. His work lives on in the halls of Congress and across our nation, wherever our immigrant families are crying out for a system that is just. When at last we sign comprehensive immigration reform into law, his presence will be deeply felt." ###
08.13.2009	As International Community Works to Preserve Auschwitz Concentration Camp, U.S. Falls Behind on Commitment of Funds (Washington DC) Today, U.S. Rep Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) called upon President Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to join the international community in committing funds to the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation, which seeks to preserve the decaying Nazi death camp to ensure that the atrocities of the Holocaust never occur again. While pledges have been made by the Polish, German, British and French governments, as well as the European Union, the United States has so far committed to little more than a promise to "review" the Foundation's plans. Auschwitz-Birkenau was the largest Nazi concentration camp, the site of 1.3 to 1.5 million exterminations through systematic starvation, forced labor, individual execution and gas chambers. The foundation is seeking to accumulate $160 million for the conservation of the grounds, buildings, and artifacts of the death camp. "As we saw in the tragic shooting at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum on June 10th, 2009, violent ideologies of anti-Semitism and racism still run rampant in our nation and our world," said Rep. Gutierrez. "The only way we can work toward the eradication of these painful and dangerous mentalities is to preserve, remember and teach others about the atrocities of the past. I have asked the Obama Administration to commit to this effort by at least pledging to match the highest contribution received by the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation as soon as possible." Rep. Gutierrez will also be collecting signatures from his colleagues in the House of Representatives to demonstrate support for preserving this monumentally important historical site. "Too many turned a blind eye to the Nazi's genocide during this dark period in our history," continued Rep. Gutierrez. "The United States must be a leader in the fight against hatred and bigotry by safeguarding an honest record of our history, so that future generations may learn from it. Auschwitz-Birkenau is an international symbol of the profound horrors that were committed, and we simply cannot afford to neglect the preservation of this rapidly deteriorating site." "On June 5, 2009, President Obama spoke eloquently at the Buchenwald concentration camp, noting that 'It is up to us to bear witness; to ensure that the world continues to note what happened here; to remember all those who survived and all those who perished, and to remember them not just as victims, but also as individuals who hoped and loved and dreamed just like us.' His words inspired hope, and we must realize them through this important initiative." ###
07.31.2009	July 31, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington D.C.) Today, the House will consider H.R. 3269, Corporate and Financial Institution Compensation Fairness Act. It provides shareholders of public companies with a vote on the executive compensation plans of companies’ top five executives. It also authorizes federal regulators to proscribe inappropriate or risky compensation practices of financial firms with at least $1 billion in assets. "This legislation will prevent excessive risk-taking by executives, some of whom in recent years have been incentivized to seek short-term profits, often at significant long-term cost." said Rep. Gutierrez, Chairman of the Subcommittee of Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit. "Giving shareholders a 'say on pay' would drive compensation to more accurately reflect performance on the job — especially when that performance has nearly run a company into the ground." Contrary to assertions by some opponents of the bill, it does not set caps on executive pay, nor does it tell corporations how they should compensate executives. Rather, it gives shareholders a voice in the direction of a company by instituting an annual non-binding vote on executive incentive packages and "golden parachutes." “I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of the Corporate and Financial Institution Compensation and Fairness Act of 2009," continued Rep. Gutierrez. "As Subcommittee Chairman, I will continue my work to ensure that any compensation incentives offered to corporate executives are structured in the best interest of not only that company and its employees but also our economy as a whole.” ###
07.28.2009	Civil and Consumer Rights Groups Join in Support of Bill to Aid Credit-Challenged Americans Seeking Employment July 28, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MEDIA ADVISORY (Washington, DC) Tomorrow, U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, will join Congressman Steve Cohen (D-TN) in unveiling new legislation to prohibit current and prospective employers from using credit scores as part of the hiring or firing processes. HR 3149, The Equal Employment for All Act, would give some of our most vulnerable, “credit-challenged” citizens —students, recent college graduates, low-income families, senior citizens and minorities— the opportunity to begin rebuilding their credit history by obtaining a job. Far too often, employers turn down these applicants because they have erroneously linked credit scores to potential job performance. HR 3149 would prohibit the use of consumer credit checks by employers to make adverse employment decisions, unless the job involves national security clearance, FDIC clearance or significant financial responsibility (such as bank managers, loan officers or financial managers). The legislation is endorsed by 33 Members of Congress and a number of consumer and civil rights groups, including: the National Consumer Law Center (on behalf of their low-income clients), Consumer Action, National Association of Consumer Advocates, Unite Here, National Fair Housing Alliance, National Employment Law Project, U.S. Public Interest Research Group, Legal Action Center, National H.I.R.E. Network, Community Legal Services of Philadelphia, Center for Economic Justice, Leadership Conference on Civil Rights and the NAACP. WHO: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) and Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN)Other Members of CongressMr. Hilary O. Shelton, Director, NAACP Washington Bureau/Senior VP for Advocacy & PolicyMr. Ed Mierzwinski, Consumer Program Dir., U.S. Public Interest Research GroupRepresentatives from National Fair Housing Alliance, Consumer Action, Lawyers Committee on Civil Rights, and Privacy Rights Clearinghouse WHAT: Press Conference to unveil HR 3149, the Equal Employment for All Act WHEN: Wednesday, July 29 at 10:30 a.m. WHERE: House Triangle – East Front ###
07.22.2009	July 22, 2009 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chair of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, today issued the following statement regarding President Obama's proposal to create a Consumer Financial Protection Agency: "The new Consumer Financial Protection Agency is without question one of the most important changes under the President's new regulatory reform proposal."We have experienced the failings of our current regulatory structure in which the agencies that are charged with protecting consumers from predatory practices have fallen asleep at the wheel. And the consumers who are most vulnerable to predatory products have gone largely unprotected. "By relieving safety and soundness regulators like the Federal Reserve from having to oversee consumer products, we’re improving the odds that predatory practices in mortgages and credit cards --­as well as the payday lending and remittance industries-- will be stopped before they can do more harm to the millions of American consumers who use them everyday."There should be no confusion about what this agency does and does not do: This new agency would not in any way ration credit or decrease economic freedom. Rather the creation of the CFPA will simply consolidate the existing agencies and consumer protection powers. "In fact, there is little difference between what the new Agency would do and what the current regulatory agencies are currently authorized to do. "This pan would simply streamline and concentrate the power of regulators whose job it is to protect our consumers. "Now, I know that the Chamber of Commerce and many in the industry are opposing this bill. But their opposition to this proposal merely favors the status quo, where: -- it takes the Fed 14 years to use its legislated power to stop predatory mortgage practices that have nearly destroyed our economy; -- banks want to continue to take over $38 billion in fee revenue alone from consumers each year; -- current enforcement for consumer protection statutes takes place in multiple agencies, resulting in disjointed and often ineffective protection against the worst of abuses. "The status quo is unacceptable. Taxpayers deserve an institution that guards them from misuse and abuse of their hard-earned dollars. And we are long overdue in providing them the watchdog they deserve. "I thank President Obama and Chairman Frank for their leadership on this proposal and their dedication to protecting consumers. I look forward to enacting the CFPA into law." ###
06.16.2009	June 16, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Gutierrez Remarks As Prepared for Delivery: Tuesday, June 16 Press Conference Announcing Legislation to Hold Accountable "Too Big To Fail" Banks Later today, I will be introducing the “Bank Accountability and Risk Assessment Act of 2009.” This legislation will change the way that the FDIC charges premiums to federally insured banks in order to capitalize the Deposit Insurance Fund. Specifically, my bill will do two things: First, it will create a risk-based assessment process for all insured banks. Second, it will establish a special annual risk premium for the "too-big-to fail" banks that represent a systemic threat to our financial system. I am recommending these changes because I believe that our current system disproportionately advantages the largest institutions at the expense of small banks. For example, under the current system, the FDIC determines the regular quarterly premiums for each bank based only on the domestic deposits held by the bank, rather than on the bank’s total assets. As a result, banks with assets of $1 billion or less pay assessments on nearly 80 percent of their liabilities because domestic deposits are their primary source of funding. Meanwhile, banks over $10 billion in assets pay premiums on only 47 percent of their liabilities. So, under the current system, while small banks pay insurance premiums on nearly their entire balance sheets, large banks pay on only half. I think we have it backwards. I think the largest banks with the riskiest investments should be responsible for paying more into the Deposit Insurance Funds than our Main Street banks that generally stay away from subprime mortgages and don’t invest in mortgage backed securities or credit derivative swaps. The absurd result of the current system is that banks with less than $10 billion in assets pay approximately 30 percent of the total assessment base, although they hold only about 20 percent of total bank assets. This discrepancy is exacerbated by the fact that the largest institutions are “too-big-to-fail,” and it can be argued that their depositors and other creditors enjoy superior protection than do the depositors and creditors of “too-small-to-save” banks. I believe that each institution should pay an insurance fee based on risk. And where does risk come from? Not from deposits, but from the assets and investments of banks. We’ve seen how assets – like mortgage backed securities – can turn from assets to liabilities overnight. It’s just common sense that banks with risky investments should pay more in deposit insurance premiums. I like to compare this bill to the risk-based pricing that the banks have forced on consumers. For years, the banks have argued that risk-based pricing for their products, such as credit cards and home mortgages, is not only logical but fair because they only raise rates on those customers they feel are the greatest risk to the overall health of their institution. Well, many of the same banks that utilize “risk-based” pricing for consumers required hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars to survive. Their irresponsible actions not only created a huge risk for our nation’s overall financial health, but also placed hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars at risk. Through the Bank Accountability and Risk Assessment Act of 2009, I propose that the American people impose the same risk-based assessment on the banks that they have been imposing on our constituents for years. The FDIC has already taken a step forward in recognizing the greater risk that large, money center banks represent to the DIF. Last month, the FDIC’s Board of Directors voted 4-1 to base their emergency premium assessment off a bank’s assets and not their deposits. By basing the assessment off the institutions assets and not the deposits, the FDIC has recognized that any threat to the fund through a bank failure is dependent upon the liabilities that exist in a bank’s assets, not their deposits. This was a good first step toward requiring systemically significant banks to pay their fair share into the DIF, but Congress must take action to codify this assessment base for all quarterly payments into the DIF and create a system of risk premiums for those banks deemed “too-big-to-fail.” ###
06.15.2009	Press Conference Will Outline Legislation to Base Deposit Insurance Premiums on Risk June 15, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) On Tuesday, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit will introduce the Bank Accountability and Risk Assessment Act of 2009, which would create a risk-based assessment for the "too-big-to fail" banks that represent a systemic threat to our financial system. The recent turmoil in the financial sector has placed significant strains on the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”), the fund that prevents the loss of an individual’s insured deposits in the event of a bank failure. It is the responsibility of Congress to ensure that the DIF is adequately funded to handle any challenges it might face. To do so, Rep. Gutierrez' proposed legislation would assess insurance premiums based on the potential risk that their investment activities place on the DIF and the entire financial system. Furthermore, large, complex banking institutions that pose a systemic risk would also pay a systemic risk premium. "With this bill, I propose that the American people impose the same risk-based assessment on the banks that the banks have been imposing on consumers for years," said Rep. Gutierrez. "The current assessment process for banks fails to account for systemic risks that the largest institutions present to the DIF and the taxpayers. We need a genuine risk-based assessment process and a systemic risk premium — both of which would enhance the resources of the DIF and reduce the risk that taxpayers would be called on to assist a systemically important financial institution." WHO: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Camden R. Fine, President and CEO, Independent Community Bankers of America Other Members of Congress WHAT:Press Conference: Announcing the Bank Accountability and Risk Assessment Act of 2009 WHEN: Tuesday, June 16, 2009 9:00 am WHERE: Rayburn House Office Building, Room 2220 "The current assessment system disproportionately advantages the largest institutions at the expense of small banks," continued Rep. Gutierrez. "While small banks pay insurance premiums on nearly their entire balance sheets, large banks pay on only half. Currently, banks with less than $10 billion in assets pay approximately 30 percent of the total assessment base, although they hold only about 20 percent of total bank assets. Being a large institution and 'too-big-to-fail' in effect allows its depositors and other creditors to enjoy superior protection than do the depositors and creditors of 'too-small-to-save' banks." "The Bank Accountability and Risk Assessment Act would levy the quarterly FDIC assessment based on all liabilities, not just domestic deposits, to more fairly distribute the burden to all banks regardless of their liability structure. My bill states that the overall amount of assets that a bank holds is a more accurate gauge of an institution’s risk to the DIF than the amount of a bank’s deposits, particularly when the bank’s deposits represent only 50-60 percent of its total assets. We have become painfully aware that poor asset quality causes a bank to fail, and all forms of liabilities, not just deposits, fund a bank’s assets." Under current law, the FDIC is required to use a broader assessment base only when a special assessment is levied to recoup losses from systemic risk. The “Bank Accountability and Risk Assessment Act of 2009” would go further to extend the same risk-based assessment requirements to the regular quarterly premiums for all banks. ###
06.10.2009	June 10, 2009 Office of Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez: (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Fourth District high school juniors are reminded that the fall term of the Congressional Page Program (November 2009 - January 2009) is accepting applications through the office of Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez prior to the July 13th deadline. Pages have been serving the House of Representatives for nearly two hundred years. Working as a team, Pages assist Members with their legislative duties, deliver correspondence and small packages within the congressional complex, answer phones in the Member cloakrooms, and prepare the House Floor for sessions. High school juniors with a GPA of 3.0 or higher in core academic subjects may apply to work as Pages in the U.S. House of Representatives for a fall or spring appointment. There is no GPA requirement for Pages who work during the summer semester. While serving the House, Pages live in Washington D.C., at the Page Residence Hall, a few blocks away from the Capitol. During the academic year, Pages attend classes at the House Page School. Pages must be sponsored by a Member of Congress and be at least sixteen years old on the date they begin their term. All communication regarding the Page program must be made through the applicant’s sponsoring Member. How to Become a Page – Page eligibility, the application process, and Page selection. Download material for public distribution. The Page Experience – The duties of a Page, the Page School, the Page Residence Hall, and extracurricular activities. Page Program History – Brief history of the Page Program, photos and artifacts, and the role of Pages in congressional history. Please call Rep. Gutierrez' Washington D.C. office at 202-225-8203 to learn more about current congressional page appointment openings.
06.02.2009	June 2, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) Around 9:30 am CT this morning, an envelope containing a powdery substance was received by the Chicago office of Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL). Authorities were immediately called to the scene. The Chicago Fire Department has confirmed the substance to be benign, and it is suspected to be a combination of pencil and sawdust shavings. The letter accompanying the substance contained hateful language and terms derogatory to Latinos. Staff has safely returned to the office and the incident has been turned over to federal authorities for investigation. Congressman Gutierrez today issued the following statement: "This morning's incident was a sad and ugly reminder of the hatred that some people feel toward others who fight for the rights of Latinos, immigrants and the most hardworking and vulnerable among us. Unfortunately, my office and I receive hateful and derogatory letters and phone calls on a regular basis. Virtually all of them cite my work on behalf of immigrants and Latinos as the basis for their angry, insulting and frequently racist and threatening views." "For me, hate-filled rants like the one we received today remind me that we can never pause or relent in our efforts to bring fairness and justice to Latinos and all immigrants. I want all individuals who send threatening and hateful mail to understand that it only strengthens my resolve to fight on behalf of America's immigrant community. Immigrants work hard, serve in our armed forces, love America and contribute to our country in countless ways. Today's immigrants are tomorrow's citizens and leaders, and I am proud to work on their behalf." "I thank my staff, who work so diligently for the people of the Fourth District even in the face of anger. I am grateful to the Chicago Fire and Police departments who responded so quickly and professionally to my office today." ###
05.26.2009	May 26, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Today, President Barack Obama nominated Federal Court of Appeals Judge Sonia Sotomayor as the next Justice on the United States Supreme Court. In response, U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) issued the following statement: “I congratulate President Obama on this historic pick of Judge Sonia Sotomayor. Judge Sotomayor would bring to the Court not only a commitment to essential constitutional principles of justice, opportunity, and equality under the law, but also a deep and personal understanding of those values, gained over a lifetime of striving for the American Dream." "I urge my colleagues in the Senate to proceed with a fair and smooth confirmation process for Judge Sotomayor, who would be the first Supreme Court justice of Hispanic descent, the first Puerto Rican and only the third woman ever to sit on the panel." "I am a firm believer in a country that honors hard work with fairness and opportunity — and Judge Sotomayor embodies that spirit. As the son of hardworking Puerto Rican parents; as the husband of a professional Puerto Rican woman; and as the father of two daughters witnessing history in the making: I am particularly proud of President Obama's nomination." ###
05.22.2009	Bill will protect consumers from unfair practices of the credit card industry May 22, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) Today, U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, will join President Barack Obama at the White House as the Credit Card Holders' Bill of Rights is signed into law. On Wednesday, the House voted to bring common sense reform and consumer protections to the credit card industry by an overwhelming bipartisan majority of 361-64. The bill, ushered through the legislative process by Chairman Gutierrez and introduced by Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), will level the playing field between card issuers and cardholders by applying common-sense regulations to ban retroactive interest rate hikes on existing balances, double-cycle billing and due-date gimmicks. It would also improve the advance notice of impending rate hikes, giving cardholders the information they need and rights to make decisions about their financial lives. WHAT: Signing of the Credit Card Holders' Bill of Rights WHEN: Friday, May 22, 2009, 3:00 p.m. WHERE: The White House "With more than 640 million credit cards in circulation that account for an estimated $1.5 trillion of consumer spending, the U.S. economy has clearly gone plastic," said Chairman Gutierrez. "But America’s love affair with credit cards comes with a hefty price. The average credit card debt among American households has more than doubled over the past decade. Today, the average family owes roughly $8,000 on their credit cards. Meanwhile, as Americans struggle to make ends meet, a growing share of the industry's revenues have come from deceptive tactics, such as universal default terms spelled out in fine print — the terms and conditions of which could be changed at any time for any reason with 15 days' notice or less. That is unacceptable." The Credit Card Holders' Bill of Rights' common sense regulations will ban most retroactive interest rate hikes on existing balances (except when payments are more than 60 days late), double-cycle billing and due-date gimmicks. Additionally, the bill increases notice of interest rate hikes going forward on new purchases; requires that bills be sent 21 days before the due date; prohibits charging fees just to pay a bill by phone, mail or web; bans over-the-limit fees unless a consumer opts-in in advance; requires payments to be applied fairly to the highest interest rate balance first; and strengthens credit card protections for young people. “Let’s be clear about what Congress has done: we have banned practices that the Federal Reserve has already declared ‘unfair’, ‘deceptive’ and ‘anti-competitive.’ Our economic recovery depends on a shared prosperity,” continued Chairman Gutierrez. “That’s why today Congress is siding with the American people, leveling the playing field between consumers and the credit card industry.” "The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights is part of my Subcommittee's vigorous, pro-consumer, pro-small business and pro-small lender agenda to rebuild our economy in a way that is consistent with our values of responsibility and hard work, not high-flying finance schemes. As American families are being forced to tighten their belts during this economic crisis, the lending industry that has found new ways to make profits around old regulations, and faced little oversight, needs a reality check too." So far this year, the Financial Institutions Subcommittee has also held hearings on mortgage lending reform legislation, which was passed in the House. Additionally, this week, Chairman Gutierrez held a hearing on a bill to stabilize credit unions, an important source of capital for our communities. And during this Congress, he will introduce legislation to prohibit bank regulators from forcing small banks and community banks to pay increased risk premiums to cover the losses of the too-big-to-fail institutions that got Americans into the into financial crisis. ### Summary of the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights Prevents Unfair Increases in Interest Rates and Changes in Terms · Prohibits arbitrary interest rate increases on existing balances, unless the consumer is 60 days late on a payment or fails to comply with a workout agreement. · Eliminates “universal default,” where card issuers raise interest rates because of lateness or default with other creditors — even if the cardholder is in good standing with the card in question; · Requires a credit card issuer who increases a cardholder’s interest rate to periodically review and decrease the rate if indicated by the review; · Prohibits issuers from increasing rates on a cardholder in the first year a credit card account is opened; · Requires promotional rates to last at least 6 months. Prohibits Exorbitant and Unnecessary Fees · Prohibits issuers from charging a fee to pay a credit card debt, whether by mail, telephone, or electronic transfer, except for live services to make expedited payments; · Prohibits issuers from charging over-limit fees unless the cardholder elects to allow the issuer to complete over-limit transactions, and also limits over-limit fees on electing cardholders; · Requires penalty fees to be reasonable and proportional to the omission or violation; · Strengthens protections against excessive fees on low-credit, high-fee credit cards. Requires Fairness in Application and Timing of Card Payments · Requires payments in excess of the minimum to be applied first to the credit card balance with the highest rate of interest; · Prohibits issuers from setting early morning deadlines for credit card payments; · Requires credit card statements to be mailed 21 days before the bill is due rather than the current 14. Protects the Rights of Financially Responsible Credit Card Users · Prohibits interest charges on debt paid on time (double-cycle billing ban); · Prohibits late fees if the card issuer delayed crediting the payment; · Requires that payment at local branches be credited same-day; · Requires credit card companies to consider a consumer’s ability to pay when issuing credit cards or increasing credit limits. Provides Greater Disclosure of Card Terms and Conditions · Requires cardholders to be given 45 days notice of interest rate, fee and finance charge increases; · Requires issuers to provide disclosures to consumers upon card renewal when the card terms have changed; · Requires issuers to disclose the period of time and total interest it will take to pay off the card balance if only minimum monthly payments are made; · Requires full disclosure in billing statements of payment due dates and applicable late payment penalties. Strengthens Oversight and Penalties Credit Card Industry Practices · Requires each issuer to post its credit card agreements on the Internet, and provide those agreements to the Federal Reserve Board to post on its website; · Requires the Federal Reserve Board to review the consumer credit card market, including the terms of credit card agreements and the practices of credit card issuers and the cost and availability of credit to consumers; · Requires Federal Trade Commission rulemaking to prevent deceptive marketing of free credit reports; · Increases existing penalties for companies that violate the Truth in Lending Act for credit card customers. Ensures Adequate Safeguards for Young People · Requires issuers extending credit to young consumers under the age of 21 to require either a co-signor or proof that the applicant has an independent means of repaying any credit extended; · Limits prescreened offers of credit to young consumers; · Prohibits increases in the credit limit on accounts where a parent, legal guardian, spouse or other individual is jointly liable unless the individual who is jointly liable approves the increase; · Increases protections for students against aggressive credit card marketing, and increases transparency of affinity arrangements between credit card companies and universities. Gift Card Protections · Protects recipients of gift cards by requiring all gift cards to have at least a five-year life span, and eliminates the practice of declining values and hidden fees for those cards not used within a reasonable period of time. Encourages Transparency in Credit Card Pricing · Requires the GAO to study the impact of interchange fees on consumers and merchants, specifically their disclosure, pricing, fee and cost structure. Protects Small Businesses · Requires the Federal Reserve to study the use of credit cards by small businesses and make recommendations for administrative and legislative proposals; · Establishes Small Business Information Security Task Force to address the information technology security needs of small businesses and help prevent the loss of credit card data. Promotes Financial Literacy · Requires comprehensive summary of existing financial literacy programs and development of strategic plan to improve financial literacy education. ###
05.20.2009	May 20, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) announced requests for public financing to strengthen transportation resources in Illinois' Fourth District. Although the vast majority of federal transportation funding is distributed to states and local governments by formula, a small percentage is held aside for Members of Congress to designate for High Priority Projects (HPPs) in their states and congressional districts. This provision is provided for under the Safe Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU). “We all know of instances where dangerous roads are not repaired in a timely manner or critical projects cannot move forward because inadequate funds become a barrier,” Rep. Gutierrez said. “Citizens and communities have a constitutional right to ask their congressman for help, and the HPP process is an important tool for responding to those concerns directly. The following is a list of high priority projects requested by Congressman Gutierrez for the 4th district of Illinois: 1) Blue Island from 19th St. to 21st St. Streetscape $2,155,000 This streetscape project requires engineering and construction. It will include resurfacing, new sidewalk, curb and gutter, landscaping, decorative lighting, stamped crosswalks, community identifiers. 2) Cicero Avenue: Belmont Ave. to Grand Ave. $2,592,000 Resurfacing Cicero Avenue from Belmont to Grand Avenue. This project includes construction and engineering. 3) Kostner Ave. Street Widening $1,640,000 Widening and resurfacing Kostner Ave. from Belmont Ave. to Diversey Ave. The scope of work will include but not be limited to widening Kostner Ave. two feet on each side to increase roadway width from 30' to 34', patching and resurfacing the existing roadway, sewer and drainage work as needed and landscaping work consisting of parkway trees and sod. 4) Milwaukee Avenue: W. Logan Blvd. to N. Kedzie Ave. Streetscape $3,200,000 Streetscape construction including the resurfacing of Milwaukee Ave. within project limits, drainage improvements where required. Streetscape will be upgraded with new sidewalk, new curb and gutter, planting of street trees in decorative grates, new decorative street lighting, upgraded viaduct lighting and painting and two traffic signal modernizations. Logan Square will be highlighted with additional streetscape furniture and plantings. 5) Milwaukee Avenue: N. Kedzie Ave. to W. Belmont Ave. Streetscape $9,856,000 Streetscape construction including resurfacing of Milwaukee Ave. within project limits and drainage improvements where required. Streetscape will be upgraded with new sidewalk, new curb and gutter, planting of street trees in decorative grates, new decorative street lighting, upgraded viaduct lighting and painting and two traffic signal modernizations at Central Park Ave. and Kedzie Ave. at Milwaukee Ave. Commercial districts at Diversey and Kimball will be highlighted with additional streetscape furniture and plantings. 6) Authorization of UP-NW Line Expansion in Northeastern, IL Authorization is sought for preliminary engineering, final design, right-of-way acquisition and construction of the Union pacific Northwest Line in Northeastern Illinois. 7) Authorization of UP-W Line Core Capacity Upgrades in Northeastern, IL Authorization for engineering, final design, right-of-way acquisition, and construction of the UP-W Line Core Capacity Upgrades in Northeastern, IL. The UP-W line project will build upon the recent extension to Elburn and create needed capacity with new corridor improvements along the entire UP-W Line from Chicago to Elburn, IL. ###
05.12.2009	May 12, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) Today, Tuesday, May 12, marks the one-year anniversary of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) raid on the Agriprocessors meatpacking plant in Postville, IA. The raid has become a devastating national symbol of what is wrong with an immigration policy that values fear tactics over family values. "The Postville raid was one of the most extreme examples of misplaced priorities in our legal system," said Rep. Gutierrez Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL). "The previous administration decided that meatpackers posed a greater threat to our security than suspected terrorists or physically abusive employers. It is time that we learned from the mistakes of the past, by ending the raids, ending the separation of families and enacting laws that reflect a better and more just vision of America. Though we have only just passed the first 100 days of the Obama Administration, it is the 11th hour for our immigrant community, and there is no time to waste." During a visit to Postville, Iowa, last year, Rep. Gutierrez witnessed firsthand how a broken Immigration system devastates a small town. "As a member of Congress, I have traveled to remote corners of the world and had my eyes opened to some of the worst human suffering imaginable—abject poverty, meager wages, poor working conditions, paltry access to legal counsel and a jarring lack of fairness in the courts," continued Rep. Gutierrez. "I never imagined that I would witness the same injustices in a small American town just a five-hour drive from my district in Chicago." "Wives and children—many of them U.S. citizens—were left to wonder where their husbands and fathers had been taken, or where they would go next. Mothers bound to electronic bracelets were allowed neither to work nor to return to their home countries, leaving them without recourse to pay rent or feed their children. Our broken immigration system had paved the way to the objectification of human beings at the expense of our labor laws, U.S. workers’ safety and basic family values." The raid did more than destroy families; it also undermined a local economy. The raid eliminated more than one-third of the meatpacker's workforce and nearly one-fifth of the town's population. It also prompted an exodus of hundreds more Hispanic residents who were either afraid of being targeted or felt compelled to escape the town's inevitable decline. Within months, once thriving restaurants were boarded up, landlords complained of too many empty units, and even the Wal-Mart in Decorah, a half-hour away, voiced concerns about the economic impact. ###
05.05.2009	Mother's Day Event to Highlight Impact of Immigration Crisis on U.S. Families May 5, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington D.C.) This Saturday, May 9, 2009, U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) will conclude the first phase of a national effort to document the harm caused to U.S. citizens in the absence of comprehensive immigration reform. The Family Unity Tour has visited 21 U.S. cities and involved more than 25,000 individuals since January of 2009, and it will return to its city of origin the day before Mother's Day. More than 5,000 people are expected to gather at McCormick Place to call on President Barack Obama to act on his commitment to immigration reform, recalling his acceptance speech at the Democratic National Convention in Denver: "Passions fly on immigration, but I don't know anyone who benefits when a mother is separated from her infant child." Who: U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) What: National Family Unity Tour Concluding Event: Honoring Mother's Day When: Saturday, May 9, 2009 Doors Open 1:00pm Program Starts 2:00pm Where: McCormick Place West, 2301 S. Indiana, Chicago, IL "Though we have only just passed the first 100 days of the Obama Administration, it is the 11th hour for our immigrant community, and there is no time to waste," said Rep. Gutierrez. "On Saturday, Chicago's families will come forward to honor their mothers in the most important way — by demanding family unity." Twenty-five members of Congress have participated in the Family Unity Tour. They are both Democrat and Republican, members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC), and House leadership. Throughout the Family Unity tour, U.S. citizens and their families have filled their community churches to capacity for prayer vigils and town-hall meetings. At each event, U.S. citizens have shared testimony as to how their families have been or risk being torn apart by a broken immigration system. They have signed thousands of petitions to President Obama, asking him to enact comprehensive immigration reform that will keep their families together. Every event has been held at a church to place the immigration crisis in its moral context. Participants came from all religious backgrounds, including Catholic, Evangelical, Jewish, and many others. "Through this listening tour, I have been honored and humbled to join people of all faiths from coast to coast who are bearing witness to stories of human crisis caused by our broken immigration system," continued Rep. Gutierrez. "They are parents and children, husbands and wives who have been torn apart by a system that values fear over family values. Through the Family Unity effort, U.S. citizens have raised their voices for a better vision of America, and they have shown Washington that immigration reform is not an abstract policy debate — but a pressing moral crisis. " ###
04.30.2009	Reforms Represent Common Sense Consumer Protections April 30, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Financial Services’ Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, led the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 627, Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights Act by a vote of 357 - 70. Introduced by Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), this legislation would level the playing field between card issuers and cardholders by applying common-sense regulations to ban retroactive interest rate hikes on existing balances, double-cycle billing, and due-date gimmicks. It would also improve the advance notice of impending rate hikes, giving cardholders the information they need and rights to make decisions about their financial lives. "With more than 640 million credit cards in circulation that account for an estimated $1.5 trillion of consumer spending, the U.S. economy has clearly gone plastic," said Rep, Gutierrez. "But America’s love affair with credit cards comes with a hefty price. The average credit card debt among American households has more than doubled over the past decade. Today, the average family owes roughly $8,000 on their credit cards. Meanwhile, as Americans struggle to make ends meet, a growing share of the industry's revenues come from deceptive tactics, such as universal default terms spelled out in fine print — the terms and conditions of which can be changed at any time for any reason with 15 days' notice or less. That is unacceptable." According to a recent Pew study, 100 percent of the 400 types of credit cards reviewed contained in its terms at least one of the practices that have been found by the Federal Reserve to be unfair and deceptive. And 93 percent of the cards studied by Pew allowed for any-time, any-reason repricing, allowing an issuer to hike up the APR on a consumer’s credit card even if they’ve never missed a payment. "The Credit Card Holders Bill of Rights represents an important step towards rebuilding the economy in a way that's consistent with American values: rewarding hard work and responsibility instead of high-flying finance schemes," said Rep. Gutierrez. "In the last several months, Congress has devoted significant attention to getting banks lending again. Now it’s time to shift our focus back to the consumers who are struggling through this recession." In 2008, credit-card issuers imposed $19 billion in penalty fees on families with credit cards, and this year card companies are expected to break all records for late fees, over-limit charges, and other penalties, pulling in more than $20.5 billion. Credit-card debt in the U.S. has reached a record high —nearly $1 trillion — and almost half of American families currently carry a balance. One-fifth of those carrying credit-card debt pay an interest rate above 20 percent. In addition to applying common-sense regulations that would ban retroactive interest rate hikes on existing balances, double-cycle billing, and due-date gimmicks, the legislation responds to this crisis by writing into law recently proposed Federal Reserve Board regulations. Furthermore, it outlaws credit cards to minors under age 18, bans credit card companies from imposing fees when customers pay their bill, and allows customers set a lower credit card limit. Rep. Gutierrez also introduced an amendment to the bill to addresses how credit card companies allocate payments when a consumer is carrying balances on his or her credit cards at several different interest rates. Under existing law, when different portions of a consumer’s credit card balance have different interest rates, the credit card issuer may allocate payments in excess of the minimum payment in any manner it chooses. Many issuers allocate these excess payments to the portion of the balance with the lowest interest rate, ensuring that the high interest portions remain on the debtor’s account longer. Rep. Gutierrez' amendment would prevent the card issuers from abusing the introductory rates they offer by allocating payments to the lowest rate balance first while the industry makes their profits from keeping the higher interest rate balances on the consumer’s account, which is common practice today. ###
04.30.2009	April 30, 2009 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE U.S. House of Representatives General Debate Regarding H.R. 627, the “Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights Act of 2009” Statement by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 627, the “Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights Act of 2009.” With more than 640 million credit cards in circulation that account for an estimated $1.5 trillion of consumer spending, the U.S. economy has clearly gone plastic. But America’s love affair with credit cards comes with a hefty price. The average credit card debt among American households has more than doubled over the past decade. Today, the average family owes roughly $8,000 on their credit cards. This debt has helped generate record profits for the credit card industry. Unfortunately, a growing share of the industry's revenues come from deceptive tactics, such as universal default terms spelled out in the fine print of cardholder agreements -- the terms and conditions of which can be changed at any time for any reason with 15 days' notice or less. According to a recent Pew study, 100 percent of the 400 types of credit cards they reviewed contained in its terms at least one of the practices that have been found by the Federal Reserve to be unfair and deceptive. And 93 percent of the cards studied by Pew allowed for any-time, any-reason repricing, allowing an issuer to hike up the APR on a consumer’s credit card even if they’ve never missed a payment. In 2008, the House passed the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights by a vote of 312-112 but was unfortunately was not signed into law. This year, once again under the leadership of Rep. Carolyn Maloney, we have taken up H.R. 627, which appropriately carries the name of its predecessor, and moved it swiftly to the floor for final passage. We must pass this legislation once again. Today, Americans are suffering from rising unemployment rates, dramatically falling household wealth and declining real wages, all of which make it harder for consumers to pay off credit card debt. In fact, in 2008, we saw the percentage of accounts 30 days past due rise to an all-time high of 5.6 percent. On average, American families owe 24 percent of their income in credit card debt. These are daunting figures in an unstable time; but Congress can and must do something about it, by making sure that unfair credit card practices and fees do not deter consumers from paying down their debt. The Federal Reserve has mandated new regulations that mirror many of the protections included H.R. 627. I applaud the Board for its work on the UDAP and Regulation Z changes, but I believe that this Congress should codify these important consumer protections to send the message to the industry and consumers that Congress is serious about standing up for consumer rights. H.R. 627 would level the playing field between card issuers and cardholders by applying common-sense regulations that would ban retroactive interest rate hikes on existing balances, double-cycle billing, and due-date gimmicks. It would also increase the advance notice of impending rate hikes, giving cardholders the information and rights they need to make decisions about their financial lives. I urge my colleagues to support this important consumer protection bill. ###
04.27.2009	April 27, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) As Vice President Joe Biden this morning visits Serious Materials, site of the former Republic Windows and Doors factory that abruptly closed its doors in December 2008, U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) also announced new legislation to strengthen protections for laid-off workers. Under the federal WARN Act, employers are only required to provide 60-days notice if a mass layoff impacts at least 500 employees or a third of a workforce that is greater than 49 employees at one employment site. H.R. 2077, the Alert Laid off Employees in Reasonable Time (ALERT) Act, amends the definition of a "mass layoff" to include layoffs by one employer at more than one worksite. In addition, this bill would increase the penalty for violating the WARN Act, doubling back pay for violated workers, among other protections. "I have introduced the ALERT Act because current federal law does not go far enough in protecting the hardworking men and women who are the backbone of our economy," said Rep. Gutierrez. "With unemployment levels on the rise, widespread layoffs have ravaged our nation's workforce. The former employees of Republic Windows know too well that too often workers are provided with virtually no notice to prepare for unemployment, and the WARN act is not a strong enough deterrent in protecting them from employers who would abuse the system. We owe more to our workforce; we owe them laws that are as strong as their work ethic." Last December, Rep. Gutierrez engaged the U.S. Department of Labor and U.S. Department of Justice to investigate Republic Windows and Doors when it abruptly gave its 250 workers three days notice. With the holiday season less than three weeks away, the factory appeared to have violated the WARN Act by leaving employees without compensation and without health insurance. Gutierrez helped negotiate a settlement with Bank of America, Republic Windows and Doors and the United Electrical Workers to ensure that workers were paid their rightfully-owed eight-weeks salary, all accrued vacation and two months paid healthcare. ###
04.23.2009	Meeting to Underscore Imperative for Immigrants to Participate in 2010 Census April 23, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Today, three Members of Congress extended an invitation to meet with a group of Latino pastors who have recently called for immigrants to boycott the 2010 census until Congress passes comprehensive immigration reform. The intent of the meeting is to address the group's concerns and assure them that participating in the census is not only safe for immigrants but also vital to ensuring an accurate count that reflects the community and advances its interests. The meeting will involve Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Immigration Task Force, Rep. Wm. Lacy Clay, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census and National Archives, Rep. Michael Honda, Chairman of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) and Rev. Miguel A. Rivera, President of the National Coalition of Latino Clergy and Christian Leaders. "We're convening this meeting to get everyone on the same page, so that together we can lead the community on this issue," said Rep. Gutierrez. "It is in the best interest of every immigrant in this country to participate in the 2010 census. There is no question that we need to fix our broken immigration system so that those who want nothing more than to be recognized in this country can begin the process of correcting their status. Yet, even though we are still awaiting concrete legislative action from the White House and Congress, hardworking immigrants owe it to themselves to provide an accurate portrait of our nation and the needs of its diverse communities. Our immigrant communities should rest assured that anything they share with the Census Bureau cannot be used against them. In fact, our immigrants need to know that it is unlawful for individual census records to be shared with anyone, including government agencies or private organizations. To not be counted —and worse, to boycott the census— is to jeopardize federal funding for schools, hospitals, roads and countless other resources our communities collectively rely on." "Fixing our broken immigration policy and the Census are two vital, but separate issues," said Rep. Clay. "The Constitution requires us to count everyone within our borders, regardless of who they are, how they came here, or what their immigration status is. As Chairman, my goal is to count everyone, because everyone deserves to be counted." “The decennial census count will affect the daily lives of everyone in our country for the next ten years,” said Rep. Honda. “It is vital for all people, especially underserved minority communities, to be counted so that they may be represented in our great democracy. As we continue to our work on comprehensive immigration reform, it is important that we also put forth our best efforts to ensure a full and accurate census count. Underserved minority communities are among those that need the critical federal, state, and local resources that are determined by the census count. Let’s make sure that everyone is counted.” ###
04.09.2009	April 9, 2009 Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Today, following the publication of New York Times' article, "Obama to Push Immigration Bill as One Priority," Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the CHC Immigration Task Force made the following statement. "Last month, the CHC sat down with President Obama as allies and supporters, and in return he showed us that he remains committed to immigration reform that stabilizes our economy, secures our borders and keeps our families together. The President showed the CHC that, although it is very early in his administration, he understands that for the immigrant community it’s the 11th hour, and there is no time to waste. The Latino community supported President Obama overwhelmingly in the election, and they remain energized not only by his victory but also by his message of support for comprehensive immigration reform. The President campaigned on a platform of comprehensive immigration reform, and since taking office, he has repeated that a just, humane and comprehensive solution is still the only way to fix our broken immigration system. The CHC's meeting with President Obama served to reiterate his commitment to enacting humane immigration reform, and it gave the American people every reason to believe that a plan is forthcoming, and we will see real change this year." ###
04.02.2009	April 2, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Hearing on “H.R. 1214, the Payday Loan Reform Act 2009” Statement of Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez Over the last two decades payday lending has become a very controversial source of credit in many of our communities. The payday loan industry has grown in size from roughly 300 offices in 1992 to over 24,000 last year. As our constituents are faced with even tougher economic conditions during this recession, they are more and more likely to turn to the services offered by the payday lending industry to pay for emergency car repairs, an unexpected doctor’s bill and even groceries for their families. Many of these families have been ignored or shut out of the mainstream financial services industry and have nowhere else to turn for credit. The last hearing on payday lending in front of the House of Representatives was held in March of 2007, and much has changed in those two years. More states have enacted protections against abusive payday loan practices by enacting rate caps or by banning payday lending altogether. A select few states, like New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, have banned payday lending altogether, but many states do not offer their citizens even a decent level of protection against abusive payday practices. And seven states fail to have ANY cap on small loan rates. Missouri, for example, has an APR cap as high as 1,955 percent. While I have and will continue to support consumer groups’ tireless efforts to eliminate abusive practices in the lending industry, they are fighting an uphill battle against better funded lobbyists in states like Delaware, New Hampshire and Wisconsin, where there is no rate cap at all. As we can see from this chart that separates the states into three classes, those that have banned payday lending, those that cap interest rates for payday loans at 15 percent (or 391 percent APR) and those that either have no cap at all or have a cap in place that exceeds 391 percent. The goal of my bill is to move all 23 of the states in the far right column, over to the middle column. Then the consumer groups will have a realistic opportunity to work their magic and move as many states as possible over to the far left column. By the way, that column on the far right represents almost 113 million Americans that would be helped by my bill. The current state of affairs for these consumers is unacceptable, and Congress would be derelict in its duties if we allowed them to remain unprotected from abusive and predatory lending. H.R. 1214, the Payday Loan Reform Act of 2009, creates significant protections from abusive payday practices by preventing rollovers and freeing consumers from the debt trap by mandating a cost-free 90 day repayment plan. The bill lowers the effective APR of a payday loan to 48 percent, or 15 cents for every dollar loaned. This is a rate that is lower than 23 current state rate caps, including California, Colorado, New Hampshire and even my home state of Illinois. My legislation would also prohibit unfair mandatory arbitration clauses, increase disclosures and honor all existing stronger state protections by creating a federal floor on which stronger laws can then be built. We may hear from the consumer groups today that a similar law that was passed in Illinois has been a failure. But according to the State Department of Financial Institutions, Illinois’ 15.5 percent rate cap has already saved consumers in our state over $35 million since its enactment in December of 2006. My bill would move that rate cap even lower. I recognize that my bill is not a cure-all for this issue. My intent with H.R. 1214 is to give the efforts to protect consumer rights a boost by creating a minimum level of protection that all consumers will enjoy. This legislation would lower the APR cap for nearly 113 million Americans immediately upon its enactment. Despite complaints from the industry that the bill sets rate caps too low and assertions from consumers that the bill does not go far enough, I think that improving protections for 113 million consumers is a significant step in the right direction. The status quo in the payday lending industry is unacceptable. The Payday Loan Reform Act says “NO” to the status quo. It would protect millions Americans from abusive lending practices in one fell swoop. I look forward to hearing the testimony of our panelists and also look forward to a lively debate on this controversial issue.
04.01.2009	April 1, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 1, 2009 Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Markup of “H.R. 627, the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights Act of 2009" Statement of Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez With more than 640 million credit cards in circulation that account for an estimated $1.5 trillion of consumer spending, the U.S. economy has clearly gone plastic. But America’s love affair with credit cards comes with a hefty price. The average credit card debt among American households has more than doubled over the past decade. Today, the average family owes roughly $8,000 on their credit cards. This debt has helped generate record profits for the credit card industry. Unfortunately, a growing share of the industry's revenues come from deceptive tactics, such as universal default terms spelled out in the fine print of cardholder agreements -- the terms and conditions of which can be changed at any time for any reason with 15 days' notice. Penalty fees and rates are sometimes triggered by just a single lapse -- a payment that arrives a couple of days or even hours late, or a charge that exceeds the credit line by a few dollars. These floods of unexpected fees and rate hikes tend to come just when consumers can least afford them. In 2008, this Committee led the Congress in drawing a line against these kinds of business practices by approving tough but common-sense consumer protection measures for credit card borrowers. This legislation, appropriately titled the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights, was approved in the House by a wide majority but was unfortunately not taken up by the Senate. The reintroduction of this legislation in the form of H.R. 627 in the 111th Congress and our consideration of the bill today are signs that this Congress is committed to American consumers who demand common-sense, consumer-oriented laws in a time of economic recession. Today, Americans are suffering from rising unemployment rates, dramatically falling household wealth and declining real wages, all of which make it harder for consumers to pay off credit card debt. In fact, in 2008, we saw the percentage of accounts 30 days past due rise to an all-time high of 5.6 percent. And on average, American families owe 24 percent of their income in credit card debt. These are daunting figures in an unstable time; but Congress can and must do something about it, by making sure that unfair credit card practices and fees do not deter consumers from paying down their debt. Among its many consumer protections, H.R. 627 would prohibit unreasonable interest rate increases by preventing credit card companies from arbitrarily increasing interest rates on existing balances. Additionally, it would end unfair “double-cycle” billing, meaning that credit card companies could not charge interest on debt consumers have already paid on time. The legislation also requires fair allocation of consumer payments, banning the practice of crediting a consumer’s payments to low-interest debt first, thus ensuring that the highest yielding debt for the issuer remains on the books the longest. In addition, the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights protects vulnerable consumers from high-fee subprime credit cards by preventing those fees from being charged to the card itself. This is an important provision for minority consumers, many of whom are twice as likely to have an APR over 20 percent. We begin this markup with the knowledge that the Federal Reserve has mandated new regulations that mirror many of the protections included H.R. 627. I applaud the Board for its work on the UDAP and Regulation Z changes, but I believe that this Congress should codify these important consumer protections to send the message to the industry and consumers that Congress is serious about standing up for consumer rights. Finally, I applaud Congresswoman Maloney for her tenacity in keeping this common-sense legislation on the table so that Congress can do its job and protect consumers in an unstable economy.
03.31.2009	March 31, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) On Thursday, U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions, will hold a hearing to discuss much-debated legislation that would restrict unscrupulous payday lending practices. The Payday Loan Reform Act (H.R. 1214) outlines solid consumer protections for 23 states that have weak or even nonexistent consumer protections from abusive lenders. The bill focuses on the two major concerns with regard to payday loans: the fees charged and the “cycle of debt” that occurs when consumers are not able to immediately repay their loans. WHO: Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit WHAT: Hearing on H.R. 1214, the Payday Loan Reform Act of 2009 WHEN: Thursday, April 2, 2009, 2:30 p.m. WHERE: Rayburn House Office Building, Room 2128 "The status quo in the payday lending industry is unacceptable," said Rep. Gutierrez, "and I will fight to provide a federal safety net for the working poor who are suffering the most in this economic downturn." The terms of the bill, including strict on consumer protections, have been highly praised by such groups as the Teamsters, the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC), the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference and the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials (NALEO). "We appreciate [this] proposal to put an end to the debt trap and to lower fees," said Artura Vargas, Executive director of NALEO. Vargas continued that the bill has "struck a good balance between strictly regulating the industry while, at the same time, leaving credit options open for the Latino community." However, these protections have frustrated many in the payday lending industry, who will also voice their concerns Thursday. “House Bill 1214, as proposed, goes too far, infringing upon consumer choice, limiting consumer access to arbitration, and preempting and interfering with the fee structures established by the representatives of the citizenry in 34 states,” said Jeff Kursman, Check ‘n Go Company Spokesman. Contrary to some initial consumer concerns, HR 1214 does not rollback any existing or current consumer protections, but rather encourages states to continue to serve their traditional role as the primary protector of consumer rights. The Bill would create a federal floor on which additional state consumer protections can be added. Additionally, it would eliminate the cycle of debt by giving borrowers a three-month repayment plan with NO additional fees or interest charges. Recently, some consumer groups have voiced concern that the Bill does not limit the amount of aggregate loans that a consumer can have pending at any given time, however such is not the case. The Payday Loan Reform Act would make it illegal for a lender to make more than one payday loan at a time to a consumer, or to accept a payment plan payment from another payday loan. Moreover, the proposed interest and fee cap would be an improvement over the current law in 23 states, despite bitter complaints from the payday industry that the proposed caps are too low. "I fear that both extremes in this debate do prefer the status quo," said Gutierrez, "which means that some states would have adequate protections from payday lenders, and others would continue to be at the mercy of the most unscrupulous actors in the industry." "I recognize and applaud the hard work of the consumer groups who are fighting to end abusive payday lending at the state level," continued Gutierrez. "But the fact remains that, despite their hard work, they have been overcome by high-paid lobbyists in too many states. H.R. 1214 would give these consumer advocates a boost and, in one fell swoop, improve the payday lending laws in 23 states and provide additional consumer protections for millions of hardworking Americans who do not have access to the mainstream financial system. H.R. 1214 says 'NO' to the status quo." Concentrated in low-income and minority neighborhoods, payday lenders typically offer short-duration loans, waiving the credit history requirement imposed by traditional banks. Unfortunately, those who most need these loans are often the least able to repay them, and the consumer is subjected to interest rates ranging from 261 percent to 913 percent annually. The effects of these often unrestricted and poorly regulated loans are potentially crippling for the average consumer in a declining economy. ###
03.19.2009	March 19, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 19, 2009 Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Hearing on “H.R. 627, the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights Act of 2009; and H.R. 1456, the Consumer Overdraft Protection Fair Practices Act of 2009” Statement of Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez In 2008, this Committee led the Congress in adopting tough but common-sense consumer protection measures for credit card borrowers. This legislation, appropriately titled the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights, was approved in the House by a wide majority but was unfortunately not taken up by the Senate. The reintroduction of this legislation in the form of H.R. 627 in the 111th Congress is a sign that this Congress is committed to American consumers who demand common-sense, consumer-oriented laws in a time of economic recession. Credit cards, when used properly, are an important part of the American economic system. More than a convenient means of payment, they can be instrumental in starting a small business, helpful in building a solid credit history and even effective in providing families capital during times of economic crisis. But, far too often, consumers come to rely on revolving debt, or they are drawn to cards that offer low teaser rates and other mechanisms designed to create a never-ending cycle of debt. Today, Americans are suffering from rising unemployment rates, dramatically falling household wealth and declining real wages, all of which make it harder for consumers to pay off credit card debt. In fact, in 2008, we saw the percentage of accounts 30 days past due rise to an all-time high of 5.6 percent. And on average, American families owe 24 percent of their income in credit card debt. These are daunting figures in an unstable time; but Congress can and must do something about it, by making sure that unfair credit card practices and fees do not deter consumers from paying down their debt. Among its many consumer protections, H.R. 627 would prohibit unreasonable interest rate increases by preventing credit card companies from arbitrarily increasing interest rates on existing balances. Additionally, it would end unfair “double-cycle” billing, meaning that credit card companies could not charge interest on debt consumers have already paid on time. The legislation also requires fair allocation of consumer payments, banning the practice of crediting a consumer’s payments to low-interest debt first, thus ensuring that the highest yielding debt for the issuer remains on the books the longest. In addition, the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights protects vulnerable consumers from high-fee subprime credit cards by preventing those fees from being charged to the card itself. This is an important provision for minority consumers, many of whom are twice as likely to have an APR over 20 percent. We set to work on this legislation with the knowledge that the Federal Reserve Board has mandated new regulations that mirror many of the protections included H.R. 627. I applaud the Board for its work on the UDAP and Regulation Z changes, but I believe that this Congress should codify these important consumer protections to send the message to the industry and consumers that Congress is serious about standing up for consumer rights. Today's hearing will also discuss H.R. 1456, the Consumer Overdraft Protection Fair Practices Act. This bill would provide consumers with more notice and choice regarding overdraft fees. Among other things, H.R. 1456 would require notice to customers when an ATM transaction is about to trigger an overdraft. Consumers would then have a choice to accept or reject the overdraft service and the associated fee. Of course, the Federal Reserve has also proposed new rules outlining additional consumer protections regarding overdraft fees. But, similar to the credit card issue, I believe that Congress should keep the proverbial legislative heat on the industry, while encouraging the regulators to enact common-sense consumer protections regarding overdraft fees. I am committed to working with the members of this Subcommittee and the full Committee to advance this practical and consumer friendly legislation. I believe H.R. 627 fits these criteria well and, with some work, H.R. 1456 soon will.
03.19.2009	Gutierrez to Update Press on Immigration Meeting with President Obama, Status of Reform Efforts March 19, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) On Friday, March 20, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez will hold a press conference to discuss the progress of discussions with President Barack Obama to bring about comprehensive immigration reform this year. Gutierrez and all Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) met with Obama at the White House on Wednesday, where the sole topic of their hour-long conversation was immigration. Who: U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) What: Press conference to detail outcome of immigration meeting with Obama When: Friday, March 20, 2009 10:00 am Where: Rebaño Church, 2435 W. Division Street St. Chicago, IL Rep. Gutierrez delivered to the President more than 5,500 petitions signed by US citizens appealing to their President and elected officials for immigration reform that keeps families together. The petitions were collected from the national Family Unity effort, a 20-city outreach tour spearheaded by the Congressman to document the human toll of our current system. Since its launch, Members of Congress and thousands of U.S. citizens from coast to coast have attended these prayer vigils and town-hall meetings, testifying to the loss and separation caused by our broken immigration system. Family Unity events will be held in Chicago and Joliet this Saturday, with the participation of Francis Cardinal George, O.M.I., Archbishop of Chicago. ###
03.18.2009	As Hispanic Caucus Meets with Obama This Week, Interfaith Community Puts Immigration Reform in Moral Context March 18, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) On Saturday, March 21, Chicago's interfaith communities, along with Francis Cardinal George, O.M.I., Archbishop of Chicago, join a national effort to document the harm caused to citizens across our nation in the absence of comprehensive immigration reform. Following on the heels of a meeting with President Barack Obama this Wednesday, U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Immigration Task Force, returns to Chicago where he launched the "Family Unity" effort last November. Now a 20-city national outreach tour, thousands of U.S. citizens from coast to coast have attended prayer vigils and town-hall meetings, signing petitions to the President and testifying to the loss and separation caused by our broken immigration system. "No city in America has been spared the devastating effects of our broken system," said Rep. Gutierrez. "As a nation —as citizens— we cannot wait any longer for fair and just immigration reform. I have traveled the country and heard from parents and children, husbands and wives who are being torn apart by a system that fundamentally disregards family values. But nowhere am I more familiar with this kind of needless suffering than in my hometown of Chicago. I hope that all my friends and neighbors, too many of whom have experienced this suffering first hand, will join me on Saturday as we stand up for real, lasting change." When Where Who Chicago Saturday, March 21 1:30 pm Our Lady of Mercy4432 N. TroyChicago, IL 60625 Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) Francis Cardinal George, O.M.I., Archbishop of Chicago Joliet Saturday, March 217:00 pm Our Lady of Mount Carmel205 E. JacksonJoliet, IL 60436 Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) The Family Unity outreach tour has already visited Providence, RI, Atlanta, GA, Albuquerque, NM, Ontario, CA, San Francisco, CA, Phoenix AZ, El Paso, TX, Dallas, TX and Mission, TX, where nearly 14,000 individuals have filled their community churches to capacity. They came forward to demonstrate the vast numbers of American families—from all political backgrounds and faiths—who demand change from a legal system that undermines family values. Over the next several weeks, additional events will be held in Milwaukee, WI, Detroit MI, Orlando, FL, Miami, FL, Philadelphia, PA, Salinas CA and San Jose, CA. ###
03.17.2009	March 17, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Chairman Luis V. Gutierrez today announced that the Financial Services’ Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit will hold a hearing to discuss, for the first time in the 111th Congress, H.R. 627, the Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights Act of 2009; and H.R. 1456, the Consumer Overdraft Protection Fair Practices Act of 2009. The hearing will take place on Thursday, March 19, 2009, 2:30 p.m., 2128 Rayburn House Office Building. "In the 110th Congress, Ms. Maloney led the House in adopting this common-sense legislation to protect consumers," said Rep. Gutierrez. "While the Senate unfortunately did not adopt these basic consumer protections, Thursday's hearing will put this issue back on the table so that Congress can do its job and protect consumers in an unstable economy." "In today's economy, consumers need protections from unfair and deceptive acts and practices more than ever," said Rep. Carolyn Maloney. "As the author of the Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights and the Consumer Overdraft Protection Fair Practices Act, I commend Chairman Frank and Subcommittee Chairman Gutierrez for holding this legislative hearing that will bring about real consumer protections for every credit card holder and every consumer with a checking account." Among its many consumer protections, the Credit Card Holders' Bill of Rights would prohibit unfair interest rate increases by preventing credit card companies from arbitrarily increasing interest rates on existing card balances. Additionally, it would end unfair “double cycle” billing, meaning that credit card companies could not charge interest on debt consumers have already paid on-time. The bill also requires fair allocation of consumer payments. Many companies credit payments to a cardholder’s lowest interest rate balances first, making it impossible for the consumer to pay-off high-rate debt. H.R. 627 bans this practice, generally requiring payments to be allocated proportionally to balances that have different rates. In addition, the proposed legislation would protect vulnerable consumers from high-fee subprime credit cards —where total yearly fixed fees exceed 25 percent of the credit limit— by preventing those fees from being charged to the card itself. These cards are generally targeted to low-income consumers with weak credit histories. To provide consumers more notice and choice related to overdraft fees, the Consumer Overdraft Protection Fair Practices Act would require notice to customers when an ATM transaction is about to trigger an overdraft. Consumers would then have a choice to accept or reject the overdraft service and the associated fee. This disclosure bill is modeled on the successful legislation requiring disclosure at ATMs related to transaction fees. ###
03.12.2009	Financial Institutions Chairman Brings Republican Myth to Light March 12, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) During a Financial Institutions Subcommittee hearing yesterday regarding mortgage lending reform, the Federal Reserve, once again, unequivocally stated that the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) played no part in the nation's mortgage foreclosure crisis. “I can state very definitively that, from the research we have done, that the Community Reinvestment Act is not one of the causes of the current crisis,” said Sandra Braunstein, Director of the Division of Consumer and Community Affairs of the Federal Reserve System. “Republicans have long tried to take the easy way out by pointing the finger at the Community Reinvestment Act and other government-sponsored affordable lending programs; but these programs did not cause our foreclosure crisis," said Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez, Chairman of the Financial Institutions Subcommittee. "The fact that only six percent of high-cost loans in our communities came from CRA institutions proves the true worth and value of the CRA to our neighborhoods.” Responding to Chairman Gutierrez's questions, Braunstein continued, “We have run data on CRA lending and where loans are located, and we found that only six percent of all higher cost loans were made by CRA covered institutions in neighborhoods targeted, which would be low to moderate income neighborhoods targeted by CRA. So I can tell you if that’s where you’re going that CRA was not the cause of this loan crisis.” Mr. Michael Middleton, the President and CEO of Community Bank of Tri-County, Maryland, also testified on behalf of the American Bankers Association, citing the positive impact of the Community Reinvestment Act. “We really find the CRA as a tool, not an obstacle, and I mention also that all of our affordable housing loans are current, none of them are in default,” said Middleton in response to a question by Rep. Eric Paulsen, (R-MN). ###
03.11.2009	Hearing Announced to Evaluate Pending Legislation March 11, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) Despite industry pressure to reduce consumer protections, U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions, today redoubled his efforts to enact legislation that would restrict unscrupulous payday lending practices and announced that he will hold a hearing to evaluate his payday lending reform legislation on April 2, 2009. The Payday Loan Reform Act (H.R. 1214) outlines solid consumer protections for 23 states that have weak or even nonexistent consumer protections from abusive lenders. The bill focuses on the two major concerns with regard to payday loans: the fees charged and the “cycle of debt” that occurs when consumers are not able to immediately repay their loans. "The status quo in the payday lending industry is unacceptable," said Rep. Gutierrez, "and I will fight to provide a federal safety net for the working poor who are suffering the most in this economic downturn." The terms of the bill are strict on consumer protections, much to the frustration of the payday lending industry. “House Bill 1214, as proposed, goes too far, infringing upon consumer choice, limiting consumer access to arbitration, and preempting and interfering with the fee structures established by the representatives of the citizenry in 34 states,” said Jeff Kursman, Check ‘n Go Company Spokesman. Contrary to some initial consumer concerns, HR 1214 does not rollback any existing or current consumer protections, but rather encourages states to continue to serve their traditional role as the primary protector of consumer rights. The Bill would create a federal floor on which additional state consumer protections can be added. Additionally, it would eliminate the cycle of debt by giving borrowers a three-month repayment plan with NO additional fees or interest charges. Recently, some consumer groups have voiced concern that the Bill does not limit the amount of aggregate loans that a consumer can have pending at any given time, however such is not the case. The Payday Loan Reform Act would make it illegal for a lender to make more than one payday loan at a time to a consumer, or to accept a payment plan payment from another payday loan. Moreover, the proposed interest and fee cap would be an improvement over the current law in 23 states, despite bitter complaints from the payday industry that the proposed caps are too low. "Under the status quo, some states would have adequate protections from payday lenders, and others would continue to be at the mercy of the most unscrupulous actors in the industry,"said Gutierrez. "That is unacceptable. H.R. 1214 would, in one fell swoop, improve the payday lending laws in 23 states and provide additional consumer protections for millions of hardworking Americans who do not have access to the mainstream financial system. H.R. 1214 says 'NO' to the status quo." Concentrated in low-income and minority neighborhoods, payday lenders typically offer short-duration loans, waiving the credit history requirement imposed by traditional banks. Unfortunately, those who most need these loans are often the least able to repay them, and the consumer is subjected to interest rates ranging from 261 percent to 913 percent annually. The effects of these often unrestricted and poorly regulated loans are potentially crippling for the average consumer in a declining economy. ###
03.11.2009	March 11, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 11, 2009 Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Hearing on “Mortgage Reform: A Comprehensive Review of the American Mortgage System” Statement of Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez The last time this committee addressed legislation to restrict predatory mortgage lending was in November of 2007. The world has changed dramatically since then. Mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures are now at record levels. Since late 2007, my home city of Chicago has seen a 37 percent increase in new foreclosures, and in 2008 alone, Chicago saw nearly 20,000 new foreclosure filings. Some of the wards in the city have seen more than a 300 percent increase in foreclosures since 2006. Not unrelated, our communities are suffering from the highest unemployment rate since 1982, and those who do have jobs are experiencing falling real wages. Tumbling home prices have destroyed much of the wealth stored in what is often a family’s only real investment – their home. How did we get here? Some have tried to pin the housing crisis on fair lending laws and regulations. But such arguments downplay or even ignore the role that derivative instruments played in the current crisis by exponentially compounding the mortgage losses. We do know that in many cases, greedy, unscrupulous and sometimes illegal subprime mortgage lending practices significantly contributed to the problem. These lending practices—combined with macroeconomic factors that only exacerbated this greed—have combined to create to the perfect economic storm that now threatens our communities and our economy as a whole. Cheap credit derived from overseas foreign currency reserves encouraged many in the banking and finance industry to disregard their normally prudent lending standards and finance poorly underwritten and often predatory mortgages. These sub-prime mortgages were then securitized into mortgage backed securities and the corresponding credit default swaps that have caused the crisis that our world economy has been dealing with since last March. While changes to the securitization system and other aspects of the mortgage finance process must and will be addressed, this hearing will focus primarily on how to create fair and prudent mortgage origination standards to prevent this tragic cycle from ever happening again. I have called this subcommittee hearing today to return our attention to comprehensive mortgage lending reform. In the 110th Congress, this Committee and the House passed H.R. 3915. This bill was not signed into law, delaying many of our most vulnerable communities the protections they needed from predatory mortgage lending. Now the fight has turned into one of keeping working families in their homes and out of foreclosure or bankruptcy court. But it is important that we act with a sense of urgency to pass comprehensive mortgage lending reform that will keep us from repeating the mistakes of the housing boom and bust of the last few years. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses and to a spirited debate on the issues. ###
03.09.2009	March 9, 2009 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) Chairman Luis V. Gutierrez has announced that the Financial Services’ Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit will hold a hearing entitled “Mortgage Lending Reform: A Comprehensive Review of the American Mortgage System,” at 2:30 p.m. on Wednesday, March 11, 2009, in room 2128 Rayburn House Office Building. The hearing will focus on the current state of the U.S. mortgage system with an eye toward comprehensive mortgage reform legislation that the Financial Services Committee is expected to take up later this month. The subcommittee will be asking witnesses from regulatory agencies, consumer groups and the mortgage industry to recommend changes to the “Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act of 2007 (H.R. 3915),” from the 110th Congress. H.R. 3915, which was passed by the House of Representatives on November 15, 2007, but was not supported by the Bush Administration and was not taken up by the Senate, will be used as the starting point for this year’s mortgage reform bill. What: Financial Institutions Subcommittee Hearing: “Mortgage Lending Reform: A Comprehensive Review of the American Mortgage System” When:Wednesday, March 11, 2009, 2:30 p.m. Where:2128 Rayburn House Office Building “The Financial Services Committee continues to take the lead in establishing a national standard to rein in the abusive lending practices that contributed to the current mortgage crisis and our overall economic problems,” said Rep. Gutierrez. “I am disappointed that the White House and the Senate did not share our sense of urgency in 2007 when the House first passed historic mortgage reform legislation. But I am confident that new leadership in the White House will help us move this year’s version of mortgage lending reform quickly through both chambers and make sure that, as a nation, we never find ourselves in this situation again.” Although one popular provision from the original H.R. 3915 —creating a nationwide licensing and registration system for residential mortgage brokers— was signed into law as part of separate legislation, many important consumer protection provisions from the 2007 bill were not codified. These provisions include: enhanced mortgage disclosures; tougher penalties for originators who “steer” borrowers in to higher-priced loans; requiring mortgage originators to ensure that a borrower has a reasonable ability to repay the loan and, in the case of refinancing, will receive a tangible net benefit from the loan; establishing a national standard for assignee and securitizer liability and providing enhanced consumer protections that will subject Wall Street firms to liability if they buy, sell and securitize loans that consumers cannot repay; and providing protections for renters who are forced to leave foreclosed properties through no fault of their own. ###
03.06.2009	March 6, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions, stated today that he will continue to stand by new legislation that would protect consumers from unscrupulous payday lending practices, despite stark opposition from the payday lending industry (see attached letter below). Concentrated in low-income and minority neighborhoods, payday lenders typically offer short-duration loans, waiving the credit history requirement imposed by traditional banks. Unfortunately, those who most need these loans are often the least able to repay them, and the consumer is subjected to interest rates ranging from 261 percent to 913 percent annually. The effects of these often unrestricted and poorly regulated loans are potentially crippling for the average consumer in a declining economy. Rep Gutierrez' bill outlines significant new federal protections for payday loan consumers by restricting or prohibiting certain predatory payday loan terms and lending practices. The bill focuses on the two major concerns with regard to payday loans: the fees charged and the “cycle of debt” that occurs when consumers are not able to immediately repay their loans. Attachments: Letters of Opposition for Payday Loan Industry ### February 27, 2009 Statement from D. Lynn DeVault, President, Community Financial Services Association of (CFSA): While CFSA has a long-standing record of advocating for responsible regulation of the payday advance industry and strong consumer protections for our customers, we cannot support H.B. 1214, introduced by Congressman Luis Gutierrez. The Payday Loan Reform Act of 2009 contains many consumer protections that we do support, some of which are provisions of CFSA’s industry best practices that have been codified into many state laws across the country, such as the repayment plan. This, the full disclosure requirements and other protections in the bill are all fully supported and promoted by our association. The Payday Loan Reform Act, however, goes too far, most notably in establishing a national fee cap for one small segment of the short-term credit market. We’re aware of no other short-term credit product that has a national fee cap, certainly not bank and credit union NSF and overdraft protection fees or credit card late fees. These are the costly products our customers use payday loans to avoid, yet, under this bill their costs would continue to increase, completely unregulated. We cannot support this action against our customers, who will be forced into more expensive and unregulated credit alternatives. Congressman Gutierrez’s H.B. 1214 will significantly reduce the maximum fees that have been set by the legislatures in 24 states, while doing nothing to protect lenders from having their fees cut from the bottom end, even to the point of extinction in any state. Thirty-four (34) state legislatures have studied payday lending thoroughly and enacted laws that protect their constituents and preserve their access to small dollar short-term credit. This federal bill would pre-empt much of those state efforts. Since inception, CFSA has worked constructively with legislators and stakeholders in the states to support successful initiatives to raise industry standards and reform consumer protection statutes. We applaud the efforts of policymakers everywhere who work to achieve these same objectives. But we cannot agree with the specifics of Congressman Gutierrez’ legislation. ###
03.02.2009	March 2, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Today, Chairman Luis V. Gutierrez announced that the Financial Services’ Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit will hold a hearing entitled “TARP Oversight: Is TARP Working for Main Street?” at 2:30 p.m. on Wednesday, March 4, 2009, in room 2128 Rayburn House Office Building. The oversight hearing will focus on whether TARP has been successful in freeing up credit for American businesses, especially the small and medium-sized firms that are vital to the U.S. economy. The hearing signals a shift in focus for the Financial Services Committee, utilizing public hearings to turn a critical eye not only on Wall Street but also to TARP's impact on Main Street. “Small business is the backbone of the American economy," said Rep. Gutierrez. "In my home state of Illinois, more than 49 percent of the workforce is employed by small firms. Without a vibrant small business community, this recession will continue to linger. Investing in small and medium-sized firms one of the fastest routes we can take to economic recovery.” Who: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chairman of the Financial Services’ Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Witnesses:Dean Baker, PhD, Co-Director, Center for Economic and Policy ResearchDavid S. Scharfstein, PhD, Edmund Cogswell Converse Professor of Finance and Banking, Harvard Business SchoolRobert W. Davenport, President, The National Development CouncilMr. C. R. Cloutier, President and CEO, MidSouth Bank, NAMr. Joseph Zucchero, Owner, Mr. Beef Deli, Chicago, IL What: Financial Institutions Subcommittee Hearing: “TARP Oversight: Is TARP Working for Main Street?” When: 2:30 p.m., Wednesday, March 4, 2009 Where: 2128 Rayburn House Office Building The Subcommittee will investigate why many of the large, TARP-recipient banks actually decreased lending to businesses after receiving TARP funds. In addition to looking into the lending records of large banks, the Subcommittee will hear testimony from a community bank and a Community Development Financial Institution Fund, both of which are increasing lending to meet the demand of small firms in their areas. The Subcommittee will also discuss the importance of making more TARP funds available to regional banks, community banks and other institutions that are willing and able to immediately lend those funds to small firms. “I supported TARP primarily because I felt it was necessary to unfreeze the credit markets and get capital flowing to Main Street," said Rep. Gutierrez. "But under no circumstances did I want the money held in the vaults of Wall Street firms to be used for executive bonuses or to pay shareholder dividends. It’s time we shifted our focus away from saving the Wall Street firms that got us into this mess and concentrated on the Main Street firms that know how to create jobs and grow the economy,” said Gutierrez. ###
01.22.2009	Gutierrez' Nationwide Tour to Document Family Separation Makes Final Stop in Chicago before Moving South January 22, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) – On Saturday January 25, U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) will hold an immigration town hall as part of his national effort for an immigration system that keeps families together and enhances our security in a time of economic crisis. The meeting is part of an ongoing national effort that has already spread from Chicago to New York and North Carolina. In the coming weeks, meetings and prayer vigils planned in Florida, Georgia, Texas, New Mexico and California will continue to document the testimonies of U.S. citizens whose families are being torn apart by a broken immigration system. What: Immigration Reform Rally — National Familias Unidas Campaign Who: U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) U.S. Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) Father Micheal Shanahan When: Sunday, Jan.25th, 3:30 p.m. (Gutierrez to speak by 4 p.m.) Where: Our Lady of Lourdes (4640 N. Ashland Park, Chicago, IL) "This week, the most historic leader of our time took the oath of office. Now it is time to realize bold and historic change," said Rep. Gutierrez. "Chicago's families continue to come forward — strongly and courageously — to demand that change. They refuse to quit, and I will not stop fighting with them. They are showing the human face on the issue by sharing their deeply personal stories of the harm that our broken system has caused them and millions of U.S. citizens. They, like I, believe that we can begin to put a stop to the deportation-only policies that rip our families apart." Already nearly 40 evangelical church leaders, representing nearly 20,000 parishioners, have joined Rep. Gutierrez to demonstrate the vast numbers of Americans—from all political backgrounds—who demand change from a legal system that undermines family values. U.S. citizens whose families have been affected will be available to share their specific stories with press. ###
01.22.2009	January 22, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) Today, U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) was selected to chair the powerful Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit. The subcommittee oversees all financial regulators, which include the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift Supervision and the National Credit Union Administration. The subcommittee also has jurisdiction over the chartering, merger, acquisition and consolidation of financial institutions. On the consumer side, the subcommittee oversees all matters pertaining to consumer credit, including the Truth in Lending Act, the Consumer Credit Protection Act, fair credit reporting and the use of credit information by credit bureaus and creditors, consumer access to financial services, as well as the overall safety and soundness of the banking system."I am honored to take on this important role, and I am prepared to take on the strict oversight that is necessary to protect small businesses and consumers in this tumultuous economy," said Rep. Gutierrez. "I plan to devote specific attention to payday lending reform, ensuring that consumers do not get caught in a debt trap at the hands of unscrupulous and virtually unregulated lenders. I will focus on remittances reform, requiring additional disclosures to consumers, and I will review fair credit reporting laws, especially with respect to the use of credit reports by the insurance industry. Additionally, I look forward to maintaining strong oversight of banks that receive funding under TARP." This selection represents the official Democratic Caucus selection, which will be voted on for final approval when the Full Committee meets next Tuesday. Prior to the 111th Congress, Rep. Gutierrez chaired the subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology. The subcommittee’s jurisdiction included domestic monetary policy and agencies which directly or indirectly affect domestic monetary policy; multilateral development lending institutions such as the World Bank; coins and currency including operations of the Bureau of the Mint and the Bureau of Engraving and Printing; and international trade and finance including all matters pertaining to the International Monetary Fund and the Export-Import Bank. ###
01.14.2009	Gutierrez Encourages Senate to Adopt Change that Furthers Health and Economic Security for All Americans January 14, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Today, U.S. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) supported the House in providing 11 million children with the health coverage they need, including children and pregnant woman who are legal immigrants in this country. During these tough economic times, as millions of hardworking Americans are faced with losing their jobs and health care, it is essential that the Senate also take up the bipartisan State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) without delay. This bipartisan bill renews and improves SCHIP, providing health care coverage for 11 million children – preserving coverage for the 7 million children currently covered by SCHIP and extending coverage to 4 million uninsured children who are currently eligible for, but not enrolled in, SCHIP and Medicaid. The bill also gives states the option of covering legal immigrant children who have been here less than five years under SCHIP and Medicaid. "Without this legislation, children with common, treatable conditions fall at risk of unnecessary and painful health problems," said Rep. Gutierrez. "An asthmatic child would have to wait five years for his inhaler; common allergies to food could result in illness or malnourishment; a baby's simple ear infection could result in loss of hearing; and a diabetic child could risk nerve damage or kidney disease down the road. This legislation represents the difference between a child’s prospects for a healthy, productive life or failing to treat and prevent serious health conditions, often costing taxpayers much more in the long run. More than that, this legislation honors some of the most hardworking taxpayers among us: immigrants who make every effort to earn their citizenship — and who will soon become citizens — playing a vital role as part of the fabric of our nation." The House passed this provision previously on August 1, 2007 as part of the Children’s Health and Medicare Protection (CHAMP) Act. The goal is to get this bipartisan children’s health bill to President Obama’s desk in his first few weeks in office. Polls have shown that more than 80 percent of the American people support this bipartisan legislation – including large majorities of Democrats, Independents and Republicans. SCHIP was created in 1997 to provide health care coverage for children in families that earn too much to qualify for Medicaid, but not enough to afford private insurance, and has proved a successful, cost-effective program for providing health care. The bill is fully paid-for by increasing the tobacco tax by 61 cents and by achieving savings through imposing restrictions on self-referral to physician-owned hospitals. ###
01.06.2009	January 6, 2009 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), will hold a press conference on Wednesday, January 7, 2009 at 10:30 am to discuss priorities for immigration reform in the 111th Congress. He will be joined by the National Coalition of Latino Clergy & Christian Leaders (CONLAMIC), which represents more than 20,000 evangelical churches in the United States and Puerto Rico, and which convenes in Washington this week. What: Press Conference Announcing Immigration Reform Priorities Who: U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) Rev. Dr. Miguel Rivera, National President, CONLAMIC When: Wednesday, January 7, 2009 at 10:30 am Where: Cannon Terrace, U.S. House of Representatives ###
12.11.2008	Congressman Concludes Several Days of Negotiations to Protect Rights of Laid-Off Employees December 11, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 10, 2008 9:00 pm CT (Chicago, IL) This evening at 9pm CT, U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) announced that an agreement has been reached between Republic Windows and Doors, Inc. and its former employees, represented by the United Electrical Workers. "I am honored and pleased to be able to have led this effort, and I especially want to thank Alderman Munoz, Alderman Flores and Attorney General Lisa Madigan for their hard work. They fought for the workers every moment." Under the agreement, each former Republic employee will be paid eight weeks salary, all accrued vacation and receive two months paid healthcare. This works out to about $7,000 for each worker. "From the beginning, I have demanded that the WARN Act be enforced, and with this agreement, it has been," said Gutierrez. The agreement requires $1.75 million to be deposited into an escrow account for the exclusive use of the union and for the express purpose of paying laid-off workers. Bank of America provided $1.35 million for the account, with JP Morgan Chase contributing another $400,000. Gutierrez added, "This money will only be used to pay the workers the benefits they are owed under the law, and it will not, under any circumstance, be used for corporate bonuses, luxury cars or any other perk for the owners of the plant." "Just as with the financial rescue package Congress passed this fall, these negotiations were not about yielding golden parachutes, but about the just and rightful compensation of workers whose have spent countless, invaluable hours away from their families. Tonight's victory is the workers' for refusing to be denied their rights. I thank Bank of America and Chase for helping to salvage the Christmas these hardworking families deserve; without the help of these creditors, we could not have moved forward toward a solution for the workers.” ###
12.10.2008	Congressman Continues to Moderate Negotiations Today with Republic Windows and Doors & Bank of America, as Bank Redoubles Commitment to Putting Workers First December 10, 2008 Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) announced that JPMorgan Chase, a creditor of the now-closed Republic Windows and Doors factory, has enthusiastically pledged $400,000 in capital for the exclusive benefit of the plant's workers. In a new development, Rep. Gutierrez invited to the table Mr. William M. Daley, JPMorgan Chase Midwest Chairman, and the company demonstrated earnest responsibility to Republic's workers by readily and happily joining Tuesday's negotiations. "Chase's infusion of necessary capital will be allocated directly to the workers to pay for the compensation and benefits that they are rightfully owed," said Rep. Gutierrez. "I will work with them to structure this transfer of funds. This money is not, under any circumstance, to be used for corporate bonuses, luxury cars or any other perk for the owners of the plant." "Just as with the financial rescue package Congress passed this fall, strict rules will apply. These negotiations are not about yielding golden parachutes, but about the just and rightful compensation of workers whose have spent countless, invaluable hours away from their families. I thank Chase for helping to salvage the Christmas these hardworking families deserve; without Chase’s help, we could not have moved forward toward a solution for these workers.” Negotiations with Bank of America, the primary creditor of Republic Windows and Doors, continue today at 1pm CT. Throughout the week, Bank of America has led productive negotiations and has said that it is committed to working together and finding a just solution for the workers. "Bank of America is proving to be a good corporate citizen by prioritizing the needs and rights of Republic's workers," said Rep. Gutierrez. "They have secured a sizable infusion of capital, and I am confident that their spirit of commitment will yield final results today that put these workers first." "I remain very seriously concerned that the plant's ownership made decisions designed to avoid their obligations to their employees and to the state, and I will continue to push for a federal investigation into these very serious matters." ###
12.09.2008	Congressman to Moderate Additional Meeting on Tuesday Afternoon December 9, 2008 Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) On Monday afternoon, Dec. 8, U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) moderated a meeting with representatives of Bank of America, Republic Windows and Doors and the United Electrical Workers. Following the meeting, Rep. Gutierrez made the following statement: "This afternoon we had a very productive meeting led by Bank of America. I am thankful for the spirit of reconciliation they adopted at the meeting. They reiterated on several occasions that they share my commitment to working together and finding a solution that puts the workers first. It is clear to me that the moment of finger-pointing between Republic's owners and the Bank is being set aside in order to find just solutions for the claims of the workers." "No promises were made, other than that all parties will come back to the table tomorrow afternoon at 1 p.m. at Bank of America in Chicago." ###
12.08.2008	Congressman to Host Second Meeting Today for Republic Windows and Doors,Union & Bank of America December 8, 2008 Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez is engaging the U.S. Department of Labor and U.S. Department of Justice to investigate a Chicago company that, on Tuesday, Dec. 2, abruptly gave its 250 workers three days notice. With the holiday season less than three weeks away, Republic Windows and Doors appears to have violated the WARN Act by leaving employees without compensation and without health insurance. Gutierrez is asking federal authorities, as well as the Illinois Department of Labor and Illinois Attorney Lisa Madigan, to consider immediate action into any violations the company may have made, including whether the factory illegally took initiatives to recapitalize and relocate operations out of Illinois. On Monday afternoon, Dec. 8, Rep. Gutierrez (D-IL) will hold a meeting with representatives of Bank of America, Republic Windows and Doors and the United Electrical Workers. Immediately following the meeting, Rep. Gutierrez will hold a press conference to provide updates regarding the ongoing negotiations. What: Press Conference to update status of ongoing negotiations among Republic Windows and Doors, Bank of America and Union When: 6:00 pm, Monday, December 8, 2008 Where: Republic Windows and Doors, 1333 N Hickory Ave Chicago, IL “I don't believe somebody woke up on Tuesday and simply decided to shut the doors," Rep. Gutierrez said. “If Republic doesn’t want to show their books, I have to wonder if it's because they're moving operations to another state, recapitalizing, leaving debt and a lot of pain and misery behind. They have a legal obligation to their workers, and I’m not going to let this be until the workers get the compensation and benefits they have earned and are legally entitled to.” As Congress returns to Washington this week, the Financial Services Committee will hold a hearing to look into the use of TARP funds, of which Bank of America received at least $25 billion. Union workers feel this obliges the Bank to support the company. As a senior member of the committee, Rep. Gutierrez will address this issue before Congress. Under federal law — the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification (WARN) Act — an employer must provide 60 days notice of a plant closing or mass layoffs. Less notice is acceptable only if the company meets one or more of the specific exceptional circumstances in the Act. Republic has not claimed any of these exceptional circumstances.Since Friday, the workers, represented by United Electrical Workers, have peacefully occupied the plant in shifts. Republic Windows and Doors has indicated that they will not pay any remaining vacation that employees earned this year, nor will they pay what is required by the WARN Act, because Bank of America will not authorize payment. Bank of America has stated that it has not asked Republic Windows and Doors to break the law. ###
12.03.2008	Hundreds More to Gather in Chicago this Weekend to Address Deportation & Family Separation Under Current Immigration System December 3, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) – U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) today announced that he will hold community forums on Saturday, December 6 and Sunday, December 7th for United States citizens who fear that a family member may be at risk of deportation. The meetings are part of a continuing mass effort to document the testimonies of families who are being torn apart by a broken immigration system. Rep. Gutierrez has engaged the Obama transition team to share the hundreds of stories already collected and to work on initiatives to further the progress of comprehensive immigration reform. Nearly a thousand U.S. citizens and their family members have already come forward to help put a human face on our broken immigration system, and Rep. Gutierrez will continue urging President-elect Obama to weigh their testimonials—and those gathered over the weekend—in setting his priorities before January 20. This weekend, more than 30 church leaders, representing 15,000 parishioners, will join Rep. Gutierrez to demonstrate the vast numbers of Americans who are plagued by a legal system that undermines family values. U.S. citizens whose families have been affected will be available to share their specific stories with press. Weekend Schedule Saturday, December 6th : 10 a.m.Rebaño Church,2435 W. Division St. Chicago, IL Sunday, December 7th: 6:30 p.m.Our Lady of Mount Carmel1101 N. 23rd Avenue, Melrose Park, IL ###
11.13.2008	Chicago event will kick off national effort to demonstrate human impact of immigration crisis November 13, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Saturday, Nov. 15, 9am: (Chicago, IL) This Saturday, November 15, 2008, U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) will hold a critical community meeting for United States citizens and legal permanent residents who fear that a family member may be at risk of deportation. More than 1,500 attendees are expected from the Chicago area and beyond. "With the election of Barack Obama to the Presidency, comprehensive immigration reform is closer than ever to becoming a reality, but we cannot afford to stop fighting for a moment," said Rep. Gutierrez. "By putting a human face on the issue and addressing the tragedy that our broken immigration system causes millions of U.S. citizens, we can demonstrate that raids and deportation-only policies do little more than rip our families apart. By telling our stories as a community, we can drive home the immediate need for an immigration system that ensures our security — national security, economic security and family security." Only U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents should attend this important meeting. Members of the press are advised to arrive by 9am. What: Urgent Community Meeting for Families of Immigrants Who: Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez U.S. citizens fearing the deportation of a family member Members of the press When: Saturday, November 15, 2008, 9:00 a.m. Where: Saint Pius V. Catholic Church1919 S. Ashland Ave., Chicago IL ###
11.11.2008	Specific Efforts Taken in 110th Congress Reflect Commitment to Our Men and Women of Service November 11, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, D.C.) Today, U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) honors our nation's brave soldiers by renewing his commitment to ensure that all returning servicemen and women have access to quality healthcare, opportunities to succeed in civilian careers and benefits for their families. Gutierrez proudly served on the House Veteran's Affairs Committee for 14 years, and during his tenure he worked to ensure that all of our veterans are treated with the level of honor and respect worthy of their sacrifice. "Too often our veterans--who face immense dangers and often suffer devastating wounds while defending our freedoms-- return home to face inadequate healthcare, limited financial opportunities and backlogs to accessing the benefits they deserve; this is simply not acceptable," said Rep. Gutierrez. "I am proud to have taken steps in Congress to improve benefits for our brave veterans and ensure that we do not sand by as they suffer neglect in return for their service." In the 110th Congress, Congressman Gutierrez supported and helped pass into law a $12 billion increase in funding for the VA, which will provide necessary maintenance for VA health care facilities, reduce the claims backlog for veterans accessing benefits and increase access to quality care for veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. Additionally, this law provides special provisions for veterans suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and Traumatic Brain Injuries. Congressman Gutierrez also proudly supported a new GI Bill for the 21st Century. This legislation grants full, four-year scholarships to veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. This is a 40 percent increase over current benefit levels. To assist veterans' transition into civilian life, this Congress also included provisions in the Comprehensive Housing Package to increase home ownership opportunities for veterans by extending the foreclosure ban from three to nine months and improving loan limits. On July 31 2008, the House passed a bill introduced by Congressman Gutierrez to amend Title 38 of the U.S. Code to repeal the provision terminating the Advisory Committee on Minority Veterans. This advisory committee is made up of minority veterans and advises Congress on issues that minority veterans face. This bill is essential to ensure the continuity of a valuable voice for minority veterans. "Today on Veterans day and in all may days in Congress, I will continue to support the men and women who serve our country so selflessly and tirelessly," said Rep. Gutierrez. "Their historic contribution to our nation is invaluable." ###
11.06.2008	That "America is a place where all things are possible" must hold true for all immigrants November 6, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) This Friday, U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) will call on Chicago area families to come forward and help put a human face on our broken immigration system. Members of the press are urged to attend and spread the word about a critical community meeting, which will seek to engage U.S. citizens who fear their family could be broken apart by ICE raids and deportations. What: Press Conference announcing urgent community meeting When: Friday, November 7, 2008, 10:30 a.m. Where: District Office of Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez 2201 West North Ave. Chicago IL 60647 "With the election of Barack Obama to the Presidency, comprehensive immigration reform is closer than ever to becoming a reality," said Rep. Gutierrez. "But we cannot afford to stop fighting for a moment; by putting a human face on the issue and addressing the harm that our broken immigration system is causing millions of U.S. citizens, we can begin to put a stop to the deportation-only policies that rip our families apart." ###
11.06.2008	November 6, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington D.C.) Today, U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) issued the following statement:"Throughout his tenure in the House, I have held Rahm in high esteem, both as a colleague and as a friend. I know he is capable of providing great leadership in the White House, and I encourage him to accept the position of Chief of Staff under President-elect Obama. I look forward to working with him and the entire Obama administration as we pursue our shared agenda and usher in the change we need." ###
10.20.2008	Wife and mother essential to family's health & ability to prevent home foreclosure October 20, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) Today, Monday, October 20, U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) will take a direct stand against a badly broken immigration system, together with Ms. Francisca Lino—the wife of a U.S. citizen and mother of three U.S. citizen children who faces deportation on Tuesday, October 21—by escorting her into the Chicago offices of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and appealing for a "Stay of the Removal" for one year. In January of 2005, Lino was scheduled for a green card interview, but was arrested and handcuffed on site. Witnessing this, Lino's husband suffered an immediate stroke, and he has suffered from severe anxiety since. Additionally, their youngest children, 6-year-old twins, cope with developmental problems caused by premature birth, and Lino is the primary caretaker for her Mother-in-Law, who endures treatment in chemotherapy five days a week. Lino is an essential financial provider for her family, which will almost certainly default on their mortgage in her absence. "Ms. Lino's family fundamentally depends on her, and neither they nor any other family should suffer because of our government's profound failure to pass a law that respects basic family values," said Rep. Gutierrez. "Even my colleagues on the other side of the aisle must understand that, in the midst of a financial crisis, we simply cannot afford to create situations that are doomed to strain our economy. How many times must we demonstrate our immediate need for an immigration system that ensures our security — border security, economic security and family security?" Rep. Gutierrez and Ms. Lino will address members of the press prior to appealing her case before ICE. Who: U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez, IL State Senator Iris Martinez, IL State Representative Cynthia Soto, Cook County Commissioner Roberto Maldonado, Alderman Danny Solis,Alderman Billy Ocasio What: Press Conference and Appeal to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) When: Monday, October 20, 2008, 11:00 am CT Where: Chicago Offices of ICE, 101 W. Congress Parkway
10.20.2008	Broken immigration system should not cause suffering for U.S. citizen husband and children October 20, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Chicago, IL) Today, U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) took decisive action against a badly broken immigration system by entering the Chicago offices of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and personally appealing the case of Ms. Francisca Lino—the wife of a U.S. citizen and mother of three U.S. citizen children, who faced deportation on Tuesday, October 21. "I had a very positive meeting with Glen Triveline, Acting Field Director at ICE," said Rep. Gutierrez. "He agreed to take two to four weeks to consider granting Ms. Lino a stay of removal, and he assured me that during such time she will not be deported." Gutierrez was also joined by State Senator Iris Martinez, State Representative Cynthia Soto, Alderman Manuel Flores, Alderman Billy Ocasio and Alderman Danny Solis. In January of 2005, Lino was scheduled for a green card interview, but was arrested and handcuffed on site. Witnessing this, Lino's husband suffered an immediate stroke, and he has suffered from severe anxiety since. Additionally, their youngest children, 6-year-old twins, cope with developmental problems caused by premature birth, and Lino is the primary caretaker for her Mother-in-Law, who endures treatment in chemotherapy five days a week. Lino is an essential financial provider for her family, which will almost certainly default on their mortgage in her absence. "Ms. Lino's family fundamentally depends on her, and neither they nor any other family should suffer because of our government's profound failure to pass a law that respects basic family values," said Rep. Gutierrez. "Even my colleagues on the other side of the aisle must understand that, in the midst of a financial crisis, we simply cannot afford to create situations that are doomed to strain our economy. How many times must we demonstrate our immediate need for an immigration system that ensures our security — border security, economic security and family security?" ###
10.06.2008	One Week Remains to File for Federal Rebate Checks October 6, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, D.C.) Over 175,000 federal rebate checks have gone unclaimed in Illinois, approximately 84,300 of which are in Cook County. As the October 15th deadline to reclaim them swiftly approaches, U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) reminds eligible recipients—including social security beneficiaries and disabled veterans, who do not normally need to file annual income tax returns— to file Special Form 1040A and reclaim up to $600 per individual, $1,200 per married couple, and an additional $300 per child. This February, Congress passed and the White House signed bipartisan economic stimulus legislation to help hardworking Americans who are struggling with the high costs of gas, health care and groceries. "It's not too late for eligible Chicago residents to claim their money" said Rep. Gutierrez. "Congress passed this legislation to help individuals and families who are struggling in a time of economic uncertainty. This legislation was intended to put hundreds of dollars into the hands of more than 130 million American families, including seniors and disabled veterans, who have given so much in service to our country." The legislation also expands financing opportunities for Americans in danger of losing their homes because of the mortgage crisis; builds on the child tax credit by offering a one-time rebate of $300 per child; promotes small business investment in plants and equipment; and helps create 500,000 jobs by the end of the year. Constituents who have not yet filed for their return can visit www.irs.gov and click on the "Stimulus Payment" icon; help is available in English and in Spanish. Eligible recipients may also visit a Taxpayer Assistance Center for help filing the Special Form 1040A. To find the Taxpayer Assistance Center nearest you, please visit www.irs.gov/localcontacts/index.html. As always, constituents should also feel free to contact the office of Congressman Gutierrez at 773-342-0774 with any questions. ###
10.02.2008	Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky Coauthors "Honoring Organizers for Promoting Equality (HOPE) Resolution of 2008" October 2, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) Today, U.S. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) announced the introduction of a new House Resolution that recognizes the role community organizers play in affecting change for the nation. The Honoring Organizers for Promoting Equality (HOPE) Resolution of 2008 is coauthored by U.S. Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL). The Resolution has been referred to the House Committee on the Judiciary for review. "Some believe that community organizers lack the power or responsibilities necessary to truly provoke change, but I disagree," said Rep. Gutierrez. "I believe that there is no greater responsibility than to stand up to injustice and to demand a better society and a more responsive government for all people. This change often starts with community organizers. Community organizers have worked to ignite movements such as the Underground Railroad, farm laborer's rights, civil rights and women's enfranchisement. Today, community organizers in our own city of Chicago fight for more adult literacy projects, improved housing, equal access to quality healthcare, much needed assistance for the homeless, and fair and just immigration laws." “Community organizing is about lifting people up who have been left behind by empowering them to make a difference in their lives,” said Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL). “Our resolution will honor the contributions of community organizers and their efforts to help bring about lasting social, economic and political change to our country. Without community organizers, millions of Americans still wouldn’t have the right to vote, minimum wage wouldn’t exist, and we wouldn’t have equal rights in this country. Community organizing represents what America is all about – individuals taking action on a local level to make their neighborhoods safer, their friends and family better off, and our country stronger." ###
09.29.2008	Beginning of Jewish New Year Signals Time to Redouble Efforts for Fair and Humane Immigration Policy September 29, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington D.C.) Today, as the House of Representatives prepares to recess and turn its focus to the priorities of a new Congress, and Jews across the world prepare to celebrate the beginning of a new year, Hispanic and Jewish Members of Congress proudly announced a shared commitment to immigrants of all faiths and backgrounds. In a statement signed by 20 U.S. Representatives, including Chicago Reps Rahm Emanuel (IL-05) and Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-04), Members declared that, "It is in this spirit of our shared experiences and common goals that we put forth our shared priorities for fair and workable immigration reform." The shared statement outlines Members' intentions to focus on reform that: secures our borders; secures a legal workforce through an accurate employment verification system; requires undocumented immigrants to apply for legal status, pass rigorous background checks, pay back taxes and learn English; condemns inefficient enforcement tools, such as poorly planned workplace raids; keeps families together; and ensures that abusive employers are not allowed to exploit the system by denying Americans jobs and taking advantage of vulnerable immigrants. "As Jews and Hispanics, we share an experience that defines our history and reflects our families' roots—the experience of being a 'stranger in a strange land,'" said Rep. Gutierrez. "By signing this statement on immigration reform, we communicate to our constituents and the American people that, despite our diversity, we are committed to transforming our broken immigration system into one that reflects our diverse origins, respects our communities' history and values our country's identity as a nation of immigrants." "This affirmation of our shared commitment comes at a particularly poignant time," said Rep. Emanuel. "Beginning tonight, Jews all over the world will celebrate Rosh Hashanah and look inward to evaluate actions of the past and good intentions for the future. For all of us, this reflects the turning of a new leaf and a renewed commitment to policies that reflect the highest standard of kindness, justice and humanity towards one another." The full text of the statement is below. Statement on Immigration Hispanic and Jewish Members of Congress September 29, 2008 As Jews and Hispanics, we share an experience that defines our histories and reflects our families' roots—the experience of being a "stranger in a strange land." Today we express our commitment to immigrants of all faiths and backgrounds. After all, as the Old Testament teaches–we are our brothers' and sisters' keepers. In addition to being Hispanics and Jews, we are also members of Congress. As a result, we are responsible for legislation to safeguard the fair and humane treatment of all people, and we have the best interests of our communities and all Americans at heart. It is in this spirit of our shared experiences and common goals that we put forth our shared priorities for fair and workable immigration reform. Our policies must hold employers who do not comply with the law accountable and empower the federal government to swiftly investigate and root out bad-acting employers who flout our labor and immigration laws. Securing a legal workforce also depends on an employment verification system that accurately and efficiently identifies eligible new hires. We also fully support securing our borders. Strong borders require an adequate supply of manpower, groundbreaking technology and sensible infrastructure that regulates the flow of people and goods while doing no harm to local communities or the environment. Enforcement alone, however, no matter how well formulated or funded, is doomed to fail. We cannot deport our way out of this problem. Poorly planned raids intended to grab headlines are a not only a waste of taxpayer money, but they also are an inefficient enforcement tool that displace U.S. workers, interrupt laborers from organizing, tear apart American families, and destroy neighborhoods and towns. The blame cannot simply be placed on undocumented workers; abusive employers who violate our immigration laws must be held accountable. As Jews and Hispanics, we are called to welcome the stranger in our midst. In policy terms, this means that we must look upon the estimated 12 million undocumented individuals living among us not with scorn, but with compassion, as we require them to come forward, apply for legal status, pass rigorous background checks, pay back taxes, learn English and fully integrate into the mainstream economy and American society. Dealing fully and humanely with the undocumented living in the United States is key to realistic and effective immigration reform that protects the homeland and is consistent with our traditions and values. In order to strengthen our country in the future, we must also institute reforms that, unlike those of the past, prevent illegal immigration. We need an immigration system that reflects our family values: parents and children and husbands and wives should be together rather than separated by antiquated laws and bureaucratic processing. The fair and swift reunification of families in the United States would eliminate the incentive to break visa rules or risk one's life crossing a remote border to be with a loved one. Current legal channels for immigration to the U.S. are also insufficient to provide many employers with the workers they need. Established worker programs should better fill workforce gaps and protect the jobs, wages and working conditions of Americans. For too long the absence of legal channels for low-skilled workers has served as a ready tool for abusive employers to deny Americans jobs and exploit vulnerable immigrants trying to feed their families. Our nation was founded on the premise that, no matter one's origins, each person can better his or her lot in life. From the tenements of the Lower East Side to the border towns in Texas and Arizona, this nation was built on the sweat and toil of immigrants. Whether crossing the Atlantic or the Rio Grande, the American Dream comes at an often-perilous cost, and is realized only with hard work and determination. Immigrants do not come to America because it is easy; they come to America to work hard and achieve the American Dream, if only we will let them. Rep. Rahm Emanuel Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez Rep. Joe Baca Rep. Henry A. Waxman Rep. Silvestre Reyes Rep. Gary Ackerman Rep. Jose E. Serrano Rep. Jan Schakowsky Rep. Albio Sires Rep. Ruben Hinojosa Rep. Xavier Becerra Rep. Lucile Roybal-Allard Rep. Nydia Velazquez Rep. John Salazar Rep. Hilda Solis Rep. Grace Napolitano Rep. Raul Grijalva Rep. Solomon Ortiz Rep. Ed Pastor Rep. Howard Berman ###
09.29.2008	Congressman Disappointed in House Failure to Pass Bill September 29, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, D.C.) U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, today made the following comments regarding the House of Representative's failure to pass a $700 billion financial intervention proposal: "Today, the House voted against final passage of a $700 billion financial rescue package. This package represented a significant step towards helping our markets recover and protecting the retirement accounts of hard-working Americans. While not surprised, I am disappointed that my colleagues did not join me in taking decisive action to help Americans on Main Street. Congress and the President have some work to do, and I will continue to fight for provisions that protect the assets of hardworking, honest taxpayers. It is my hope that Congress will act quickly to bring this package back to the House floor, and consider the inclusion of bankruptcy modification to further assist homeowners. Today's bill included provisions that I have taken a stand on and will continue to support, such as strong oversight for any intervention package and equity share for taxpayers in any money advanced to financial firms in exchange for bad mortgages. Equity for Taxpayers "I have always demanded that any proposal must allow the taxpayers to have an equity interest in the companies receiving aid. If a company’s stock goes up because of the taxpayer-funded bailout, the taxpayers should share in the profits of participating companies. This proposal also ensured that taxpayers would be first in line to recover assets if a company fails. Moreover, the bill required the President five years from now to submit a plan to ensure taxpayers are repaid in full, with Wall Street making up any difference. Oversight and Accountability "Treasury’s initial plan fundamentally lacked accountability. However, the new House plan required strong, day-to-day oversight by the Comptroller General and established a separate oversight board appointed by bipartisan leaders of Congress, which could overturn Treasury decisions. The board would include the FED and SEC Chairs as well as the Secretary of Housing and the Director of the Federal Home Finance Agency. In addition, the package called for the creation of Office of the Special Inspector General to monitor the Treasury Secretary’s decisions to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse. The bill also required posting of transactions online to increase transparency and help jumpstart private sector demand. Foreign Banks "The rescue is directed at U.S. banks and does not bailout foreign banks. Throughout negotiations, it has remained important to me that Congress not support using U.S. taxpayer dollars to rescue foreign banks. As Main Street struggles to make ends meet — and Illinois families in particular face unemployment rates of 7.3 percent, among the highest in the nation — American families must be our first priority. Golden Parachutes "I was pleased to see that the rescue plan included language to ensure that institutions selling troubled assets must limit incentives and prohibit golden parachutes. For companies publicly auctioning over $300 million, there could be no tax deduction for executive compensation over $500,000, and the bill would penalize golden parachutes for CEOs who are fired or have run the company into the ground. Protection for Homeowners, Small Business, and Minorities "I was pleased that this bill included additional provisions that would help prevent home foreclosures and assist Main Street families and businesses: The government may purchase troubled assets from pension plans, local governments, and small banks that serve low- and middle-income families; The government must implement a plan to mitigate the two million projected foreclosures in the next year, and encourage loan servicers to change the terms of mortgages (i.e. reduce principal or interest rate and lengthen time to pay back the mortgage); A provision enacted earlier in this Congress would be extended to stop tax liability on mortgage foreclosures; Assistance would be extended to small businesses that need credit by allowing small community banks hurt by the mortgage crisis to deduct losses from investments in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac stocks. "Americans should rest assured that, over the past seven days, Congress has worked diligently through each of these provisions, and it will continue to do so. I am disappointed that, in the process, we lost an entire day because Republicans walked away from the table, and Senator McCain placed a rescue plan for his campaign before a rescue plan for American taxpayers. These stall tactics brought about unrest that extended beyond the halls of Congress and deeply troubled the markets. "I continue to believe that overall, the rescue package represents a significant and necessary step towards helping our markets recover. However, there is still great work to be done to help our economy, and we will have a long road ahead. I will continue to fight for policies that get our economy back on track and prioritize honest taxpayers." ###
09.23.2008	Bill Passes Overwhelmingly by Voice Vote on House Floor September 23, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington D.C.) Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) brought legislation to the House floor that ensures the Executive Branch the continued ability to take national defense and civil emergency precautions in the event of war or a natural disaster. H.R. 6894 reauthorizes the Defense Production Act (DPA) of 1950, which has been utilized in some form by every Administration since it was enacted during the Korean War. "The DPA was originally enacted during the Korean War to combat rising wages and prices that caused serious economic difficulties in the country," Rep. Gutierrez said Tuesday night in an address to Congress. "In an effort to expand production for the war effort and insure economic stability, President Truman used the Act to establish the Office of Defense Mobilization, institute wage and price controls, strictly regulate production in heavy industries, such as steel and mining, and order the dispersal of wartime manufacturing plans across the nation." "In addition to its national defense uses, the DPA holds the promise of helping to mitigate civil emergencies during peacetime," he continued. "For example, during the California energy crisis, former President Clinton authorized the U.S. Energy Secretary to use the Act to compel a continuing supply of natural gas to Pacific Gas & Electric." Today, as the United States works to rebuild from the damages caused by Hurricane Ike, and continues to rebuild from Hurricane Katrina, the DPA remains a key component of our national security and civil emergency readiness. ###
09.23.2008	Provisions Favor Foreign Banks Over Taxpayers September 23, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, D.C.) U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, today made the following comment regarding the $700 billion financial bailout proposals under House consideration this week. The proposed plan involves purchasing illiquid, but potentially valuable assets that are currently being held by financial institutions in peril. In a statement, Gutierrez said: “I am pleased that the Administration has agreed, in principle, to include congressional oversight and some assistance for homeowners in the bailout package. But the devil is in the details and there is more work to be done." “I continue to have reservations about allowing foreign banks to take part in this plan and am disappointed that both the House and Senate proposals would permit foreign bank participation on some level. Furthermore, I continue to believe that Congress should approve a plan that gives the government equity in the companies that receive assistance under the bailout plan. If a company’s stock goes up because of the taxpayer-funded bailout, the taxpayers should share in the profit. I am pleased that the Senate proposal includes such an equity plan and disappointed that the current House version does not.” Rep. Gutierrez will present his concerns to Henry M. Paulson, Jr., Secretary, U.S. Department of the Treasury, and Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in a Full Committee Hearing of the House Financial Services Committee, this Wednesday, September 24, 2008. ###
09.22.2008	Treasury Plan Does Not Benefit All Americans September 22, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, D.C.) U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, today outlined fundamental concerns that the U.S. House of Representatives must consider this week, as it evaluates the U.S. Treasury's $700 billion financial bailout proposal. The proposed plan involves purchasing illiquid, but potentially valuable assets that are currently being held by financial institutions in peril. Gutierrez will present his concerns to Henry M. Paulson, Jr., Secretary, U.S. Department of the Treasury, and Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in a Full Committee Hearing of the House Financial Services Committee, this Wednesday, September 24, 2008. In a statement, Gutierrez said: "This weekend, U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. hit the airwaves to promote the Bush administration’s $700 billion bailout package, underscoring that it was necessary not just for Wall Street, but for all Americans. As it stands, I do not believe that this plan is in the best interests of the American people. "First, Treasury’s plan fundamentally lacks accountability. Mr. Paulson is asking Congress to abdicate its responsibilities and give up all oversight over the plan; that is unacceptable, and I cannot support it. "Second, Treasury appears to have included in its strategy a bailout for foreign banks. As families on Main Street struggle to make ends meet — and Illinois families in particular face unemployment rates of 7.3 percent, among the highest in the nation — I am perplexed as to why Congress should support using U.S. taxpayer dollars to bailout foreign banks. Mr. Paulson has some questions to answer on this one, and I intend to ask him directly at Wednesday's full committee hearing. "Third, I question whether Secretary Paulson's plan will even work. In order for financial institutions to benefit, the government would actually pay more than the market value for these assets, effectively creating a subsidy; that would make it harder to recoup the taxpayer’s money at the end of the day. "In addition, it is possible that some of these companies have too many other liabilities on their books and could still go under after we bail them out. "Finally, the Treasury plan does nothing to help homeowners. If we buy mortgage-backed securities, but we do not own the real estate, we would be essentially using taxpayer money to help Wall Street firms, while the mortgage servicers may continue to foreclose on the taxpayers. That would be inherently unfair. "The Treasury plan simply leaves too many questions unanswered for the U.S. taxpayer. Rather than hastily accept a solution that neglects the American small investor, Congress must consider proposals that fix the entire economy and not just the Wall Street giants. To that end, Congress should approve a plan that gives the government equity in the companies that receive assistance. If a company’s stock goes up because of the taxpayer-funded bailout, the taxpayers should share in the profit. I am pleased to see my Democratic colleagues in the House already supporting similar strategies." ###
09.09.2008	September 9, 2008 Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Today, the Iowa Attorney General announced that five executives of the Agriprocessors meatpacking plant, including its owner, have been charged with a total of 9,311 child labor violations, involving 32 youths under the age of 18. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) met with laborers from the plant, including women and children, this past May in Postville. In the following statement, Gutierrez said: Today's announcement by Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller is a victory in a town that has been robbed of justice for too long. I applaud the Attorney General's leadership and that of Congressman Bruce Braley. This past May, I sat down with workers at the plant — children who worked overtime at the expense of their health and schoolwork, women who were demanded to perform sexual acts for better hours or a better wage, and men who lost limbs to a reckless disregard of safety standards. We now know as fact what those workers had earnestly professed, that the accused knowingly exploited undocumented workers and children. Yet, the first to be punished were not the employers, but those who worked the longest hours, in the worst conditions, for meager pay. Those workers were not threats to their community, and they did not threaten the livelihood of parents and children or rob them of workplace safety. Yet, the workers were the first to be targeted by the Bush Administration. As these criminals are held accountable for their actions against children, let us not forget the 1,800 workers who remain at Agriprocessors and whose safety lies in the balance each day. It is my hope that, in the future, the federal government will step up to the task of protecting workers, rather than ripping families apart and prohibiting mothers and father from being able to feed their children. Additionally, charges of this volume and magnitude should serve as a signal to our government that interruption of a labor investigation, for any purpose, can potentially interfere with ensuring the safety of workers. In Postville, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) implemented a never-before-seen show of force in executing immigration raids. This Congress has an obligation to determine if this raid in any way delayed the safeguarding of children at Agriprocessors. ###
09.04.2008	Analysis to Follow Agreement on "Generally Accepted Principles" by the International Working Group of Sovereign Wealth Funds September 4, 2008 Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, D.C.) U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, today announced he will hold a hearing to discuss investments by sovereign wealth funds in the United States, and the roles that these funds play in global markets and global politics. This hearing will come just a week after members of the International Working Group of Sovereign Wealth Funds (IWG) announce a preliminary agreement on a draft set of principles and practices for recommendation to their respective governments. The Generally Accepted Principles and Practices for Sovereign Wealth Funds (GAPP) is a voluntary framework intended to guide appropriate governance and accountability arrangements, as well as the conduct of suitable investment practices by sovereign wealth funds. The IWG, which consists of 26 of the state-owned funds, said it would present the guidelines to the International Monetary Fund’s policy-setting committee on October 11, 2008. WHO: Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology WHAT: Hearing: Sovereign Wealth Funds: New Challeneges from a Changing Landscape WHEN: Wednesday, September 10, 2008, 2:00 p.m. WHERE: Rayburn House Office Building, Room 2128 Sovereign wealth funds—investment funds owned by national governments—are the most visible source of foreign government investment in the United States at present. These funds are increasingly making investments in U.S-owned banks, private companies, equity funds, and real property, among other assets. Over the past year, sovereign wealth funds have become increasingly active in U.S. markets, investing more than $40 billion in Wall Street's biggest players. In addition to private investment, foreign government owned investment in the U.S. has also come through public pension funds, investments and purchases by state-owned firms, and through other investment vehicles. “Over the last year, we have seen large investments by government funds in Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch," said Rep. Gutierrez. "This hearing will provide an opportunity to closely examine the role and impact that these investments play in our economy, particularly in the financial services industry, as well as the potential need for increased transparency and 'good governance' principles.” “This hearing is particularly timely, with the IMF and the OECD each taking more active roles in establishing the rules of the road for these huge investment vehicles. I believe the changes this Congress has made to CFIUS constitute strong steps toward protecting U.S. interests, while still encouraging foreign investment. Nonetheless, it is important that Congress remain on top of the issue, as strong players like China and Russia, with substantial funds to invest, may not always be motivated solely by profit.” Witnesses to testify: Mr. Edwin M. Truman, Senior Fellow, The Peterson Institute for International Economics Mr. Brad W. Setser, Fellow for Geoeconomics, Council on Foreign Relations Dr. Daniel Drezner, PhD, Associate Professor of International Politics, Tufts University ###
08.28.2008	August 28, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) Yesterday, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) executed another large-scale workplace raid. In response, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), who has called on the Bush Administration to institute a moratorium on raids, issued the following statement. "The Bush Administration has once again employed fear tactics and piecemeal, deportation-only policies that profoundly worsen our immigration crisis and create broken homes. These policies tore the fabric of our society in Postville, Iowa, and they are undermining our family values yet again in Laurel, Mississippi. "ICE officials have promised that 'everyone will have due process under law,' and I will be vigilant to ensure that our federal government's troubling missteps in Postville are not repeated in Laurel. Those in custody are entitled to immediate access to an attorney who is well-versed in immigration law. Moreover, those released on humanitarian grounds should be allowed a means to work and to feed their families, without having to depend on handouts from the local community. "It is also my hope that yesterday's raid will compel my fellow delegates to the Democratic Convention to take a closer look at ourselves, and to demonstrate that we are the party of fairness and of justice. This week, Democrats have a chance to make a commitment to reasonable reforms that honor hard work; that protect our borders; and that respect families." ###
07.30.2008	July 30, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, D.C.) At a press conference today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez called upon President Bush to live up to his promise of supporting comprehensive immigration reform by ending the Administration's newly escalated ICE raids. Almost two years to-the-day before the Administration sent 900 ICE agents to storm the Agriprocessors meatpacking plant in Postville, Iowa, President Bush appeared before the American people and declared: “We're a nation of laws, and we must enforce our laws. We're also a nation of immigrants, and we must uphold that tradition, which has strengthened our country in so many ways. These are not contradictory goals. America can be a lawful society and a welcoming society at the same time... An immigration reform bill needs to be comprehensive, because all elements of this problem must be addressed together, or none of them will be solved at all.” "The raids in Postville have plainly shown that the Administration is acting neither 'lawfully' nor 'welcomingly,'" said Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the CHC Immigration Task Force. "We are not 'lawful' when we interrupt investigations spearheaded by our own Department of Labor. We are not lawful when we implement fear-tactics and deportation-only policies, or railroad men and women through the judicial process, without adequate representation or a full understanding of their rights." "And we are most certainly not 'welcoming' when hardworking mothers and fathers are not allowed to raise their US Citizen children in the country of their birth, or when those who work the longest hours at the most undesirable jobs are treated like terrorists, simply for waking up and going to work." "These measures have nothing to do with the comprehensive reform President Bush promised. So today, I am demanding that he remember his promise and his commitment to justice by placing a moratorium on raids." The press conference follows on the heels of a weekend visit to Postville, where Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chairman Joe Baca (D-CA), Rep. Gutierrez (D-IL) and Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ) met with workers from the plant, former detainees released with electronic homing devices and the U.S. citizen children of those detained in the raid. Members heard stories such as that of a 16-year-old, working 17-hour shifts, six days a week, without overtime on the kill floor of a meat packing plant; a floor supervisor who blindfolded an immigrant worker with duct tape, then hit him with a meat hook; and women in the slaughterhouse whose male supervisors demanded sex in return for decent hours, decent pay, and decent treatment on the job. They endured this victimization only to be herded like animals when ICE swept the plant and left their assailants with no punishment. "We can all agree that we need comprehensive immigration reform that is tough on enforcement. But any system which fails to respect the enormous contributions immigrants make to our workforce, that fails to reflect our proud history of welcoming people who seek a better life AND that fails to protect our homeland, fails the American people. The Postville raids failed our nation on all three of those levels, and so too will any future raid fail our nation. I believe we can do better." ###
07.24.2008	CHC Chairman, Members will meet with former detainees; workers who suffered labor violations; and American citizen children left behind in aftermath of largest-ever ICE raid July 24, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) today announced details of this Saturday's trip to Postville, Iowa, where he, Chairman Joe Baca (D-CA) and Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) will visit those most impacted by the May 12, 2008 Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) raid of the Agriprocessors meatpacking plant. All meetings will be open to press. "An immigration system that is predicated on fear tactics and piecemeal, deportation-only policies profoundly worsens our immigration crisis by creating broken homes and tearing the fabric of our society," said Rep. Gutierrez. "We have seen exactly that in Postville, Iowa." "The Administration may have successfully pandered to anti-immigrant extremists and conservative pundits, but it truly failed nearly 400 hardworking families, who are now left with an impossible daily struggle to feed their children, many of whom are U.S. citizens. Meanwhile, their employers—who are accused of wage and hour violations, child labor and physical and sexual abuse—face no charges." WHO: Congressman Joe Baca, Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic CaucusCongressman Luis V. Gutierrez, Chairman of the CHC Immigration Task ForceCongresswoman Grace F. Napolitano, CHC WhipCongressman Albio Sires, Chairman of the CHC Task Force on Economic Development WHERE: St. Bridget's Church, 135 W. Williams St.. Postville, Iowa 52162 WHEN: Saturday, July 26, 2008, 10:00am - 1:00pm WHAT: I. Welcome and IntroductionsMembers meet a 13-year-old U.S. citizen whose parent was detained in the raid, and two women who have been released with electronic homing devices, or "ankle bracelets." These individuals will also reflect on the experience of their relatives who remain in detention. II. Community ImpactMembers of the local relief team, including the town mayor, school principal, and religious leaders, examine the impact of the raid on the broader Postville community. III. Legal MattersA review of the legal process that detained workers faced; how much of the process they understood; and what remidies, if any, remain available to them. IV. Labor MattersA review of the ongoing labor investigation at Agriprocessors and the experiences of individual workers - including minors - who worked for the plant. V. Wrap UpPostville community members present their requests of Members of Congress. Members of the CHC will provide closing remarks and answer questions for press before a 1:00 pm departure. In addition to the CHC Members' visit on Saturday, July 26th, activists from across the country will gather in Postville on Sunday, July 27th for an interfaith service, march and rally calling for comprehensive immigration reform, family unification and just labor practices. The rally and march will take place on Sunday from 1:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. "Instead of tacitly supporting raids on factory workers or janitors or construction workers or maids, this Congress should be working to enact real solutions to our immigration problems," added Gutierrez. "It is my sincere hope that in bringing the stories of the parents, children and workers of Postville back to Congress, our lawmakers will see the very real consequences of punitive actions in the absence of comprehensive immigration reform." ###
07.16.2008	July 16, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington D.C.) Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, made the following statement today at the House Committee on Financial Services' semi-annual Humphrey Hawkins hearing to examine the conduct of monetary policy and the state of the U.S. economy. The committee received the testimony of Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. "Thank you, Mr. Chairman and welcome back, Chairman Bernanke. While economists continue to debate whether or not we are in the midst of a recession, or teetering on the edge of a recession, we do know that real GDP growth slowed sharply in the last quarter of 2007, and continued to be sluggish during the first quarter of 2008. The job market has stalled – falling at an average of 94,000 jobs per month through June and leaving us with an unemployment rate of five and a half percent. In addition, manufacturing activity has weakened and retailers are feeling the pinch. "Making matters worse, the banking system and the credit and equity markets have been unable to find their footing. Without a healthy financial system, any economic recovery will be weak, at best. "Of course, the fundamental source of our economic problems is the unprecedented housing downturn followed by record mortgage defaults and foreclosures. But the unraveling of the mortgage markets has undermined our financial system in ways that few expected. Now these stresses are exposing more weak spots in the system, almost daily, and the credit and equity markets remain on edge. "Although I am concerned about the markets, I am more concerned about the economic reality that American families are facing as they sit around the kitchen table and look at their household budgets. If they are fortunate enough to be homeowners who are not faced with ballooning mortgage payments, the value of their home is decreasing. Some estimate that the decline in home prices will result in a reduction of net household wealth equivalent to 30 percent of GDP by the end of next year. "And families are seeing the value of their hard-earned wages literally shrinking, as real wages are back down to the same level they were before the economic expansion in 2001. Meanwhile gas and food prices are on the rise. During the first five months of 2008, the price of crude oil was up 20%, the commodity and food price indexes were both up 18%, while the dollar depreciated 6%. "Chairman Bernanke, I know that you are all too familiar with these statistics. But I raise them because there are a lot of distractions right now with the markets and regulatory matters, and I would like us to focus today on the state of the overall economy and, in particular, the obstacles the American people are facing and how your decisions – our decisions – will affect them. "Specifically, Mr. Chairman, I would like to know your thoughts on inflation in the current environment. With stagnant wages, there is little evidence that we are entering into a wage-price spiral, but inflation is running high when measured by personal consumption expenditures. And with gasoline and other consumer energy prices climbing even higher in recent weeks, inflation seems to be a real threat in the near term. I understand that the markets need capital to grow, and that means lower interest rates. But at some point, especially with the sharp increases in commodity prices, inflation has to start playing a larger role in the Federal Reserve’s decision-making. Mr. Bernanke, in the past you have discussed inflation targets and I would like to know if you think such targets might be appropriate in this environment? "I am also concerned about the weak dollar. I recently led a Congressional Delegation to the Middle East where we met with the managers of several sovereign wealth funds. It was suggested to me by one of these fund managers that as much as 25 percent of the current price of oil can be attributed to the weak dollar. I would like to hear your thoughts on that estimate, Mr. Chairman. "Before I close, I would like to commend you on some of your recent work. I think that allowing the GSEs to access the discount window, if it becomes necessary, was prudent. And I am pleased that the Board has finalized the Regulation Z changes aimed at preventing future predatory mortgage lending. I think the new rules are a strong step in the right direction. I am especially pleased with the ban on pre-payment penalties. Although, I am disappointed that the Board did not eliminate or even limit the yield spread premium, and I would be interested to know if this issue is something that the Board might re-visit in the future. "Thank you and I yield back the balance of my time." ###
07.15.2008	Aftermath of largest-ever ICE raids leaves employers off the hook & nearly 400 families devastated, emphasizing need for immigration reform July 15, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) today announced that they will visit those most impacted by the May 12, 2008 Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) raid of the Agriprocessors meatpacking plant in Postville, Iowa. As the Bush Administration and ICE crack down on, criminalize and imprison workers, nearly 400 families in Postville have been left with an impossible daily struggle to feed their children. Meanwhile, their employers—accused of wage and hour violations, child labor and physical and sexual abuse—face no charges. Members will meet with workers at the plant, families and American-citizen children left behind, detainees who were released with electronic homing devices, religious leaders and community organizations to hear their stories and bring the findings back to Congress. Members will also be available to press. WHO: Congressman Joe Baca, Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic CaucusCongressman Luis V. Gutierrez, Chairman of the CHC Immigration Task ForceCongressman Albio Sires, Chairman of the CHC Task Force on Economic Development WHEN: Saturday, July 26, 2008 WHERE: Postville, IA Members of the press who wish to travel from the Chicago area should contact the Office of Congressman Gutierrez to inquire about shared van service. ###
07.15.2008	July 10, 2008 Contact: 4th Congressional District Office (773) 342-0774 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Service Interruption From Tuesday, July 8 until 3 a.m. Monday, July 28, trains on the O'Hare branch of the Blue Line will be interrupted between the Airport and the CTA rail stop at Rosemont, due to track work to eliminate rail "slow zones." Free shuttle bus service will replace rail service between the O’Hare Bus/Shuttle Center (located directly above the O’Hare CTA station) and Rosemont station. Rosemont is the next-to-last stop on the line, about 4 miles from the airport. Updates can be found at: www.transitchicago.com Additional Commuter Time Travelers should be aware that the detour has caused commutes to take as long as 90 minutes or more, double the estimated 45-minute trip between O'Hare and downtown. The shuttle buses average 9 to 13 minutes each way between the Rosemont and O'Hare stations Trip Costs and Alternatives Train: The CTA fare on the Blue Line to O'Hare International Airport is $2. Drive: The roughly 15-mile drive from the 4th Congressional District to O'Hare can take 25 minutes to 2 hours during rush hour. Parking costs $30 a day at the O'Hare garage, or less at remote lots. Taxi: Taxicab rides are also subject to traffic delays, and fares to O'Hare average $36.00 before tip. Shared Van: Shared Van services depart from O'Hare airport every 10-15 minutes and charge roughly $28 one-way, per person.
06.30.2008	Rate Cut is First Phase of Largest College Aid Expansion in Six Decades; Minority and Low-Middle-Income Students to Greatly Benefit June 30, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) reminded constituents of good news for many college students and their families: as of Tuesday, July 1, 2008, they may be one of 128,756 Illinois residents who will become eligible for $4,500 in student loans savings. In September 2007, Congress enacted the College Cost Reduction and Access Act. Among its many provisions to make college more affordable, the law provided for cutting in half the interest rates on need-based (subsidized) federal student loans by 2011. The first rate cut -- from 6.8% to 6.0% -- occurs on July 1st – making these loans more affordable for millions of low- and middle-income students. Additionally, over the next few years, these rates will continue to decrease until they reach 3.4 percent. "No one should be denied the opportunity to go to college simply because of the cost," said Gutierrez. "Yet, because tuition at four-year public colleges has grown by 35 percent in the last five years, -- and more than 12 percent in Illinois over the past academic year alone -- this is exactly what is happening. This law is the single largest investment in college assistance since the G.I. Bill of 1944, and it will help millions of students and families pay for college at no new cost to taxpayers." This cutting of the interest rate will benefit the 6.8 million students nationwide who borrow need-based federal student loans each year. Once fully phased in, this interest rate cut will save the typical Illinois student borrower at a four-year institution more than $4,500 over the life of the loan. WHO BENEFITS FROM THIS INTEREST RATE CUT? Low- and middle-income students and families. 6.8 million students borrow need-based federal student loans each year. Once fully phased in, this interest rate cut will save the typical borrower – with $13,800 in need-based student loan debt – an average of $4,400 over the life of the loan. Half of need-based federal student loan borrowers have family incomes between $26,000-68,000. [1] In 2003-2004, the median income of need-based federal loan borrowers was $45,000. By comparison, in 2004, the overall U.S. median family income was roughly $54,000. [2] African-American and Hispanic students and families. About 38 percent of African-American students take out need-based student loans each year. About 25 percent of Hispanic Students take out need-based student loans each year. ADDITIONAL BENEFITS For the 2008-2009 school year, the College Cost Reduction and Access Act will Increase the Pell Grant scholarship by $490 (raising the maximum award to $4,731). Provide up-front tuition assistance of $4,000 each year for students who commit to teaching high-need subjects in high-need public schools. ### [1] Congressional Research Service [2] Economic Policy Institute
06.27.2008	Drawing is Unveiled in Halls of U.S. Capitol June 27, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Amidst the grandeur and historic feel of the United States Capitol, Noble Street College Prep senior Ramiro Trejo searched for something to remind him of home. In a busy tunnel connecting Congressional House Office Buildings to the Capitol, he found it-- his artwork on the wall, for politicians and visitors alike to admire on their way to the Capitol. Trejo's drawing joined artwork from across the country this week, where it will represent the Fourth Congressional district for a year as the district's winner in the annual Congressional Art Competition. A few months ago, Trejo's art teacher, Ms. Soto, approached him and a few classmates, suggesting they submit artwork for the annual Congressional Art Competition, hosted by Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez. Trejo submitted his drawing, titled New World in Hand, which won first place. New World in Hand is representative of "the power of our species," says Trejo. Cities adorn the tips of the fingers and thumb of a large, detailed hand. Each digit is interconnected by railroads that wind down their lengths. Bridges connect the thumb to its four counterparts. A river flows from an unseen source, running down the grooves of Trejo's hand, passing a final city before escaping to the wrist and disappearing from the page. The hand dominates the page, much as humans dominate our planet. As "every planet needs a moon," the hand features a moon and stars orbiting around it. What started as a "project to involve a hand in the middle of the action," says Trejo, turned into a larger message of human civilization. To honor his winning artwork, Trejo and his parents were flown to Washington, D.C. for three days, where they attended a ribbon-cutting ceremony inaugurating the opening of the exhibition and a workshop with a professional artist. Winners are also eligible for a scholarship from the Savannah College of Art and Design. In addition, to drawing cartoons and logos, Ramiro enjoys running track and reading. He hopes to attend Loyola University, Chicago and one day become a politician. ###
06.19.2008	June 19, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Today, in an overwhelming, bipartisan vote of 415-0, the United States House of Representatives honored Mr. Juan Antonio "Chi-Chi" Rodriguez. Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) is the original Sponsor of H. Res. 1029, "Congratulating and recognizing Mr. Juan Antonio 'Chi-Chi' Rodriguez for his continued success on and off of the golf course, for his generosity and devotion to charity, and for his exemplary dedication to the intellectual and moral growth of thousands of low-income and disadvantaged youth in our country." Rep. Gutierrez stood on the floor of the House of Representatives Wednesday and made the following statement: Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 1029, "Congratulating and recognizing Mr. Juan Antonio 'Chi-Chi' Rodriguez for his continued success on and off the golf course, for his generosity and devotion to charity, and for his exemplary dedication to the intellectual and moral growth of thousands of low-income and disadvantaged youth in our country." I am proud to have introduced this resolution honoring a great American. Chi-Chi Rodriguez was born the fifth of six children to an agricultural worker and a housekeeper in Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico. From these humble beginnings, he rose to become one of the nation's most talented professional golfers. Using his skills and status to benefit others, Chi-Chi is distinguished as a great humanitarian and role model for children across the nation. Chi-Chi joined the ranks of professional golfer at the age of 24, and over the next four decades he earned 38 professional wins including eight Professional Golfers' Association tour wins and 22 Senior PGA tour wins. In 1979, Chi-Chi used his national recognition as a great sportsman to help found the Chi-Chi Rodriguez Youth Foundation and the Chi-Chi Rodriguez Academy, which have collectively raised four million dollars to assist disadvantaged youth. The Chi-Chi Rodriguez Foundation has been honored by the National Golf Foundation, the Jackie Robinson Foundation, and the Points of Light Foundation for its youth and community service efforts. Chi-Chi has also joined with the FBI Agents Association to create the Chi-Chi Rodriguez G-Man Desert Shootout Tournament in order to fund college scholarships for the children of FBI agents killed in the line of duty. Chi-Chi has been heard to say, "For me, satisfaction comes from knowing that I was put on this planet to make it better." This philosophy has guided his life and made him an example of determination and generosity of spirit. Madame Speaker, as members of Congress, one of our great honors is to recognize our fellow citizens who stand out as exceptional individuals. I am proud to support this resolution honoring a great Puerto Rican American humanitarian. ###
06.04.2008	June 4, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, announced the successful conclusion of a Congressional delegation (CODEL) he led to the Middle East to meet with government officials, representatives and managers of sovereign wealth funds. CODEL Gutierrez met with officials of the sovereign wealth funds in Abu Dhabi and Dubai, including the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) and Dubai World, among others. These funds are among the largest and oldest sovereign wealth funds in the world – with ADIA among the “Super Seven” funds whose assets total over $100 billion – and have participated in substantial recent investments in the U.S. “Our goal was to meet with the managers and decision-makers at these large investment funds to assure them that America is open to foreign direct investment, while also outlining our potential concerns about active foreign investment in certain sectors of the U.S. economy," said Gutierrez. "I believe our trip gave members of the delegation a deeper understanding of how these funds operate and, most importantly, that all sovereign wealth funds are not the same in terms of government control and investment strategy.” “Capital is more mobile than it has ever been in the history of the world, and that capital can and will travel anywhere," said Financial Services Committee Ranking Member Spencer Bachus (R-AL). "As a result, it is crucial to reaffirm that the United States welcomes foreign direct investment and continues to maintain a climate conducive for such investment. This trip provided lawmakers the opportunity to make that point clear to the operators of these investment funds, while also gaining a better understanding of how these entities operate and the principal criteria upon which they make their investment decisions.” Gutierrez indicated that his subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over sovereign wealth funds and other foreign investment in the U.S., will continue to monitor this fast-evolving aspect of the global economy. ###
06.03.2008	June 3, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology today announced that the Subcommittee will hold a hearing to discuss a proposal included in the President's FY2009 Budget, which would create a multilateral Clean Technology Fund administered by the World Bank. "This hearing will outline the purpose of the proposed fund, explore the proposal in its current form, and provide an update on ongoing discussions between affected nations and the World Bank," said Gutierrez. “Encouraging measures that reduce greenhouse gases and other pollutants should be a priority for the U.S.; and establishing a Clean Technology Fund may be an effective way to advance this important environmental goal on an international level.” The hearing will be held on Thursday, June 5, 2008, at 1:30 p.m. in room 2128 Rayburn House Office Building. WHO: Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology WHAT: Hearing: "Examining the Administration's Proposal to Establish a Mulilateral Clean Technology Fund" WHEN: Thursday, June 5, 2008, 1:30 p.m. WHERE: 2128 Rayburn House Office Building ###
05.14.2008	Legislation Benefits Latino and Minority Communities May 14, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) today backed a bipartisan Farm Bill that will strengthen American agriculture, help families facing high food costs and benefit minority agricultural workers in particular. Officially titled the Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act, the legislation passed by a vote of 318 to 106. “The new farm bill will help families who see food costs rising while supporting our farmers and taking important steps toward reforming farm payments,” said Gutierrez. "The bill will also help Latino families in particular by dramatically increasing the availability of fruits and vegetables in low-income schools; providing over $1 billion in new funding for fresh fruits and vegetables, which helps Latino farmers, who tend to be specialty crop farmers; and increasing focus on the vulnerable farm worker population by creating pesticide-related research provisions." Nearly three-fourths of the Farm Bill will support nutrition programs that help 38 million American families afford healthy food. The legislation’s updates to the food stamp provisions will help about 11 million people by 2012. The bill also provides much-needed support to emergency feeding organizations, such as food banks, food pantries, and soup kitchens by increasing TEFAP funding by $1.25 billion – with $50 million for immediate shortages at food pantries. Additionally, the bill helps schools provide healthy snacks to students, with $1 billion for free fresh fruits and vegetables. Struggling farmers will also receive much needed aid from the legislation. The Farm Bill reforms disaster assistance to make it a permanent, paid for program for farmers with crops stricken by natural disasters such as drought and flood. For consumers, the bill mandates food-labeling of our meat and produce, a critical measure which had previously been stalled by six years of Republican delays. To encourage conservation efforts, the Farm Bill boosts conservation programs that reduce soil erosion, enhance water supplies, improve water and air quality, increase wildlife habitat and reduce damage caused by floods and other natural disasters by $7.9 million. Under the bill, farmers will also play a greater role in fueling our energy independence. The Farm Bill invests $1 billion in renewable energy focusing on new technologies and new sources. It takes another critical step in transitioning biofuels beyond corn to non-food crops and sources such as switchgrass, woodchips and corn stalks. Finally, the legislation also begins to end payments to farmers who don’t need the help, with the most significant reforms in over 30 years. The Farm Bill reduces direct farm payments by $300 million and cuts federal payments to crop insurance companies that are making windfall profits due to higher crop prices by $5.7 billion. “America’s farmers feed our nation and the world, and this bill recognizes their great contribution,” added Gutierrez. “These kinds of important reforms go a long way towards improving the health of our farmers, our families, our environment, and our economy.” ###
05.13.2008	May 13, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, D.C.) U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, today announced that he will lead a Congressional delegation (CODEL) to the Middle East to meet with government officials, representatives and managers of sovereign wealth funds. The CODEL will meet with officials of the sovereign wealth funds in Abu Dhabi and Dubai. These funds are among the largest and oldest sovereign wealth funds in the world – with Abu Dhabi among the “Super Seven” funds whose assets total over $100 billion – and have participated in substantial recent investments in the U.S. The CODEL will also travel to Egypt to meet with officials and discuss Egyptian economic reforms and liberalization, including banking reforms and greater exchange rate flexibility. ###
05.02.2008	Student Winner to Receive Roundtrip Tickets to Washington, D.C. May 2, 2008 Media Contacts: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203, Jennice Fuentes 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Chicago, IL ­-- Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) will announce the winners of the 2008 Congressional Art Competition, which each year spotlights the artistic achievements of youth throughout the Fourth Congressional District. "This competition recognizes the rich artistic talents of the students and young artists in our community and represents an important part of encouraging and enriching our youth's artistic abilities," said Gutierrez. "I look forward to discovering what our young minds have expressed through their art this year." Student submissions will be presented and judged at the Fourth District office, located at 2201 W. North Avenue, Chicago, on Friday, May 2, 2008 from 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM. The winner will receive three roundtrip tickets to Washington, D.C., courtesy of Southwest Airlines, so that he or she may participate in an official ceremony that will take place in the U.S. Congress on Wednesday, June 25, 2008. ###
04.23.2008	April 23, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, DC) – Today, Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) gathered in a press conference to challenge the U.S. Congress to put politics aside, aim for solutions that go beyond piecemeal and deportation only policies, and move forward a bipartisan effort to truly fix our broken immigration system. Over the last several months, a failure to reach consensus on immigration reform has resulted in characterizing the CHC as the blockade to progress. In reality, for each of the last three consecutive congresses, the CHC has introduced comprehensive immigration reform that is more aggressive in its security and enforcement provisions than any other proposal on the table, provides businesses with the friendliest and most flexible worker program, and creates sustainable solutions for the undocumented already living and working in the United States. As House committees prepare to hold hearings on piecemeal immigration legislation, the CHC emphasized to the public that comprehensive legislation already before congress -- the STRIVE Act, H.R. 1645 -- would more thoroughly address the security and labor concerns at hand. Members also reminded their colleagues that this bipartisan legislation is both realistic and attainable. “Today, we come together to remind our critics of the reality. The CHC has been the leader in promoting realistic comprehensive immigration reform for many Congresses now, and has invited all sides to the table,” said Congressman Joe Baca, Chair of the CHC. “We are here to stand up for those who suffer at the hands of anti-immigrant rhetoric—immigrants, their families and communities relying on them, as well as our nation’s proud immigrant history.” "It is time for this Congress to acknowledge that piecemeal and band aid fixes will not sustain or protect our workforce, or cut off unauthorized border crossings or reduce visa overstays," said Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the CHC Immigration Task Force. "If we are serious about providing effective resources for our borders, about strengthening our economy, and about creating a system that requires people to register with the government and work here legally and safely and humanely, then comprehensive immigration reform is indeed the only sustainable solution." Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano, the Whip of the CHC, added, “There are thousands of immigrants loyal to the United States who serve with honor and distinction in our Armed Forces and the best way to honor their service is to ensure the safety of their wives, husbands and children who could be in danger if deported. We must not ask them to choose between remaining with their families and serving the country that they love." “Our nation is paying a terrible price for our failure to reform our broken immigration system” said Congressman Rubén Hinojosa, CHC Education Task Force Chair. “Our indiscriminate enforcement-only approach is causing untold economic, environmental, and social damage. It is a departure from America’s national values and tarnishes our standing in the world as a beacon of hope and freedom.” Congressman Solomon Ortiz added, “Discussions about border security should be a priority for Congress, but a comprehensive reform package that addresses the realities of the people and families already in our country must also be included. Trying to solve our nation’s immigration debate piecemeal will only lengthen the issue and get us further from a constructive solution.” The STRIVE Act has 75 co-sponsors. # # #
04.22.2008	April 22, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) today joins residents across the Fourth District and the entire country in celebrating Earth Day, pledging to continue his work in Congress to protect the environment, fight global warming and spur a cleaner, greener, and more prosperous economy for the American people. “We have a clear and immediate responsibility to protect our planet and ensure that we all have clean air to breathe and clean water to drink,” said Gutierrez. “Democrats have taken key steps forward, but much more work remains, and I will continue to fight to end global warming and protect our environment for future generations.” A February 2007 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report concluded that warming of the climate system is unequivocal. It also states that most of the observed increase in globally averaged temperatures since the mid-20th century is very likely due to the observed increase in greenhouse gas concentrations. Continued uncontrolled emissions of greenhouse gases will threaten local and regional food supplies, intensify precipitation cycles causing more floods and droughts, reduce the biological diversity of our planet and increase sea levels. Rep. Gutierrez has continuously supported legislative efforts to address this crisis. In the 110th Congress, he cosponsored H.R. 620, the Climate Stewardship Act of 2007. This bill would accelerate the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States by establishing a market-driven system of tradable greenhouse gas allowances that would limit greenhouse gas emissions in the United States, reduce dependence upon foreign oil, and ensure benefits to consumers from the trading in such allowances. "We do not have to sacrifice economic vitality to achieve environmental conservation" said Gutierrez. "The two are not incompatible, but we must work to be more creative in our approaches and incentives." In addition, Democrats have already taken several major steps forward by passing landmark legislation that addresses the global warming crisis while creating new green collar jobs, cutting energy costs and helping end our dependence on foreign oil. The historic and bipartisan Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 has been signed into law and will increase vehicle fuel efficiency standards and help save American families $700 to $1,000 per year at the gas pump. New building, appliance and lighting efficiency standards included in the new law will save consumers $400 billion through 2030. Additionally, the new law will help save 5.3 billion metric tons in energy-related CO2 emissions from 2008-2030 and cut the growth in energy-related emissions of CO2 by 10 percent. Democrats are also working to enact new legislation that will promote investments in renewable energy, create hundreds of thousands of good-paying green collar American jobs, and end multi-billion dollar subsidies to big oil companies. The Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act of 2008 would end unnecessary subsidies to Big Oil companies and invest in clean, renewable energy and energy efficiency. The bill extends and expands tax incentives for renewable electricity, energy and fuel, as well as for plug-in hybrid cars, and energy efficient homes, buildings, and appliances. The solar investment tax credit in this legislation alone will reduce carbon emissions by 240 million tons, or the equivalent of taking 52 million passengers cars off the road for one year. While the House has passed this legislation, Republicans and President Bush oppose the Democratic effort to end subsidies for oil companies that are earning record profits. “Oil prices are skyrocketing and our dependence on foreign oil threatens our environment and our national security,” added Gutierrez. "As the world's largest producer of greenhouse gases, such as nitrous oxide, methane and carbon dioxide, our nation has an obligation to be actively involved in preventing further climatic change. It is time to abandon the failed energy policies of the past and invest in the future.” ###
04.21.2008	April 21, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203, Rebecca.Dreilinger@mail.house.gov FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – Today, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) announced that it will hold a press conference to present its position on immigration legislation proposals currently pending before the U.S. House of Representatives and to announce its recommendations for the remainder of the 110th Congress. WHO: Rep. Joe Baca, Chair of the CHCRep. Luis V. Gutierrez, Chair of the CHC's Immigration Task ForceOther CHC Members WHAT: Media availability to discuss current immigration proposals pending before Congress and to outline necessary next steps. WHEN: Wednesday, April 23, 2008, 1:00 p.m. WHERE: Cannon Terrace # # #
04.08.2008	Student Winner to Receive Roundtrip Tickets to Washington, D.C. April 8, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Chicago, IL ­-- Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) announced that entries are being accepted for the 2008 Congressional Art Competition. Each year, the competition spotlights the artistic achievements of youth throughout the Fourth Congressional District. "This competition recognizes the rich artistic talents of the students in our community and represents an important part of encouraging and enriching our youth's artistic abilities," said Gutierrez. "I look forward to seeing what our young minds will express through their art." Entries are due no later than Monday, April 28, 2008, at 2201 W. North Avenue, Chicago. Participants are limited to students residing in the Fourth Congressional District. Participants will be recognized at an Art Exhibition held in Congressman Gutierrez' district office at 2201 West North Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60647 on Friday, May 2, 2008 from 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM. In addition, Southwest Airlines will provide the winner with three roundtrip tickets to Washington, D.C., so that he or she may participate in the official ceremony that will take place in the U.S. Congress on Wednesday, June 25, 2008. Any qualified student interested in participating is encouraged to contact Noemi Galvez at (773) 342-0774. ###
04.07.2008	En Celebración de16 años de Talleres y más de 50,000 Solicitudes de Ciudadanía Procesadas April 7, 2008 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Chicago, IL -Congresista Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-Ill.) anunció hoy que se realizarán tres talleres de ciudadanía entre Abril y Mayo donde se proveerá asistencia gratuita para completar la solicitud de ciudadanía. Los talleres son en cooperación con Centro Sin Fronteras, la representante Cynthia Soto, el comisionado Roberto Maldonado, el concejal Billy Ocasio, y New American Initiative Los datos de los talleres: 12 de Abril del 2008Iglesia Our Lady of Fátima2751 W. 38th PlaceChicago, IL 6063210am-12pm 26 de Abril del 2008Universidad San Agustín2610 W. 25th PlaceChicago, IL 6060810am-12pm 31 de MayoUniversidad Popular2801 S. HamlinChicago, IL 6062310am-12pm Para solicitar la ciudadanía, los requisitos son lo siguientes: 1. Haber sido residente permanente legal por los últimos cinco años 2. Tarjeta de residente permanente, número de seguro social, identificación del estado ó licencia de conducir 3. Lista de todos los viajes fuera del país desde que se hizo residente permanente, incluyendo el mes, día, año y el país de destino por cada viaje 4. Lista de sus domicilios e información de empleos en los últimos cinco años 5. Información sobre su cónyuge: nombre completo, fecha de nacimiento, número de seguro social, número de mica ó fecha y lugar de naturalización (si es aplicable) 6. Información sobre todos sus hijos/as: nombre completo, fecha de nacimiento, número de seguro social, número de mica ó fecha y lugar de naturalización (si es aplicable) 7. La información suya y de su cónyuge sobre matrimonios previos: nombres completos, fechas de matrimonio y fechas en que terminaron los matrimonios, y los motivos por el cual terminó el matrimonio 8. Si ha sido arrestado: razón por el arresto, fecha, lugar y resultado 9. Para hombres solamente: fecha y número de inscripción con el Servicio Selectivo 10. Un giro de $675.00 hecho al U.S.C.I.S. y $10.00 para sus fotos. Para remplazar su tarjeta de Residente Permanente, los requisitos son los siguientes: 1. Identificación del estado ó licencia de conducir 2. Tarjeta de seguro social 3. Tarjeta de residente permanente 4. Un giro de $370.00 a nombre de U.S.C.I.S Solicitantes que deseen más información pueden llamar la oficina de Congresista Gutiérrez: (773) 342-0774. ###
04.02.2008	April 2, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, today made the following statement at a Subcommittee hearing entitled, “Proposed UIGEA Regulations: Burden without Benefit?” "The focus of today's Subcommittee hearing is the proposed regulations to implement the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006. "The Act prohibits the U.S. payment systems from accepting payments for bets or wagers made by U.S. citizens who seek to gamble online. The Law also requires the Federal Reserve Board and Treasury Department to issue regulations mandating that payment systems identify and block all restricted transactions. "In October 2007, the draft regulations were issued, and more than 200 comments were filed in response. As proposed, the regulations would require most companies involved in the payment systems – from banks to credit card companies to money transmitters and payment processors – to develop and implement policies and procedures designed to identify and block unlawful Internet gambling transactions. "The regulations have been widely criticized as being vague and costly for financial institutions to implement. One of the most common complaints is that the proposed rules fail to sufficiently define key terms, leaving financial institutions with significant compliance difficulties. "For example, the regulation fails to adequately define what constitutes “unlawful Internet gambling” or a "restricted transaction," yet requires the financial institutions to make a determination on their own about what is lawful or unlawful. "If the rule is adopted in its current form, the response by many financial institutions will likely be to over-block transactions to protect themselves from legal liability. "Although the regulation does provide a safe harbor for financial institutions that block transactions that are in fact legal, it does nothing to ensure that legal transactions are not blocked. As a result, consumers will be placed at risk of having lawful transactions blocked. It is easy to see how these regulations, if implemented in their current form, could wreak havoc on electronic commerce in the U.S. "With that in mind, I want to take a moment to question the priorities reflected by the underlying law, which was passed while my party was in the minority, and which seeks to eliminate Internet gambling by adults. In my opinion, if Congress is going to impose additional regulations on financial institutions, our time would be better spent restricting payday lending or curbing unfair and deceptive practices associated with credit card accounts and other types of predatory lending. "But, the reality is we have a law that requires the regulators to develop rules to ban Internet gambling. And I have several concerns with the proposed rules. "First, I am concerned about the effect these regulations will have on the remittances system that immigrants use to send billions of dollars home each year. Money transmitter companies are already having problems maintaining accounts with some banks, and I fear that this rule could exacerbate that problem. "I am also troubled that these regulations could impose significant compliance burdens on financial institutions during a time of economic and financial turmoil. "Finally, I believe it is inappropriate to have financial institutions essentially acting as the final arbiter in determining which transactions are legal or illegal; especially when the result could be closing a consumer’s account. "This hearing will provide an opportunity for the regulators to address these and other issues concerning the proposed rules. We will also have the opportunity to hear directly from the financial services industry on the potential cost, regulatory burden, and compliance issues they anticipate if the regulation is implemented as proposed. "I expect a vigorous debate on the issues, and the Committee looks forward to working with the regulators as they move through the process and decide whether to amend the regulations or roll the dice and adopt them in their current form." ###
04.02.2008	April 2, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Il) today joined a bipartisan majority in the U.S. House of Representatives in passing landmark legislation that will extend and expand key initiatives to combat HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria around the globe. "The Lantos-Hyde U.S. Global Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Reauthorization is a success for global health and human rights," said Rep. Gutierrez. "Disease knows neither borders nor boundaries. If we are to ensure the health of our country and take serious steps toward the eradication of these diseases, we must maintain a global approach." Since documentation of the HIV/AIDS epidemic began in 1981, 20 million men, women and children around the globe have died from the disease, with about three-fourths of the deaths occurring in sub-Saharan Africa. Today, there are 40 million people around the globe who are HIV-positive. Each and every day, another 6,000 people become infected with HIV. In May 2003, Congress enacted the bipartisan U.S. Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act (PL 108-25) – authorizing $15 billion over five years for U.S. contributions to both bilateral and multilateral efforts. Over the last five years, this program has provided critical resources, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa – including life-saving drugs for almost 1.5 million AIDS patients and successful programs to prevent the spread of the HIV infection. This bipartisan bill reauthorizes and expands this key initiative over the next five years, authorizing $50 billion towards the development and implementation of strategies to transition from the current emergency phase to long-term sustainability that can be maintained by host countries. It also aims to prevent 12 million new HIV infections by 2013; provide life-saving drugs for three million AIDS patients; provide medical and nonmedical care for 12 million people (including 5 million orphans); and provide training for 140,000 new health care workers. "We not only have an obligation to ourselves, but also a moral obligation to take this next step in fighting AIDS in the poorest countries of the world," Rep. Gutierrez said. For more information, visit https://foreignaffairs.house.gov/ ###
03.25.2008	March 25, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger (202) 225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology today announced that the subcommittee will hold a hearing to discuss proposed regulations to the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act (UIGEA) on Wednesday, April 2, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. WHO: Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade, and Technology WHAT: Hearing: "Proposed UIGEA Regulations: Burden without Benefit?" WHEN: Wednesday, April 2, 2008, 10:00 a.m. WHERE: 2128 Rayburn House Office Building Witnesses to be announced. ###
03.14.2008	Latinos and African Americans pay more for insurance under current system March 14, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Responding to an increasing trend of insurance companies using consumer credit scores in assessing risk and rates, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) today introduced legislation that would protect consumers, especially minority citizens, who tend to have lower credit, yet who do not present an increased insurance risk because they are safe drivers. The Non-Discriminatory Use of Consumer Reports and Consumer Information Act of 2008 (H.R. 5633) is co-sponsored by House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank (D-MA) and Rep. Melvin L. Watt (D-NC). "Insurance companies are increasingly and alarmingly using credit information contained in credit reports to determine whether and at what price to offer personal lines of property and casualty insurance," said Gutierrez. "This includes automobile and homeowners insurance. For families who are only beginning to establish credit -- including minority and immigrant communities -- this practice puts them in a difficult and unfair financial position." "The introduction of the bill today is a step toward leveling the playing field for purchasers of personal lines of insurance such as automobile and homeowners insurance," said Rep. Watt. "The insurance industry has been increasingly using credit information to underwrite and rate personal lines of insurance. Government studies have shown that credit scores correlate with race or ethnicity, so minorities often end up paying more for personal lines of insurance even when they are safe drivers or have never filed claims." According to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), all major automobile insurance companies use credit information in some capacity. While creditors use credit information to determine the likelihood that a consumer will default on an account, insurance companies generally use credit information to predict the number of claims a consumer will file and the total cost of those claims. A July 2007 FTC report found that while credit-based insurance scores can be an effective predictor of risk, racial and ethnic minorities tend to have lower credit-based insurance scores and thus pay more for automobile insurance, with African-Americans expecting to pay about 10 percent more and Latinos 4.2 percent more in premiums if credit-based insurance scores are used. The FTC report also found that credit-based insurance scores are a “proxy,” or substitute, for race or ethnicity in three out of four lines of automobile insurance: collision, comprehensive and bodily injury. This bill would prohibit the use of credit information contained in consumer reports for insurance purposes when there is a government finding of discrimination from the use of this information, or when credit information represents a proxy or proxy effect for race or ethnicity. ###
03.11.2008	March 11, 2008 Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, today made the following statement at a subcommittee hearing entitled, “H.R. 5512, the Coin Modernization and Taxpayer Savings Act of 2008.” "Good Afternoon. The purpose of today's hearing is to consider legislation that has the potential to save taxpayers over 100 million dollars annually by reducing the costs to mint one-cent and five-cent coins. "Since March of 2003, increasing metal prices caused by high world demand for core metals have driven the cost copper and nickel up by 300 percent, while zinc has increased 450 percent. As a result, the costs of producing our nation’s circulating coins have increased dramatically. In Fiscal Year 2007, it cost nearly two cents to make each penny and 10 cents to make each nickel – needlessly costing the American taxpayers nearly 100 million dollars last year alone. These losses will continue to mount unless we act to change the metallic content of our one-cent and five-cent coins. "The penny and the nickel have been in a negative seignorage situation since 2006. Prior to 2006, the Government had never before spent more money to mint and issue a coin than the coin’s legal tender value. The U.S. Mint anticipates that by changing the compositions of just the penny and the nickel to less expensive materials, we can save the Government hundreds of millions of dollars without compromising the integrity or the utility of these coins. In a July 2007 letter to Congress, the Treasury Department, with support of the Office of Management and Budget, requested that legislation be put forward granting the Secretary authority to change the metallic composition of coins. "H.R. 5512, the “Coin Modernization and Taxpayer Savings Act,” gives the Treasury Secretary the requested authority. Under H.R. 5512, the Secretary will have the power to change the metallic content of the dollar, half dollar, quarter dollar, dime, nickel and penny. The bill requires the Secretary to consult with related industry and consider factors related to the effect that changes in coin content may have on industry. In addition, the bill mandates that the Secretary enter into a formal rulemaking when making changes to the content of coins. "The bill further requires the Mint begin production of a steel penny within six months of enactment. This should result in immediate and substantial savings to taxpayers. For coins besides the penny, the legislation requires that production costs for a coin would have to exceed the coin’s face value for five continuous years before the Mint’s authority to change the content is effective. This retroactive five-year look-back not only makes certain that the trend in rising metal prices is established in the market and not temporary, but also provides some security to companies and their workers who partner with the Mint in creating new coins. "If we continue minting coins with the current metal content, with each new penny and nickel we issue, we will also be contributing to our national debt by almost as much as the coin is worth. These losses are mounting rapidly, and with commodity prices forecasted to stay near existing levels for several years, we need to act immediately to give the Mint the flexibility to lower the costs of producing the penny and the nickel. "I believe that H.R. 5512 will give the U.S. Mint the authority it needs to make the necessary changes to our coins without creating an undue burden on the relevant industries or causing a disruption in the minting process. As always, I look forward to a vigorous debate." ###
03.05.2008	Hearing marks the first time a sovereign wealth fund will appear before a Congressional committee March 5, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, D.C.) U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, and Congressman Paul E. Kanjorski (D-PA), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance, and Government Sponsored Enterprises, today announced they will hold a joint hearing to discuss the role of foreign governments' investments in the United States. Sovereign wealth funds – investment funds owned by national governments – are the most visible source of foreign government investment in the United States at present. These funds are increasingly making investments in U.S-owned banks, private companies, equity funds, and real property, among other assets. It is estimated that sovereign wealth funds have invested $21.5 billion in American companies over the last year. In addition to these funds, foreign government-owned investment in the U.S. has also come through public pension funds, investments and purchases by state-owned firms, and through other investment vehicles. This hearing marks the first time a sovereign wealth fund has appeared before a Congressional committee. Each of the funds slated to appear on Wednesday has a long record of stable commercial investment in the United States. Norway’s Government Pension Fund, Global, and Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Ltd. are among the largest sovereign wealth funds internationally. Canada’s Public Pension Investment Board, though not itself a sovereign wealth fund, is a public pension fund owned by the Canadian government and has substantial investments in the United States. Representatives of these funds will describe for the Subcommittees why they were created, what their investment goals are, and what degree of transparency they pursue in their operations. "These three funds are widely viewed as being among the best global players when it comes to government investment,” said Congressman Gutierrez. “Their input at the hearing will be invaluable as we consider the need for policy responses in the United States, including the development of best practices for sovereign wealth funds.” "With a continuously expanding global marketplace, it is inevitable for foreign governments to invest in American companies," said Congressman Kanjorski. "This hearing will take initial steps to examine such investments and to discuss whether there is a need for increased transparency as foreign investment in America continues to grow rapidly. Our goal is to ensure the soundness of our financial markets, but we must put our national interests first. This hearing will help to explore how we can take both actions." WHO: Financial Services Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, and the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance and Government Sponsored Enterprises WHAT: Subcommittee Hearing: "Foreign Government Investment in the U.S. Economy and Financial Sector" WHEN: Wednesday, March 5, 2008, 2:30pm WHERE: 2128 Rayburn House Office Building Witnesses for this hearing will be: Panel 1 David McCormickUnder Secretary for International AffairsU.S. Department of Treasury Ethiopis TafaraDirector, Office of International AffairsSecurities and Exchange Commission Scott AlvarezGeneral CounselFederal Reserve Board Panel 2 Martin SkanckeDirector General, Asset Management DepartmentMinistry of Finance, Norway Simon IsraelExecutive DirectorTemasek Holdings Ltd. David DenisonPresident and CEOCanada Pension Plan Investment Board Matthew SlaughterProfessor, Tuck School of BusinessDartmouth College ###
03.05.2008	Hearing marks first time funds appear before a Congressional committee March 5, 2008 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, today made the following opening statement at a joint subcommittee hearing, “Foreign Government Investment in the U.S. Economy and Financial Sector,” to discuss the role of foreign governments' investments in the United States: "Too often these days, when most Americans, Members of Congress included, hear the terms “Sovereign Wealth Fund” or “foreign investment,” they are likely to conjure images of unfriendly foreign governments attempting to take control of U.S. companies. "This vision is easily propagated through one-sided media reports and, in some cases, over-reaction by many, including Members of Congress. We tend to focus our attention on the more controversial deals, such as the defunct 2005 Dubai Ports World deal or the China National Offshore Oil Corporation’s attempt to acquire UNOCAL. But we don't hear much about the run-of-the-mill, relatively small-dollar, sovereign fund investments in companies like Motorola and Home Depot that take place on a daily basis and provide much-needed capital for the American economy. "In 2007, foreign investors invested over 414 billion dollars into purchasing stakes in U.S. companies – a 90 percent increase over 2006, which represented one-fourth of all announced deals for 2007. Where would our economy be right now without those deals? Where would our economy go if these investments were taken away? "As we know, the subprime mortgage crisis has caused a significant strain on U.S. financial institutions, and it has led a number of large banks to seek injections of foreign capital. In November of 2007, the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority announced a 7.5 billion dollar investment in Citigroup; and in December of last year Temasek announced a 4.4 billion dollar investment in Merrill Lynch. "These are the kinds of high-profile investments that raise questions – especially when we see several of them occurring over a couple months. And our questions become more punctuated by the many misconceptions about sovereign wealth funds – what they are, what they do and how they are monitored. "Our primary goal today is to answer these questions, to educate Members and begin a factual, substantive dialogue on the issues surrounding foreign investment in the U.S. and sovereign wealth funds in particular. For these purposes, I think we have two outstanding panels, and an opportunity to learn from some of the best players in international investment. I look forward to a vigorous discussion."
02.27.2008	Measure to Benefit Latino Families, Protect our Environment February 27, 2008 Media contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez today backed landmark legislation that will make significant new investments in renewable energy sources, create hundreds of thousands of new jobs, help end our dependence on foreign oil and slash taxpayer funded subsidies to oil companies. Latino families across the country who are more likely to have trouble meeting energy costs would benefit from the measure for years to come. The Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act of 2008 was approved by a vote of 236 to 182. “With oil prices reaching another record high of $102 per barrel today and families paying an average of $3.15 a gallon for gasoline, Americans all over the country are crying out for relief, and some of the loudest voices are coming from the more than 441,500 Latinos in my district.” said Gutierrez. “Ending our dependence on foreign oil and using renewable energy to help fight global warming will make our nation stronger. And at a time when our economy is struggling, these investments will help create hundreds of thousands of new jobs.” The Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act extends and expands tax incentives for renewable electricity, energy and fuel, as well as for plug-in hybrid cars, and energy efficient homes, buildings, and appliances. Additionally, the bill includes solar energy tax credits that could reduce carbon dioxide pollution by 240 million tons. The new investments in wind, solar, geothermal and fuel cell technology will also create hundreds of thousands of new jobs and help strengthen the American economy. The Geothermal Energy Association estimates that the geothermal provisions alone could create tens of thousands of new jobs and stimulate tens of billions of dollars of new investment in geothermal energy production. Creating new jobs is critical, as the Latino unemployment rate is higher than the national average of 4.9%. Additionally, the legislation approved today repeals $18 billion in unnecessary tax subsidies for big, multinational oil and gas companies. The vote comes shortly after the big five oil companies recently reported record profits for 2007, with ExxonMobil earning $40.6 billion - the largest corporate profit in American history. While oil companies have profited, consumers have felt the pinch. The average cost of a gallon of gasoline in Chicago is $3.37. These skyrocketing costs have disproportionately impacted thousands of Latino families -- families that are two to four times more likely to live in poverty. According to a 2007 study by the Latino Policy Coalition, 46% of Latinos say rising gas and utility prices concern them most when it comes to our nation's energy policy. Nearly one-third of Latinos strongly believe that expanding renewable energy development and alternative fuels is critical to creating more jobs at home and reducing our dependence on foreign oil. ###
02.27.2008	Proyecto beneficiará a las familias latinas, preservará nuestro medio ambiente February 27, 2008 Media contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Gutierrez hoy aprobó legislación histórica que hará nuevas inversiones significativas en las fuentes de energía renovable, creará miles de nuevos trabajos, ayudará terminar nuestra dependencia al petróleo extranjero, y revocará las subvenciones de impuestos innecesarios para las compañías de petróleo financiados por nuestros contribuyentes americanos. Las familias latinas en este país, quienes son más probables de tener dificultad con los gastos de energía, beneficiarán del proyecto a largo plazo. La legislación de energía fue aprobada por un voto de 236 -182. “Con los precios del petróleo cada vez más altos, hoy costando $102 por cada barril, y con las familias pagando hasta $3.15 por cada galón de gasolina, los americanos están gritando por alivio, y algunas de las voces más altas están viniendo de los más de 441,500 Latinos en el cuarto distrito,” dijo Gutierrez. “Acabando con nuestra dependencia al petróleo extranjero y usando la energía renovable para ayudar a combatir el calentamiento global harán este país más fuerte. Estas inversiones también ayudarán a crear miles de trabajos en nuestra economía agitada.” La legislación de energía aumenta los incentivos de impuestos para la electricidad, energía y el combustible renovables. También aumenta y extiende los incentivos de impuestos para los autos híbridos y las casas, edificios y los aparatos con mejor rendimiento de energía. Además, la legislación incluye créditos de impuestos para la energía solar cuales pueden reducir la contaminación del bióxido. Estas nuevas inversiones en la energía renovable crearán miles de nuevos empleos y ayudarán fortalecer la economía. Según el Geothermal Energy Association, las provisiones geotérmicas crearán miles de empleos nuevos y estimularán mil millones de dólares en nuevas inversiones en la producción de la energía geotérmica. Creando nuevos trabajos es crítico, así que la tasa de desempleo latino es más alta que el promedio nacional de 4.9%. Además, la legislación que fue aprobada hoy revocaría los $18 mil millones en subvenciones para las grandes compañías de petróleo. Este voto vino brevemente después que las cincos compañías de petróleo más grandes reportaron ganancias extraordinarias en el 2007. De hecho, la compañía Exxon Mobil reportó una ganancia de $40.6 mil millones - las ganancias más grandes de cualquier compañía en la historia de este país. Mientras que las compañías han ganado, los consumidores han sentido el dolor. El costo promedio de un galón de gasolina en Chicago es $3.37. Estos precios elevados han impactado desproporcionadamente a las familias latinas - familias que son de dos a tres veces más probables de vivir en pobreza. Según un estudio por el "Latino Policy Coalition," 46 por ciento de latinos dicen que los precios súbitos de petróleo y utilidades le preocupan mayormente cuando concierte sobre la política de energía en nuestra nación. Casi un tercio de latinos creen fuertemente que la expansión de la energía renovable y del combustible diverso es crítica para crear más trabajos en este país y reducir nuestra dependencia sobre el petróleo extranjero. ###
02.27.2008	Financial Services Committee Hearing Highlights Monetary Policy and the State of the Economy February 27, 2008 Media contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington DC) In today's full committee hearing of the Financial Services Committee, Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke appeared to give his biannual report on the nation's monetary policy, as well as the state of the U.S. economy. Reflecting concerns regarding the credit crunch that started in the home mortgage industry, and which has spread to other areas of the economy, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, made the following statement: "Economists and arm-chair economists can argue whether or not we are in the midst of a recession or teetering on the edge of a recession. What is clear is that – from top to bottom – our economy is struggling. Real GDP growth slowed sharply in the last quarter of 2007, and the economy appears to be contracting this year. The job market has stalled, manufacturing activity has weakened and retailers are under pressure. "Making matters worse, the banking system and the credit and equity markets have been unable to find their footing. Without a healthy financial system, any recovery in the U.S. economy will be weak, at best. "The fundamental source of our economic problems is the unprecedented housing downturn and dramatic increase in mortgage loan defaults and foreclosures. But the unraveling of the mortgage markets undermined the global financial system in ways that few expected. Now these stresses are exposing more weak spots in the financial system almost on a weekly basis. "Although the housing downturn is primarily responsible for our current situation, I believe that the failure of policymakers, including Congress and the Federal Reserve Board, to act quickly enough in response, is also to blame. Chairman Frank deserves credit for being ahead of the curve on housing legislation to address the crisis, but Congress as a whole did not act swiftly enough, and the White House was certainly a late arrival. "Now, given the murkiness of the global financial system, it is not completely clear who are the most at risk and, as a result, the credit and equity markets remain on edge. "Therefore, I think the current situation calls for an even more aggressive policy response by Congress, the Executive branch and the Federal Reserve; a response that is targeted primarily at the housing and mortgage markets. Whether the answer is a to allow bankruptcy judges more flexibility in Chapter 13 filings, or expanding the freeze on interest rates or on foreclosures, or creating a taxpayer financed fund to buy-up mortgage loans and securities, or a combination of these ideas. I believe we need to act quickly and aggressively and I would like to hear Chairman Bernanke's thoughts on these ideas, as well as whether he sees the Board continuing to act aggressively on monetary policy to stem or shorten a recession, or whether the focus will shift to inflation. "I applaud Congress for moving faster on a second stimulus package, but longer term, I believe we need to take a hard look at our regulatory regime and consider streamlining the current scheme to eliminate overlapping roles and jurisdictions and re-focus our regulators. We can deliver safety and soundness without unduly restricting credit and the current situation highlights just how important it is that we all work together to get it right." ###
02.26.2008	February 26, 2008 Media contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, D.C.) U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, and Congressman Paul E. Kanjorski (D-PA), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance, and Government Sponsored Enterprises, today announced they will hold a joint hearing to discuss the role of foreign governments' investments in the United States. Government-owned funds, or "sovereign wealth funds" as they are commonly called, are often set up by the world’s leading exporters, and are increasingly making investments in U.S-owned banks, private companies, equity funds, and real property, among other assets. It is estimated that sovereign wealth funds have invested $21.5 billion in American companies over the last year. "This hearing is particularly timely, as the rate of cross-border investment has grown rapidly over the last year alone," said Rep. Gutierrez. "It will provide an opportunity to closely examine the role and impact that these investments play in our businesses and economy, as well as the potential need for increased transparency and 'good governance' principles." "With a continuously expanding global marketplace, it is inevitable for foreign governments to invest in American companies," said Congressman Kanjorski. "This hearing will take initial steps to examine such investments and to discuss whether there is a need for increased transparency as foreign investment in America continues to grow rapidly. Our goal is to ensure the soundness of our financial markets, but we must put our national interests first. This hearing will help to explore how we can take both actions." WHO: Financial Services Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, and the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance, and Government Sponsored Enterprises WHAT: Subcommittee Hearing: "Foreign Government Investment in the U.S. Economy and Financial Sector" WHEN: Wednesday, March 5, 2008, 2:30 p.m. WHERE: 2128 Rayburn House Office Building Witnesses to be announced. ###
12.18.2007	Measure Would Enable States to Withhold Monetary Support of Genocide-Torn Region December 18, 2007 Media contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – What began this February as an Illinois state sanctions law opposed by a district Federal court, today comes full circle in the U.S. House of Representatives. The Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 would authorize state and local governments to divest assets in companies that conduct business operations in Sudan, in order to prohibit United States Government contracts with such companies. U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, began hearings on the Divestment Act (H.R. 180) in March. The Senate version of the Act (S. 2271) returns to the House today for final passage. "With violence and atrocities in Darfur continuing, it is important that we explore all of the available options we have at our disposal to put a stop to the barbaric slaughter of innocent men, women and children," Gutierrez said. "Divestment is one small measure we can take to send a clear message: the United States will not tolerate the atrocities ongoing in Darfur; we will not support it morally, and we will not support it monetarily." There is no way to know for certain how many people have lost their lives as a result of the ongoing Genocide in the Darfur region in Western Sudan, but recent estimates are as high as 450,000 dead since the conflict erupted in 2003. In addition to the staggering death toll, another two million Darfuris have been displaced, with nearly a quarter million having been forced into neighboring Chad. "Divestment is not a cure for genocide, but it can be an important tactic in an overall strategy if used properly. The United States has a responsibility to the international community to tackle this issue head-on with the will to resolve it; this measure represents one step towards that goal." ###
12.18.2007	December 18, 2007 Media contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, D.C.) Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), along with 64 colleagues in Congress, sent a letter to President Bush asking him to address the naturalization backlog that threatens to prevent at least 37,480 applicants in the Chicago area alone from voting in the next presidential election. Below is the text of the letter in English and in Spanish: December 18, 2007 The Honorable George W. BushPresidentThe White House1600 Pennsylvania AvenueWashington, DC 20500 Dear President Bush: We are writing to express our deep concerns regarding the naturalization application backlog at the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) agency. We believe the delays are unnecessary and cause damage to the naturalization process and urge you to investigate and resolve these delays. Recent reports allege that the agency is months behind schedule in returning receipts for checks written to cover fees, which is an early step in the application process. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has estimated that it will take 16 to 18 months on average to process applications filed after June 1, 2007. This is an unacceptable amount of time. America’s immigration system should be efficient and effective especially for those abiding by the law and eager to participate in civic society. For the majority of immigrants, becoming a U. S. citizen is the culmination of many years of hard work and is a critical step toward integration into American society. We believe these delays are a serious obstacle for many of the eight million legal permanent residents who are abiding the rules and hope to become full participants in America’s civic life. We urge you to fully investigate the delays and immediately correct this situation. We look forward to your response by December 31, 2007. Please include in your response whether your plan to hire 1,500 new employees is sufficient to solve the problem to resolve this backlog and to ensure applicants have materials before voter registration deadlines. Also, please identify any obstacles that would prevent an immediate resolution to this backlog. Sincerely, LUIS GUTIERREZ (D-IL) ZOE LOFGREN (D-CA) HOWARD L. BERMAN (D-CA) LOIS CAPPS (D-CA) JANE HARMAN (D-CA) GEORGE MILLER (D-CA) DENNIS MOORE (D-KS) GENE GREEN (D-TX) DENNIS A. CARDOZA (D-CA) BRAD MILLER (D-NC) JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY (D-IL) ELLEN O. TAUSCHER (D-CA) TAMMY BALDWIN (D-WI) JIM COSTA (D-CA) ROSA L. DELAURO (D-CT) ANNA G. ESHOO (D-CA) CHARLES A. GONZALEZ (D-TX) RAÚL GRIJALVA (D-AZ) LUCILLE ROYBAL-ALLARD (D-CA) HILDA L. SOLIS (D-CA) EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON (D-TX) CAROLYN B. MALONEY (D-NY) MICHAEL M. HONDA (D-CA) BARBARA LEE (D-CA) LYNN C. WOOLSEY (D-CA) NYDIA M. VELÁZQUEZ (D-NY) ALCEE L. HASTINGS (D-FL) STEVE COHEN (D-TN) RUSH D. HOLT (D-NJ) ALBIO SIRES (D-NJ) JIM McDERMOTT (D-WA) XAVIER BECERRA (D-CA) ANTHONY D. WEINER (D-NY) SAM FARR (D-CA) LINDA T. SÁNCHEZ (D-CA) SUSAN A. DAVIS (D-CA) JOE BACA (D-CA) JOHN T. SALAZAR (D-CO) GRACE F. NAPOLITANO (D-CA) MARK UDALL (D-CO) DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (D-FL) JOE COURTNEY (D-CT) TIMOTHY H. BISHOP (D-NY) MIKE THOMPSON (D-CA) ADAM B. SCHIFF (D-CA) ED PERLMUTTER (D-CO) AL GREEN (D-TX) MADELINE Z. BORDALLO (D-GU) JAMES P. McGOVERN (D-MA) SOLOMON P. ORTIZ (D-TX) DANNY K. DAVIS (D-IL) HENRY A. WAXMAN (D-CA) JOSÉ E. SERRANO (D-NY) EDOLPHUS TOWNS (D-NY) CHAKA FATTAH (D-PA) JERROLD NADLER (D-NY) JOSEPH CROWLEY (D-NY) TOM LANTOS (D-CA) ENI F. H. FALEOMAVAEGA (D-AS) BOB FILNER (D-CA) SILVESTRE REYES (D-TX) WILLIAM D. DELAHUNT (D-MA) CIRO D. RODRIGUEZ (D-TX) RUBÉN HINOJOSA (D-TX) ED PASTOR (D-AZ) Honorable George W. BushEl Honorable George W. BushLa Casa Blanca1600 Pennsylvania AvenueWashington, DC 20500 Estimado Presidente Bush: Le escribimos para expresar nuestra más profunda preocupación en cuanto a las demoras de los tramites de las solicitudes por parte de el Servicio de Ciudadanía e Inmigración (USCIS). Nosotros creemos que las demoras son innecesarias y que han causado daños al proceso de naturalización, le urgimos que investigue y resuelva estas demoras lo mas ante posible. Reportes recientes afirman que la agencia tiene meses de retrasos en cuanto la devolución de recibos de cheques de los honorarios, lo cual es unos de los primeros pasos en el proceso de la solicitud. El Departamento de Seguridad Nacional (DHS) ha estimado que tomara aproximadamente un promedio de 16 a 18 meses para procesar las solicitudes sometidas después del 1° de junio del 2007. El lapso de tiempo es inaceptable. El sistema migratorio de los Estados Unidos debe ser eficiente y eficaz, especialmente por aquellos que quieren permanecer en este país bajo la ley y ansían por participar en la sociedad civil. Para la mayoría de inmigrantes, convertirse en un ciudadano estadounidense es la culminación de varios años de arduo trabajo, y es un paso crítico para la integración a la sociedad estadounidense. Creemos que estas demoras son obstáculos bien graves para los 8 millones de residentes permanentes quienes siguen las reglas y las leyes de este país con la esperanza de convertirse en ciudadano y participar legalmente en la sociedad civil. Le urgimos que investigue a detalle las demoras y que inmediatamente corrijan la actual situación. Esperamos su respuesta ha más tardar para el 31 de diciembre del 2007. Por favor de incluir en su respuesta su planea contratar ha 1,500 nuevos empleados y si esto es suficiente para resolver el problema de las demoras y si para garantizar a los que se encuentran solicitando que obtendrán materiales antes del último día para registrarse para votar. También, identifique cualquier obstáculo que pueda prevenir una resolución inmediata de la actual situación. Atentamente, LUIS GUTIERREZ (D-IL) ZOE LOFGREN (D-CA) HOWARD L. BERMAN (D-CA) LOIS CAPPS (D-CA) JANE HARMAN (D-CA) GEORGE MILLER (D-CA) DENNIS MOORE (D-KS) GENE GREEN (D-TX) DENNIS A. CARDOZA (D-CA) BRAD MILLER (D-NC) JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY (D-IL) ELLEN O. TAUSCHER (D-CA) TAMMY BALDWIN (D-WI) JIM COSTA (D-CA) ROSA L. DELAURO (D-CT) ANNA G. ESHOO (D-CA) CHARLES A. GONZALEZ (D-TX) RAÚL GRIJALVA (D-AZ) LUCILLE ROYBAL-ALLARD (D-CA) HILDA L. SOLIS (D-CA) EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON (D-TX) CAROLYN B. MALONEY (D-NY) MICHAEL M. HONDA (D-CA) BARBARA LEE (D-CA) LYNN C. WOOLSEY (D-CA) NYDIA M. VELÁZQUEZ (D-NY) ALCEE L. HASTINGS (D-FL) STEVE COHEN (D-TN) RUSH D. HOLT (D-NJ) ALBIO SIRES (D-NJ) JIM McDERMOTT (D-WA) XAVIER BECERRA (D-CA) ANTHONY D. WEINER (D-NY) SAM FARR (D-CA) LINDA T. SÁNCHEZ (D-CA) SUSAN A. DAVIS (D-CA) JOE BACA (D-CA) JOHN T. SALAZAR (D-CO) GRACE F. NAPOLITANO (D-CA) MARK UDALL (D-CO) DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (D-FL) JOE COURTNEY (D-CT) TIMOTHY H. BISHOP (D-NY) MIKE THOMPSON (D-CA) ADAM B. SCHIFF (D-CA) ED PERLMUTTER (D-CO) AL GREEN (D-TX) MADELINE Z. BORDALLO (D-GU) JAMES P. McGOVERN (D-MA) SOLOMON P. ORTIZ (D-TX) DANNY K. DAVIS (D-IL) HENRY A. WAXMAN (D-CA) JOSÉ E. SERRANO (D-NY) EDOLPHUS TOWNS (D-NY) CHAKA FATTAH (D-PA) JERROLD NADLER (D-NY) JOSEPH CROWLEY (D-NY) TOM LANTOS (D-CA) ENI F. H. FALEOMAVAEGA (D-AS) BOB FILNER (D-CA) SILVESTRE REYES (D-TX) WILLIAM D. DELAHUNT (D-MA) CIRO D. RODRIGUEZ (D-TX) RUBÉN HINOJOSA (D-TX) ED PASTOR (D-AZ) ###
12.14.2007	December 14, 2007 Media contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington D.C.) - In response to charges made against Vice President Cheney, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez has made the following statement: "Over the past several months, I have been overwhelmed by calls and letters from my constituents who are outraged over allegations of abuse of power by Vice President Dick Cheney. In an effort to respond to their concerns, I have joined my colleagues on the House Judiciary Committee in calling for committee hearings on impeachment." The following op-ed was issued this December: On November 7, the House of Representatives voted to send a resolution of impeachment of Vice President Cheney to the Judiciary Committee. As Members of the House Judiciary Committee, we strongly believe these important hearings should begin. The issues at hand are too serious to ignore, including credible allegations of abuse of power that if proven may well constitute high crimes and misdemeanors under our constitution. The charges against Vice President Cheney relate to his deceptive actions leading up to the Iraq war, the revelation of the identity of a covert agent for political retaliation, and the illegal wiretapping of American citizens. Now that former White House press secretary Scott McClellan has indicated that the Vice President and his staff purposefully gave him false information about the outing of Valerie Plame Wilson as a covert agent to report to the American people, it is even more important for Congress to investigate what may have been an intentional obstruction of justice. Congress should call Mr. McClellan to testify about what he described as being asked to “unknowingly [pass] along false information.” In addition, recent revelations have shown that the Administration including Vice President Cheney may have again manipulated and exaggerated evidence about weapons of mass destruction -- this time about Iran’s nuclear capabilities. Some of us were in Congress during the impeachment hearings of President Clinton. We spent a year and a half listening to testimony about President Clinton’s personal relations. This must not be the model for impeachment inquires. A Democratic Congress can show that it takes its constitutional authority seriously and hold a sober investigation, which will stand in stark contrast to the kangaroo court convened by Republicans for President Clinton. In fact, the worst legacy of the Clinton impeachment – where the GOP pursued trumped up and insignificant allegations - would be that it discourages future Congresses from examining credible and significant allegations of a constitutional nature when they arise. The charges against Vice President Cheney are not personal. They go to the core of the actions of this Administration, and deserve consideration in a way the Clinton scandal never did. The American people understand this, and a majority support hearings according to a November 13 poll by the American Research Group. In fact, 70% of voters say that Vice President Cheney has abused his powers and 43% say that he should be removed from office right now. The American people understand the magnitude of what has been done and what is at stake if we fail to act. It is time for Congress to catch up. Some people argue that the Judiciary Committee cannot proceed with impeachment hearings because it would distract Congress from passing important legislative initiatives. We disagree. First, hearings need not tie up Congress for a year and shut down the nation. Second, hearings will not prevent Congress from completing its other business. These hearings involve the possible impeachment of the Vice President – not our commander in chief – and the resulting impact on the nation’s business and attention would be significantly less than the Clinton Presidential impeachment hearings. Also, despite the fact that President Bush has thwarted moderate Democratic policies that are supported by a vast majority of Americans -- including children’s health care, stem cell research, and bringing our troops home from Iraq -- the Democratic Congress has already managed to deliver a minimum wage hike, and assistance for college tuition, among other legislative successes. We can continue to deliver on more of our agenda in the coming year while simultaneously fulfilling our constitutional duty by investigating and publicly revealing whether or not Vice President Cheney has committed high crimes and misdemeanors. Holding hearings would put the evidence on the table, and the evidence – not politics – should determine the outcome. Even if the hearings do not lead to removal from office, putting these grievous abuses on the record is important for the sake of history. For an Administration that has consistently skirted the constitution and asserted that it is above the law, it is imperative for Congress to make clear that we do not accept this dangerous precedent. Our Founding Fathers provided Congress the power of impeachment for just this reason, and we must now at least consider using it. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) Rep. Robert Wexler (D-FL) Rep. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) ###
12.06.2007	December 6, 2007 Media contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology, released the following comment on SEIU’s statement regarding the responsibilities of major banks: "A company's business model directly reflects its priorities, and the SEIU report calls into question whether minority and low-income consumers are a priority for America’s biggest banks. I remain committed to ensuring that minority consumers are given access to the full range of financial services that are so important to building a solid financial future." ###
11.15.2007	Regulations for Brokers, Originators Protect Future Borrowers November 15, 2007 Media contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Today, the House considers the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Act of 2007, including measures advocated by Hon. Luis Gutierrez (D-Ill.) to target predatory lending practices. Gutierrez' provisions represent a critical response to ensure that minimum licensing standards apply to mortgage originators and brokers. Specifically, the measures would: Mandate pre-licensing education and training requirements. Require brokers to fulfill continuing education requirements. Require brokers to undergo criminal background checks and fingerprinting. TT This would enable any fraudulent practices to be tracked from state to state and establish a national mortgage originator licensing and registration system. To date, several states arestill do not require mortgage brokers to be licensed, and some employ lax licensing requirements without enforcement mechanisms. Under this system, unethical brokers are able to move from state-to-state, making questionable loans without oversight or accountability. "It is our responsibility to ensure that the mortgage industry is responsible to the people it serves. The unethical practices of some have dramatically impacted thousands of American families who now face foreclosure. However, by increasing our standards and expectations of brokers and originators, we can help prevent such a crisis from occurring again in the future." ###
10.31.2007	Changing Metallic Composition of Coins Enables Treasury to Open Door for Greater Savings October 31, 2007 Media contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, today joined Chairman Barney Frank (D-Ma) in a measure that would save taxpayers millions each year by restoring a proportionate economic relationship between each coin's metal worth and its face value. By providing alternative, lower-cost metals for the penny and nickel, the Coin Modernization and Taxpayer Savings Act (HR 3956) enables the U.S. Treasury to prevent production costs from exceeding the currency's actual value as well as potentially consequential coin shortages. "This Act is a simple and logical correction to a long-overdue imbalance," Rep. Gutierrez said. "There is no need for taxpayers to pay for a discrepancy in value when the United States government has the ability and obligation to amend its practices and benefit the economy as a whole." This Act represents a calculated response to rising global demand and price of core metals. Currently, pennies are made mostly of zinc with a copper-plated surface, and nickels are made up of 75 percent copper and 25 percent nickel. Since March of 2003, demand has driven up the price of copper and nickel by 300 percent and of zinc by 450 percent. At the current specifications for these coins, it costs the government 1.7 cents to make a penny and 10 cents to make a nickel, resulting in a $98.6 million loss to taxpayers in 2007. The legislation authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to change the metallic content of coins, generating savings of $31 million for the penny and $68 million for the nickel. Additionally, while other denominations continue to be made at costs well below their face values, the Act would enable the United States Mint, under the Secretary of the Treasury’s, the ability to monitor and amend the composition of currency with respect to its actual value. ###
04.22.2007	Legislation would create an immigration system that meets the economic and security needs of our nation by creating laws that are tough, enforceable and realistic April 22, 2007 Media contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- U.S. Representatives Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.) and Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) joined their colleagues Thursday to unveil new legislation designed to fix our nation's badly broken immigration system. The legislation is the culmination of years of hard work, in-depth discussions and thoughtful negotiations by Reps. Gutierrez and Flake and their colleagues on both sides of the aisle. "The bill we are discussing today is all about security--homeland security, family security and economic security," Gutierrez said. "It will allow us to better protect our borders and reform an immigration system that is hampering businesses, hurting families and harming communities. It is vital that we work in a bipartisan fashion to tackle this critical issue." “Our current immigration laws are at odds with reality,” Flake said. “This bill addresses that problem by bolstering border security, increased interior enforcement, and creating a temporary worker program that’s enforceable and fair.” The bill, the STRIVE Act of 2007 (Security Through Regularized Immigration and a Vibrant Economy), would overhaul the current immigration system in a way that better protects and enforces our borders, respects the hard work and contributions of immigrants to our country and reflects the realities of our workforce and the needs of our communities. “This is good, common sense legislation that addresses border security and the millions of undocumented workers in our country,” George Radanovich (R-Calif.) said. “I am particularly pleased to see the AgJOBS language included in this bill so our nation’s farmers get the help they need to put food on our tables.” “As the son of an immigrant and a resident of Chicago, I know first-hand, that immigrants make this country strong. Those who have lived in this country for years - who have held jobs, started families and established roots in American communities - deserve the opportunity to earn their citizenship,” said Rep. Rahm Emanuel (D-Ill.). “This legislation enhances protections for immigrants already living and working in the U.S., provides for effective security enforcement, assists in family reunification, encourages legality at our borders, and most importantly treats all immigrants with the dignity and respect they deserve. I am proud to join members from both sides of the aisle in introducing this reform.” "Only a comprehensive immigration reform plan like the STRIVE Act will help us achieve an effective, lasting, and viable solution to the immigration issues facing our nation," said Congressman Luis G. Fortuño (R-PR), chair of the Congressional Hispanic Conference. Representative Joseph Crowley (D-N.Y.) said, “It is time that we pass comprehensive immigration reform that balances our nation’s security with a realistic and humane approach to dealing with the 11 million undocumented individuals already in the United States. This bipartisan legislation enforces accountability and strong border controls, while offering an earned path to citizenship to those who have contributed to our society through hard work. I thank Congressmen Luis Gutierrez and Jeff Flake for renewing their cooperation on this issue so we can finally move forward in fixing our broken immigration system.” If enacted, the Gutierrez-Flake bill would ensure that we have an immigration system in place that meets the security and economic needs of our nation by creating laws that are tough, enforceable and realistic. ###
02.27.2007	Puerto Ricans to Choose Their Future in a Fair Process February 27, 2007 Media contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE (Washington, D.C.) Today, Congressman Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) was joined by colleagues Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) and Puerto Rico Governor, Aníbal Acevedo Vilá, in introducing the Puerto Rico Self-Determination Act of 2007, which would provide the people of Puerto Rico a fair process to help them reach a democratic consensus on the future of the island. “Any initiative regarding the future of Puerto Rico must first come from Puerto Ricans,” said Congressman Gutierrez. “For this reason, I have cosponsored the Puerto Rico Self-Determination Act of 2007, which provides a fair, comprehensive and democratic process for the people of Puerto Rico to determine their status." The continuing debate surrounding the status of Puerto Rico has attracted numerous proposals from members of Congress. While these bills are well intentioned, they do not provide the citizens of Puerto Rico with a direct mechanism to be involved in the deliberations of the status process from beginning to end. This act would ensure the people of Puerto Rico a democratic process of self-determination by encouraging a path of dialogue and consensus. A Constitutional Convention, comprised of delegates elected by the people of Puerto Rico, would adopt a self-determination option, which then must be ratified by the people of Puerto Rico before being considered by Congress. This bill is unique in that it provides a fair process through several checks and balances and affords time for debate, negotiation and consensus building in Puerto Rico. It also allows Puerto Ricans who live in the United States, but who do not reside on the island, to participate in the self-determination process. ###
02.25.2007	Legislation designed to protect families from unscrupulous lending practices by mortgage brokers and to better regulate high-risk loans across the country February 25, 2007 Media contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CHICAGO -- U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, joined local elected officials, community leaders and families who have been victimized by unscrupulous mortgage brokers Sunday to unveil new legislation designed to prohibit predatory lending practices and to better protect individuals from high-risk loans, hidden fees and punitive penalties. "Too many hardworking families are having the American Dream of homeownership turned into a dark nightmare because of deceptive and misleading mortgage brokers," Rep. Gutierrez said. "People are losing their homes, their savings and their livelihood because they are being misled into purchasing or refinancing loans at rates far beyond their financial means." These sentiments were recently backed up by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. "Several credible reports say that we are facing a tidal wave of defaults and foreclosures, which could strip these families of their major, if not their only, source of wealth and long-term economic security," Bernanke stated in testimony before Congress. In 2006, the number of reported foreclosures soared 42 percent to nearly 1.2 million, according to the Wall Street Journal. That is a rate of one in every 92 U.S. households. In addition, foreclosure rates on subprime loans more than doubled last year, according to a UBS report. "The legislation we are introducing this week will bring accountability, transparency and stricter standards to this loosely regulated industry," Gutierrez said. "It will ensure that people understand the hazards of high-risk loans and the subprime market, and it will ensure that mortgage brokers are appropriately licensed and are operating in good faith." Gutierrez' bill, known as the Mortgage Broker Licensing and Predatory Loan Disclosure Act of 2007, would hold mortgage brokers liable for actual damages suffered by borrowers, impose strict financial penalties for those who willfully violate the law, require mortgage brokers to pay costs and legal fees of victims and it affords state attorneys general the option to bring actions on behalf of borrowers. It also would require brokers to disclose, in writing, all fees, penalties, financial arrangements and premiums associated with a loan. "In many cases, individuals are not explained thoroughly enough the fine print of adjustable rate loans," Gutierrez said. "This is often the case for seniors, who are living on an extremely fixed income. When their interest rates climb, often doubling their monthly payments, they are simply unable to cover the cost of their mortgages." The legislation also would require all mortgage brokers to be bonded and would call for the Department of Housing and Urban Development to establish minimum licensing requirements for all mortgage brokers nationwide. Gutierrez' legislation also would ban the "flipping" of loans if it has no tangible benefit to the consumer and would regulate the fee structures and penalties often hidden in high-risk loans. In addition, the Mortgage Broker Licensing and Predatory Loan Disclosure Act of 2007 would create a federal framework for educating, counseling and assisting consumers to make smart and sound financial housing decisions. It would ensure that some of the challenges that arose from the Illinois law, House Bill 4050, do not occur because the bill would create national standards and ensure that particular neighborhoods, or zip codes, are not held to different criteria. "This legislation will provide families the tools and resources they need to make smart financial decisions," Gutierrez added. "It also will put bad actors out of business, create national standards, and ensure that the mortgage broker business is properly regulated and that it operates aboveboard. This bill would be an important victory for upstanding mortgage brokers across the country, as well as for those who rely on the services they provide." ###
01.17.2007	Naturalization Delays January 17, 2007 Media Contact: Rebecca Dreilinger 202-225-8203 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), a member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, today responded to testimony provided by Emilio T. Gonzalez, the director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, who said that from now until 2010, the agency will take an average of 18 months -- up from seven months or less last year -- to process petitions for citizenship. "Immigrants who are living, working and contributing to our country have been deeply criticized, simply for wanting to earn citizenship," said Rep. Gutierrez. "These immigrants deserve a system that processes their requests efficiently, and which allows them to respond to these demonizing and xenophobic attacks by exercising their right to vote for political leadership who will represent their contributions." When Mr. Gonzalez implemented a 2007 midyear fee increase of 66 percent for handling immigration documents, he announced that additional funds would be put towards reducing the naturalization and permanent resident visa wait times, as well as preventing future backlogs. Yet in the Chicago area alone, there are 37,480 applications currently pending, and the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights estimates that several hundred thousand applications nationwide will not be processed in time for the November 2008 presidential elections. "I am committed to doing everything possible to remove roadblocks to citizenship, including holding the responsible agencies accountable for a lack of preparation to accommodate the anticipated rise in applications. In the coming weeks, the Subcommittee will also be looking to the FBI to scrutinize what appears to be a complete failure to efficiently adjudicate these people, who desperately want to become citizens and contribute to a better, more dynamic America." ###
