12.12.2018	Congressman Jeb Hensarling issued this statement following the House passage of the Farm Bill: “I come from several generations of farmers, and I grew up working on my family’s farm. However, throughout my time in Congress, I have always opposed the federal farm program. This subsidy program is a relic from the New Deal and undermines every free market principle I believe in. The vast majority of farmers and ranchers receive no subsidies, and they instead go to a privileged few. They are not targeted to low income individuals as many recipients make six-figure incomes. The program isn’t just unfair to other ag producers, it is unfair to every other trade and profession that is not subsidized by the federal taxpayer. Finally, with an exploding national debt, it makes no sense to leave taxpayers with the burden of out-of-control spending. The simple solution to all of this better crop insurance, but this farm bill once again puts the taxpayers on the hook. I appreciate Chairman Conaway’s attempt to improve the SNAP program and institute common sense work requirements. Unfortunately, this version of the bill contains neither of those reforms, which is another reason I voted against it on the floor today.” ###
10.01.2018	U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after the a deal was reached between the U.S., Canada, and Mexico to revise the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and rename it the United States Mexico Canada Agreement (USMCA). “Free trade is vital to keeping our economy strong, wages high, and prices low for American consumers. Protectionist trade practices, on the other hand, are a form of crony capitalism where the government picks both the winners and the losers. I am glad that we reached an agreement and that we will continue to have a trilateral trade pact with our North American neighbors. As I study the details of the United States Mexico Canada Agreement, I hope to see that it brings us closer to President Trump’s stated goal of trade with ‘no tariffs, no barriers.’”
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after the House passed “Tax Reform 2.0,” a package of three bills which will make permanent the reforms and tax cuts signed into law last year. “Thanks to tax reform, many workers are now seeing the best economy of their lifetimes. That is why I voted today to make the tax cuts in our law permanent for individuals and small businesses, locking in the reforms that are leading to more jobs and higher paychecks across Dallas County and East Texas. For too long a complicated and onerous tax code diminished the dreams of our citizens, and the passage of Tax Reform 2.0 by the House will help ensure that those days are a thing of the past,” said Hensarling. Highlights from Tax Reform 2.0: Locks in the lower individual tax rates of zero, 12%, 25%, and 35% and top rate of 39.6. Maintains the roughly doubled Standard Deduction – from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples. Makes permanent the new Family Credit – including the Child Tax Credit expanded from $1,000 to $1,600 for each child and the new credits of $300 each for the taxpayer, spouse and other dependents. Eliminates the Alternative Minimum Tax for nearly 96 percent of those who paid it last year. Doubled exemption from the Death Tax. For small businesses, makes permanent the first-ever 20% deduction for pass-through business income. ###
08.26.2018	Congressman Jeb Hensarling issued the following statement on the passing of Senator John McCain “America lost a true statesman last night. Senator McCain was a hero fighting in uniform and in the halls of Congress. His legacy of standing up for everyday Americans and his unwavering patriotism have left a lasting mark on our democracy that cannot be denied. May we lift up the McCain family in our thoughts and prayers during this time of loss.” ###
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON–U.S. Representative Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s meeting with European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker regarding trade: “While I have been concerned about the impact of the administration’s trade policy, I was excited when I saw the President’s recent tweet calling on the U.S. and EU to ‘drop all tariffs, barriers and subsidies.’ I was even more excited to see the news that the President was able to reach an agreement with the EU to actually expand trade and ‘hold off on other tariffs.’ I look forward to reviewing the details, but I applaud the President for his negotiation.” ###
05.31.2018	WASHINGTON–U.S. Representative Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s proposal to place tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum coming from Mexico, Canada, and the EU: “I strongly disagree with the decision to move forward with the implementation of tariffs on aluminum and steel imports from Mexico, Canada, and the EU under the guise of national security concerns. Protectionist policies typically are another version of crony capitalism with the government picking winners and losers. The Administration may be correct in claiming that the existing steel and aluminum tariffs have been helpful to some workers and jobs, but it has hurt other businesses that use these metals. It is going to be a tax on all consumers.” ###
05.28.2018	WASHINGTON–U.S. Representative Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement on Memorial Day 2018: “There are not enough words to describe how grateful I am to those who paid the ultimate sacrifice serving our country in the military. I am always reminded that freedom is not free, and it certainly cannot be taken for granted. “It is my sincere hope that you will take time to reflect upon the service of our fallen heroes. On this Memorial Day and every day, I ask that you join me in praying for those we have lost and their loved ones.” ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Jeb Hensarling (TX-5), Chairman of the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement as President Trump considers auto tariffs on vehicle imports: “The Honda Accord is not a threat to our national security. However, taxing it with trade tariffs is a threat to the economic security of millions of hardworking American families. Trade laws designed to uphold critical national security measures should never be used as an excuse for raw protectionism. All of the great gains President Trump has made with generational tax relief and bureaucratic regulatory reforms – the reforms that are fueling our economy – can be wiped out overnight if we end up in a global trade war. I again call upon the President and his administration to exercise extreme caution and focus on the nation states that violate the actual trade rules and force transfers of our technology and intellectual property.” ###
05.21.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) congratulated Leah Davis, a resident of Gun Barrel City and a junior at Mabank High School, for winning the grand prize in the Congressional Art Competition for the Fifth District of Texas. Perla Badillo, a resident of Mabank and a junior at Mabank High School, was first runner-up, and Jaclyn Castillo, a resident of Forney and senior at North Forney High School, was second runner-up. Click here or on the photo below to download a high-resolution copy. Top Row: (L-R) Wendy Brantley, Mabank HS Art Instructor; Congressman Hensarling’s District Director, Phillip Smith; Jes Satterwhite, Mabank HS Principal and Kelsey Proffitt, Mabank HS Art Instructor Bottom Row: (L-R) 2018 Congressional Art Contest 1st Runner-up, Perla Badillo; 2018 Congressional Art Contest Winner Leah Davis “The 2018 Congressional Art Competition had many great entries from extremely talented young artists, and I congratulate Leah Davis for her winning effort,” said Hensarling. “I also applaud Perla Badillo and Jaclyn Castillo for their work. The Congressional Art Competition is a unique opportunity for students to showcase their tremendous talents and receive proper recognition for their work.” “Each of the young artists who entered this year’s competition should be extremely proud of their work. I am pleased to represent a district with such talented young people,” said Hensarling. Leah Davis was very excited to receive the top prize for her painting entitled “Free Winds”. As the Grand Prize winner, Davis will have the opportunity to travel to Washington, D.C. to attend a special unveiling ceremony for the exhibition in a corridor of the U.S. Capitol and meet with Congressman Hensarling. ###
05.14.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement honoring the historic dedication of the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem: “This is a powerfully historic moment in time. Along with the recognition of Jerusalem as Israel’s rightful and eternal capital, the dedication ceremony that took place is an enormous milestone in history not only for Israel but for America as well. As our friends continue to protect their heritage and future generations from adversaries, I wish our sister country, greatest ally, and U.S. Embassy the very best as they continue their work in the Holy City.” ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s intention to withdraw from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA): “From the beginning, Iran has not followed the spirit of the so-called ‘nuclear’ deal. They call for the annihilation of our ally, Israel. They continue to develop and test missiles. Most of all, they are a state sponsor of terrorism. Furthermore, the deal is dangerously flawed as it expires and seemingly did not shut off Iran’s path to a nuclear weapon. A deal in need of a permanent solution was answered with temporary measures, and that is unacceptable. It is an understatement to say we cannot afford a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. President Obama made a dangerous agreement packed with serious shortcomings – it was a good deal for Iran and not a good deal for the American people. “Today, President Trump sent a clear message that he is ready to take a different direction and put America’s national security interests first. I stand by our President and his decision to withdraw from the bad Iran deal and seek a meaningful agreement with Iran that will ensure a long-term solution and stability.” ###
05.04.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after the U.S. unemployment rate fell to 3.9 percent: “Our economy is booming under President Trump’s leadership. With today’s announcement of the unemployment rate falling to 3.9 percent, we are seeing the lowest level of unemployment since the year 2000. In addition, the Labor Department reports show we have added 164,000 jobs. Our economy is on the path to success, and I applaud House Republicans, Speaker Ryan, the Trump Administration for this accomplishment.” ###
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement upon the announcement of First Lady Barbara Bush’s passing: “Barbara Bush had unparalleled style and grace. Not only was she our First Lady, but a fiercely loyal wife, mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother. While she may no longer be here with us on earth, we can be certain she is with our Heavenly Father – her memory will continue to live in the hearts and minds of the American people.” ###
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement on the last Tax Day that Americans will file their taxes based on our outdated and onerous tax code before the historic, pro-growth Tax Cuts and Jobs Act goes fully into effect: “This time next year, many Americans will be able to file their taxes on a form much simpler than the one they are having to deal with this tax season. While our citizens are still coping with the headaches and frustration of the outdated 32-year-old tax code, they can rest assured that a new day is on the horizon. Next year, we will see the individual health care mandate disappear, 90 percent of Americans will see greater take-home pay, and the standard deduction will nearly double. Consumer confidence is up, jobless claims are down, and customers in at least 39 states are seeing lower utility bills. While some benefits will not be realized until next year, over four million people are already seeing bonuses in their paychecks. This Tax Day is a historic one, as Congress and the White House successfully worked together to fix our broken system.” ###
04.14.2018	
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) spoke on the House Floor before an overwhelming majority of Democrats demonstrated their unwillingness to support a balanced budget amendment. Click here to view the floor speech or on the photo above. Transcript: “Along with Chairman Goodlatte, I will be leaving Congress at the end of this year. Serving in Congress has been the greatest privilege of my life. But I leave with one great regret, and that regret is my inability to convince my colleagues of the peril of ignoring the debt trajectory this nation is on. “We cannot continue to spend money we do not have. My iPad is awash of reports about how our spending trajectory is unsustainable. CBO, OMB, from private foundations, they all conclude the same thing. The picture of national bankruptcy is ugly. “It wasn’t that many years ago that we saw it in Greece. We saw soup kitchens, padlocked factories, hospitals that could no longer turn on the lights. College educated people forced in to subsistence agriculture. I don’t think America is going to be Greece. I wish I knew it for a fact. But here’s what I do know. If we don’t quit spending money, money we don’t have, we will become a second-rate economic power, a second-rate military power, and a second-rate moral authority. “As we become the first generation in America’s history to leave the next generation with a lower standard of living – that is simply not just unintelligent, that is immoral. Can we have that stain on our record for generations to come? “Frankly, I wish we were debating a spending limit amendment today. Which is my preference. But at least the balanced budget amendment is a fair fight so we at least do not mortgage our children’s future, our grandchildren’s future. “Again, there is a moral imperative. We know what Churchill once said about us. That is, Americans can usually be counted on to do the right thing once they have exhausted every other possibility. It’s a humorous comment for a situation that is not humorous. We cannot wait. This is the most foreseeable crisis in America’s future. “Today, we can make history. Today, we can ensure that we show fidelity to our Founding Fathers and to future generations. And for once going forward, ensure that it is enshrined in our most sacred document, that we balance the budget and do not mortgage our children’s future.” ###
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after U.S. Representative Dennis Ross announced his retirement at the end of his term: “Congressman Ross has demonstrated a calm demeanor and incredible leadership throughout his time in Congress. He has been an invaluable member of the Financial Services Committee – particularly on the issue of flood insurance reform – where I know his insight and dedicated service will be greatly missed. While it is bittersweet to see quality members retire, I know Dennis is headed towards great opportunities in the future. I wish him and his wife, Cindy, the best of luck in the next chapter of their lives.” ###
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement in response to Speaker Paul Ryan announcing he is not seeking re-election: “I am very saddened to hear the news today that Speaker Paul Ryan will not be seeking re-election. He is one of the great conservative leaders and visionaries within the Republican Party, and truly an intellectual tour de force. I am so grateful for his leadership on many important issues – but most especially reforming our tax code and showing the way to save our nation from bankruptcy through innovative entitlement reform. His contributions to public service will have a long-lasting imprint, and he will not be easily replaced. I will always treasure and value his friendship and look forward to the remaining tenure of his Speakership.” ###
04.05.2018	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration announcing plans to deploy troops to the U.S.-Mexico border: “As any Texan can tell you, our national borders are not secure enough. After so many years of failure with our country’s immigration system, it is refreshing to see the Trump Administration take bold action to protect our national and economic security. I applaud the administration’s plan to utilize the National Guard at the border – our citizens’ safety absolutely must come first. While America is a nation of immigrants, those seeking entry must respect the rule of law.” ###
03.23.2018	“There was one overriding reason to vote for the bloated Omnibus Spending bill; too many men and women in uniform are dying and there are urgent threats to our national security that we are ill-equipped to meet. "Just last week we lost two pilots due to a training accident and seven pilots due to a helicopter crash in Iraq which means we lost 9 people due to equipment. Under 8 years of Obama, we have reduced the size of the Army Guard by 120,000 troops and eliminated 15 brigade combat teams. Funding to upgrade outdated Army equipment has been cut in half during the last 8 years under Obama. "Meanwhile, China, Russia, Iraq and North Korea pose significant ever-growing threats to our national security. Secretary Mattis has said “If we are to sustain our military’s primacy, we need budget predictability. I know many want to avoid additional spending, but Congress must take action now to ensure our military lethality is sufficient to defend our way of life, preserve the prosperity our country enjoys, and pass on the freedoms we enjoy to the next generation.” "As President Trump said right before he signed the bill, “deep defense cuts have undermined our national security…if you look at what's taken out, they've hollowed our readiness as a military unit and put America at really grave risk. My highest duty is to keep America safe. Nothing more important.” "It pained me to vote for this bill because we should never be forced with choosing between our national security and our fiscal security. America continues to be on the road to eventual bankruptcy. "But the bill to bust the budget caps which sets these bloated spending levels and increases the debt ceiling was approved 6 weeks ago. I fought against it and voted against it. Unfortunately, that bill was overwhelmingly approved by Congress, including a majority of Republicans. Once the debt ceiling was again breached and the unsustainable funding level agreed to, the omnibus spending bill then allocated the money between accounts. "Our sailors and soldiers have been held hostage by Democrat spending demands. A very expensive ransom is being paid and needlessly paid in my opinion. As long as Senators allow Democrats to veto military spending by requiring 60 votes instead of 51, this will continue to happen. Senators must be called upon to change this anti-democratic rule of theirs. "Meanwhile, I’ll continue to vote to get rid of Obamacare and work to reform other automatic spending programs. This is the only way we will take America off the road to bankruptcy.” Additional Background Information: Military The 8 years of the Obama Administration severely depleted our military and during his Administration. Serious readiness shortfalls, to include insufficient time or resources to train Sailors or maintain ships, contributed to the fatal accidents aboard the USS Fitzgerald and USS McCain this summer. In some cases, Sailors are working over 100 hours a week to keep up with training requirements and current operations. Navy ships and submarines remain in port unable to sail and perform their mission due to critical maintenance that cannot be conducted with budget cuts. The Air Force is smaller than it has ever been, with the average age of Air Force aircraft over 27 years old. The Air Force is 2,000 pilots short. The Pilots we do have are flying fewer hours than their predecessors in the 1970s when the service was considered “hollow.” Less than half of the Navy’s Aircraft can fly due to maintenance and spare parts issues. Approximately 80% of Marine Corps aviation units lack the minimum number of ready basic aircraft. To fund other priorities with constrained budgets, the services have been diverting funds from facilities maintenance, a risky gamble that has accelerated the failure rate of our infrastructure. Estimates of the number of facilities that now meet the Pentagon’s definition of “failing” have doubled in recent years. Our Armed Forces are struggling with crumbling and mold-ridden barracks, hangars that have been condemned, air traffic control facilities and runways in disrepair, collapsed ceilings and contaminated water. The backlog of deferred maintenance on facilities has increased from $2 billion in 1978 to $100 billion today. This bill provided the biggest increase in defense spending in 15 years. Of the 1.207 trillion, 659.6 billion was for the Department of Defense which accounts for 54%. $47 billion to get our planes and pilots back in the air $37 billion to get our ships and sailors back to the sea $22.1 billion to get our troops ready to deploy $144.3 billion to procure, replace and upgrade critical weapons and equipment 2.4% pay raise for the military, which is their largest pay increase in 8 years Record level of funding for the VA while also increasing oversight of the VA Other conservative wins Continues all existing pro-life provisions, including maintaining the Hyde and Helms amendments that prohibit the use of taxpayer dollars for abortion Reduces and the EPA funding even further and keeps it at the lowest staffing levels since 1998 Prevented the bailout to Obamacare insurers Provides funding for some of the Trump Administration’s most important priorities including $1.5 billion for 100 miles of physical barriers and associated technology along the southwest border, infrastructure investments and funds to combat the opioid crises Sets the stage to advance meaningful reforms to the National Flood Insurance program by stopping the reauthorization of this program in July. NFIP has cost taxpayers $16 billion and they currently have an additional $20 billion in debt for a total of $36 billion. ###
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON–Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) is inviting high school students across the 5th Congressional District to participate in the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. “Each year, this exciting competition provides Members of Congress the opportunity to showcase the artistic talent of high school students within their districts, thereby acknowledging our nation’s gifted young artists,�? said Congressman Hensarling. “I am pleased to announce that the Fifth Congressional District is once again participating in the competition and I look forward to seeing the artwork that our talented students submit.�? As in years past, the winning entry from each congressional district will be displayed in a special exhibit located in a corridor of the U.S. Capitol building. The winning student and guest will be invited to attend a special reception unveiling the artwork in Washington, D.C. Teachers and students wishing to participate in this year’s competition should contact Congressman Hensarling’s office at (214) 349-9996 for official contest dates, rules, and guidelines. Artwork must be submitted no later than Tuesday, April 24, 2018 to be considered. ###
03.12.2018	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, recently joined Fox Business Network’s Mornings with Maria, CNN’s New Day, Fox News Channel’s Outnumbered Overtime, and Bloomberg Daybreak to discuss pending Senate Banking Committee legislation, what’s next for the House Financial Services Committee, and his opinion on steel tariffs. Click here or on the photo above to review the news clips. Highlights Addressing Dodd-Frank this Week: “The truth is not a major rollback of Dodd-Frank. I wish it was. I think I would view it more as a recalibration, but it is an important piece of legislation that the Senate is taking up. Frankly, we passed a major piece of legislation in the House back in June and now it is March of the next year so we’ve been waiting patiently. What I think this is mainly is something that will help our community financial institutions.” What is holding Up Dodd-Frank reform? “It’s hard to get 60 votes in the Senate to agree on a Mother’s Day resolution. So I don’t quite know what is going to come out of the Senate bill, but just the fact that Senator Crapo, my Senate counterpart, has gotten it this far it is important. We are losing a community bank or credit union a day in America and they are not dying of natural causes.” Facing Steel Tariffs: “I applaud the President for renegotiating trade agreements, I applaud the fact that he believes he can get better deals on a bilateral basis and trade agreements, but we are talking about American jobs. We are talking about American consumers. Again, he has got to be careful that he is not throwing the baby out with the bath water. I really respect our President, I agree with so much of what he has done.” Bipartisanship in Congress: “But if some of your point is, should we in Congress work on a bipartisan basis? I can only talk about my House Financial Services Committee that I have the privilege of chairing. We have passed multiple bipartisan bills and we are trying to go to conference or trying to go and work out a bill with the Senate to provide some relief for community banks, our credit unions, our small growth companies. We’ve gotten votes that took place on the House floor 395-2, 417-0, so a lot of bipartisan work is taking place. I always try and listen to people and then do what is best.” ###
03.01.2018	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s announcement about action on steel tariffs. “President Trump’s first year in office has been one that invigorated the economy with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and regulatory reform, but I urge the President to exercise extreme caution here as these tariffs could affect some of this economic growth. The last time steel tariffs were imposed, it cost American jobs. I’m already hearing from constituents who fear this will seriously harm their businesses. I applaud the President for working on better trade agreements, but the imposition of wide-ranging tariffs may lead to the net loss of American jobs, higher prices for consumers, and invite trade retaliation from abroad. I urge the President to be surgical in his approach and limit any action to what is absolutely necessary for our national security.” ###
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after lawmakers voted on a funding bill. “I voted again earlier this week to fully fund our military and I understand the urgent need to strengthen our national defense. But Congressional Democrats have held our military hostage through the appropriations process. Regrettably, Congressional Republicans have agreed to pay the ransom to release them today. Although I understand our leadership felt they had no other choice, I believe it is a monumental mistake and a sad day. “By eviscerating the 2011 budget caps and agreeing to a debt ceiling increase with zero spending reforms, I feel Republicans are allowing the removal of what little spending discipline remains in Washington. With rising interest rates and baby boomers continuing to pressure our entitlement programs, there are now trillion dollar deficits as far as the eye can see. “There is a true spending-driven debt crisis in America. It is the greatest existential threat to our country that receives little to no attention in Washington. “When the debt was $17 trillion, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mike Mullen said, ‘the most significant threat to our national security is our debt.’ Now that number is $20 trillion with no sign of stopping. “$20 trillion in national debt is a dubious and dangerous milestone that was all too avoidable. If we do not alter our nation’s debt trajectory, we will soon wake up to find ourselves a second-rate economic power, a second-rate military power, and a second-rate moral authority. “With the passage of this spending package, I fear Republicans have just ceded our moral authority to lead our nation away from eventual national insolvency. I cannot in good conscience support it.” ###
02.05.2018	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) recently joined Fox News Channel’s Sunday Morning Futures with Maria Bartiromo. Click here for part one of the interview and click here for part two. Highlights Addressing the Stock Market’s Relationship with the Economy: “The Federal Reserve has built up a huge, bloated balance sheet. At some point, that has to unwind. We cannot have artificially low interest rates. The good news is if there is a good time to unwind this balance sheet, it’s now when the underlying economy and fundamentals are so strong.” What Works: “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is working. Regulatory reform is working. I think the economy will be really strong. The Fed has a tough job, they’re going to have to balance it and ensure they can keep inflation in check, and not put a wet blanket over a growing economy.” When We Will Feel Regulatory Rollback: “The truth is, a year in to the Trump Administration, there are still so many offices that President Trump has been unable to get confirmed through the United States Senate because Democrats are dragging their feet. In some respects, you are only seeing the leading edge of the tax reform plan, the leading edge of regulatory reform…Six of the worst seven regulatory years in our history took place under the Obama Administration.” Regulations Mean Trouble For Americans: “I had one businessman tell me ‘my whole business depends on what side of the bed a bureaucrat wakes up on.’ It is an erosion of the rule of law, having to actually calculate political risk in the United States of America. It was the cost. It was the complexity. It was the uncertainty of it all. That is going away under the Trump Administration.” ###
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after the House of Representatives released the memo that identifies abuse of FBI and DOJ surveillance against President Trump and his staff. “Congress has the constitutional responsibility to conduct oversight over the Executive Branch, and our citizens have the right to be informed on these matters unless doing so would present a true threat to national security. The FBI and Justice Department should be held to the highest standards because of their immense power. We must zealously guard these institutions against being politicized. Evidence of inappropriate and potentially politicized actions by individuals entrusted to enforce and uphold the law should not be withheld from the American people. I look forward to this matter being thoroughly investigated and Congress doing what is necessary to correct any abuses." ###
01.25.2018	WASHINGTON–Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) is asking students across the 5th Congressional District to help honor the service and sacrifice of veterans by participating in the annual Valentines for Vets program. Hensarling hopes to make his final “Valentines for Veterans” drive the largest contribution from the 5th District of Texas yet. Each year, Congressman Hensarling’s office collects hand-made Valentine’s Day cards from 5th District students that are delivered to hospitalized veterans at the Dallas Veterans Administration Medical Center. The valentines will also be delivered to members of our veterans organizations. “These valentines are a great way to say thank you to the brave men and women who have made tremendous sacrifices to protect our freedom,” said Congressman Hensarling. “We need to let them know that we appreciate all that they have done for our country. I know each veteran who receives one of these cards will be happy to see how much our students care about them and care about America.” Teachers, principals, parents and organizations who would like to participate in this effort should contact Amanda Beltran in Congressman Hensarling’s Athens office at (903) 675-8288. All valentines must be collected by Monday, February 5th to ensure delivery by Valentine’s Day. Valentines for Vets is an annual program held in conjunction with National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week. Every February, Americans open their hearts to our nation's hospitalized veterans by sending cards and letters to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers across the country. For any further questions about the program, please contact Margaret Smith in the Dallas office at (214) 349-9996. ###
01.15.2018	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement to commemorate the life of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. “On this day, we pause to remember the courageous life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. His eloquent words and nonviolent approach to attaining racial equality will never be lost on the hearts and minds of people around the world. “Dr. King continues to inspire us to love one another and to keep the dream of freedom and equality for all – regardless of race, religion, or ethnic origin – alive. “We must all work towards a society where skin color is as irrelevant as paint color; where the central organizing and relevant unit of society is the individual, not the ethnic or racial group. “It is my sincere hope that the American people will take time to reflect upon Dr. King’s teachings and continue to work towards the principles of peace and justice that he devoted his life to.” ###
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after supporting measures to condemn Iran’s rogue regime as the people of Iran fight to pursue the peace and freedom they deserve: “Today, the people of Iran are suffering under a rogue regime in Iran. These innocent people are fighting for basic freedoms that the American people hold so dear. The radical regime in Iran must be held accountable, and today the House took a step to support the Iranian people in their mission to give their families better and more peaceful lives.” ###
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after the House and Senate passed The Tax Cuts & Jobs Act: “For hardworking taxpayers, the day has finally come. The House and Senate passed the historic Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the most meaningful tax reform legislation in over a generation. For those who over the last eight years saw their paychecks stagnate, their savings not recover, and their dreams diminish – help is finally on the way. The legislation now sits on the desk of the President for his signature. “The law lowers tax rates for all Americans, reduces taxes for Main Street small businesses, and generates more ‘Made in America’ labels by finally making our corporate tax rate competitive. “This tax reform plan was built for growth: growth of take home pay, growth of better jobs, and growth of the American dream. Economic growth is also a vital part of the solution to our deficit, and history has shown that meaningful tax reform leads to robust economic growth above three percent. Combined with smart regulatory relief and competent monetary policy, I fully believe that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act can and will deliver sustained strong economic growth. “Of course, we must combine economic growth with meaningful entitlement reform of current programs for future generations in order to deal with our threatening and unsustainable national debt. “Although the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act failed to fully repeal the Death Tax and Alternative Minimum Tax and did not achieve the level of simplicity or flatness I had worked for, it remains a great and historic pro-growth achievement and I am proud to support it.” Among several items, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act the legislation will: Lower individual taxes and set specific rates at 0%, 10%, 12%, 22%, 24%, 32%, 35%, and 37% -- allowing you to keep more of the money you earn Roughly double the standard deduction for single and married filers Continue to allow you to write off the cost of state and local taxes – enabling the ability to deduct property and income taxes Expand the Child Tax Credit to help parents with the cost of raising children Deliver tax relief to Main Street by offering new tax deductions Allow businesses to write off the full cost of new equipment Protect the ability for small businesses to write off interest on loans Double the threshold amount for the Death Tax Eliminate the Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax which helps job creators focus on growing their business instead of filling out burdensome paperwork Boost American energy production while creating jobs and reducing our dependence on foreign oil Eliminate Obamacare’s individual mandate penalty tax ###
12.07.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after President Trump announced the recognition of Jerusalem as the capital Israel: “The United States has stood, and will continue to stand, with the State of Israel. Israel has defended herself from those who seek her destruction and deny her right to exist, and she continues to face challenges as a democratic nation in the Middle East. Today, President Trump took a stand to reaffirm our country’s commitment to our friends in Israel. I support the President’s decision to officially recognize Jerusalem as the eternal capital of Israel, which Israel has long recognized as their capital, and his intention to relocate the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. They have been our staunchest ally in the region and a full partner on the global war on terror. Not only do we share values and a similar vision, but a desire to live in peace for the days to come. It is vital to support Israel, its security, and its people.” ###
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after voting in favor of the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017: “It is the right of law-abiding citizens to ‘keep and bear arms’. Self-defense and the defense of our families are fundamental needs. The American people are safer with concealed carry, and the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act is an opportunity for our citizens who lawfully carry a firearm in their state to have the ability to carry in other states too. The 2nd Amendment of our Constitution is a right, not a privilege.” ###
12.01.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, recently spoke about tax reform with Kevin Cirilli on Bloomberg TV. Click here to view the video or on the photo below. Highlights Uniting Behind Tax Reform: “Those of us in the House are not all that thrilled with the ‘tax trigger,’ I personally find it to be a uniquely bad idea and I think it is bad public policy. We need to be able to tell our businesses ‘this is your tax rate, this is something you can count on’.” Recognizing History Versus the Future: “What we know is it’s not just economic theory, frankly it’s economic history. The difference between having an economy grow at 3 and 3.5 percent versus 1.5 to 2 percent, which has been the average under the eight years of Obamanomics, the bottom line is that we will be able to fill any deficit hole with additional revenues….the answer as a Republican is less spending, not more taxes.” Calling Out the National Debt: “The most important thing we can do with respect to the national debt, and it is the greatest crisis that receives almost no attention in Washington, we need to reform current entitlement programs for future generations. That is a heavy political lift. The second most important thing we can do is grow this economy and bring in more revenue.” Responding to Senator Warren: “Well one, I am glad that Senator Warren acknowledges that the CFPB was asleep at the wheel. And it is also curious that a former law professor doesn’t appear to know the law. The law is that the President gets to appoint the acting director. That is the position of the Justice Department and that’s even the position of the legal counsel at the CFPB. The one circuit that has opined on it, the 9th Circuit, which by the way, traditionally, is a very liberal circuit, they have also said the President can appoint an acting director. So number one, Senator Warren is on the wrong side of the law, and then also what we need is obviously a body that will enforce our consumer protection law, but not make it up.” Addressing Controversy at the CFPB: “The CFPB tramples on our separation of powers, it tramples on our checks and balances, it tramples on due process. We had one unaccountable, unelected individual who essentially got to decide on our mortgages, our credit cards, and our checking accounts. No one person in a democracy should have that much power. And so there is a fight on who is going to lead the CFPB, but the more important fight is: how do we best protect our consumers, and it’s through an organization that enforces the law, doesn’t make up the law, and also protects competitive transparent innovative markets. That’s how we protect our consumers.” Calling for the Financial CHOICE Act: “The bottom line is we’re still losing a community financial institution a day in America, that’s unacceptable, and we have too many regulations that are clogging up the arteries of capital flow, and so again, the fact that entrepreneurship and small business lending at banks are basically at a generational low…that’s got to change.” ###
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, recently spoke about the future of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) under the leadership of Acting Director Mick Mulvaney on Fox Business Network’s Mornings with Maria. Click here to view the video or on the photo below. Highlights A Change in Leadership at the CFPB: “I don’t know what Ms. [Leandra] English is attempting to do, I don’t know if she is just a member of the far left trying to get a merit badge from the ‘resistance movement,’ but the bottom line is that all of the legal authority is with the President.” Reviewing the Facts: “For two decades under the Vacancy Reform Act, the President has had the opportunity to name the interim successor. That is what the Justice Department says, it is what the Legal Counsel at the CFPB – an Obama-appointed legal counsel – says. President Trump has the ability to name the Acting Director.” CFPB Has Been Asleep at the Wheel: “We have an institution [CFPB] that has arguably been the most powerful, unaccountable agency in the history of our republic. They are supposed to be on the forefront of consumer protection, and they are asleep at the wheel. The Financial Services Committee investigated cases [with Wells Fargo] and we have documents showing that the CFPB was, again, completely asleep at the wheel…they were incompetent with the largest consumer protection case that they should have been involved in.” Responding to Calls to Lead the CFPB: “You know I’m kind of happy with the job that I have at the moment. But it would be a fascinating job to have and it’s an important job to have. The bottom line is, we need consumer protection, but we have to know that the greatest form of consumer protection is competitive transparent innovative markets that are vigorously policed for force and fraud. We need an agency to enforce the law, not make the law.” Cause of GDP Growth: “If you stop the beatings, morale will indeed improve. We have had eight years of economic regulatory beatings by the Obama Administration. We get basically a 1.5 to 2 percent GDP economy. We just merely stop the beatings and all of a sudden we have two quarters of 3 percent plus economic growth…President Trump has been more aggressive than any other President on Congressional Review Act. “I don’t think President Trump is getting the credit he deserves in rolling back the Obama-era regulatory burden that has been crushing our community banks that has led to stagnant paychecks, dead-end jobs, decimated savings, and diminished American dreams.” A New Day Has Dawned: [In response to colleagues and public figures being accused of inappropriate workplace behavior] “I am the father of a 15-year-old daughter. All of a sudden, she is on the precipice of driving and dating, so I am starting to think about these things, including the day she will be in the workplace. It is shocking to see all of these revelations spread across so many different institutions and industries all over America…women have to be respected in the workplace. A new day has dawned, and a new day needed to dawn.” ###
11.25.2017	WASHINGTON– House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement upon the appointment of OMB Director Mick Mulvaney to serve as Acting Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB): “I congratulate President Trump on appointing OMB Director Mulvaney as Acting Director of the CFPB. Mick is a close friend and a dedicated public servant - I can think of no one better to lead the CFPB. I know he’ll fight not only to protect consumers from force, fraud, and deception but will protect them from government interference with competitive, innovative markets and help preserve their fundamental economic opportunities and liberties as well. “In anticipation of the nomination and confirmation of a permanent Director, I further look forward to working with Director Mulvaney to restore true accountability and due process of law to an agency that desperately needs it. “With the resignation of Richard Cordray, there is now a wonderful opportunity to completely reform what has been a rogue agency that often harmed the very consumers it was charged with helping.“ ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after the House passed an overhaul of our country’s onerous tax code: “For far too long our tax code has been unfair and complicated. It has harmed economic growth and diminished the dreams of our citizens. Today, that all changes. Today, the House of Representatives voted for a fairer, flatter, simpler, and more competitive tax code, a tax code built to propel our small businesses, bring jobs and capital back home, and to deliver tax relief to struggling families. It is a historic day in the House. Americans have the opportunity to see more jobs, fairer taxes, bigger paychecks, and a healthier economy. I was proud to cast my vote for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,” said Hensarling. Highlights from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: For Individuals: Lowers individual tax rates to zero, 12%, 25%, and 35% and maintains top rate of 39.6%, but raises income threshold to $1 million for couples and $500,000 for singles Roughly doubles the Standard Deduction – from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples Establishes a new Family Credit – which includes expanding the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $1,600 for each child and providing new credits of $300 each for the taxpayer, spouse and other dependents Readmits the Adoption Tax Credit which supports and provides tax relief to parents who adopt children Repeals the Alternative Minimum Tax which prevents families from having to calculate taxes twice a year For Businesses: Lowers the corporate tax rate to 20% – down from 35% Reduces the top tax rate on pass-through business income to no more than 25% Provides a new, low tax rate of 9% for the first $75,000 (joint filers) of income earned by an active owner in a pass-through business of any type Establishes safeguards to distinguish between individual wage income and “pass-through” business income Modernizes our international tax system by moving to a “territorial” system, which fixes the taxation of foreign profits of domestic businesses Click here to watch Rep. Hensarling’s floor speech on tax reform. Transcript “For almost a decade, Americans suffered under Obamanomics. Their savings decimated, their paychecks were stagnant, their American dreams were diminished. A new day has dawned under the leadership of President Trump, Speaker Ryan, and Chairman Brady. We are on the precipice of passing a fairer, flatter, simpler, more competitive tax code, one built for three percent plus economic growth. “The American people can now imagine a tax code that brings jobs and capital back to America. They can imagine a tax code that is simplified from 70,000 pages to 500, where 90 percent of Americans can fill out their return on a postcard. They can imagine a tax code swept of all of the special interest loopholes. They can imagine a tax code creating lower rates for working Americans in small businesses. Now they can imagine a tax code that is all about economic growth. All of my friends on the other side of the aisle can only offer the politics of division, envy, and class warfare. I am proud to support the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act because it is all about better jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks.” ###
11.10.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement in response to the House passing 14 bills to support veterans: “Ahead of Veterans Day, the House passed 14 measures to improve the quality of care for our veterans. Our women and men in uniform and their families have sacrificed everything to protect our great country. It is our job as a Congress to do all we can to give our heroes the support they so richly deserve. We owe these brave Americans a debt of gratitude that we can never fully express, but I join all Americans in saying ‘thank you’ to our veterans.” Read below a few highlights from the bills: H.R. 918 - Veteran Urgent Access to Mental Healthcare Act - Provides mental health care to certain former service members who would otherwise be ineligible for such care. H.R. 3949 - Veterans Apprenticeship and Labor Opportunity Reform (VALOR) Act - Would ease the approval process for on-the-job training and apprenticeship programs under the GI Bill. H.R. 2123 - Veterans E-Health and Telemedicine Support Act (VETS) Act - Would authorize a VA licensed health care professional to practice telemedicine at any location in any state, regardless of where the professional or patient is located. H.R. 3122 - Veterans Care Financial Protection Act - Would require the VA to post notice on its website about dishonest individuals who prey on those who receive pension benefits with regular aid and attendance, and are at risk of financial exploitation. ###
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement in response to the announcement of Rep. Ted Poe’s (TX-2) retirement after the completion of his term: “Ted is a steadfast leader and protector of the Constitution. He’s a plain-speaking, proud Texan that will be missed. He could always be counted on to carry the message for our great state. While we all cannot stay in Congress forever, I wish Ted the best of luck with his next step. And that’s just the way it is.” ###
11.06.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement in response to the tragedy at the First Baptist Church of Sutherland Springs: “It is unconscionable to learn that someone walked into a Sunday church service to open fire on innocent people. I am shocked and pained to hear about this news. My wife, Melissa, and I are praying for the people in Sutherland Springs. It is my sincere hope and belief that the Lord will lift these victims up during this tragic time.” ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement in response to the announcement of Rep. Lamar Smith’s (TX-21) retirement after the completion of his term: “Lamar is a principled leader who I have known and genuinely admired since 1984. Throughout his career, he has continuously led with a calm demeanor but always worked efficiently to get the job done. Lamar has been a giant in Texas who is respected by all for his honor and integrity. I am grateful to have had the opportunity to serve alongside him, and for his leadership as the Chairman of the Judiciary and Science, Space, and Technology Committees. I wish him, Beth, and the rest of his growing family the best in their next journey.” ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after voting to protect Medicare from the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB): “As a part of Obamacare, the Independent Payment Advisory Board allows for an unelected, unaccountable board to make changes to Medicare without any oversight from the Legislative Branch. The board has the ability to unilaterally cut Medicare spending, reduce seniors’ access to health care, and stick the government in a place where it has no business to be – in your personal health care decisions. This kind of government overreach is absolutely unacceptable. Today, the House acted to protect Americans who benefit from Medicare by voting to eliminate this board.” ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after Congress unrolled fundamental tax reform legislation: “It has been a generation since we had meaningful reform to our tax code, and we are paying the price,” said Hensarling. Our existing code is a maze of tax breaks for some at the expense of many. American taxpayers spend a combined $99 billion each year complying with the individual tax code. Our nation has the highest corporate income tax rate in the industrialized world – 10-15 points higher than the majority of our international competitors. “Today, the House Ways and Means committee presented a plan designed for a fundamental shift in our tax code through meaningful, pro-growth reform. This tax reform stimulates job growth, makes our tax code more simple and fair, and ultimately results in bigger paychecks for working families. Texans and Americans want a tax code that is simple and straightforward, and this legislation delivers tax relief to Americans from all walks of life,” added Hensarling. Among many things, the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act enables the American people to: Keep more of their hard-earned money each month with lower tax rates Get reprieve from the weight of rising costs in child care and education with an expanded Child Tax Credit End the nightmare of filing taxes by providing an easy-to-use tax form See increased economic innovation and competitiveness that leads to more “Made in America” jobs Receive relief from the “estate tax” which doubles and triples taxes on family-owned farms and businesses that are passed to the next generation “I applaud fellow Texan, Chairman Kevin Brady (TX-8), and the House Ways and Means Committee for their hard work to deliver results to the American people. I look forward to examining this proposal and hearing from Texans in the 5th District, industry, and stakeholders on how this will affect their businesses and households.” ###
10.31.2017	Today I am announcing that I will not seek re-election to the US Congress in 2018. Although service in Congress remains the greatest privilege of my life, I never intended to make it a lifetime commitment, and I have already stayed far longer than I had originally planned. Throughout this time, my family has graciously sacrificed for my service. As the parents of two teenagers, Melissa and I know there are only a few years left before they leave and make their own way in life. I want to be there for those years. Since my term as Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee comes to an end next year, the time seems right for my departure. Although I will not be running for reelection, there are 14 months left in my congressional term to continue the fight for individual liberty, free enterprise, and limited constitutional government – the causes for which I remain passionate. Much work remains at the House Financial Services Committee in the areas of housing finance reform, regulatory relief, cyber security and capital formation to name just a few. Furthermore, important work remains in the Congress as a whole – especially pro-growth tax reform. I look forward to continuing this work on behalf of the people of the 5th District of Texas and all Americans. I am sure we will continue communicating over the months to come, but please know how grateful I am for your help, support and friendship through the years. I could not be more appreciative of the opportunity to serve our republic and of the trust you have placed in me to advance the principles we share. Thank you. --Jeb
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after voting in favor of the Senate-passed budget resolution: “With today’s passage of a budget resolution, Congress is able to move forward on a common goal: fundamental, pro-growth tax reform. It is past time to provide the American people with what they are asking for – meaningful reform to fix our broken system. “I am disappointed that the Senate version did not take up the House provisions on entitlement reform, and that entitlements represent the true drivers of our nation’s spending-driven debt crisis now and even more so in the future. However, moving forward on tax reform is a national priority, and stimulating our economy is critical. “A few things are abundantly clear: We need a fairer, flatter, simpler and more competitive tax code. One that can deliver more jobs and bigger paychecks.” ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after voting in favor of the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2017 and The Sunshine for Regulatory Consent Decrees and Settlements Act of 2017. This action prohibits all federal agencies, such as the Department of Justice (DOJ), from pushing defendants to donate to political or activist groups that promote a particular political agenda. In addition, the second provision will increase federal transparency, efficiency, and balance of powers. “Payments being made to political groups are a clear violation of our Constitution. The corrupt practices of the Obama Administration DOJ cannot be permitted to repeat in the future. Federal agencies should never indicate that they are above the Constitution. Actions such as these threaten due process, the separation of powers, and checks and balances. This is not what our founding fathers ever intended, and I stand behind my House colleagues and the current DOJ officials who are calling to prohibit the use of third-party settlements of this nature in the future,” said Hensarling. “The Sunshine for Regulatory Consent Decrees and Settlements Act of 2017 empowers industry by allowing entities that will be affected by new regulations created to participate and intervene in a process that will have direct effect on their business. This bill also furthers transparency by requiring the U.S. Treasury to disclose where payments are made when a settlement is reached against the United States.” Background: Hensarling previously voted in favor of the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016 after it was revealed that the Obama Administration Justice Department was funneling money from federal case settlements to left-wing activist groups. Hensarling spoke strongly against the actions, which were a clear violation of Congress’ Article I, Section 9 of the Constitution. He also voted previously on the Sunshine for Regulations and Regulatory Decrees Act in the 114th Congress. ###
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after U.S. Senator Jeff Flake (R-AZ) announced that he will not seek re-election at the conclusion of his term: “Jeff is a dear friend and someone I worked closely with in the House of Representatives. His commitment to limited government, freedom, responsibility, and genuine compassion for people across the world will not soon be forgotten. Jeff is a strong leader and fiscal conservative who will be missed in Congress. I wish him the best of luck on his next journey.” ###
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after the House voted for additional disaster relief this afternoon: “Four years ago when NFIP received a $9.7 billion taxpayer bailout, I supported it. I also resolved not to vote for another unless and until the program was made sustainable. I said without reforms we would be faced with even more bailouts. Numerous reforms have been offered, but none enacted. So here we are today, faced with a $16 billion taxpayer bailout. Clearly, this program is unsustainable. “Naturally, there are times of crisis and great need such as the ones brought on by the recent hurricanes. That’s why I fully supported the $7.85 billion in disaster relief that the House passed on September 6th. NFIP policy holders must have their claims paid and hurricane victims need further assistance and I am prepared to support it. However, I cannot in good conscience support legislation that simply gives a $16 billion bailout to the National Flood Insurance Program without changes to the program or offsets. “I am greatly disappointed that the NFIP bailout would come before the House with NO reforms - especially since the Trump Administration demanded them as part of this supplemental legislation. Without necessary reforms, the NFIP will continue to be a protected government monopoly and need more bailouts which will add to our nation’s unsustainable $20 trillion debt. But more importantly, it will continue to subsidize and encourage people to live in harm’s way – putting their lives and property at risk. This is unacceptable.” ###
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after supporting the House of Representatives’ FY 18 budget: “Congress has created a plan that paves the way to address our spending-driven debt crisis and reform our broken tax code. Under the current tax code, Americans are forced to navigate an overly complex system. Through this legislation, tax rates are lowered for individuals, tax brackets are consolidated, the amount of time needed for families to file taxes will be dramatically reduced, and our country’s competitiveness will increase. “The legislation passed today puts us on a path to fiscal responsibility with a balanced budget in 10 years, preserves the ability to repeal and replace Obamacare, gives our military greater resources to do their job, and rolls back regulations that stifle job growth. In fact, I supported an even more aggressive plan to address spending by supporting the Republican Study Committee’s budget – which unfortunately, did not pass. “Wall Street and Washington are held accountable through the inclusion of key provisions of the Financial CHOICE Act. Through these provisions, the plan puts an end to taxpayer bailouts, the economy grows through competitive and transparent markets, and our families are protected from fraud – enabling them to achieve greater financial independence.” ###
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) released the following statement after voting in favor of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act: “Today, I proudly voted in favor of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. As American citizens, it is our responsibility to care for the most vulnerable voices in our nation: the unborn. It is my honor to stand with them and to prohibit the practice of late-term abortions. I firmly believe that life begins at conception and that every innocent life is worthy of protection. The United States is only one of seven countries in the world that permits elective abortion past 20 weeks. By banning abortion after 20 weeks, I hope that we can take a common-sense step to give voices to the voiceless and continue to defend the sanctity of human life.” ###
10.02.2017	WASHINGTON–Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, spoke about Dodd-Frank repeal and tax reform on Fox News Channel’s Sunday Morning Futures with Maria Bartiromo. Click here to view the video or on the photo below. Highlights Rolling Back Dodd-Frank: “I would like to see [Dodd-Frank repeal] attached to any bill that moves across Congress. Fundamental tax reform is so critical to our economy, but so is regulatory reform. Speaker Paul Ryan has called the Financial CHOICE Act the crown jewel of our regulatory reform efforts…I look forward to any opportunity to advance both tax reform and regulatory reform.” Challenging the Status Quo: “We have a president who has already rolled back hundreds of rules, used the Congressional Review Act fourteen times to roll back Obama regulations, where it’d only had been used once. So, this president really is poised to be the deregulation president – the most deregulation since President Reagan.” Unlocking Potential: “With respect to the tax reform plan I cannot envision a plan that I would not end up supporting. I am very excited as is all our Republicans at this prospect at having a fairer, flatter, simpler, more competitive tax code.” Answering the Call: “The important thing right now is to get the votes to get the tax reform package done. That’s what people want…There are all types of provisions in this outline that are going to help working families, middle-income families, but the most important aspect of this is this is a tax reform plan built for economic growth.” Increasing Capital for Your Families: “This will bring jobs back to America, capital back to America, and lead to not just more jobs but bigger paychecks and greater take-home pay.” ###
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after House Republicans released the Unified Framework for Fixing our Broken Tax Code: “Texans and Americans are sick of the status quo in Washington. From Mesquite to Rusk, our citizens are crying out for relief from our complicated and onerous tax code. Today, Republicans are answering the call by offering a solution to fix our broken system with meaningful reforms. “In this plan, tax rates for individuals and families are lowered by creating three simple tax brackets, special loopholes for special interests are eliminated, and our job creators are given the relief they need to grow and become more competitive. “We need a fairer, flatter, simpler and more competitive tax code. One that can deliver more jobs and bigger paychecks. “I look forward to working with my colleagues as we take the next steps to make good on our promise to empower the American people instead of Washington bureaucrats.” Click here to review the House Republicans’ full framework to fix our broken tax code. ###
09.12.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement in response to the recent Daily Treasury Statement from the United States Treasury reporting that our national debt is set to surpass $20 trillion ($61,899 per citizen): “As I said last week, when it comes to our national debt the familiar refrain from too many in Washington continues to be, ‘we will deal with that tomorrow.’ I’ve been hearing that for years and now the American people are waking up to find out we now have $20 trillion worth of debt today, and tomorrow never seems to come. “There is a true spending-driven debt crisis in America. It is the greatest existential threat to our country that receives almost no attention in Washington. “Not only will the national debt break federal and household budgets, but it is a direct threat to our national security. In a time where the world is more dangerous than ever, we cannot afford to short-change the safety and well-being of our citizens. “When the debt was $17 trillion, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mike Mullen said, ‘the most significant threat to our national security is our debt.’ Now that number is significantly higher with no sign of stopping. “$20 trillion in national debt is a dubious and dangerous milestone that was all too avoidable. If we do not, we will soon wake up to find ourselves a second-rate economic power, a second-rate military power, and a second-rate moral authority.” ###
09.08.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after the United States Senate passed an increase in the debt ceiling tied to funding for Hurricane Harvey relief: “On September 6th, I voted for the $7.6 billion of emergency aid for my fellow Texans suffering from the ravages of Hurricane Harvey. I expect to vote for more emergency aid to ensure our fellow citizens are out of harm’s way and have the food, shelter, and medicine necessary to sustain them. What I’m not prepared to vote for is even more national debt without the opportunity to offset it with lower priority spending. That’s what the Senate bill represented. “The unsustainable national debt remains the greatest existential threat to our nation that is routinely ignored in Washington. If unabated, we will one day be unable to respond to similar emergencies as Hurricane Harvey. History teaches us that it is the poor who suffer the most, yet when it comes to our national debt the familiar refrain from too many in Washington continues to be, “we will deal with that tomorrow.” I have but little doubt that similar words were spoken in Greece and Detroit. Now the national debt had doubled and we are still waiting for tomorrow. “These legislative matters should have never been combined by the United States Senate. In less than 24 hours, the Senate increased the debt limit without any offsets and reauthorized the broken and insolvent National Flood Insurance Program without any reforms all in the same bill. This is unacceptable and threatens the emergency funding of those who actually need it. Emergency spending bills must be restricted to emergency spending.” ###
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved an emergency aid package for Hurricane Harvey destruction: “I frequently hear the term emergency in Washington, but this time it is truly warranted. We currently have fellow Texans and Louisianans who are in immediate need of food, shelter, and medicine. In all likelihood, our friends on the East Coast are in imminent danger as well. “Nevertheless, another emergency that we continue to ignore is the emergency of our unsustainable national debt. Emergency funding should not come to the House without an opportunity to propose offsets, a number of which can easily be found in President Trump’s budget. “I’ve seen emergencies arise from natural disasters before, and I’ve seen how this funding scenario can grow in size and shrink in focus. We need to provide emergency spending to get people out of harm’s way and provide an appropriate safety net. Rebuilding, as important as it is, should not go through an emergency funding process that exacerbates our dangerous and unstable national debt. “Furthermore, we must solve the underlying problems of the National Flood Insurance Program or we will simply see increased fatalities and economic carnage. When it comes to the NFIP, the government should not be complicit in encouraging and subsidizing people to live in dangerous areas, and as people rebuild, we should be working toward mitigating the risks of living in flood prone areas.” ###
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON–U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) announcement: “America is well known as a land of freedom, prosperity, and opportunity, so it is understandable why many people would do anything they can to come here. However, the rule of law is fundamental to the future of our Republic. Any nation that cannot or will not enforce its laws is simply inviting further abuse. “With regard to DACA, President Obama’s directive to circumvent Congress by Executive Order was quite simply unconstitutional and served to heighten tensions on the issue. “With the Trump Administration’s announcement, the president has taken a rightful step to restore powers given to Congress under Article I of the Constitution and simply do the job we are elected to do. “Like the president, I am sympathetic to young children who were relocated to our country through no fault of their own. For some, this is the only home they have ever known. It is imperative to find a proper resolution of their status, maintain the rule of law, and take necessary steps to end rampant illegal immigration.” ###
08.01.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) will host a town hall meeting in Rusk to give an update on recent actions taken by the House of Representatives and hear from the residents of Cherokee County about the issues that are important to them. The discussion will be held on Wednesday, August 9th at 10:15 a.m. CT at the Rusk Public Library Meeting Room. WHAT: Town Hall Meeting and Legislative Update WHEN: Wednesday, August 9, 2017 at 10:15 a.m. CT WHO: U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling WHERE: Rusk Public Library Meeting Room ADDRESS: 207 East 6th Street, Rusk, Texas 75785 If you are a member of the media planning to attend this event, please RSVP to stami.williams@mail.house.gov. ###
08.01.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) will host a town hall meeting in Palestine to give an update on recent actions taken by the House of Representatives and hear from the residents of Anderson County about the issues that are important to them. The discussion will be held on Wednesday, August 9th at 2:00 p.m. CT at the Anderson County Courthouse Annex. WHAT: Town Hall Meeting and Legislative Update WHEN: Wednesday, August 9, 2017 at 2:00 p.m. CT WHO: U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling WHERE: Anderson County Courthouse Annex ADDRESS: 703 North Mallard Street, Palestine, TX 75801 If you are a member of the media planning to attend this event, please RSVP to stami.williams@mail.house.gov. ###
08.01.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) will host a town hall meeting in Canton to give an update on recent actions taken by the House of Representatives and hear from the residents of Van Zandt County about the issues that are important to them. The discussion will be held on Thursday, August 10th at 9:30 a.m. CT at the Farm Bureau Building. WHAT: Town Hall Meeting and Legislative Update WHEN: Thursday, August 10, 2017 at 9:30 a.m. CT WHO: U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling WHERE: Farm Bureau Building ADDRESS: 281 East Highway 243, Canton, TX 75103 If you are a member of the media planning to attend this event, please RSVP to stami.williams@mail.house.gov. ###
08.01.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) will host a town hall meeting in Athens to give an update on recent actions taken by the House of Representatives and hear from the residents of Henderson County about the issues that are important to them. The discussion will be held on Thursday, August 10th at 1:30 p.m. CT at the Henderson County Senior Citizens Center. WHAT: Town Hall Meeting and Legislative Update WHEN: Thursday, August 10, 2017 at 1:30 p.m. CT WHO: U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling WHERE: Henderson County Senior Citizens Center ADDRESS: 3356 Highway 31 East, Athens, TX 75751 If you are a member of the media planning to attend this event, please RSVP to stami.williams@mail.house.gov. ###
08.01.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) will host a town hall meeting in Mineola to give an update on recent actions taken by the House of Representatives and hear from the residents of Wood County about the issues that are important to them. The discussion will be held on Friday, August 11th at 9:15 a.m. CT at the Mineola City Hall. WHAT: Town Hall Meeting and Legislative Update WHEN: Friday, August 11, 2017 at 9:15 a.m. CT WHO: U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling WHERE: Mineola City Hall ADDRESS: 300 Greenville Highway, Mineola, TX 75773 If you are a member of the media planning to attend this event, please RSVP to stami.williams@mail.house.gov. ###
08.01.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) will host a town hall meeting in Kaufman to give an update on recent actions taken by the House of Representatives and hear from the residents of Kaufman County about the issues that are important to them. The discussion will be held on Friday, August 11th at 3:15 p.m. CT at the Kaufman County Library. WHAT: Town Hall Meeting and Legislative Update WHEN: Friday, August 11, 2017 at 3:15 p.m. CT WHO: U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling WHERE: Kaufman County Library ADDRESS: 3790 South Houston Street, Kaufman, TX 75142 If you are a member of the media planning to attend this event, please RSVP to stami.williams@mail.house.gov. ###
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement on the largest expansion of veterans’ benefits in over a decade: “Our women and men who have served in uniform deserve the best treatment our country can provide,” said Hensarling. “Extension of the Veterans Choice Program (VCP) is necessary to deliver the funds needed to care for our heroes. The decision to continue providing for the Veterans Choice Program is a bipartisan response to the strong demand from veterans to support this program. I am thankful for the service of our nation’s defenders and families and will continue to protect their rights.” Click here to see more information about measures to support the Veterans Choice Program. “It is necessary to provide stronger educational benefits for the heroes who protect our country. Improvements to the Post 9/11-GI Bill are critical for our service members and their families. I applaud my colleagues for answering the call to meet these needs.” Among several provisions, the Forever GI Bill: Removes time restrictions for GI Bill use for those discharged after January 1, 2013 Provides an increase in GI Bill funding for service members and families Delivers 100% GI Bill eligibility for Post-9/11 Purple Heart recipients Click here to read more about benefits provided to service members, veterans, and their families through the Forever GI Bill. “Additionally, the House is working on measures that include protections for service members’ spouses and families, opportunities for veteran-owned small businesses, and better oversight for the Department of Veterans Affairs. Veterans have made tremendous sacrifices to protect our freedom, and it is one of my top priorities to make sure they receive the best possible treatment. These changes are desperately needed and deserved, and it is my honor to support legislation to achieve that goal.” ###
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement after the United States Senate failed to repeal and replace Obamacare: “We cannot make meaningful changes to Obamacare without the Senate doing their part. With the failure of the Senate to pass any form of a repeal of Obamacare, Americans woke up to the same problems with their health coverage with no immediate hope for relief. Increasing premiums, declining coverage, skyrocketing costs and broken promises are the defining characteristics of Obamacare right now. Even Democrats who voted for Obamacare admit that it is broken. “Passing a repeal to Obamacare was a challenging process, and right now, I could not be more proud of my House colleagues for getting it done. On the other hand, I am deeply disappointed in the handful of Republican Senators who are the reason for this unacceptable outcome – many of whom claimed they supported eliminating this flawed law. “Republicans made two policy promises to the American people – the repeal and replacement of Obamacare and fundamental tax reform. In the coming days, the White House and Congress must figure out the best way forward to provide relief from Obamacare while giving them a patient-centered structure that will ensure cost effective access for all Americans. Failure is not an option.” ###
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statements after voting in favor of legislation to bolster military preparedness, enhance care for our veterans, unlock energy potential, maintain and improve upon the strength of our armed services, and fund President Trump’s request for a border wall: Defense Appropriations Bill: “A renewed sense of commitment to our national security reassures the American people and our allies that we are prepared to combat threats to our safety,” said Hensarling. “Whether it is thwarting North Korea and Iran’s threat of nuclear activity, destroying radical Islamic terrorists, or standing up to bad actors like Russia – our armed forces are to be fully prepared at all times. I applaud actions taken by the House today to maintain our military superiority.” Among many other priorities, the FY 2018 Defense Appropriations Bill: Ensures key military readiness programs are properly funded and maintained Provides our armed forces with necessary equipment and weaponry Supports critical partnerships with allies such as Israel Fully funds authorized the largest military pay increase in eight years Enhances medical care and provides full benefits for our heroes and their families MILCON/VA Appropriations Bill: “This increase in funding is the highest level of funding in history for the Department of Veterans Affairs. When it comes to taking care of the people who have served this country, we must do everything we can to ensure we meet their medical needs. In addition to providing more for mental health care services and suicide prevention, this supplement will reduce the backlog of VA disability claims,” said Hensarling. “Funding for critical military infrastructure is boosted by 25%. Through this legislation, military families and medical facilities are receiving greater support. Our service women and men are finally able to receive the backing they so richly deserve.” Energy and Water Appropriations Bill: “In a time when we face a multitude of nuclear threats, it is critical to maintain the Department of Energy’s nuclear weapons security programs,” said Hensarling. “On top of that, unlocking our full energy potential is key to our country’s economic growth. This legislation implements much-needed cuts to programs that limit our ability to achieve energy independence and finally makes way for the onerous Waters of the U.S. rule (WOTUS) to be overturned.” President Trump’s request for a border wall: “As Texans know very well, our southern border is not secure,” Hensarling said. “For too long, President Obama ignored the immigration laws of the United States. Texans and the American people know it is past time to take greater measures to ensure border security. Finally, we have a president that recognizes the undeniable and imminent threat to our national security and economic interests due to an unsecure border. Whether it is by way of policy changes, building a wall, fencing, or implementation of enhanced technology, it is critical to work towards stopping illegal immigration immediately.” ###
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) released the following statement in support of the House passage of the FY18 National Defense Authorization Act: “Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution grants Congress the power to provide for the common defense. It is our job to ensure that our women and men have the funding and support needed to protect our country. “After several years of financial mismanagement and cuts to our military, we are back on track to properly equip and supply our troops. The call to address the great need for military readiness was made. Today, the House answered the call. “Chairman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) and the Armed Services Committee have worked tirelessly to meet the needs of our military, fortify cyber security, and combat global and homegrown terrorism. I applaud my colleagues for passing NDAA, and I will continue to support our service members in any way possible.” Among several provisions, The FY18 National Defense Authorization Act includes measures to: Provide $621.5 billion for base budget requirements. Support those diagnosed with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder or Traumatic Brain Injury. Provide the resources necessary to support Afghanistan to combat the Taliban and other terrorist organizations, and support our mission to defeat ISIS in Iraq and Syria. Maintain current prohibitions on transferring detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. ###
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, today spoke with CNBC’s Squawk Box and Bloomberg TV’s Bloomberg Daybreak ahead of the committee’s hearing with Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen. Click here to watch CNBC Squawk Box or click here to watch Bloomberg Daybreak. Highlights from CNBC: Questioning Yellen: “I want to know what is going to happen to the size and composition of the [Federal Reserve] balance sheet. Will interest on excess reserves continue to be the main monetary policy tool? This is not your father’s monetary policy, this is not your father’s Fed. We are in uncharted territory. We’ve kept rates too low for too long.” Addressing The Past: “Had we had higher [interest] rates prior to 2008, we might not have had the crisis. That’s the other side of the coin as well.” Repealing And Replacing Obamacare: “Things will happen when we pass fundamental tax reform and when the Senate finally passes a health care bill because we know what a burden Obamacare has been upon our economy.” Future Of The Fed: “President Trump needs to fill these positions on the Fed. I hope that we will get a Fed that will give us more predictable strategy-based policy.” Highlights from Bloomberg: Combating Financial Crisis: “Keeping rates too low for too long was a huge contributing factor to our last financial crisis. I want to make sure it’s not a contributing factor to the next.” Selective Intervention: “It is worrisome to have a Fed that intervenes selectively in particular credit markets as opposed to a more holistic macroeconomic impact on our economy.” ###
06.30.2017	WASHINGTON—Yesterday, Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) met with North Forney High School AP Student and 2017 Congressional Art Competition winner for the 5th District of Texas, Amanda Villarreal. Villarreal’s artwork is titled “Friday Night Lights” and will remain on display in the U.S. Capitol for a year. Click here or on the photo below to view the album. Click here for more information on the Congressional Art Competition. ###
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) today released the following statement in response to passage of Kate’s Law and No Sanctuary for Criminals Act which contains Sarah and Grant’s Law: “As any Texan would tell you, our national borders are not secure enough,” said Hensarling. “It is refreshing to finally have a President who will protect our national security and economic interests. While I believe America is truly a nation of immigrants, it is important to protect and defend our citizens and the people who come here legally to chase the American dream. Today, the House passed measures that protect our country and crack down on illegal immigration. “Named after a young woman who was shot to death by a seven-time convicted felon and illegal immigrant, Kate’s Law will increase strength in punishment for illegal immigrants with previous criminal records who have re-entered the United States illegally. These changes are critical to the safety of our country, and it is unbearable to think about the American lives lost due to systemic failure in our immigration system. This kind of tragedy is preventable, and I am proud of the House of Representatives for passing this bill today. “The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act combats harmful sanctuary policies and works to curb the number of unlawful immigrants from remaining in our country. Through this bill, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) is allowed to rely on probable cause to initiate detainers for the first time. In addition, federal funding can be withheld from jurisdictions who do not comply and communicate with ICE while protecting the jurisdictions who do. Moreover, victims of offenses committed by criminal illegal immigrants are enabled to sue jurisdictions that do not comply with federal law. Through Sarah and Grant’s Law, which is contained in the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act, illegal immigrants who are convicted of dangerous crimes are detained through the duration of their removal proceedings. This section honors the lives of Sarah Root and Grant Ronnebeck who regrettably lost their lives at the hands of criminal illegal immigrants who continued to commit dangerous crimes. We will pray for all families who fall victim to these senseless crimes and work diligently to keep dangerous illegal immigrants off of our streets.” ###
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) announced he will host a live tele-town hall event across the 5th Congressional District of Texas on Monday, June 26, 2017, at 7 p.m. CT. For the second time, Congressman Hensarling is broadcasting his tele-town hall live over the web. By participating in this interactive forum, constituents are able to submit their questions directly to the Congressman. Click here at 7 p.m. CT to connect to the tele-town hall over the web. Those who do not wish to participate over the web can call (855)-756-7520 Ext.35763# to be connected to the tele-town hall. “Tele-town halls are a great way for me to reach thousands of Texans across the 5th Congressional District all at the same time, and I am happy we are continuing access through the internet,” said Congressman Hensarling. “During these forums, we typically cover a wide range of issues, and I get to hear from a cross-section of residents who might not otherwise have the ability or time to get to an in-person town hall. Most importantly, it’s an opportunity for me to hear directly from constituents about what’s most important to them. I hope everyone can join us.” ###
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON—Yesterday, Congressman Hensarling (TX-05) met with Monica Attaway, a recipient of the Congressional Award Gold Medal for outstanding commitment and service to her community. Attaway plans to attend Texas A&M and pursue a degree in Zoology. “Monica is a bright young leader who completed over 400 hours of community service,” said Hensarling. “As a fellow Aggie, it is great to see the next generation so committed to academic excellence and service to their community. It was wonderful to meet Monica and her family, and I look forward to hearing about her continued success.” Click here for more information on the Congressional Award Gold Medal. ###
06.19.2017	WASHINGTON – “Today Texans and people across America celebrate Juneteenth. On this day in 1865, Union soldiers, led by Major General Gordon Granger, landed at Galveston, Texas with news that the war had ended. Two and a half years after President Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation, Texas slaves heard for the first time that they were free. “There is no other land on earth like America, but we’ve had our share of failings. And we’ve had no greater failing than allowing slavery to exist in the land of the free. “Honoring important milestones in our nation’s quest for equality and justice, like Juneteenth, are wonderful reminders for us to live our lives toward the dream of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. – that all of our children may live in a society where they are judged not by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character – and to work to make a more perfect Union by keeping America free.” ###
06.15.2017	WASHINGTON ­­­– Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today regarding House passage of two Veteran related bills. “The men and women who have made – and are still making – tremendous sacrifices to protect our freedom deserve access to high quality care and services. In 2014, troubling reports of widespread neglect and mistreatment at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) unveiled that our nation’s veterans were not receiving access to quality care they deserve. Quality care means employees who care, and if employees are not serving our veterans, they need to go. For too long, it has been nearly impossible to fire employees who are not serving our veterans. While the House passed a bill in 2014 to make it easier to fire some VA employees, it is important that all VA employees be held accountable to the standard required for our veterans. The VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act (S. 1094), which passed with bipartisan support, grants the secretary of the VA additional authority to expeditiously remove employees due to poor performance or misconduct, recoup bonuses and awards, and improve whistleblower protections. It is my hope that this legislation will help the department finally get rid of the bad actors that tarnish the great work being done by the dedicated men and women who work at the VA. “To help meet the principle that our veterans should have the ability to access the best care possible, the House also passed the VETERAN Act (H.R. 2372), which codifies the Internal Revenue Service’s current practice of providing eligible veterans the choice to get financial support for a private plan in lieu of enrolling in health care provided by the VA. “While the VETERAN Act heads to the Senate, the VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in Congress and the Administration for the brave men and women who have sacrificed to make our country and the world a better, safer place to live.” ###
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON – Chairman Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after the House passed his Financial CHOICE Act. “Every promise of Dodd-Frank has been broken,” said Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), as he read letters from Americans about how they were declined home, automobile and small business loans due to Dodd-Frank’s burdensome regulations. “Fortunately there is a better, smarter way. It’s called the Financial CHOICE Act. It stands for economic growth for all, but bank bailouts for none. We will end bank bailouts once and for all. We will replace bailouts with bankruptcy. We will replace economic stagnation with a growing, healthy economy,” he said. “We will make sure there is needed regulatory relief for our small banks and credit unions, because it’s our small banks and credit unions that lend to our small businesses that are the jobs engine of our economy and make sure the American dream is not a pipe dream,” said Chairman Hensarling. CHOICE, which stands for Creating Hope and Opportunity for Investors, Consumers and Entrepreneurs, has received strong support from community banks and credit unions. Large financial institutions did not offer their support for the Financial CHOICE Act. Instead, Wall Street CEOs have publicly said they do not support repealing Dodd-Frank. The Congressional Budget Office reports the Financial CHOICE Act would reduce the deficit by $33.6 billion over 10 years and that the bill’s regulatory relief would benefit community banks and credit unions. The nation’s largest banks would be unlikely to raise enough capital to meet the bill’s requirement for substantial regulatory relief, the CBO reported. FINANCIAL CHOICE ACT AT A GLANCE: BANKRUPTCY, NOT BAILOUTS No more bailouts: that’s at the core of the Financial CHOICE Act. With changes to the bankruptcy code, large financial firms can fail without disrupting the entire economy or forcing hardworking taxpayers to pay for more bailouts. ACCOUNTABILITY FOR WALL STREET AND WASHINGTON The Financial CHOICE Act includes the toughest penalties in history for those who commit financial fraud and insider trading. Holding Wall Street accountable with the toughest penalties in history will deter corporate wrongdoing and better protect consumers. At the same time the Financial CHOICE Act holds Wall Street accountable, it also holds Washington accountable. Tougher accountability for Wall Street and Washington will protect the integrity of our markets so they benefit ordinary Americans who are working, saving and investing. STRONGLY CAPITALIZED BANKS Dodd-Frank’s one-size-fits-all regulations treat all financial institutions the same, regardless of their size. That makes no sense and hurts smaller, hometown banks and credit unions that did nothing to cause the last financial crisis. The Financial CHOICE Act is based on two important principles: First, all banks need to be well-capitalized and, second, community banks and credit unions deserve relief from the crushing burden of over-regulation. Under the Financial CHOICE Act, banks and credit unions will qualify for regulatory relief if they elect to maintain enough capital to ensure that if they get in trouble, taxpayers won’t be forced to bail them out. Ninety-eight percent of the financial institutions that met the Financial CHOICE Act’s requirements for being well-capitalized did not fail during the financial crisis. Of the miniscule percentage that did fail, none posed a systemic risk. EMPOWER AMERICANS The Financial CHOICE Act grows our economy from Main Street up. Dodd-Frank tries to control the economy from Washington down. The Financial CHOICE Act will help get credit and capital into the hands of working men and women to fuel their economic growth. ###
06.02.2017	WASHINGTON— Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement regarding President Trump’s announcement that he will pull the United States from the Paris climate agreement. “I believe President Trump made the right decision to pull the United States out of the Paris climate agreement. President Obama entered into this flawed agreement on his own and never sought the Senate’s advice and consent, as the Founders intended. The Paris climate agreement ultimately does not solve the environmental challenges it was supposed to address, and by many measures, causes more harm than good by holding our economy back and driving up the cost of energy. Market forces along with the shale revolution have already reduced American greenhouse gas emissions significantly. “In the last eight years we have seen a war on jobs in this country. It’s time to free our economy from regulatory overreach and get it working for working Americans. Encouraging the production of American energy will greatly help on that front and allow our country to be less reliant on foreign sources of energy. “We can reduce our emissions and continue to produce American energy without the Paris climate agreement. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in Congress and the Trump Administration to jump start our economy, create jobs, and revive the American dream.” ###
05.26.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) released the following statement in observance of Memorial Day. “Memorial Day reminds us that freedom is not free – it comes at an incredible cost. Memorial Day has become a time-honored tradition in America, dating back to the days of the Civil War, when groups of women decorated the graves of fallen soldiers. General John Logan officially proclaimed the first Memorial Day on May 30, 1868, when flowers were placed on the graves of Union and Confederate soldiers at Arlington National Cemetery. This custom has endured for over a century and is still practiced today by the Commander in Chief placing a wreath on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. “From Bunker Hill to Baghdad, American troops have died to liberate millions from the forces of tyranny. They’ve stared evil in the eyes and stood for all that is good in the world. They’ve overcome obstacles and defied impossible odds. Even in death, their service brought light to places of darkness and despotism. Because of their heroism, their sacrifices have reverberated throughout the ages. “As our families and friends gather together this Memorial Day to enjoy barbeques and baseball games, let us not forget the true and solemn purpose for this national day of remembrance. “In the words of President Ronald Reagan, ‘We will always remember. We will always be proud. We will always be prepared, so we that we may always be free.’" ###
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement regarding the release of President Trump’s 2018 budget. “The higher taxes, spending and borrowing that were the pillars of Obamanomics brought us the weakest economic recovery in our lifetimes, stagnant paychecks and more new debt than nearly all other presidents combined. Left unchecked, our nation is driving at breakneck speed toward a spending-driven debt crisis that will leave us a nation of downsized dreams and fewer opportunities. We cannot continue to grow Washington’s budget at the expense of the family budget. For the first time in almost a decade, a President has proposed a budget that puts us on a path to fiscal sanity. This budget is a sober document, and I’m pleased President Trump’s proposal takes a long overdue look at redefining the proper role of the federal government while simultaneously investing in our military at a time of increasing threats to our safety domestically and abroad. I am also pleased his budget proposal seeks to repeal the Dodd-Frank Act’s taxpayer-funded bailout scheme and bring spending accountability to the unconstitutional CFPB. Ending Wall Street bailouts and making Washington regulators accountable are key parts of the Financial CHOICE Act. If we want strong economic growth and more freedom, we must empower Americans, not Washington bureaucrats. I wish the White House had gone further in reforms to our entitlement system which is going bankrupt and represents the true driver of our nation’s spending driven debt crisis. I look forward to working with the administration and my colleagues in Congress to end bank bailouts, grow our economy and restore fiscal accountability to Washington.” ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after House passage of the American Health Care Act (H.R. 1628): “I am supporting this bill because it advances the cause of freedom. I wish we could get a total Obamacare repeal and replace bill on the President’s desk all at once. Because of arcane Senate rules and the 60 vote threshold - which I’ve repeatedly encouraged my Senate colleagues to change - we have to repeal and replace Obamacare in pieces. But, with today’s vote, we’ve taken a huge step forward in that important process. “The American Health Care Act contains significant conservative victories. First and foremost, this bill contains the biggest entitlement reform in more than 50 years through reforms to Medicaid, which is one of the major, long-term drivers of our national debt. The AHCA strengthens this broken program by giving states the freedom and flexibility to bypass the national Obamacare mandates to take care of their poor and vulnerable citizens in an innovative manner. It gets rid of the employer mandate and the individual mandate—the foundation of government coercion on which Obamacare was built. No longer are employers or individual Americans going to be forced to purchase health insurance coverage they do not want or need. This bill also denies federal funding to Planned Parenthood. And, on top of providing almost $1 trillion in tax relief by repealing taxes imposed by Obamacare, the American Health Care Act doubles the amount of money families can contribute, pre-tax, to Health Savings Accounts to help pay for medical expenses. Finally, despite what is being falsely reported, the bill continues to guarantee access to health insurance for individuals with pre-existing conditions. “While there are many conservative victories in this bill, much remains to be done. We need to enact long-sought conservative reforms which will further drive down health care costs for Americans such as meaningful medical liability reform and allowing Americans to shop for health insurance across state lines. I will continue to fight for these reforms as we continue the process of repealing and replacing Obamacare. But, Americans are already paying the price of Obamacare’s collapse and the bill we passed today will rescue them from top-down Washington mandates that have made purchasing health care coverage unaffordable, and having access to a doctor unattainable for so many. “Annual family premiums in the employer-sponsored market increased by roughly $4,300, on average, despite President Obama’s promise that premiums would decrease by $2,500. Deductibles for these plans are up an average of 60 percent since 2010. In the health insurance exchanges created by Obamacare, things are even worse for American consumers. Last October, the Obama Administration announced premium increases nearly four times larger than previously projected. “Rarely does a day or week go by that I don’t hear from another Texas family about the hardship and heartaches caused by Obamacare. I recently heard from Frances who lives in Garland. She told me that in September 2014 she was diagnosed with tonsil cancer, and at the time, had health insurance through her husband’s employer. She said it was a good policy that cost $600 per month and had an out-of-pocket expenses limit of $3500. This plan allowed her to see the oncologist of her choice. In September 2015, she lost her coverage through her husband’s employer and was forced into Obamacare. As a result, the family’s costs went up and they have struggled to find any oncologist who will accept their insurance. “Unfortunately, Frances’s story isn’t unique. In fact, in five states, individuals and families only have one choice for health insurance. Many have lost access to the doctors they know and trust. This lack of competition and the sheer weight of Washington top-down regulations have left Americans high and dry. “The President has asked us to help people like Frances by passing the American Health Care Act, and the House has done just that. Now, it’s time for my Senate colleagues to do the same and make good on our promise to repeal and replace Obamacare and help families across this country have access to the affordable, quality health care of their choice.” ###
05.03.2017	CLICK TO PLAY WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), led his colleagues in a moment of silence on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for the victims of the recent storms and tornadoes that swept through Texas, the Midwest, and Southeastern United States – including four people who lost their lives from the 5th Congressional District, which he represents. “Mr. Speaker, over the weekend a very destructive storm system moved across my home state of Texas, the Midwest, and the Southeast, killing 15 of our fellow citizens and destroying whole communities in its wake. In Van Zandt County, in the 5th Congressional District of Texas, which I have the privilege to represent, four constituents lost their lives in a series of four violent tornados that shattered homes, shattered lives, and devastated neighborhoods in the 5th district and 4th district of Texas. These storms also tragically killed 7 people in Washington, Carroll, and Madison counties in Arkansas, two people in Rankin and Holmes counties in Mississippi, one person in Nashville, Tennessee, one person from Billings, Missouri, and many more have been hospitalized. “Joining me here today are some of the members whose communities were affected, Congressman Womack and Congressman Crawford of Arkansas, Congressman Harper of Mississippi, Congressman Thompson of Mississippi, Congressman Cooper of Tennessee, Congressman Long of Missouri, my fellow Texan, Congressman John Ratcliffe. Again, Mr. Speaker, all who represent communities that were tragically affected. Mr. Speaker, our citizens who were lost have left a void in their families and left a void in their communities. Our hearts are heavy. Our prayers are sincere for the loved ones they leave behind and for those who recover from their wounds. For many of us in our faith, there is a time to mourn and, Mr. Speaker, now is the time to mourn. But as we have a time in our faith to mourn, we also have faith, Mr. Speaker, that one day our citizens will heal, and they will heal and rebuild their communities as well. At this time, Mr. Speaker, I would ask the House to help us in honoring those who lost their lives in these deadly storms and the families and loved ones they leave behind by joining us in observing a moment of silence.” ###
04.30.2017	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), issued the following statement in response to the tornadoes that hit East Texas on Saturday evening. "How devastating it is to see Van Zandt County hit yet again as well as Henderson and Rains Counties. What a tragedy. The Hensarling family is heartbroken. Our prayers go out to those who perished and their loved ones. But I know East Texans, and I know these communities will join together to heal and rebuild. My office is reaching out to local officials to offer our assistance to them and the communities they serve."
04.18.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement as American families and business owners across the country file their taxes today: “For far too long our tax code has been unfair and complicated. It has contained too many loopholes and provisions for special interests, and has forced hardworking Americans to pay for a Washington government that is too big, too powerful, and too intrusive. But, help is on the way. “Republicans have a blueprint to make things right for the American people by reforming and streamlining the tax code. Our plan calls for greater simplicity so most families will be able to fill out their tax return on a form the size of a postcard. It would lower tax rates for most families and businesses, streamline seven tax brackets into three, and eliminate a host of special-interest provisions. Job creators will be able to take advantage of full and immediate expensing on investments in new equipment and technology. And, America’s 35% corporate income tax rate—the highest in the industrialized world—will be slashed to make us a magnet for business and industry. “Our economy has been growing significantly below its potential for years now, essentially going 20 miles per hour down a highway built for going 70. One of the keys to getting the American economy firing on all cylinders again is fundamental tax reform. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House to get this done for the American people who deserve a fairer, simpler, flatter tax code.”
04.17.2017	DALLAS—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) announced today that his office is now accepting service academy nomination requests. “It is a privilege to consider candidates’ applications for a nomination to one of the United States service academies,” said Hensarling. “With many talented students applying through my office for a limited number of vacancies, the competition has always been very intense.” Candidates interested in attending a military service academy must undergo a rigorous selection process and receive a nomination from a Member of Congress, the Vice President, or from the Department of Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps. These nominations are determined based on academic performance, college entrance test scores, physical aptitude, medical certification, extracurricular activities, and demonstrated leadership potential. Graduates of the service academies are appointed upon active duty as commissioned officers and serve in the appropriate military branch for a minimum of five years. For questions regarding a nomination to a service academy, contact Margaret Smith in Hensarling’s Dallas office at (214) 349-9996, or click here.
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after the Senate’s confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court: “By all accounts, the Senate has just confirmed to the highest court in the land a brilliant legal mind who is dedicated to the Constitution and its principles of liberty. Our President made an outstanding pick in nominating Neil Gorsuch, and Senate Majority Leader McConnell made the right decision not to allow the fringe elements of the Left to stop this nomination by using the filibuster. I am thrilled Neil Gorsuch will fill the late Justice Scalia’s seat. Congratulations, Justice Gorsuch.”
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement on the U.S. military strike in Syria: “President Trump was right to act quickly and decisively to the atrocities committed by the forces of Bashar al-Assad. While no president has a blank check to circumvent congress in these matters, President Trump’s actions were entirely appropriate given the circumstances. “The Trump Administration’s actions are in stark contrast to President Obama’s idle ‘red Line’ threat which was followed by a sham agreement with Assad - brokered by Russia - to destroy all of Syria’s chemical weapons. “As this situation continues to unfold, it is imperative that Congress work with the President to protect our national security interests and address the humanitarian crisis in Syria.”
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) is inviting high school students across the Fifth Congressional District to participate in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. “Each year, this exciting competition provides Members of Congress the opportunity to showcase the artistic talent of high school students within their districts and acknowledge our nation’s gifted, young artists,�? said Hensarling. “I am pleased to announce that the Fifth Congressional District is once again participating in the competition, and I look forward to seeing the artwork that our talented students submit.�? As in years past, the winning entry from each congressional district will be displayed in a special exhibit located in a corridor of the U.S. Capitol building. The winning student and a guest will be invited to attend a special reception unveiling the artwork in Washington, D.C. SUBMISSION DEADLINE: Submissions must be delivered to Congressman Hensarling’s Dallas or Athens District Office by 5:00 pm on Wednesday, May 3, 2017. Please include a 2017 Congressional Art Competition Student Information and Release Form signed by the student, teacher, and parent/guardian. The winning selection will be chosen by a panel of judges and will be announced during the month of May. The winning student and a guest will be invited to attend a special-ribbon cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C. on Wednesday, June 29, 2017. Two complimentary airline tickets, courtesy of a major airline, will be provided to attend the ceremony. District Office Addresses: Dallas District Office: Athens District Office: 6510 Abrams Road #243 810 East Corsicana Street, Suite C Dallas, TX 75231 Athens, TX 75751 If your school will be participating in the contest, or if you need any additional information, please contact my Dallas office at (214) 349-9996.
03.31.2017	DALLAS, Texas—Today, Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, joined Housing and Urban Development Secretary Dr. Ben Carson at Jubilee Park and Community Center during the Secretary’s multi-city listening tour of communities and HUD offices. Today’s tour stop focused on Jubilee Park’s commitment to community-based initiatives aimed at empowering families and individuals through education and ensuring residents in the neighborhood have access to quality, affordable housing. “Jubilee Park is a shining example of what can happen when local communities, faith-based organizations, and private enterprise partner together to find solutions for lifting people out of poverty,” said Hensarling. “I have seen firsthand the transformation that has taken place in this neighborhood, and I was honored to have the opportunity to share it with Secretary Carson.” Jubilee was founded in 1997 in collaboration with Habitat for Humanity, Greater Dallas Community of Churches, Saint Michael, and All Angels Episcopal Church. Each year, Jubilee staff and volunteers provide housing services and education opportunities for children and adults in the neighborhood. These community partners and other corporate sponsors have invested their time, money, and talents into making this neighborhood a safe place for families to live, work, and learn. “Just 20 years ago, Jubilee was a community where drugs littered the streets, gangs roamed freely, and residents were afraid to leave their homes. Now, this is a vibrant community, where families are given the resources they need to lift themselves out of poverty,” said Hensarling. “This is all possible, not because of Washington mandates, but because of out-of-the-box thinking by community organizations, churches, civic groups, and corporations who came together to improve the lives of their neighbors. It is this kind of community-based innovation that is key to reforming HUD and providing assistance for housing in the 21st Century.” In the 115th Congress, the Financial Services Committee will seek to reform how the federal government provides housing assistance in the 21st Century with innovative solutions that do more than simply perpetuate programs that ultimately marginalize poor families and communities. Together with Speaker Ryan, as a part of the House’s Better Way agenda, the Committee’s goal is to propose better, fairer government reforms to get people out of poverty—including helping beneficiaries move toward jobs and independence; reforming the housing voucher assistance program to make vouchers more flexible and portable in order to allow participants the ability to move to areas with better employment, housing, and educational prospects; and reforming the Public Housing Authority System to root out inefficiencies and outmoded programs that often hurt those families most in need of assistance.
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the American Health Care Act: Unfortunately, we allowed the perfect to become the enemy of the good, and because of that, Obamacare remains fully intact. Clearly there are differences of opinion within our Conference on how best to legislatively repeal and replace Obamacare under the current process – differences that might have been avoided if the United States Senate would simply change its rules to allow bills to be passed with 51 votes. Nevertheless, I was proud to stand with President Trump and Speaker Ryan today in our efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare. Our Conference is blessed to be led by a great conservative like Paul Ryan. He’s a man of impeccable integrity who has an unyielding passion for the cause of freedom. He showed phenomenal leadership and negotiated in good faith throughout this process. It is my hope that we can regroup and rally behind him and the President as a Conference to deliver on our promise to provide relief to the American people who are currently forced to buy health care they cannot afford and cannot use under our current system.
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s 2018 Budget Blueprint: “Left unchecked, our nation is driving at a breakneck speed toward a spending-driven fiscal cliff. If we go off this cliff and into a full-blown debt crisis, we will be a nation where downsized dreams and fewer opportunities become the new norm. Washington simply won’t have the ability to do all the things that Americans expect of the federal government either– whether that is making good on the health and retirement security promises made to current and future generations of American seniors or protecting our nation and ensuring that our men and women in the armed forces have all the tools needed to do their jobs. “This future doesn’t have to be our destiny if we make the responsible fiscal decisions today. The President’s budget submission to Congress represents the beginning of the budget process. President Trump has put forward a budget proposal that shows how we can shrink Washington while still prioritizing taxpayer dollars on things like rebuilding our nation’s military and securing our borders. This budget illustrates the real choices that must be made, and it is a welcome relief from the past eight years where budgets were unrealistic, unsustainable, and seemingly indifferent to our nation’s mounting debt. “And, while this budget blueprint takes us in the right direction, more work needs to be done if programs like Social Security and Medicare are going to be placed on a financially sustainable path. Certainly those with a vested interest in maintaining the status quo in Washington will protest any reduction in their particular funding stream with dire predictions. But, if we are going to truly have a healthy economy with greater growth, opportunity, and prosperity for all, we cannot continue to grow Washington’s economy at the expense of the Main Street economy. I look forward to the continued budget process and working with President Trump and Members of Congress to restore fiscal accountability in Washington.”
03.05.2017	WASHINGTON—Today, Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) announced he will host a live tele-town hall event across the 5th Congressional District of Texas on Monday, March 6, 2017, at 7 p.m. CT. For the first time, Congressman Hensarling is broadcasting his tele-town hall live over the web. By participating in this interactive forum, constituents are able to submit their questions directly to the Congressman. Click here at 7 p.m. CT to connect to the tele-town hall over the web. Those who do not wish to participate over the web can call (855)-756-7520 Ext. 34686# to be connected to the tele-town hall. “Tele-town halls are a great way for me to reach thousands of Texans across the 5th Congressional District all at the same time, and I am especially glad we are expanding access through the internet,” said Congressman Hensarling. “During these forums, we typically cover a wide range of issues, and I get to hear from a cross-section of residents who might not otherwise have the ability or time to get to an in-person town hall. Most importantly, it’s an opportunity for me to hear directly from constituents about what’s most important to them. I hope everyone can join us.”
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) released the following statement after former Texas Governor Rick Perry was confirmed by the Senate to be the next Secretary of Energy: “I extend my full congratulations to my good friend Governor Rick Perry on his confirmation to be Secretary of Energy. He is uniquely qualified to execute President Trump’s vision to make America energy independent, create jobs, and lead the Department of Energy into the 21st Century. As Governor of Texas, he led our great state through a sustained period of economic growth where we gained over 2.2 million jobs. He was a champion of Texas energy – whether it was oil, natural gas, or wind – and he helped to make energy more affordable for families and businesses, both in our state and across the nation. I look forward to working with him in his new role to cut red tape and regulations that are holding our country back from true energy independence.�?
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after President Trump addressed a Joint Session of Congress: “President Trump is taking bold action, and his presidency marks the beginning of a new era for our nation. Tonight, during his first Joint Session address, he laid out a strong agenda to make America safer, more prosperous, and more free. “For too long, we’ve seen the heavy hand of government grow evermore intrusive in our daily lives. As a consequence, top-down Washington mandates have upended the health insurance market, slowed economic growth to a crawl, and trampled on our individual liberty. Under eight years of Obama-led foreign policy, we have seen our enemies emboldened and our allies lose confidence in our partnerships. Illegal immigrants have skirted the relaxed rule of law and flooded through our porous borders. “Undoing the damage of the past eight years won’t happen overnight, but the president is off to a running start. As someone who has been listening to working people across the country, this president knows the best path to economic growth is to fix the needless government regulations that are choking innovation and job creation. He knows individuals want the freedom to choose their doctor and their health insurance plan—not have it dictated for them by Washington bureaucrats. His plan to reform our tax code would allow hardworking Americans to keep more of their paychecks and determine their own financial future. His plan to cut Washington red tape will give American job creators the ability to make their hard work and dreams a reality. The president also made clear that he will do everything he can to keep Americans and their families safe both at home and abroad. “President Trump is a doer, and I am heartened by his remarks tonight because they represent a new direction for our nation. With our new leadership, I am confident in our future and know great opportunities lie ahead for ‘We the People.’”
01.30.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement regarding President Trump’s recent action on national security: “President Trump made clear that keeping America safe is a top priority for his Administration, and it is refreshing to see that he is willing to take swift and decisive action to achieve that goal. And, while the rollout of his executive action could have gone more smoothly, I believe most Americans, and particularly the East Texans I represent, would agree that it’s just common sense to take a closer look at people trying to enter the U.S. from nations with broad terrorist networks. “In fact, more than a year ago Congress passed, and President Obama signed into law, a bill that placed a higher threshold for entry into our nation. The legislation blocked people who have traveled since 2011 to Iran, Iraq, Sudan, and Syria from entering the United States through our Visa Waiver Program—no matter their country of citizenship. Several months later, the Obama Administration added Libya, Somalia, and Yemen to that list. These seven countries, are the exact same countries included in President Trump’s executive order. And, while critics claim this temporary pause in immigration amounts to a Muslim ban, this couldn’t be further from the truth. In fact, more than 40 countries with Muslim majorities were not included on President Trump’s list at all. “America is a nation of immigrants, and should continue to be. Although we can’t take in the world, we should strive to find places for people who come here legally, seeking freedom and opportunity. But, we need to make sure those seeking to come to America mean us no harm. “In the coming days and weeks, Congress should exercise its responsibility to take a careful look at the underlying policies to ensure they are effective in achieving the goal of making America safer and preventing terrorists from coming to our shores.” ###
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, the House passed, and Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) voted for, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act (H.R. 7). This bill permanently prohibits federal funding for abortion and funding for any insurance plan that includes abortion on demand. “Today—just days before hundreds of thousands of people will participate in the annual March for Life in Washington, D.C.—I am proud to have taken a stand in solidarity with them to protect the rights of the unborn and prevent taxpayer funding for abortion,” said Hensarling. “As Americans, we share a sacred responsibility to protect innocent life and defend the rights of those who are unable to defend themselves. It is my strong belief that human life begins at conception, and every life—even the life of an unborn child—is worthy of protection.” H.R. 7 passed 238 to 183 and codifies into law the Hyde Amendment, which doesn’t outlaw abortions but simply says that federal taxpayers will not be compelled to subsidize them. In fact, a majority of Americans agree taxpayers should not foot the bill for abortions, including those who identify as pro-choice. A poll conducted by Knights of Columbus-Marist about six months ago found 61% of Americans believe taxpayer dollars should not be used for this life-ending procedure.
01.22.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) released the following statement to mark the 44th Anniversary of the Supreme Court decision in Roe v. Wade: “As we mark the 44th anniversary of the Supreme Court’s decision in Roe vs. Wade, it is my hope that we will take this opportunity to remember the millions of precious human lives ended by the unspeakable tragedy of abortion. “As Americans, we share a sacred responsibility to protect the innocent and defend the rights of those who are unable to defend themselves. As a matter of morality, history, science, reason, and most of all faith, I can come to no other conclusion but that every human life begins at conception and every life is worthy of protection. “On January 27th, thousands of citizens will take action to defend life by participating in the annual March for Life in Washington, D.C. Many more in Texas and across the country will stand with them at local events fighting for the rights of the unborn. I applaud all those who choose to take part in these demonstrations and continue to pray for the day when all Americans will decide to protect the unalienable right to life.” ###
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after voting for the FY 2017 Budget Resolution that will enable the repeal of Obamacare through budget reconciliation: “Today’s vote marks the most important step to date in the process to once and for all repeal Obamacare and to provide patient-centered health care reform in its place. “Under President Obama’s ‘signature accomplishment’ premiums and deductibles have soared, patient choice has dwindled, and insurance markets have begun to collapse. Despite promises that people who wanted to keep their insurance plan and doctor could do so, many Americans have lost one or even both. Beyond Obamacare’s impact on their health care, hardworking Americans who were already struggling to make ends meet had their hours cut at work because their employer couldn’t afford Obamacare’s onerous taxes and penalties. “Republicans have a better way, and thanks to a special process known as reconciliation – which prevents a minority of the Senate from being able to block legislation through filibuster –we can get Obamacare repeal on President Trump’s desk and focus on reforming our broken health care system. We can make patient care more affordable, portable, and accessible, while increasing competition and decreasing cost. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress and the new Administration to put individual people and families, not Washington bureaucrats, back in charge of their own health care.”
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after Rep. Sam Johnson (TX-3) announced that he will retire at the end of the 115th Congress: “My heart felt a little heavy today when I learned of Sam Johnson’s plans to retire at the close of the 115th Congress. Very few have dedicated their lives to the service of our great nation the way Sam has, and his shoes will be hard to fill. But, if anyone deserves some rest and relaxation in retirement, it’s Sam. From serving in the Air Force for 29 years and enduring years of torture as a POW, to tirelessly serving the constituents of the 3rd District of Texas for more than two decades, Sam is a true American patriot and hero with a servant’s heart. I look forward to working with Sam over the next two years as he enhances the strong legacy he has already forged.�?
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON—This week, the House passed, and Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) voted for, two measures that will help rein-in job-killing regulations that are holding back the US economy from reaching its full potential. The Regulations from the Executive In Need of Scrutiny Act (H.R. 26), more commonly known as the REINS Act, passed the House on Thursday and requires new major regulations that have a significant impact on the economy to be voted up or down by Congress and be signed into law by the President before they can take effect. “When people think about the cost of government they usually think about the out-of-control Washington spending that is driving our national debt of almost $20 trillion and counting. However, there is another cost of government and that is the cost of federal regulations,�? Hensarling said. “According to the Competitive Enterprise Institute, the estimated cost of federal regulations in 2015 was almost $1.9 trillion, and no matter how you slice it, that kind of financial burden on our economy costs us jobs. I vividly recall a small businessman in East Texas who told me after many, many years he closed his small cabinetry shop because of the burden of regulation saying sadly, ‘I came to the conclusion my government no longer wanted me to succeed.’ Bureaucratic red tape pushed him out of business.�? The REINS Act will ensure that regulations with an annual economic cost of $100 million or more will move forward ONLY after receiving the approval of the people’s elected representatives in Congress. The Midnight Rules Relief Act (H.R. 21), which passed the House Wednesday 238-184, will allow Congress, in a single vote, to repeal any rule finalized in the last 60 legislative days of the Obama administration (and future administrations) using the Congressional Review Act process which Republicans created in 1996. This bill will ensure that any last minute regulations the out-going Administration tries to impose will receive the proper level of scrutiny. “Not all regulations are unwarranted, of course. But, there’s a difference between smart regulation that keeps Americans safe, and job-killing, economy-stagnating regulation that harms small business owners and families,�? said Hensarling. “Currently, unelected Washington bureaucrats, who are running wild under the Obama Administration, are churning out roughly 4,000 new regulations a year. That has got to stop. And, while we have a long way to go to get our economy growing at four percent a year like it should be, the REINS Act and the Midnight Rules Relief Act are important steps toward achieving that goal and increasing job opportunities for all Americans.�?
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON—Today, Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after taking the Oath of Office to represent the Fifth District of Texas for the 115th Congress: “I am honored and deeply humbled by the trust that the voters of the Fifth Congressional District of Texas have placed in me to serve as their representative in the 115th Congress. I am committed to working on their behalf every day to solve the many problems and challenges we face. As a united Congress, working alongside the new Administration, we have the opportunity to reverse the devastating effects of eight years of Obamanomics and to create a dynamic economy that fosters job creation, higher wages, and greater economic liberty for all Americans. Together, we will take our country back from a distant, ruling, Washington elite and return governance to ‘We the People.’�?
12.12.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, made the following comments upon news that Boeing has finalized an agreement to sell 80 commercial aircraft to Iran Air – the state owned national carrier of Iran. “Boeing’s actions to aid the world’s foremost state sponsor of terrorism through the sale of these jets are disappointing to say the least. This announcement reminds us just how dangerous President Obama's nuclear agreement is. The President wants us to sell planes not just to this dangerous regime, but to an airline that his own Treasury Department sanctioned in 2011. President Obama even wants U.S. banks to draw on American citizens' deposits to finance Iran, a regime that Treasury calls ‘a jurisdiction of primary money laundering concern.’ “No wonder voters have chosen a new direction. The House has already spoken, passing separate measures that prohibit both aircraft sales to the ayatollahs and U.S. financing for them. “If a U.S. financial institution attempts to bankroll Iran in the waning days of the Obama administration, it will have to answer to Congress.”
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement upon House passage of a Continuing Resolution to fund the Federal government: “I would much rather work with President Trump next year than negotiate right now with President Obama on the entirety of our nation’s budget priorities for 2017. By passing this Continuing Resolution today, we fund the government through April and set the stage for President-elect Trump to work with a Republican-controlled House and Senate to finish our spending bills and further advance our Conservative agenda. This Continuing Resolution fulfills the President-elect’s request, and I look forward to working with him to prioritize economic growth and opportunity for all Americans and to use Congress’ power of the purse to restore common sense to the Federal government.”
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement upon House passage of the 21st Century Cures Act: “In the 20th century, the United States was the global leader in medical research and innovation; our nation’s scientists and medical researchers discovered and developed countless innovative cures, treatments, medical devices, and clinical procedures that changed the course of human history and allowed millions of lives to be saved around the world. To maintain this leadership position in the 21st century, we must take bold action today. “The 21st Century Cures Act is that bold action; it will accelerate the development and delivery of new cures and treatments for patients to transform the way we manage diseases. It reforms and modernizes our nation’s regulatory infrastructure, getting rid of unnecessary red tape at the Food and Drug Administration. It also provides additional resources for researchers to propel medical discovery that will speed the development of cutting-edge cures and treatments. It’s important to note that fiscally-responsible changes have also been made to this bill since its inception. All additional spending in 21st Century Cures is fully offset and this bill creates no new entitlement spending. “Additionally, this legislation serves as the vehicle to get bipartisan mental health reform legislation, which was passed by the House earlier this year on a 422-2 vote, to the president’s desk. The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act (H.R. 2646), is a major step forward in changing the way our nation’s health care system deals with those suffering from mental illness by making sure they get the care and medications they need – just like any other patient suffering from an illness.�?
11.29.2016	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement regarding President-elect Donald Trump’s nomination of Chairman Tom Price, M.D. (R-GA) as Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services: “Tom Price is an outstanding thinker, legislator, and conservative leader who has dedicated his life to the field of medicine. He knows first-hand how decisions in Washington affect patients and health care providers back at home, and he has been a tireless advocate in Congress for patient-centered health care reforms. I couldn’t think of a better person to head the Department of Health and Human Services and to lead the charge to fix our nation’s health care challenges. President-elect Trump’s decision to nominate Dr. Price speaks volumes about the team he is putting together to lead this country. I couldn’t be more proud of my friend and colleague, and I wish him and his family the best in this next chapter.”
11.26.2016	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the passing of Fidel Castro: “Today, the Cuban people have been freed from the grasp of a tyrant, but unfortunately, they are not yet free. Now, the hard work must continue to truly liberate the people of Cuba. And the United States must be a willing partner to the freedom-seeking Cuban people who want to fight for that God-given right.”
11.10.2016	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in honor of Veterans Day which is commemorated each year on November 11th: “Veterans Day is a day for all of us to pause and say a collective ‘thank you’ to the men and women who answered the call to serve and defend the United States of America in times of peace and in times of war. Because of them, America remains a ‘shining city on a hill’ and the beacon of liberty to the rest of the world. As the son, grandson, and brother of veterans, I cannot thank our veterans enough for their service. And, as long as I represent the 5th District of Texas, I will work to ensure all veterans receive the benefits and respect they have earned and deserve.�?
10.25.2016	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the Department of Defense’s demand for our veterans to repay their bonuses: “Men and women who served our nation in good faith should not be harassed and penalized by their government. It’s time for the Pentagon to end their demands for our soldiers to repay their bonuses. Our military members deserve better and should not be held responsible for the DOD’s mistakes.” The House has taken steps to ensure an injustice like this one does not happen again in the future. In May, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act of 2017 which establishes a statute of limitations on the military recovering future overpayments and scrutinizes the Defense Finance and Accounting Service’s management of existing cases of service member debt. This bill is expected to be signed into law in December.
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, the House passed, and Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) voted for, the Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act (H.R. 5461). This bipartisan bill originated in the House Financial Services Committee, which Congressman Hensarling chairs. H.R. 5461 will bring transparency to the financial assets held by Iran’s top political and military leaders and shed light on how these assets contribute to Iran’s funding of terrorism. “The Islamic Republic of Iran is identified as both the world’s foremost state sponsor of terrorism and a country of ‘primary concern’ for money laundering by the United States. It is also characterized by high levels of official corruption and substantial involvement of its security forces – particularly the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps – in that nation’s business sector,” said Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX). “Because of this volatile mix of terrorism, corruption, and wealth, it is vitally important for us to clearly understand the assets held by Iran’s most powerful people. That is what the ‘Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act’ will allow us to do.” Specifically, the Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act requires the Treasury Secretary to develop and post online a list estimating the “funds and assets” held by senior Iranian political and military leaders, along with a description of how they acquired the assets and how those assets are employed. The report would be posted on the Treasury Department’s website in English, also translated into the three main languages used inside Iran, and would be available in any of those forms in a way that is easy to download and share. Congressman Hensarling spoke on the House Floor today in support of the bill. Click here for video of his remarks.
09.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the Financial Services Committee, said today the committee has launched an investigation into alleged fraud that led to the opening of unauthorized customer accounts at Wells Fargo and the role of Washington regulators in monitoring and investigating this activity. As part of its investigation, the committee will be calling John Stumpf, the company’s Chairman and CEO, to testify at a hearing later this month. In addition, the committee is requesting that Wells Fargo and regulators provide internal documents relating to the discovery and timing of these practices and is asking company officials to appear for transcribed interviews. Chairman Hensarling said the committee will consider further actions, including subpoenas, as warranted. In letters sent today to the heads of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the committee said it is requesting all records related to the allegations of fraudulent or improper activity by Wells Fargo employees, as well as any documents or communications between the Bureau and OCC employees in the course of their review of the bank’s sales practices. The committee sent a separate letter today to James Strother, the Senior Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Wells Fargo, requesting “all records relating to the questionable sales practices” that the bank produced or made available to the OCC, the Los Angeles City Attorney’s office, or the Bureau. In addition, the committee asked that corporate officers be made available for transcribed interviews. Below is the text of the letters sent by Chairman Hensarling: September 16, 2016 James M. Strother Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel Wells Fargo & Company 420 Montgomery Street San Francisco, CA 94163 Dear Mr. Strother: On September 8, 2016, Wells Fargo & Company (Wells Fargo) reached agreements with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Office of the Los Angeles City Attorney (LACA), and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), regarding allegations that Wells Fargo enrolled and charged certain retail customers for products and services not authorized by the customers. The Committee is very concerned by these serious allegations and is investigating Wells Fargo’s questionable sales practices and corresponding agreements with federal regulators in order to evaluate the application, administration, execution, and effectiveness of Federal laws. Accordingly, to allow the Committee to carry out its oversight responsibilities under the House Rules, the Committee requests all records relating to the questionable sales practices that Wells Fargo produced or made available to the OCC, LACA or the Bureau. Please produce all responsive records by not later than September 23, 2016. Additionally, please make available the following corporate officers for transcribed interviews with Committee staff during the month of September: 1. John Shrewsberry, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; 2. Timothy Sloan, President and Chief Operating Officer; 3. Michael Loughlin, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer; and 4. Carrie Tolstedt, Senior Executive Vice President for Community Banking. Please promptly contact the Committee to schedule dates for these interviews. Sincerely, Jeb Hensarling Chairman cc: The Honorable Maxine Waters, Ranking Member September 16, 2016 The Honorable Richard Cordray Director Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection 1700 G Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20552 Dear Director Cordray: Last week, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) levied a $100 million civil penalty against Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (Wells Fargo) “for the widespread illegal practice of secretly opening unauthorized deposit and credit card accounts.” According to the Bureau’s Consent Order, Wells Fargo employees opened 1,534,280 potentially unauthorized accounts that resulted in the imposition of fees in excess of $2 million on unsuspecting consumers. It has since been reported that these actions have been attributed to aggressive “cross-selling,” mostly in Wells Fargo’s Community Banking division, where over 5,000 employees have been fired, and that allegations of this misconduct first surfaced as early as 2011, and were “widely revealed in 2013.” The Committee is very concerned by these serious allegations and is investigating Wells Fargo’s sales practices and corresponding agreements with the Bureau and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency to evaluate the application, administration, execution, and effectiveness of Federal laws. Accordingly, to allow the Committee to carry out its oversight responsibilities under the House Rules, please produce the following records by not later than Friday, September 23, 2016: (1) All records relating to aforementioned allegations of fraudulent or improper activity by Wells Fargo and/or its officers, employees, or directors; (2) Any documents or communications including, but not limited to, e-mails, between CFPB and Wells Fargo employees, officers, and/or directors, in the course of the CFPB’s review of Wells Fargo’s sales practices; and (3) Any documents detailing supervisory policies and procedures of the CFPB that were in force while Wells Fargo was initially alleged to have engaged in the fraudulent or improper activity in 2011, which were designed to detect such fraudulent or improper activity from occurring. Sincerely, Jeb Hensarling Chairman cc: The Honorable Maxine Waters, Ranking Member September 16, 2016 The Honorable Thomas J. Curry Comptroller of the Currency 400 7th Street, SW Washington, D.C. 20219 Dear Comptroller Curry: Last week, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) levied a $35 million civil penalty against Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (Wells Fargo), for unsafe and unsound sales practices, including “the unauthorized opening of deposit or credit card accounts and the transfer of funds from authorized existing accounts to unauthorized accounts.” The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) reported that Wells Fargo employees opened 1,534,280 potentially unauthorized accounts that resulted in the imposition of fees in excess of $2 million on unsuspecting consumers. It has since been reported that these actions have been attributed to aggressive “cross-selling” by employees mostly in Wells Fargo’s Community Banking division, where over 5,000 employees have been fired, and that allegations of this misconduct first surfaced at least as early as 2011, and were “widely revealed in 2013.” The Committee is very concerned by these serious allegations and is investigating Wells Fargo’s sales practices and corresponding agreements with the OCC and the Bureau to evaluate the application, administration, execution, and effectiveness of Federal laws. Accordingly, to allow the Committee to carry out its oversight responsibilities under the House Rules, please produce the following records by not later than Friday, September 23, 2016: (1) All records relating to aforementioned allegations of fraudulent or improper activity by Wells Fargo and/or its officers, employees, or directors; (2) Any documents or communications including, but not limited to, e-mails, between OCC and Wells Fargo employees, officers, and/or directors, in the course of the OCC’s review of Wells Fargo’s sales practices; and (3) Any documents detailing supervisory policies and procedures of the OCC that were in force while Wells Fargo was initially alleged to have engaged in the fraudulent or improper activity in 2011, which were designed to detect such fraudulent or improper activity from occurring. Sincerely, Jeb Hensarling Chairman cc: The Honorable Maxine Waters, Ranking Member
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON—Today, Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) voted to stop the Obama Administration from continuing its reckless release of prisoners from Guantanamo Bay detention camp (Gitmo). Under current law, it is illegal for the president to transfer Gitmo detainees to American soil, but that’s not stopping him from releasing these dangerous terrorist to other countries and putting our national security at risk. In fact, the Administration has already cleared 20 of the remaining 61 detainees for release. “The detainees at Gitmo are among the most dangerous and determined terrorists on the planet. The Director of National Intelligence himself has said nearly one-third of all released detainees return or are suspected of having returned to terrorism,” said Hensarling. “So, it seems to me, the Administration is more concerned about fulfilling a bad campaign promise than about our national security. Handing these detainees over would essentially be returning terrorists to the battlefield to potentially commit more heinous acts of terrorism, and I will do everything I can in Congress to stop this.” H.R. 5351 would stop the transfer of any Gitmo detainees until enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2017, or until the end of this year. That’s because the House-passed NDAA includes a provision that requires written agreements between the U.S. and the government of any foreign country that agrees to accept Gitmo detainees. The NDAA also requires the next administration to provide Congress with a comprehensive detention plan outlining how the release of any Gitmo detainee would fit into the broader strategy for handling individuals detained during wartime. H.R. 5351 passed the House 244 to 174 and will now head to the Senate for consideration. The President has already threatened to veto the measure.
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON—Today, Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) voted for the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act of 2016 (H.R. 5620). This bill would speed up the VA disability benefits appeals process, strengthen protections for whistleblowers at the VA, and provide the Secretary of the VA increased flexibility to remove a VA employee for poor performance or misconduct. “In order to truly fix our broken VA system, we must ultimately address the complete lack of accountability across the Department of Veterans Affairs,” said Hensarling. “This bill is a concrete step toward instilling that accountability. For too long, our veterans have had to deal with dishonesty and incompetence across the VA as union bosses and some administration officials have seemingly prioritized the jobs of VA bureaucrats over the care of our veterans. That is certainly the impression that many veterans I have visited with in the 5th District of Texas have of the VA. That’s not fair to them, and it’s not fair to the hardworking and honest employees at the VA either.” The VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act also reforms and streamlines the VA’s disability benefits appeals process. “One of the issues that I constantly hear from veterans about is the length of time that they spend going through the VA appeals process. It is simply mind-boggling that veterans can literally spend years tangled up in bureaucratic red tape waiting on an outcome. I’m pleased that this bill will streamline the appeals process to shorten the time that our veterans spend waiting on a decision – all while protecting the due process rights of veterans.” “As a Congress, and as a nation, we cannot rest until our veterans are getting the care they have earned and deserve. As President Coolidge said, ‘The nation which forgets its defenders will itself be forgotten.’ We must never forget the sacrifices of our nation’s heroes nor the promises we’ve made to them. I am committed to reforming the VA system, holding VA administrators and employees accountable, and keeping our promise to our nation’s veterans.” H.R. 5620 would make the following reforms to the VA: Shorten the firing/demotion/appeals process for rank-and-file VA employees from more than a year on average to no more than 77 days Remove the Merit Systems Protection Board from the firing/demotion/appeals process for VA senior executives Provide VA whistleblowers with a means to solve problems at the lowest level possible, while offering them protection from retaliation Give the VA secretary the authority to recoup bonuses and relocation expenses from poorly performing employees Give the VA secretary the authority to reduce the pensions of senior executives convicted of felonies that influenced their job performance Reform the department’s broken disability benefits appeals process The VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act of 2016 passed in the House 310 to 116.
09.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Legislation to end bailouts for big banks, toughen penalties for wrongdoing on Wall Street, promote economic growth, and provide desperately needed regulatory relief for small community banks and credit unions passed the House Financial Services Committee 30-26 today. The Financial CHOICE Act, which Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) introduced, ends the Dodd-Frank Act’s taxpayer-funded bailouts of large financial institutions; relieves banks that elect to be strongly capitalized from growth-strangling regulation that slows the economy and harms consumers; imposes tougher penalties on those who commit financial fraud; and demands greater accountability from Washington regulators. “Democrats just voted against a bill that increases penalties against those who commit financial fraud. They just voted against a bill that ends taxpayer-funded bailouts, and they just voted against legislation that provides relief from Washington’s crushing regulatory burden for small banks, credit unions, and consumers,” said Congressman Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. “The bill holds Wall Street accountable with the toughest, strongest, strictest penalties ever – far greater than those in Dodd-Frank. And as recent headlines attest, obviously stronger penalties are needed. It requires banks to be well capitalized to prevent another financial crisis and puts in place the toughest penalties in history to protect consumers from fraud and deception. “The Financial CHOICE Act will help grow the economy for all Americans, not just those at the top. It promotes strong and transparent markets to revitalize job creation in our poorest communities and ensures every American has the opportunity to achieve financial independence, no matter where they start out in life.” The Financial CHOICE Act, which stands for Creating Hope and Opportunity for Investors, Consumers and Entrepreneurs, received strong support from community banks and credit unions, small business groups and conservative organizations. Large financial institutions did not offer their support for the bill. Democrats on the Committee – despite having spent months criticizing the Financial CHOICE Act – refused to offer a single amendment to the bill. For more information on the Financial CHOICE Act, visit www.financialservices.house.gov/choice/. Organizations offering praise for the Financial CHOICE Act include the following: “….[the Financial CHOICE Act] is precisely the right combination to get the American economy moving again. The CHOICE Act offers sensible regulatory relief for qualifying institutions, protects the American taxpayer and consumer from another Wall Street meltdown, and holds federal financial regulatory agencies accountable.” -- Independent Bankers Association of Texas “This bill provides significant regulatory relief essential to restoring economic growth. Republican members of Congress have repeatedly promised to get rid of Dodd-Frank and stop taxpayer funded bailouts. Now they have the opportunity to fulfill that promise by bringing the Financial Choice Act to a vote in the House and Senate, and sending the bill to the President’s desk.” -- Heritage Action “Chairman Hensarling’s CHOICE Act would be a win for Main Street consumers, workers and small businesses. Since Dodd-Frank was passed in 2010, access to free-checking has decreased while lobbyists’ importance has increased. The CHOICE Act helps reverse this trend.” -- Main Street Growth Project “Americans for Prosperity applauds your leadership in reining in the overbearing financial regulations that threaten growth and threaten consumer financial stability. Repealing and replacing the failed policies established in the Dodd-Frank Act will mean that Americans will have greater access to capital, which will lead to greater job growth, personal wealth, and overall economic prosperity. We are proud to support the CHOICE Act, and we urge your colleagues to support it.” -- Americans for Prosperity “The [Financial CHOICE Act] would provide meaningful regulatory relief to help community banks foster economic and job growth in their local communities.” -- Independent Community Bankers of America “….several components of this legislation target reforms specifically to facilitate investment in small business. The inclusion of these provisions and others will provide regulatory relief and modernization that will allow the private sector to fuel economic growth in our 21st century economy.” -- Small Business Investor Alliance “This is an important bill that will truly reform rules governing the financial system, encourage innovation across the system, vastly improve access to capital for entrepreneurs and small businesses, and transform a regulatory structure that lacks accountability, is too secretive, and ignores its responsibilities concerning small businesses.” -- Small Business & Entrepreneurship Council “We greatly appreciate the Chairman’s efforts in Title III of the bill to reform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB or Bureau). This title will help to ensure the Bureau serves as a non-partisan regulator that operates within the framework of the law by giving Congress more oversight authority, taking into account the opinions of all stakeholders, and properly weighing the impact its regulations have on the availability of credit.” -- Consumer Bankers Association “NAR is pleased that the FCA [Financial CHOICE Act] includes provisions that will enhance transparency, accountability and fairness in our financial system. As a result, the FCA will help expand financial product choice and promote economic opportunity. These provisions are an important step towards making property ownership a reality for hardworking Americans and U.S. businesses.” – National Association of Realtors “If we want the economy to improve — if we want to give all Americans the chance to prosper again — we need to put an end to Washington’s destructive regulatory agenda once and for all. Thankfully, an increasing number of elected officials in Washington are fighting against the harmful effects and unintended consequences of these onerous regulations. Leading the fight in Congress has been House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), who recently outlined a comprehensive plan to turbocharge the American economy. His new legislation, The Financial CHOICE Act, aims to curb regulations to create opportunity and choice for investors, consumers, and entrepreneurs nationwide.” -- Conservative Coalition Letter of Support “If signed into law, the bill would end the era of too big to fail, and would move banking and financial decisions away from Beltway and back to Main Street. This bill is balanced, meets key conservative criteria, and should continue to move through the House to final passage.” -- FreedomWorks “….[the Financial CHOICE Act] would begin the process of implementing sensible, necessary reforms to the U.S. financial system. That system has been saddled with an ineffective regulatory structure and an array of conflicting legislative and regulatory requirements that, individually or collectively, constrain growth. The Chamber believes the Financial Choice Act is a positive first step for unlocking the capital markets to better facilitate the financing of America’s economic growth and job creation.” -- U.S. Chamber of Commerce “….the CHOICE Act offers a strong alternative to Dodd-Frank and the regulatory morass it created. Rather than creating a flurry of complex rules in response to the financial crisis, Congress should have mandated higher capital requirements for financial institutions. That is why NTU is enthusiastic about the CHOICE Act’s “off ramp” from the bulk of the current Dodd Frank regulatory regime.” -- National Taxpayers Union “….the CHOICE Act and the substantial regulatory relief it provides…will generate meaningful economic and job growth in our communities.” -- Mid-Size Bank Coalition of America “….[the Financial CHOICE Act] address[es] the challenging credit conditions that home builders and home buyers continue to experience as a result of an overly zealous regulatory response to the financial crisis. NAHB appreciates your efforts to initiate regulatory reform to support a more robust recovery.” -- National Association of Home Builders “….it is vital that we take heed of any policy that claims to “fix” the voluntary actions of consumers. Price controls go against everything we stand for as a country and do nothing but redistribute wealth, damaging the lives of hardworking Americans. The first step forward is reform. The Financial CHOICE Act is that first step.” -- Red State “….the Financial Choice Act if passed will restore competition in the marketplace by removing arbitrary government price caps. Additionally, it will allow banks the ability to recoup the money they spend on fraud protection from the retailers that reap the benefit of the use of debit cards. Consumers will once again have affordable access to basic banking services, and small businesses will have the freedom to negotiate processing fees that make sense based on the type of goods they sell. In short, all true conservatives in Congress should rally behind Neugebauer and Hensarling’s bill, because it will cut back on big government red tape and allow the free market to thrive again.” -- Liberty Unyielding
09.09.2016	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) released the following statement today after a remembrance ceremony on the steps of the Capitol in recognition of the 15th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks: “Although the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, occurred 15 years ago, those heinous acts are ever present in the minds of those who lost loved ones that day and are forever emblazoned in the minds of every American who still remembers exactly where they were when the first plane struck the World Trade Center that Tuesday morning. “The events of 9/11 demonstrated there are people in the world who despise America and are willing to wage attacks of incomprehensible evil. Unfortunately, that is still true today. “But, what is also true today, are the words from President Bush who said, ‘Terrorist attacks can shake the foundations of our biggest buildings, but they cannot touch the foundation of America.’ Despite incredible evil in the world, the American spirit is still strong, and I believe our love of freedom is unwavering. Ultimately, our commitment to winning the war on terror must be unyielding. “I am grateful to our men and women in military uniform who have volunteered to place themselves in harm’s way each and every day. I am also grateful to all of our first responders who we trust with our safety and who continue to demonstrate tremendous bravery here at home. “No matter how many years go by, may we never forget the 2,996 lives we lost; and may we never lose our resolve to combat the threat of terror both at home and abroad.�?
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON— Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, raised serious questions Thursday about the Obama Administration’s $1.7 billion in cash payments to Iran during a hearing of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. Addressing a panel of witnesses from the Obama State, Treasury, and Justice Departments—who only appeared after he threatened them with subpoena—Chairman Hensarling delivered the following opening remarks: “Any person here today can take out their iPhone or electronic device and google Merriam Webster’s definition of ransom: ‘money that is paid in order to free someone who has been captured or kidnapped.’ “The American people want to know: did this administration pay ransom? Does it meet the legal definition and, if it doesn’t, did the actions of this administration tragically achieve the same end that is to incent terrorists to kidnap American citizens? To put a price on the head of every tourist, soldier, sailor, airman, and marine who serves or visits overseas? Was the cash, cash transaction legal? “My guess is, if any private citizen had done what this administration did, they would be indicted on money laundering. Instead, the administration calls it ‘diplomacy.’ “Was the cash transaction legal? “If so, should it be legal? “And, if perfectly legal, why did the administration go to such great lengths to hide it from the American people? “Why did it take a Wall Street Journal exposé to bring the true nature of this transaction to our attention? “Why did I have to threaten subpoenas to get the administration to show up in the first place? “Did the Iranians demand that this payment be made in cash? “We have a terrorism finance task force here that knows it is cash, cash transactions that fuel terrorism. “It is the Obama State Department which has labeled Iran ‘the world’s foremost state sponsor of terrorism.’ It is the President’s Treasury Department that has classified it as ‘a jurisdiction of primary money laundering concern.’ “So why, Mr. Chairman, why were they given $1.7 billion—$1.3 of which was interest, taxpayer money that could have gone to the United States Army but, instead, apparently is going to the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. “The American people deserve answers.” For video of Rep. Hensarling’s opening remarks, click here. For video of Rep. Hensarling’s follow-up questions to the panel, click here.
09.07.2016	WASHINGTON—Today, Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, voted for the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016 (H.R. 5063). This bill stops the Department of Justice (DOJ), and all other agencies, from pushing defendants to donate money to favored political interest groups as part of settlement agreements with the federal government. This legislation was the result of a 20-month House Judiciary Committee and House Financial Services Committee investigation into the DOJ. It found the Department was systematically subverting Congress’ Article I power of the purse and diverting money from federal case settlements to left-wing activist groups that have supported President Obama’s political agenda—often times by giving companies significant breaks on the fines they are supposed to pay if they will funnel the money to their preferred political allies. “I might expect to see such a corrupt practice in a place like Russia,” said Rep. Hensarling. “But, in the United States of America? How could this possibly be legal? These payments occur entirely outside of the transparent and accountable Congressional appropriations and oversight process— a clear violation of Congress’ Article I power of the purse, according to Article I, Section 9 of the Constitution. By allowing for direct payments to non-victim, third-party political organizations, the Justice Department is trampling upon the Constitution, threatening due process, threatening separation of powers, and threatening checks and balances. There is simply no justice to be found in the Obama Justice Department.” The investigation by the House Judiciary Committee and the House Financial Services Committee found the DOJ used mandatory fines to direct as much as $880 million dollars to activist groups. These payments occurred entirely outside the Congressional appropriations and oversight process. For example, in 2012, the DOJ forced Gibson Guitars to pay a $50,000 community service payment to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation even though the foundation had no direct connection to the case. In 2014, Bank of America was able to reduce a multi-billion dollar mortgage fraud penalty imposed by the DOJ by giving millions of dollars to liberal groups like National Urban League, The Neighborhood Assistance Corporation of America, and National Council of La Raza. The Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016 would end this practice by the Obama Administration by sending settlement funds to victims or the U.S .Treasury, rather than favored political groups. “While self-righteously claiming to be ‘tough on the big banks’ and for ‘protecting consumers,’ the Obama Justice Department’s special deals for big banks actually give the banks double credit or more toward their penalties for each ‘donation’ made to the Administration’s political allies,” said Rep. Hensarling. “This means these big banks could erase potentially hundreds of millions of dollars in federal penalties this way—not to mention, avoid giving the money to actual victims. Using cash to reward your political allies instead of helping victims who have been genuinely wronged is the absolute epitome of what is unfair and wrong about this Administration.” H.R. 5063 passed the House 241 to 174 and now heads to the Senate for consideration. Congressman Hensarling delivered a speech on the House Floor in support of H.R. 5063. To view the video of that speech click here. The transcript of the speech is provided below: “Mr. Chairman, our Constitution is under assault, so I rise today in support of H.R. 5063, the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act. “A nearly two-year long investigation—jointly conducted by the Financial Services Committee, which I have the privilege of chairing, and the Judiciary Committee chaired by Mr. Goodlatte, the sponsor of this legislation—has shockingly revealed that the so-called Justice Department is not only pushing, but even requiring, some defendants in settlements to send the fines not to victims, not to the U.S. Treasury, but instead to political allies of the Obama Administration. “As one commentator wrote: ‘Imagine if the President of the United States forced America’s biggest banks to funnel hundreds of millions – and potentially billions – of dollars to the corporations and lobbyists who supported his agenda.’ “Mr. Chairman, there’s nothing to imagine. It’s real. It’s happening. “Mr. Chairman, our Committees’ investigation uncovered that the Obama Justice Department has done exactly this. They have used mandatory donations to direct as much as $880 million to political organizations that just so happen to be allies of the Obama Administration. “Now, I might expect to see such a corrupt practice in a place like Russia…but, in the United States of America? How could this possibly be legal? “These payments occur entirely outside of the transparent and accountable Congressional appropriations and oversight process – a clear violation of Congress’ Article I power of the purse, according to Article I, Section 9 of the Constitution. By allowing for direct payments to non-victim, third-party political organizations, the Justice Department is trampling upon the Constitution, threatening due process, threatening separation of powers, and threatening checks and balances. “Mr. Chairman, there is simply no justice to be found in the Obama Justice Department. “I also note the sheer hypocrisy of what the Administration is doing. “While self-righteously claiming to be ‘tough on the big banks’ and for ‘protecting consumers,’ the Obama Justice Department’s special deals for big banks actually give the banks double credit or more toward their penalties for each ‘donation’ made to their political allies. “This means these big banks could erase potentially hundreds of millions of dollars in federal penalties this way—not to mention, avoid giving the money to actual victims. “Using cash to reward your political allies instead of helping victims who have been genuinely wronged is the absolute epitome of what is unfair and wrong about this Administration. “I urge all Members to protect the Constitution and to vote for H.R. 5063, the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act and I yield back the balance of my time.”
09.02.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after the Department of Labor released the August jobs report: “This latest jobs report demonstrates that Obamanomics is failing our economy as Americans continue to struggle in the weakest and most tepid recovery in our nation’s history. Working Americans deserve better. Government has grown too big, too intrusive, and too expensive to allow the private sector to create good-paying jobs at a rapid pace. The Obama Administration’s endless bureaucratic red tape discourages job creation by punishing the job creator. One of the main culprits is the Dodd-Frank Act, weighing in at 2,300 pages and adding 400 new regulatory burdens on our economy. "Under the Obama economic strategy of which Dodd-Frank is a central pillar, Americans are suffering through the weakest performing recovery of our lifetimes. The share of able-bodied Americans in the labor force has hovered at the lowest level in nearly 40 years. Small business startups are at the lowest level in a generation. “But, there is a better way. House Republicans are working on a bold agenda that will grow our economy, reduce poverty and increase paychecks, and I am proud to be a part of that effort in Congress. The House Financial Services Committee, which I Chair, has an alternative to the regulatory burdens of Dodd-Frank called the Financial CHOICE Act. It is a plan that will grow the economy for all Americans and eliminate many of the bureaucratic barriers to job creation in this country. Americans deserve the growing economy they’ve been looking for.”
08.19.2016	WASHINGTON – Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on Thursday after the State Department admitted that the United States would not hand over $400 million in cash to Iran until it released four American hostages: “There’s a word for that. It’s called ransom. But two weeks ago, President Obama insisted to the American people that the $400 million cash payment to Iran was not in any way, shape, or form ransom. The Administration clearly has a lot of explaining to do. Already, the Financial Services Committee has asked the Justice Department, the Treasury, and the Federal Reserve for all records related to the secret delivery of this cash to Iran. The State Department’s admission that this money was indeed a ransom payment intensifies the need for Congress to fully investigate this outrageous action by the Administration and the urgency for the Administration to turn over these records immediately. Just months before making this ransom payment to Iran, the Obama Administration was threatening ordinary Americans with criminal prosecution for proposing private ransom payments to win the release of their family members. But it seems the Obama Administration will bend over backwards to accommodate the world’s biggest state sponsor of terrorism."
08.09.2016	WASHINGTON –US Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) recently wrapped up a series of town hall meetings across the 5th Congressional District of Texas. It was an opportunity for Constituents to get an update on what’s happening in Congress and for East Texans to ask the Congressman questions about the issues they care about. Congressman Hensarling focused his Congressional update on his efforts in Washington to roll back job-killing regulation and re-establish the Constitutional balance of power between the executive and legislative branches of government. One of those efforts is the Article I Project (A1P), which he co-leads with Senator Mike Lee (R-UT). A1P was established to develop and promote an agenda of structural reforms that will strengthen Congress and reassert the power of “We the People” established by the Constitution. “Our democracy requires that the nation’s laws be made by representatives who are elected by the people,” said Congressman Hensarling. “The modern regulatory state flips this constitutional logic on its head, severing the line of electoral accountability and consent that connects the people to their government. This leads to government officials who are insulated from public control. With that, accountability evaporates, the public good is subordinated to special interests, and wealth is redistributed up the economic scale from working Americans to the powerful and well-connected. By putting Congress, and therefore the American people, back in charge of the federal regulatory state, we can begin the hard work of winning back the people’s trust and rebuilding this still exceptional nation.” Hensarling’s work to rein in Washington red tape and executive overreach also includes repealing and replacing the President’s financial control law known as the Dodd –Frank Act. As Chairman of the Financial Services Committee, Hensarling has introduced the Republican proposal for Wall Street reform called the Financial CHOICE Act. It’s a proposal that Hensarling says will result in “economic growth for all and bank bailouts for none.” “Dodd-Frank has failed. It has contributed to the slowest, smallest, weakest and worst economic recovery of our lifetimes,” said Hensarling. “We must instead offer all Americans greater opportunities to raise their standards of living and achieve financial independence by replacing Dodd-Frank with real reforms that work.” National security and the President’s dangerous nuclear deal with Iran was also a topic of conversation across the 5th District. As a result of that deal, which Rep. Hensarling voted against, the President signed an executive order in January lifting some of the U.S. economic sanctions on Iran. Since that time, the Boeing Company, one of America’s largest aerospace companies, has negotiated a deal to sell that country more than 100 aircraft. Many in Congress, including Hensarling, are concerned that the deal between Boeing and Iran could benefit Iran’s military. Hensarling stressed his work on the Financial Services Committee to prevent American assets from falling into the hands of the world’s largest state sponsor of terror. “One of the last things we should be doing is allowing Boeing to export military fungible aircraft to Iran and providing that country access to the U.S. financial system. We are working at the Financial Services Committee to ensure that American taxpayers and depositors will not have their funds used to back financing for the Ayatollahs and Iran’s terrorist regime.” Press Coverage of Town Hall Events Northeast Texan: “Hensarling Hopes for Legacy of Dodd Frank Repeal; Addresses Constituent Concerns at Town Hall” Athens Review: “Hensarling Speaks in Athens” Palestine Herald Press: “US Congressman Hosts Town Hall Meeting, Legislative Update” Jacksonville Progress: “Hensarling Hosts Town Hall Meeting in Rusk” Tyler Telegraph: “Congressman Jeb Hensarling Outlines ‘Better Way’ Agenda” ###
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON—This week, the House marked the one-year anniversary of President Obama’s dangerous nuclear deal with Iran by passing several bills to hold Iran accountable for its illegal behavior and to block the President from granting more concession to the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism. “The Iranian regime’s dishonesty with regards to its nuclear program leaves it wholly undeserving of the trust that the administration has placed in it. Iran is a dangerous actor that has doubled down on its ballistic missile program and continues to commit human rights abuses. Stringent sanctions are what gave the United States leverage in our dealings with Iran in the first place, yet the Obama Administration continues to relieve the pressure. The bills we passed this week would ensure that the U.S. does not continue to reward Iran for bad behavior and would stop the President from granting Iran access to the U.S. dollar.” The bills passed this week in Congress include the following: No 2H2O from Iran Act (H.R. 5119) In April, the administration announced an $8.6 million purchase of a nuclear chemical called heavy water from Iran. That means $8.6 million could be used to directly subsidize the regime’s nuclear program or fund terrorism against the West. This bill blocks the administration from purchasing heavy water from Iran and prohibits funds from being used to issue licenses for these purchases.United States Financial System Protection Act (H.R. 4992) Rumors have circulated for months that the administration is also considering granting Iran access to the dollar, which would be yet another unprecedented concession above and beyond the letter of the nuclear agreement. This would give Tehran access to billions of dollars in additional commerce to supplement the billions already provided in the form of nuclear sanctions relief. This bill, which comes from the House Financial Services committee which Hensarling chairs, would prevent Iran’s access to the dollar until the regime ends its nuclear and ballistic missile programs, and ceases its support for terrorism.Iran Accountability Act (H.R. 5631) President Obama’s nuclear agreement with Iran did nothing to address the regime’s egregious human rights record, illicit ballistic missile program, or its continued role as the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism. While the deal lifted billions of dollars of nuclear-related sanctions, it promised to leave in place those related to Iran’s human rights abuses, ballistic missile development, and terror financing. This bill imposes new sanctions on Tehran for these dangerous activities. Each of these bills now heads to the Senate for consideration. ###
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after the House passed the Conscience Protection Act: “The House took another important step today to protect life and defend every American’s First Amendment Right to follow the dictates of their conscience. The Conscience Protection Act ensures that those who are morally opposed to abortion are not forced by the government to pay for it, support it, or perform it. “Currently, there is longstanding, bipartisan, annual federal appropriations language, known as the Weldon Amendment, which protects health care providers from discrimination if they choose not to participate in abortions. Unfortunately, that’s not enough. The Obama Administration’s Office of Civil Rights at the Department of Health and Human Services has distorted the law to allow states to violate the conscience rights of Americans. Among several reported cases, nurses in California have recently been forced to participate in life-ending procedures under the threat of losing their employment. This is unconscionable, unacceptable and flouts our fundamental Constitutional rights. “In my heart and in my head, I can come to no other conclusion than that life begins at conception. As a matter of law, science, and faith, there is no more fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution than the right to life. No American should ever be compelled against his or her will to contribute to the loss of innocent human life. This bill helps to ensure that won’t happen.” The Conscience Protection Act passed in the House 245-182.
07.12.2016	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and co-founder of the Article I Project (A1P), released the following statement after the House passed and he voted for the Separation of Powers Act (H.R. 4768). This bill, introduced by Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-TX), is the first A1P initiative produce by the project’s members. “Article I of the Constitution states that ‘all legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States.’ Article II says that the president ‘shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed.’ The lines separating one branch from the other couldn’t be clearer. “Yet, instead of a limited federal government operating from a clearly defined enumeration of powers, we have seen the balance of power tilt wildly towards the Executive Branch and become a leviathan that has metastasized into the nation’s largest creditor, debtor and lender; its largest employer, property owner and tenant; its largest insurer, health care provider and pension underwriter. “This process has accelerated as we currently have a President who governs with his pen and his phone rather than the Constitution’s system of checks and balances. A prime reason Congress has been relegated to the legislative sidelines is through a legal doctrine established by the Supreme Court known as Chevron Deference. Chevron simply says that federal judges must give deference to an agency’s interpretation of an ambiguous statute, essentially granting federal agencies the ability to rewrite the laws passed by Congress. “Obviously, this is a significant departure from our Founders’ vision of a federal government. This imbalance is exactly why Senator Mike Lee and I launched the Article I Project earlier this year—to re-establish Congress as a co-equal branch of government. The Separation of Powers Act simply helps to restore the balance of power that our Founders bequeathed us and helps to restore their vision of the people’s right to self-governance.” For more on Congressman Hensarling and Senator Mike Lee’s Article I Project, click here. ###
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) released the following statement after five officers in Dallas were shot and killed in the line of duty: “This tragedy literally hits close to home. This act of evil and cowardice took place just a few miles away from where my family goes to sleep every night—a place I’ve called home for more than 30 years. This tragic event reminds us that so much of our safety depends on that thin blue line—those that put their lives on the line for us each and every day. “This is a day of mourning, a day of prayer, but it is also a day to say ‘thank you’ to every man and woman who wears the law enforcement uniform. Our hearts are broken for the loved ones of the victims. We pray for their families. We pray for healing hands on those who have been wounded. And, we pray for swift justice on the perpetrators of evil. “My team stands ready to assist the Dallas Police Department, DART and the Mayor’s office in any way that we can. And, it is my hope and prayer that in America we get past ‘us vs. them’ and realize that the only collective that counts is ‘We the People.’” ###
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, delivered the following remarks on the House Floor after the tragic police shooting in Dallas that left five officers dead, seven wounded: CLICK HERE TO WATCH TRANSCRIPT Jeb Hensarling: Mr. Speaker, I rise today as a proud and sad citizen of Dallas, Texas. I’m so proud of that thin blue line that keeps all of our citizens safe, including my wife, my son, and my daughter…So sad for the fallen, their families, their sons, their daughters, their spouses. This is a time of mourning. It is a time of prayer, but it is also a time of justice—swift and sure justice for anyone who engaged in this act of evil. Mr. Speaker, it is also a time for healing and a time to remember Martin Luther King’s dream—every American’s dream—that one day our children will grow up to be judged by the content of their character and not the color of their skin. I dream also that one day we may decide that it is not a controversial statement to say “all lives matter”—because it is not a time for us, it is not a time for them; It is only a time for “We the People” to treasure all life and respect the dignity of all of God’s children. And, it’s time to look into our hearts and ask the fundamental question: “Today, will I promote a color conscious society, or will I promote a color blind society? Today, will I exploit the wound, or will I attempt to heal the wound?” May the God who gave us life and liberty heal the wounded of our nation, heal the wounded of the city of Dallas, to lift up the families of the fallen and bless our land with greater peace and greater understanding. I yield back. Congressman Hensarling also joined Fox News’ Martha MacCallum on America’s Newsroom this morning to address the tragedy. CLICK HERE TO WATCH TRANSCRIPT Martha MacCallum: Now joining us is Congressman Jeb Hensarling. His district covers parts of the city of Dallas which was hit so hard and so devastatingly last night with the loss of five police officers and we wait on news on the others. Welcome, sir. Good to have you here this morning. Rep. Jeb Hensarling: Thank you. Martha MacCallum: First, your thoughts on Dallas and then I want to get your thoughts on the Congressional Black Caucus. Rep Jeb Hensarling: Well, this doesn’t hit close to home, this hits home. Dallas is where my wife and children are. They were a few miles away, so as a Dallasite this hits us all in the gut. It hits us all in the heart. We grieve, we pray, but we also demand justice. It’s a very, very tough time, but I’m proud of our Dallas police force. I’m very proud of that very thin blue line. From time to time I see them in coffee shops, and I thank them. I should do it more. We should all do it more. 99.99% of those officers who put on that uniform, they put their lives on the line for us so that we get to go to sleep safe and secure at night. You can’t say “thank you” enough, but it is a real kick in the gut. It is a real wound in the heart, and now the question is are people going to try to exacerbate this wound? Are they going to try to heal this wound? It’s time for America to come together and heal this wound. Martha MacCallum: So true, and when you look at the comments made by the Congressional Black Caucus, we also heard from Nancy Pelosi this morning, Paul Ryan. You’re going to hear a lot of people speaking out, and I wonder what comes of it. Congressional Black Caucus, very frustrated specifically with Republicans in Congress, and they say the lack of ability to bring a vote to the floor and have an up or down vote on their measures on protecting us from gun violence. Your thoughts? Rep Jeb Hensarling: Well, number one, I don’t think this is a situation to be exploited. Number two, I’m not sure that for every single tragedy that happens in America there’s necessarily a legislative solution to come out of Washington, D.C. Number three, the Second Amendment is enshrined in our Constitution, and it is something that we ought to treat with the utmost of respect. I believe in the Second Amendment just as much as I believe in the First Amendment, just as much as I believe in the Fifth Amendment as well. Again, there are those who may want to try to exploit this for partisan gain. I would hope that would not be the case. We need to get the facts. There are many different problems that we have to deal with, including the dealing with mental health issues, which a colleague of mine, Dr. Tim Murphy put forth a great bill that we voted on. In addition, ultimately there’s a question of what is in our hearts. We can’t change people’s hearts in Washington, D.C., but you know it’s just a few miles from here that Martin Luther King gave his famous “I Have a Dream” speech. We look forward to our children one day being judged by the content of their character, not the color of their skin. We’re not living out Martin Luther King’s dream, and we should. That’s the world we want our children to live in. It shouldn’t be a controversial statement to say that “all lives matter” in America. That’s how we should feel. People are going to have to look in their heart. Do they want a color conscious society or do they want a color blind society? I think ultimately, one of the great American heroes, one of the great American icons, Martin Luther King said he wanted a color blind society, and we’re not moving towards that, and that’s a tragedy, and people are going to have to search deep and look in their own hearts. Martha MacCallum: Boy, I think you’ve said it very well Congressman. I just saw a picture online of two police officers—one black officer, one white officer—written on their hands “His Life Matters” with an arrow pointing to the other one. Rep Jeb Hensarling: Profound. Martha MacCallum: I heard Dr. Ben Carson speak this morning, and he said, “Imagine for a moment a country without the protection of police officers.” Just let your mind go there for one moment, and think about what that would be like. Rep Jeb Hensarling: I can’t imagine, and again, I’m thinking about a wife, and a twelve-year-old son, and a fourteen-year-old daughter who are back in Dallas as we speak who are miles away. Just a few miles away from downtown Dallas at our home in east Dallas, and I’m just so grateful that there are men and women who are willing to don that blue uniform of the Dallas police or the DART, the Dallas Area Rapid Transit. I am just so thankful and we are so blessed in Dallas to have brave men and women all over the country willing to do that, and they need to be appreciated, and they need to be respected. They should be revered and praised for what they do. Martha MacCallum: You know, we know the motivation of one of those shooters who was killed on the scene. He said he wanted to kill white police officers and kill white people. Now they’re still questioning the other three, and we don’t know yet their connection to any of this. What kind of charges would follow in the state of Texas to that kind of motivation if they share it? Rep Jeb Hensarling: Well, I’m not an expert on Texas state law as a federal legislator, but again we just want justice to be swift. We want justice to be sure, and it just speaks to an evil in one’s heart. Again, I think it’s time to have a very sobering moment. Everybody who’s involved in political debate has to decide: are you part of a society that wants to divide us up by race and by gender and supposedly by class, or do you want to bring us together? Is this an “Us vs. Them” society or is this a “We the People” society where everyone is a unique individual, everyone is a child of God, and every life is to be revered? That’s not something we can legislate out of Washington. That has to do with who we are fundamentally as a people, and what is in our heart and what is in our head, and our relationship with our Creator who has endowed us with life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness. We cannot have liberty, we cannot have life, we cannot have the pursuit of happiness unless we think about ourselves as “We the People” and everyone as a unique individual. They’re not judged by the color of their skin, they’re not judged by the color of their uniform, they ought to be judged by the content of their character. Martha MacCallum: Well, life and liberty was taken from five police officers last night as they were carrying out their duty on the streets of Dallas to protect a very sacred right of Americans, and that is the right to protest peacefully in the street. Congressman Jeb Hensarling thank you very much, sir. Good to have you with us today.Rep Jeb Hensarling: Thank you. ###
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) released the following statement after Speaker Ryan sent a letter to the Director of National Intelligence requesting that he refrain from providing classified briefings to former Secretary Clinton: “I completely support Speaker Ryan’s call to end Secretary Clinton’s access to classified information. The FBI Director, James Comey, made perfectly clear that Secretary Clinton misled the public, mishandled classified information, and put our national security at risk while serving as Secretary of State. Hillary Clinton is no longer a public official, and she should not continue to have access to any sensitive information. There cannot be a double standard—one for the Clintons and one for everybody else— especially when it comes to our safety and security.”
06.30.2016	WASHINGTON— Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) issued the following statement in response to the Department of Defense decision to change regulations and allow transgender individuals to serve in the military: “The number one job of our nation’s military is to defend our country and protect our freedoms. Decision-making at the Pentagon should always be driven by what is best for our national defense and for ensuring that our men and women are ready and able to carry out their mission. Unfortunately, for eight years, we’ve seen the Obama Pentagon make decisions that all too often appear to put self-serving politics ahead of sound national defense policy. “The Obama Administration has yet to answer the serious questions that have been raised about how this decision impacts the military’s individual readiness requirements. Furthermore, such a momentous shift in a policy affecting our military should not have been unilaterally imposed by the Obama Administration. Instead, this decision should have thorough legislative input, oversight, and authority from the people’s elected representatives in Congress. House Armed Services Chairman Mac Thornberry has said he will be looking at legislative options to address the readiness issues associated with this policy, and I look forward to working with him in that effort.�?
06.28.2016	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after the Benghazi Select Committee released its final report: “Today, the Select Committee on Benghazi released their final report after more than two years, 81 witnesses and 75,000 pages of documentation. I am proud of my colleague and friend, Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-SC), for all of his hard work to shed light on the events of that tragic day and to provide some answers for the American people and the families of those who lost their loved ones. “Chairman Gowdy approached this responsibility as a dogged pursuit of the truth with no preconceived notions for what the outcome might be. Unfortunately, Democrats on this Committee and the Administration have spent the last two years blocking, obfuscating, and questioning Chairman Gowdy rather than pursuing the facts. “Sadly, this report reveals that a series of miscalculations and failures led up to that fateful day when four Americans lost their lives. The lives of these heroes were further dishonored when the Administration put political expediency ahead of telling the American people the truth—the attack on September 11, 2012, was a terrorist attack, not a political demonstration gone awry. “The Select Committee on Benghazi not only investigated and documented the truth about that tragic incident, but its investigation also exposed other systemic wrongdoing by Secretary Clinton—which continues to be the subject of an FBI investigation. “I would echo Chairman Gowdy’s urging to the American people to read this report for themselves, look at the evidence collected, and reach their own conclusions. As he said, you can ‘read this report in less time than our fellow citizens were taking fire and fighting for their lives on the rooftops and in the streets of Benghazi.’�?
06.27.2016	WASHINGTON – Today the U.S. Supreme Court, in a 5-3 ruling in Whole Woman’s Health vs. Hellerstedt, struck down a Texas law requiring abortion clinics to meet certain health and safety standards. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement on the decision: “Today’s ruling is a devastating setback for the cause of life, and I am extremely disappointed that the highest court in our land has once again failed to protect the lives of the unborn and their mothers. The Texas law was enacted in response to the horrifying and gruesome acts committed by the unsupervised abortion clinic run by Kermit Gosnell in Philadelphia. The Gosnell case made clear that there is a real need for common sense health and safety measures, and it’s shocking that so many self-described proponents of women’s health fought so hard against these higher standards. Unfortunately, this case sets a negative precedent for other states who want to create a safer medical environment for their people.” ###
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON--Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s 4-4 ruling in United States v. Texas: “Today is a great day for 'We the People' and a bad day for Barack Obama’s imperial presidency. The Supreme Court’s action has made null and void President Obama’s unilateral executive order that granted amnesty to millions of people living in the U.S. illegally and ignored our nation’s immigration laws passed by Congress. The Constitution couldn’t be any clearer; Congress writes the laws, not the president. This decision affirms the Constitutional principles contained in Article I of the Constitution and vindicates House Republicans’ fight to restore the balance of power between the people’s elected representatives in Congress and the executive branch.�? Background: The Supreme Court’s 4-4 tie ruling leaves in place the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals’ ruling, which upheld a Federal District Judge’s order blocking President Obama’s executive action on immigration from moving forward while awaiting trial on the underlying suit filed by 26 states – including Texas – against the Obama Administration. This is the second day in a row that Federal courts have ruled against the Obama Administration’s executive overreach. Yesterday, a federal judge struck down an Obama Administration regulation on the use of hydraulic fracking for oil and gas on public lands.
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON--Today, Emma Sumrow of Forney was recognized at the United States Capitol for winning this year’s 5th District of Texas Congressional Art Competition. Emma attends North Forney High School and won for her acrylic painting which she said was inspired by an East Texas gator farm she recently visited. “I really wanted to turn a dingy, swamp-like scene into one of color and beauty,” said Emma. “It’s an honor to represent Forney and to have my painting hanging in the halls of the U.S. Capitol.” Each year, the Congressional Art Institute sponsors the nationwide Congressional Art Competition. Since its inception in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated. “This competition is a unique opportunity for students to showcase their tremendous talents and receive proper recognition for their work,” said Congressman Jeb Hensarling. “We had many great entries this year, and I want to commend Emma for her winning painting.” Winning entries are displayed in a special exhibition located in a corridor of the U.S. Capitol. ###
06.17.2016	WASHINGTON –Today, Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) and Congressman Peter Roskam (R-IL) sent a letter to Boeing, the world’s largest aerospace company and large manufacturer of commercial jetliners, asking questions about its negotiations to sell aircraft to Iran. For decades the U.S. sanctions regime prohibited companies from selling goods to the world’s largest State sponsor of terror. But, in January, President Obama signed an executive order lifting some of the U.S. economic sanctions on Iran. This executive order came just months after the President signed the controversial Iran nuclear deal which Congressman Hensarling voted against. Congressman Hensarling is concerned a deal between Boeing and Iran could benefit Iran’s military. “American companies should not be complicit in weaponizing the Iranian Regime,” the members of Congress said in a letter sent on Thursday to Boeing CEO Dennis Muilenburg. “In light of recent reports that a deal is imminent, we seek information to assist the U.S. Congress in determining the national security implications of a potential sale of Boeing aircraft to Iran.” The full text of the letter can be found here. “President Obama claimed that the Iran Nuclear Deal was a ‘good deal,’” said Congressman Hensarling. “The problem is, it’s a good deal for Iran but a bad deal for America. I strongly oppose the sale of any items that could be used to enhance Iran’s military capabilities.” Congressman Roskam serves as a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, where he chairs the Oversight Subcommittee. Congressman Hensarling is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee.
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON—Today, Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) honored Briana Minter of Palestine for earning the Congressional Award Gold Medal. Briana received this award for all of the hard work she has done to better her community and for setting challenging personal goals for her own development and growth. “I was pleased to meet Briana in Washington today and to congratulate her on earning the Congressional Gold Medal,” said Congressman Hensarling. “She should be very proud of what she has accomplished. Not only did she set tough goals for personal improvement and meet them, she also completed more than 1,000 hours of voluntary community service. Briana is an asset to Palestine and is a great example of what this program is all about.” The Congressional Award Foundation requires those interested in earning the Congressional Award to set goals in four established areas including voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness and expedition/exploration. Briana said earning the award was a lot of hard work but worth all the time and effort. She is a member of the Sea Scouts, a program run by the Boy Scouts of America, and says that the leader of her Sea Scout ship encouraged all the girls in her unit to complete the Congressional Award requirements. “Community service in Palestine is very important,” said Minter. “I like being able to have my community know that they can rely on me and the girls of the Sea Scout ship.” The Congressional Award is the United States Congress' award for young Americans. The program is open to all 14 to 23-year-olds. Participants earn Bronze, Silver and Gold Congressional Award Medals by achieving their own challenging personal goals. Since its inception in 1979, more than 49,000 people have earned Congressional Award Medals and have completed more than 3.5 million volunteer service hours. To earn the Congressional Gold Medal, like Briana, students must spend two or more years completing 400 hours of community service and focus an additional 200 hours on personal development and physical fitness. ###
06.14.2016	Today, Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, voted for the Preventing IRS Abuse and Protecting Free Speech Act (H.R. 5053). This bill protects organizations from potential ideological targeting by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) by eliminating the disclosure of personal donor information that is not relevant to tax enforcement. “Under the Obama Administration, key IRS personnel have been exposed for an inexcusable and indefensible pattern of working to silence the free speech of conservative Americans,” said Rep. Hensarling. “By passing the Preventing IRS Abuse and Protecting Free Speech Act, we took an important step to protect all Americans – whether liberal or conservative – from being a victim of state-sanctioned harassment due to their political beliefs.” H.R. 5053 eliminates the Schedule B Form—part of the Form 990—that requires tax-exempt groups to report the names and addresses of anyone who contributes more than $5,000. Under current law, some organizations that are tax-exempt must report this personal information on its contributors even though this information is irrelevant to an organization’s tax-exempt status. In the past, the IRS has improperly released Schedule B information containing personal donor information to the public, most notably when an IRS employee leaked the information of the National Organization for Marriage to the press in 2012. This information was then used by liberal activist groups to target conservative donors for public harassment. After the Attorneys General of New York and California demanded donor information for conservative groups operating in their states – which a federal judge In California has ruled was unconstitutional–the California Attorney General’s office improperly posted some 1,400 Schedule B Forms on Attorney General Kamala Harris’ public website. “This should be a non-partisan issue,” said Hensarling. “The IRS has proven in the past it is capable of turning citizens into subjects by violating both our constitutional and civil rights. By eliminating the Schedule B Form, this important bill protects the privacy of donors, secures free speech and will help prevent Americans from being targeted for their personal religious or political beliefs.” Since 2013, when an investigation revealed the IRS was targeting for increased scrutiny conservative groups with the words “tea party” or “patriot” in their names, House Republicans have worked to rein in the IRS and eliminate its ability to specifically target organizations based on their political affiliation. H.R. 5053 passed in the House 240 to 182.
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON –Today, the House passed, and Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) voted for, the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA, H.R. 5278), a bill that will prevent a taxpayer bailout for Puerto Rico and avoid further default. “Puerto Rico is in a financial crisis,” said Rep. Hensarling. “The island’s government has already defaulted on millions it borrowed, and without action, it is set to default yet again. “When Puerto Rico defaults on its debt, it not only hurts the 3.5 million American citizens of the island but also the countless other Americans who have invested in Puerto Rican bonds through their retirement accounts and mutual funds. The government of Puerto Rico has abdicated responsibility for dealing with its spending-driven debt crisis and since Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2 of the Constitution gives Congress the power to ‘make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States,’ Congress is forced to act.” Under the U.S. Constitution, states are considered sovereign, but territories are not. Therefore, it is well-within Congress’ Constitutional power to address Puerto Rico’s spending-driven debt crisis with a structured bankruptcy through PROMESA. However, Congress could not take similar action involving a state. “East Texans are sick and tired of taxpayer bailouts that raid their wallets and force them to pay for the bad decisions of others. I voted for PROMESA because this bill will impose fiscal responsibility on Puerto Rico’s government and will create a pathway to a non-bailout bankruptcy process which will allow Puerto Rico and its creditors to avoid further default on its debt. I led the opposition to the 2008 bailout and have consistently opposed bailouts throughout my time in Congress. This bill provides Puerto Rico and its creditors a workout, not a taxpayer bailout.” The PROMESA Act also includes the following provisions: Forms a seven person oversight board that is charged with enforcing fiscal reforms, imposing balanced budgets, negotiating and enforcing debt restructuring agreements, and preventing the island from taking on more debt that would undercut economic growth Prevents the Department of Labor’s overtime rule from going into effect in Puerto Rico Expedites the permitting process for infrastructure and energy projects on the island Launches a bicameral Congressional Task Force to report on impediments in current federal law to economic growth in Puerto Rico. The bill passed in the House 297 to 127 and now heads to the Senate for a vote. ###
05.27.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) released the following statement in observance of Memorial Day. “Freedom is not free – it comes at incredible cost. Since our founding, millions of brave Americans have gone into harm’s way so that we could enjoy the blessings of peace and prosperity. Called on by their country, acting out of patriotism and in the most dangerous of circumstances, soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines have demonstrated extraordinary courage in defending our country and the principles of democracy that we hold dear. “From Bunker Hill to Berlin to Baghdad, American troops have died to liberate millions from the forces of tyranny. They’ve stared evil in the eyes and stood for all that is good in the world. They’ve overcome obstacles and defied impossible odds. Even in death, their service brought light to places of darkness and despotism. Because of their heroism, their sacrifices have reverberated throughout the ages. It is this sacrifice that we remember and honor today. “We must also remember the families of the fallen who are left to carry on after—as President Lincoln said—‘having laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of freedom.’ “On this Memorial Day, my thoughts are on those heroes who have paid the ultimate sacrifice for their country and my prayers of comfort are with their families. The Americans who die fighting for our country deserve the solemn gratitude of each and every one of their fellow citizens. Our devotion to their memory must be as boundless and endless as their devotion was to us.” ###
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), joined Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) and Representatives Dave Brat (R-VA) and Mark Walker (R-NC) to unveil the “Article I Regulatory Budget Act.” This legislation – which will, for the first time, require Congress to vote on the total regulatory burden each federal agency may impose on the American people each year – is a part of Article One Project (A1P) initiative Congressman Hensarling launched with Senator Lee earlier this year to reclaim Congress’ constitutional authority from the Executive Branch. During his remarks, Hensarling discussed why the Regulatory Budget Act was so important to confronting the so-called Fourth Branch of government and restoring the Constitutional order and legislative supremacy of Article I. “Federal regulations come with a cost, albeit a hidden one. If the American people can look up in the federal budget to see the monetary cost of what the IRS or EPA is imposing on them, why shouldn’t they be able to look up what the regulatory cost is? Beyond making the cost of federal regulation transparent, a regulatory budget will also help restore accountability for the cost of regulation onto the people’s elected representatives,” explained Hensarling. “With a regulatory budget, no longer would Members of Congress be able to simply pass the buck and blame faceless bureaucrats for the costs that regulation would impose.” “There is still a lot more we need to do to restore the Constitutional order – and with it the supremacy of Article I – that has allowed our nation to flourish for over 200 years. That’s what the Article I Project is all about, and the regulatory budget proposal we have here today is a great tool to help us do just that,” Hensarling concluded. Senator Lee focused his remarks on how we got to this point and why he joined with Congressman Hensarling to start the Article One Project. “Instead of writing laws containing specific rules of action and distinct standards of legality, most major bills passed by Congress simply establish aspirational guidelines, while delegating to the Executive Branch the power to determine the specifics. For the rule-writing bureaucrats, these open-ended laws are gifts that keep on giving. But for the American people, this kind of government without consent is a violation of the social compact at the heart of our Republic and exactly why they no longer trust the federal government. Earning back the American people’s trust is the chief objective of the Article I Project’s agenda to re-empower Congress. And it’s why today we’re introducing the Article I Regulatory Budget Act – a bill that will put the Legislative Branch back in charge of lawmaking and, by extension, put the American people back in charge of Washington.” A full video of the remarks by Congressman Hensarling can be viewed here. To learn more about the “Article I Regulatory Budget Act,” click here. ###
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today in response to comments by Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald comparing wait times at the VA with the wait times for lines at Disneyland. “The comments made by VA Secretary McDonald are appalling and out of touch with reality. His remarks citing Disneyland to make a point that wait times really aren’t important belittles the frustration of more than 400,000 veterans who are waiting on the VA and makes a mockery of the national scandal that veterans have died while waiting to receive the care their valiant service earned them. Secretary McDonald was brought in to fix this problem, but his flippant remarks make me question whether or not he truly grasps the problems our veterans face and his ability to effectively remedy them.” ###
05.17.2016	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today after joining with 38 other conservatives in the House on a letter to President Obama challenging his recent announcement that the administration plans to withhold funds to local school districts that do not allow transgender students to use the bathroom of their choice. “The Obama Administration’s directive is an outrageous and unlawful attempt to bully local schools into adhering to a flawed policy that ignores the rights of the vast majority of the students and parents who make up our local school systems,” Hensarling said. Text of the letter from Hensarling and his colleagues is below. May 16, 2016 President Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama: We are extremely concerned with the recent directive from your Administration threatening legal action against or denial of congressionally appropriated funds to local school districts that do not allow students to use their bathroom of choice regardless of their gender. We ask that you rescind your poorly executed threat to school districts across the country and reaffirm their right to govern themselves as they see fit within the bounds of the law. To date, neither statute nor legal precedent has extended civil rights protections based on gender identity. Furthermore your actions threaten to infringe on the constitutional right of Congress to appropriate funds. We view this as an effort to implement your Administration’s political agenda outside the bounds of the law and against the will of the American people. We insist that you withdraw this legally unfounded threat immediately. ###
04.21.2016	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, release the following statement upon House passage of several bills (H.R. 3724, H.R. 4890, H.R. 4855 and H.R. 1206) aimed at protecting hardworking American taxpayers and holding the IRS accountable. “This month, as millions of Americans file their tax returns for shrinking or stagnant paychecks, we're reminded that the economy isn’t working for working Americans. One of the biggest reasons for the slow, tepid recovery we find ourselves in is our broken tax code. Fundamental tax reform is a pillar of economic growth, and I am committed to working with my fellow Republicans to make the tax code fairer, flatter, simpler, and more competitive so that Americans can keep more of their hard-earned money. “I am also committed to preventing fraud and abuse and holding the IRS accountable to the American people. This week, we passed common sense legislation to ensure that the IRS could not rehire any employees who were fired for misconduct; bonuses at the IRS were only given when earned; the IRS doesn’t hire employees with major tax debt; and that the people’s elected representatives in Congress have oversight authority and a say in where the IRS spends its funds.” ###
03.23.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) announced today that this year’s North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum will be held on Saturday, April 2, 2016. This informational forum, which Hensarling co-sponsors, provides interested students in grades eight through twelve with an opportunity to learn more about our nation’s service academies, their requirements for admission, and the selection process. Representatives from Texas congressional offices and all five military service academies—U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and U.S. Air Force Academy—as well as current academy cadets and midshipmen will be on hand to speak with interested students, parents, and educators about these premier educational institutions and the career opportunities they generate. Representatives from the Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Corps ROTC will also attend. The Forum, which is free and open to the public, will be held from 8:00 AM – 12:00 PM with registration beginning at 7:30 AM. Those with questions about the forum or the service academy nomination process are encouraged to contact Margaret Smith in Congressman Hensarling’s Dallas office at 214-349-9996. WHAT: North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum WHEN: Saturday, April 2, 2016 TIME: Registration- 7:30 AM; Forum- 8:00 AM – 12:00 PM WHERE: Sam Houston High School (2000 Sam Houston Drive, Arlington, Texas 76014) ###
03.17.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed a resolution authorizing Speaker Ryan to file a “friend of the court” brief with the Supreme Court on behalf of the House of Representatives in the matter of United States, et al. v. Texas, et al.. “The president is clearly exceeding his constitutional authority by using executive action to exempt broad categories of illegal immigrants from prosecution and removal. Furthermore, the president’s decision to give those illegal immigrants authorization to work in the United States is a clear violation of our existing immigration laws. The resolution passed by the House today is one in a series of actions the House has, and will continue to take this Congress to address this unconstitutional power grab. “The American people strongly oppose President Obama’s unconstitutional overreach, and I am proud to stand with leaders at the state and federal level in this fight to uphold the Constitution and defend the rule of law.” ###
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today in response to President Obama’s plan to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. “Congress has consistently rejected the idea of closing the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay due to the imminent and irreparable threat to our country should detainees be transferred to U.S. soil. In fact, just this past November, overwhelming, bipartisan majorities in the House and Senate passed the National Defense Authorization Act of 2016—which not only expressly prohibits the transfer of detainees at Guantanamo Bay to the United States, but also prohibits the unilateral transfer of detainees by the president. The president’s plan seems aimed at fulfilling a bad political promise he made over seven years ago and does nothing to convince me that closure of this facility is in the best interests of the national security of the United States.” ###
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) delivered a speech at Hillsdale College’s Kirby Center today entitled, “Reviving America’s Constitutional Order.” The speech marked the formal launch of the Article One Project (A1P), which is a new network of House and Senate conservatives – led by Hensarling and Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) – working together on a broad agenda to strengthen Congress by reclaiming constitutional powers now being exercised by the Executive Branch. The following is text of the speech as prepared for delivery: It is truly an honor to be with you and to be joined by my good friend, Senator Mike Lee. In his short time in Washington, Mike has become a nationally recognized defender of our sacred liberties and a tireless advocate for our founding constitutional principles. How fortunate we are that he serves in the United States Senate, especially during this pivotal time for our country. And thank you to Hillsdale College for hosting this event. Hillsdale is indispensable to the cause of liberty, and it’s great to be back. Last summer my wife Melissa and I took our 13 and 11 year old children to Philadelphia. Of course we visited Independence Hall, where everywhere you turn you are walking in the footsteps of giants, like Washington, Madison, Franklin – and all those heroic patriots who made this great experiment, this golden hope for all mankind called America, possible. As we walked, I was reminded that the years leading up to the Constitutional Convention were some of the most difficult our nation has ever endured. Crushing debt and rampant inflation put our young nation on the edge of economic collapse. Bitter trade disputes between the states threatened to become violent. Some thought the answer lied in secession. Others feared perhaps a return to monarchy. Patrick Henry boycotted the proceedings. Madison and General Henry Knox had to travel to Mount Vernon to convince the retired Washington to even attend. As the delegates gathered, the public mood was so dark that Edmund Randolph worried: “Are we not on the eve of war, which is only prevented by the hopes from this Convention?” Many times, despair and anguish ruled the day. More than once, the whole enterprise seemed destined for certain failure. But it did not fail. The Spirit of ’76 still resoundingly echoed in those hallowed halls. The seed of American exceptionalism was surely planted in 1776. But it did not take firm root until 1787. Only then did “we, the people” truly secure our liberty. And the course of human events would never be the same. In his penultimate State of the Union message, President Reagan reminded us that those three simple words – “we, the people” – make all the difference between our constitution and the constitutions of other nations. “In those other constitutions,” he said, “the government tells the people what they are allowed to do. In our Constitution, we the people tell the government what it can do and that it can do only those things that are listed in that document and no others.” The sheer genius of our Constitution – its framework of checks and balances, limited government, co-equal branches of government – secured our fundamental rights and gave rise to the freest, most prosperous civilization the world has ever known. But to put it mildly, over the years many of these principles have been neglected – sometimes abandoned. Instead of a limited federal government operating from a clearly defined enumeration of powers, we have a leviathan that has metastasized into the nation’s largest creditor, debtor and lender; its largest employer, property owner and tenant; its largest insurer, health care provider and pension underwriter. Instead of checks and balances, we have the President’s pen and phone. Instead of three co-equal branches of government, we have seen the rise of an unaccountable fourth branch – namely agency government. Our woeful neglect of America’s first principles pre-dates the Obama presidency and regrettably has occurred during the administrations of both Democrats and Republicans. But there can be no denying the wounds to our Constitution have grown markedly worse during Barack Obama’s time in office. It is a reminder that while ominous foreign threats to our safety and security may lead the nightly news – threats that emanate from faraway capitals like Moscow, Damascus and Tehran – we cannot and must not lose sight of the domestic threats to our freedom and prosperity that emanate from another capital city far closer to home: Washington, DC. Some of these domestic threats may appear less evident in the short-term, but over time they are corrosive to our Constitution and to our wellbeing as individuals and as a nation. None of us can afford to lose sight of Madison’s famous warning that, “there are more instances of the abridgement of the freedom of the people by gradual and silent encroachment by those in power than by violent and sudden usurpations.” That’s why we’re gathered here today to launch the Article One Project, a new network of conservatives working together to reclaim Congress’s rightful constitutional role. Fortunately, as we embark on the project’s critical mission, we are not without guidance. The Constitution already shows us the pathway forward: limit government, not freedom; guarantee opportunity, not outcomes; and assure that all Americans stand equal before the law. As a member of Congress, there is no job more important and none that I take more seriously than upholding the Constitution. Yet I do not recall ever in my lifetime a moment when the Constitution is under assault more than today. Just in the last few years, we have seen an American president unilaterally create new law, annul existing law and even declare the Senate in recess when it was not so he could install political functionaries into top government positions. Clearly, that whole “advice and consent” foolishness can be such a bother to a president! This from a man who frequently reminds us he used to be a constitutional law professor. Surely his former students have a cause of action for teaching malpractice. Hopefully the statute of limitations has not run! The devotees of this governing philosophy, so at odds with America’s founding principles, call themselves “progressive.” But as my good friend and our Speaker, Paul Ryan, has said: “The ironic thing about ‘progressivism’ is that it’s terribly old-fashioned.” For progressives believe only a certain class of people – a class to which they, of course, belong – has the duty and the responsibility to hold political power. We must yield to their expert management for our own good because – as one architect of Obamacare said – the rest of us are just too stupid to know better. So how could we possibly know what health insurance plan is best for us, what kind of mortgage we need, or how much water should be in our toilets? To Progressives, the Constitution is just a huge inconvenience. Herbert Croly, a leading voice of the early Progressive movement and co-founder of The New Republic magazine, said as much when he stated the Progressive vision of government “legislates, but without being…a legislature. It administers, but without being…an executive. It adjudicates, but without any power of attaching final construction to the law. It is simply a convenient means of consolidating the divided activities of the government for certain practical social purposes.” Madison, in Federalist number 47, had a different take on this notion. He wrote, “The combination of all power legislative, executive, and judiciary in the same hands…may justly be pronounced the very definition of tyranny.” The seed of this form of tyranny was planted during the Wilson Administration, bloomed during FDR’s New Deal, became overgrown in LBJ’s Great Society, and has now reached crisis proportions under President Obama. This century-long Progressive expansion of unconstitutional government has unleashed the modern regulatory state as we know it – extremely powerful, exceedingly intrusive, imperiously opaque, bafflingly bureaucratic, and alarmingly unaccountable. Now Congress has been no an innocent bystander during all this. Part of the reason we have this out-of-control regulatory state is because, for too long, Congress has outsourced its constitutional responsibilities. As we all know, Article One, Section One of our Constitution states “all legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress.” Thus, when Congress delegates its fundamental legislative authority to an unelected and unaccountable bureaucracy, it has arguably acted in an unconstitutional manner. This self-enfeeblement must end. Because when Congress allows its authority to be usurped, the people’s right to both self-government and due process is undermined. Instead of being governed by the rule of law, citizens become more and more governed by the rule of rulers. The citizen’s right to carefully deliberate proposed legislation through their representatives in Congress becomes reduced to nothing but a “notice and comment” period when they are permitted to merely lodge complaints and suggestions – all of which the unelected bureaucrats are free to ignore, all of which the unelected bureaucrats may use to retaliate. The result? It is OSHA now, not Congress, that governs over workplace safety. It is the EPA now, not Congress, that governs our air quality. It is HHS now, not Congress that governs over our health care. And most alarmingly to our economic opportunity and economic liberty, it is the bureaucratic progeny of Dodd-Frank that now rules over our financial markets. So where do we go from here? First, Congress must reaffirm the primacy of congressional authority. And of all the tools we can use to address this, none is greater than the power of the purse. This Article One responsibility is the most potent and effective instrument we have to hold the Executive accountable. To paraphrase a colorful fellow Texan, President Johnson: If you grab a bureaucracy by its budget, its heart and mind will soon follow. For years, Congress has slowly surrendered its constitutional power over federal spending. Our first priority is to reclaim it. To do so, Congress needs serious reforms that will give us an entirely new budget process. As someone who National Review once called “Representative Budget Reform,” I am eager for us to start, though success will not be easy or immediate. But I take heart knowing, as Jefferson did, that “the ground of liberty is to be gained by inches.” Reforming the broken budget process is something I’ve worked on since coming to Congress. Fortunately, we have taken the first step in budget reform with the success of our opening salvo – the ban on earmarks. In addition to budget reform, Congress must also end the practice of delegating lawmaking authority to unelected and unaccountable agency government. No more passing vague laws that direct agencies to fill in the blanks. For example, the REINS Act -- which has passed the House – would introduce both constitutionally and accountability into the system by requiring Congress to approve any major new regulations. The Act is as simple as it is profound. Its ultimate passage into law must be a major priority of the Conservative Movement. Ladies and gentlemen, let each of us take our stand for freedom as in the olden time when brave patriots met at Independence Hall. That remarkable group dared to believe they could start the world over again. Let us dare to believe that we, in our own way, can again secure the blessings of liberty for coming generations of Americans. Let us take our stand today as free people called to make our future worthy of our past. Let us rededicate ourselves to Article One of the Constitution. Thank you. ###
01.22.2016	WASHINGTON –Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) is asking students across the 5th Congressional District to help honor the service and sacrifice of veterans by participating in the annual Valentines for Vets program. Each year, Congressman Hensarling’s office collects hand-made Valentine’s Day cards from 5th District students that are delivered to hospitalized veterans at the Dallas Veterans Administration Medical Center. The valentines will also be delivered to members of our veterans organizations. “These valentines are a great way to say thank you to the brave men and women who have made tremendous sacrifices to protect our freedom,” said Congressman Hensarling. “We need to let them know that we appreciate all that they have done for our country. I know each veteran who receives one of these cards will be happy to see how much our students care about them and care about America.” Teachers, principals, parents and organizations who would like to participate in this effort should contact Amanda Beltran in Congressman Hensarling’s Athens office at (903) 675-8288. All valentines must be collected by Monday, February 8th to ensure delivery by Valentine’s Day. Valentines for Vets is an annual program held in conjunction with National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week. Every February, Americans open their hearts to our nation's hospitalized veterans by sending cards and letters to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers across the country. ###
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, release the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union Address. “Given that President Obama used tonight’s State of the Union to take a rhetorical victory lap, the speech should have lasted about two minutes rather than over an hour. The American people feel no victory in their household finances or the security of our homeland, and the president clearly isn’t convincing them otherwise. “While President Obama touted his success in the war on terror and the actions he has taken to secure our homeland, one recent poll showed Americans fear a terror attack on the homeland more than at any point since 9/11 and another poll showed that 74% of Americans are not satisfied with the president’s progress in the war on terror. The president also touted our standing and strength in the world, even as Iran is testing ballistic missiles, North Korea has resumed testing of their nuclear arsenal, and ISIS continues to carry out attacks across the globe. “The president also focused on what he sees as increased economic opportunity for the American people thanks to his policies. In reality, American incomes have dropped and the poverty rate has increased during his tenure—meaning American families are working harder and harder but still can’t seem to get ahead. Furthermore, most Americans seriously doubt they will leave their children and grandchildren a better country than they inherited—which is the very antithesis of the American dream. Some of the biggest drags on the economy are also some of the president’s biggest legislative accomplishments: Obamacare and Dodd-Frank. More than half of Americans disapprove of Obamacare, which is no surprise considering the cost of healthcare has grown at nearly double the rate of wages and – despite the president’s promises – many Americans have lost the ability to keep the doctors and health plans they had before the law was passed. Since Dodd-Frank became law, we’re losing an average of one community financial institution per day under the sheer weight, volume, and complexity of Dodd-Frank’s 400 regulations—making it harder and harder for Americans to buy a house or get a loan to start a small business. “Tonight, we heard President Obama express a lot of optimism. Sitting in the chamber, I too felt optimistic—knowing that this was his last State of the Union Address and that his presidency is coming to an end. The American people are ready for a change. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House in my capacity as chairman of the House Financial Services Committee to lay out bold ideas and common-sense proposals that will promote more opportunities for low- and moderate-income Americans and empower them to achieve financial independence.” ###
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after voting in favor of the Senate amendment to the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act (H.R. 3762). “For the first time since Obamacare was passed, we are putting a bill to repeal it on President Obama’s desk. Thanks to a special process known as reconciliation – which prevents the Senate from being able to block legislation through filibuster – the president will be forced to veto be accountable on a bill that would free Americans from the scourge known as Obamacare. This is the fulfillment of the promise made by Republicans to the American people that we would use every tool we could to put a repeal bill on President Obama’s desk. While there is no doubt in anyone’s mind that President Obama will veto the legislation, this important process makes it clear for the American people: it is President Obama and Democrats who stand in the way of repealing a law that has made health care less accessible, more expensive, and more burdensome, and it is Republicans who are working to repeal and replace Obamacare with a patient centered approach. “This legislation also forces President Obama to defend sending federal funds to any organization – like Planned Parenthood – that is engaged in the horrific act of abortion. Americans were outraged by recent videos showing officials at Planned Parenthood trafficking in human baby body parts. After similar legislation to strip tax dollars from these organizations was filibustered in the Senate, today’s legislation bypasses that roadblock and shows the American people that it is Republicans who are fighting to defend the most fundamental of our rights: the right to life. “I am proud to join with every Republican member of Congress from Texas who voted in support of the reconciliation process. As Senator Cruz said, it ‘is a significant step towards repealing every word of Obamacare. This bill repeals as much of that failed law as we can under arcane Senate rules and the narrow guidelines of the budget. I am also encouraged that this bill prohibits taxpayer funds from going to abortion-providers.’” ###
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to President Obama’s planned executive actions that would infringe on American’s 2nd Amendment rights. “By his own admission, the executive actions President Obama announced today would have done nothing to prevent the recent and horrific mass shootings he is using to justify his actions. Nor would these executive orders do anything to prevent terrorists and violent criminals from obtaining guns. What it will do is erode the constitutionally guaranteed right of law-abiding citizens to ‘keep and bear arms.’ “In short, President Obama is doing nothing more than using the personal tragedies of Americans to justify his anti Second Amendment agenda in the worst manifestation of Rahm Emanuel’s counsel to ‘never let a crisis go to waste.’ Instead of using straw-man arguments to double down on his contempt for law-abiding gun owners, the president should direct his administration to enforce the laws on the books and work with the people’s elected representatives in Congress to address the real causes of gun violence, like mental illness.” ###
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement upon House passage of a legislative package to fund the government and make permanent several temporary tax provisions. “The American people expect and deserve better than last minute, omnibus spending legislation that lumps almost all government programs, both good and bad, into one massive bill. While Speaker Ryan and the members of this House had to play the bad hand that was dealt to us months ago – before he became speaker – I am encouraged by the speaker’s commitment to move away from this irresponsible practice. “The president won’t admit it, but we are a nation at war. At a time when the threat from ISIS and radical Islam is increasing at an alarming rate, funding our national defense and ensuring our fighting men and women have the tools necessary to carry out their mission and defend their homeland – not reducing their ranks, as President Obama has done – must be our top priority. This legislation represents billions more in our national defense than if Congress had not taken any action. Earlier in the year, Defense officials told Congress that operating under scheduled cut levels would lead to ‘decreased readiness, more casualties of American troops and a lack of confidence among allies around the world.’ These dire warnings were made before ISIS began its new offensive against the West. Ultimately, I voted for this bill because victory against radical Islam is the only acceptable outcome and time is of the essence. “Like all omnibus spending bills, this bill spends way too much—and much of what it spends is on bad programs. While I am disappointed by many aspects of the bill, there are several notable provisions worthy of support—including lifting the 40 year ban on crude oil exports that can help make the world less depending on OPEC and Russian oil; strengthening the Visa Waiver Program to protect against terrorists exploiting Western passports; and prohibiting any taxpayer funded bailout of insurance companies’ losses from participating in Obamacare. In addition, the inclusion of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act to make permanent several temporary tax provisions will provide much needed certainty for hardworking American taxpayers and businesses, grow our economy, and rein in the IRS – while setting the stage for fundamental tax reform in the future.” ###
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement upon House passage of the Visa Waiver Program Improvement Act of 2015 (H.R. 158). The legislation, authored by Chairwoman Candice Miller (MI), would allow the Secretary of Homeland Security to suspend a nation’s participation in the Visa Waiver Program if they do not share essential terrorism and foreign traveler data with the United States. The bill was advanced last week by the House Task Force on Counterterrorism and Homeland Security, which Hensarling is a member of. “As a Congress, we have no more important responsibility than to protect the American people from all enemies foreign and domestic. In the wake of the attacks in Paris, the House moved swiftly and deliberately to deal with the potential security threat posed by refugees from Syria, Iraq, and other countries with substantial ties to terrorism. Today, the House has taken further action to address the threat of potential terrorists holding western passports by strengthening the Visa Waiver Program (VWP). “As we know, one of the great threats posed by ISIS is their ability to recruit foreign fighters, many of whom – including several of the Paris attackers – have western passports which makes it easier for them to enter into the United States. While countries allowed to participate in the VWP must agree to enhanced security measures and to share vital counterterrorism and law enforcement information with the United States in order to participate, a recent report found that the program has several gaps that pose a threat to national security. The bill passed by the House today addresses these gaps and adds additional protection to keep terrorists from exploiting the program to access our shores.” ###
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today in support of the Every Student Succeeds Act (S. 1177). “One of the biggest complaints I hear from parents, teachers, and school administrators across my district is concerning No Child Left Behind (NCLB) and its one-size fits all policy which allows Washington bureaucrats to assert control and influence in the classroom. While NCLB was well-intentioned, it has led to more federal spending, mandates, and bureaucratic red tape, while doing little to improve student performance. Furthermore, the powers granted to Washington by NCLB have allowed the Obama Administration to use waivers to virtually rewrite the law and to coerce states into adopting Common Core. “The Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) replaces NCLB’s Washington control of our nation’s classrooms with commonsense, conservative reforms that empower states and parents. In fact, ESSA represents the largest devolution of power out of Washington and back to classrooms in twenty-five years. Specifically, this bill completely guts the ability of the Obama Administration to use waivers, federal grants, or mandates to coerce states into adopting the one-size-fits-all approach of Common Core or any other particular standards. It also places new and unprecedented restrictions on the authority of the Secretary of Education, and ends the era of federally-mandated high-stakes testing. “Though not perfect, ESSA sets us on a path to reducing the federal footprint in our nation’s education system by paving the way for reforms that ultimately return control to state and local officials where it belongs. “As a father of two school-aged children, I believe that the most powerful thing Congress could do to ensure that all children have the opportunity to receive a first-class education is to put control of that education back in the hands of the state and local leaders and parents who know our children best. The Every Student Succeeds Act begins taking us down the path to do just that.” ###
12.01.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to House passage of two resolutions (S.J. Res. 23 and S.J. Res. 24) that would disapprove of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) rules to regulate carbon dioxide (CO2) from new and existing power plants. “Since assuming office, President Obama and his EPA have waged an all out assault on fossil fuels, regardless of the impact on American families or the American economy. In fact, early in his first term, President Obama went so far as to champion cap and trade legislation that would have hit American families and businesses with a massive energy tax. His scheme was so radical that it couldn’t even make it out of Congress, even though Democrats had overwhelming majorities in both the House and Senate. Undeterred by this legislative failure, President Obama decided to go around Congress and had his EPA craft regulations that would regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new and existing power plants. “These regulations – which are the centerpiece of President Obama’s global warming agenda – are divorced from reality. The regulations for new power plants impose a de facto ban on any new coal-fired power plants and are predicated on technologies that are not even commercially available today. The regulation for existing power plants – which is based on a power grab that President Obama’s own constitutional law professor said was a ‘burning of the Constitution’ – would force the closure of numerous existing coal-fired plants and result in an estimated double digit increase in electricity prices in 40 states. In Texas, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) estimated that the regulation for existing plants could increase retail prices by almost 20 percent by 2030. None of this should come as a shock to Americans, as President Obama said while running for president in 2008 that under his plan ‘electricity rates would necessarily skyrocket.’ “Affordable and reliable electricity is essential to keeping the American economy moving forward. Without affordable energy, American families and businesses have less money in their pockets to spend on priorities like sending a kid to college or giving workers a raise. That is why Congress is stepping in to block these harmful regulations. Washington is drowning Main Street in a sea of red tape, and without relief the American Dream will continue to drown right along with it.” ###
11.30.2015	WASHINGTON—Under the leadership of Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), the House Financial Services Committee released a staff report last week uncovering major flaws in the process by which the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) alleges racial discrimination in auto lending—most significantly, that the CFPB is using guesswork to substantiate their allegations rather than actual facts. In addition to revealing that the process is ‘prone to significant error,’ Chairman Hensarling and his committee exposed internal memos at the CFPB that show its director – Richard Cordray – had been notified of the “weakness” of the controversial legal theory upon which the Bureau built discrimination cases against auto lenders. Congressman Hensarling released the following statement on the report and its alarming findings. “The CFPB is a dangerously out-of-control agency. It is irresponsibly branding companies with the stigma of racial discrimination based on nothing more than junk science that even CFPB senior officials acknowledge is gravely flawed. Why? To cudgel those companies into enormous monetary settlements without ever having to go to court. “Racial discrimination is morally repugnant and against the law. Our government must continue to combat discrimination and punish those responsible. But inventing discrimination through a disparate impact theory is not a helpful tool in fighting actual discrimination. And increasing the cost of auto loans for consumers – especially those with low and moderate incomes – through meritless discrimination cases and government-imposed pricing schemes is the exact opposite of what a consumer protection bureau is supposed to do.” To read the full staff report, click here. ### Press coverage of report findings: Wall Street Journal – Consumer Watchdog Pushed Discrimination Case on Vulnerable Firm New York Times – Consumer Bureau Faulted on Auto Lending Inquiry Washington Times – GOP Says Feds Using ‘Junk Science’ to Attack Auto Dealers American Banker – House GOP Accuses CFPB of Improper Auto Lending Crackdown
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, made the following speech on the House floor to urge his colleagues to vote for the American Safe Act of 2015 (H.R. 4038), a bill which he cosponsored: “Mr. Speaker, I do rise in support today of the safety and security of the American people. As members of congress, we have no more sacred responsibility. Thus, I rise in support of the SAFE Act. “I join all Americans and all the people of the world in standing with the people of Paris. We are so sobered as to what happened to their homeland, but we are also sobered by the challenge and the grave responsibility to thwart the same evil from coming to our homeland. “The director of the F.B.I. has testified before Congress just last month that a number of people who are of serious concern were able to slip through screenings of Iraqi refugees. That’s what the director of the F.B.I. said. This disturbing information, Mr. Speaker, obviously raises very serious red flags about lapses in the security within our current refugee vetting system. “Again, it is why I support and I encourage all members to support the American SAFE Act of 2015. It would effectively hit the pause button on the refugee program—not the stop, but the pause button. And it's simple legislation. It simply requires more rigid standards so that the F.B.I., the Department of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence would positively certify that each refugee from Iraq and Syria does not pose a security threat to us, to our homeland, to our families. Otherwise, they will not be permitted to set down on American soil. It is simple, it is common sense, and it is needed. “Mr. Speaker, our hearts also go out to the millions of refugees forced to flee their homes and save their lives. There is no other country in the world – no other country in the world – that has been more generous with their time and treasure to refugees than the United States of America, but today is not the day to share our territory. Not until and unless these people can be properly vetted to ensure they don't threaten our families. “Mr. Speaker, hopefully the world has awakened. There is a very real threat that ISIS poses, and it is not the ‘J.V. team,’ they are not ‘contained,’ and what happened in Paris was not merely a ‘setback.’ “I urge my colleagues to take the responsibility to secure our homeland seriously. This will be the first of what I know will be many steps that this chamber will take to address the growing threats that are posed to our families and our country. And I thank the sponsors of the legislation for bringing it to the floor. I urge all my colleagues to adopt it. I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, recently took to the House floor to urge his colleagues to support legislation to audit and reform the Federal Reserve to make it more transparent and accountable to the American people. The following are excerpts from his comments: “Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3189, the FORM Act, to reform the Federal Reserve. “To paraphrase an old automobile advertising campaign, ‘this is not your father’s Fed.’ Since the financial crisis, the Federal Reserve has morphed into a government institution whose unconventional activities and vastly expanded powers have, regrettably, not produced commensurate transparency and accountability. “Since the financial meltdown of 2008, the Fed has carried out unprecedented rounds of asset purchases known as Quantitative Easing. Its balance sheet has swollen to almost $5 trillion – equal to one-fourth of the U.S. economy – and almost five times its pre-crisis level. “We’ve had almost seven years of near-zero interest rates with virtually no guidance to investors on when rates might finally be normalized. This ongoing uncertainty is a significant cause of businesses hoarding cash and community banks conserving capital and reducing lending. “Adding to the economic uncertainty is the Dodd-Frank Act granting the Fed sweeping new regulatory powers that directly intervene in the operations of the largest financial institutions. The Fed is even authorized to – on a vague finding – break up a financial institution they deem poses a threat to financial stability. “In other words, the Fed can now literally occupy the board rooms of the largest financial institutions in America and influence how they deploy capital. “Reform, accountability, and transparency on one hand; and independence and conduct of monetary policy on the other are not mutually exclusive concepts. The Fed Oversight and Reform and Modernization Act (FORM Act) would ensure that the Fed’s monetary policy is made clear and credible and its regulatory activities comport with the rule of law and bear public scrutiny. In short, the FORM Act holds the Fed accountable to the American people.” ###
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) appeared on WBAP’s “The Chris Salcedo Show” to react to the terror attacks in Paris, President Obama’s response to the attacks, and what the U.S. response should be to ISIS and the Syrian refugees seeking asylum. The following are excerpts from Hensarling’s comments: On the attacks in Paris and President Obama’s response: “Well not only as a member of Congress, but as a father, you can’t think of anything more horrific than going about your business and then all of a sudden these evil forces come and do their evil deeds. Regrettably it’s not necessarily surprising, but it is absolutely horrific… I was listening before you had me on to the president’s comments. His comments frankly are just shocking. I mean, to say he has a knack for the understatement would be an understatement. From a man that called ISIS the ‘JV’, a man who just said hours before the Paris attack that ISIS was contained—I mean, the president is just removed from reality. And then to say that we don’t need another strategy—the thing I fear most for my nation right now is the current occupant of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue…. “He is tragically wrong, and it is hurting the security of our country.” On the security concerns surrounding resettling Syrian refugees in the U.S. : “Within this refugee stream there is an incredible opportunity for ISIS to infiltrate that….This is a process that just needs to be frozen right here, right now. We cannot verify where databases don’t exist of who these people are. We ought to be exploring trying to create some type of safe zone within parts of Syria and Iraq. I mean listen, it is a horrible human tragedy – millions and millions of refugees – but we can care for these people on territory other than ours. We need not invite them here and now. Until the House and the Senate can be convinced that we have a way to vet these people – which today I don’t believe we have – we should not be taking refugees on our own shore.” On President Obama’s claims that the government can thoroughly vet all refugees and prevent ISIS from infiltrating the U.S. through the resettlement process: “…he is certainly receiving different briefings than I think just about every member of Congress is, and talking to different experts. You would have a hard time finding a majority in Congress being convinced again that theses refugees can be thoroughly vetted. So I don’t think the president is shooting straight with the American people. He is regrettably ignorant of the situation himself—I hope that’s not the case. I just don’t believe you can guarantee the safety and the security of the American people by bringing in thousands and thousands of Syrian refugees and have no idea who these people are. It just defies common sense. And I think the president, frankly, is being a little just disingenuous to imply somehow that America is not being compassionate when we provide millions and millions of dollars as part of an international community in trying to deal with the immediate needs of this refugee stream.” On steps he is supporting in the House is taking to address the refugee crisis and threat posed by ISIS: “There are a number of different bills that have been proceeding through Congress. One is H.R. 3573, [authored by] Chairman Mike McCaul of Texas, who chairs our Homeland Security Committee. This has to do with the oversight of refugee resettlement, and it would require an affirmative approval by both the House and Senate before any refugees are admitted to the U.S. It would allow Congress to block any type of refugee resettlement plan put forward by the president if it is inadequate. It would prioritize, to the extent that resettlement takes place, repressed religious minorities. There’s also H.R. 3999, which is known as the Safe Act of 2015, which is authored by Congressman Hudson of North Carolina. It would require that the DHS along with the FBI and the U.S. Attorney’s office would certify that refugees being admitted to the U.S. from Iraq and Syria do not pose any threat to security of the U.S. It would require an affirmation by all of those agencies. Those are just a couple of bills that are working their way through the system. I have cosponsored both of these. The speaker has put forth a task force of different committees of jurisdiction….principally our Judiciary Committee, Homeland Security, and Armed Services Committee. I expect there will be another bill by week’s end, so stay tuned on that.” ###
11.11.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) released the following statement commemorating Veterans Day: “Veterans Day is an opportunity to say ‘thank you’ to those patriots who’ve answered the call to defend us, going into harm’s way so that we can enjoy the blessings of freedom, peace, and prosperity. Freedom is not free – it comes at incredible cost. Today, and every day, let us never forget that. “We must also remember our military families, who are left to carry on while their spouse, parent, or child is away serving on the front lines. Though they may not wear the uniform, they too serve and sacrifice much for the cause of freedom. “Few opportunities are more meaningful to me as a Congressman than when I am given the chance to help our veterans, whether it is obtaining long overdue medals for a hero of WWII, securing VA benefits for a struggling veteran of Korea or Vietnam, or paying tribute to the life of a soldier that was cut short defending freedom in Iraq or Afghanistan. “As the son, grandson, and brother of veterans, I have and will continue to fight for our nation’s soldiers and military veterans. As President Calvin Coolidge once said ‘A nation which forgets its defenders will itself be forgotten.’ I am committed to making sure we never forget.” ###
11.10.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) appeared on Fox News Channel’s “The Real Story with Gretchen Carlson” to react to the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals ruling upholding the injunction against President Obama’s unlawful executive action on immigration. Below are excerpts from that interview. On the court’s ruling: “I think undoubtedly, it probably will go to the Supreme Court. But, at least for the moment, it’s a good day for legal immigration, a bad day for illegal immigration; a good day for the constitution and rule of law, a bad day for the imperial presidency so thus, a bad day for Barack Obama. As we all know illegal immigration is a huge threat to our national security and a huge threat to our economic security and, the way the president practices it, it's a threat to the rule of law. So what the Fifth Circuit said is, ‘No, there is a constitution, there are checks and balances, and you cannot rewrite the law.’ Essentially what the president did is he managed to persuade the fifth circuit that he could not lawfully do this. Apparently he didn't convince himself because, as we know, on at least twenty previous occasions the president indicated that he did not have the power to do what he is doing.” On the administration’s reaction to the ruling: “We know this is a president who has a pen and a phone. Regrettably he just seems to lack a copy of the constitution. The Fifth Circuit could be no more clear on their injunction. So I don’t know what executive order that the president is planning. We know this has been the most lawless administration since the Nixon administration. But particularly with the American people, I would hope they would be outraged.” On his recent trip to the Texas-Mexico border and what he learned about the state of border security: “Well what I found is that again the Obama administration is a huge impediment to enforcing our laws. The greatest impediment we have is that the Obama administration will not allow our border patrol to actually have access to many federal lands where the illegal immigrants and human traffickers do their business. And so we know that also there are people from all around the world including nations where we know there has been terrorist activity who are infiltrating our Southern border. It’s not just Mexico and Central America. It’s a huge problem, something that the administration continues to turn their back on.” ###
11.06.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) released the following statement upon news that President Obama will reject the application for the Keystone XL Pipeline: “I am highly disappointed, though hardly shocked, by the president’s decision to reject the Keystone XL Pipeline. President Obama has once again put the will of special interests ahead of jobs for the American people. Instead of listening to the countless reports – including the findings of his own administration – which said the Keystone XL Pipeline is safe, will increase North American energy independence, and create jobs, or to the majority of Americans who support the project, President Obama has chosen to listen to left-wing environmental lobbyists.” ###
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement upon Paul Ryan’s nomination to be the next Speaker of the House by the House Republican Conference. “It’s not my way to kick someone as they’re walking out the door, but it’s time for a new Speaker. Our nation is in bad shape, Congress is in bad shape, the party is in bad shape. I just think that when you look at the totality of the ingredients you need for a Republican leader right here, right now - Paul Ryan is the guy. “I don’t view the selection of Speaker as just a contest of who has racked up the highest interest group vote rating by simply voting NO on bills. “What we need right now is somebody who will take the conservative message to non-conservatives. I’m looking for the best communicator of the conservative message of hope and fairness and growth and freedom. I’m looking for the person who has more courage and accomplishment to actually advance the conservative cause through the Republican Conference and beyond. I think Paul Ryan is that person. “Paul Ryan is the guy who made entitlement reform mainstream for the Republican Party. He’s the first guy in a decade to get a balanced budget through the House. He’s been our fundamental leader on tax reform; our fundamental leader on budget reform; and our fundamental leader on battling Obamacare. “I know that a handful of members have supported Dan Webster for Speaker. Daniel Webster is a good guy. However, I believe Dan’s vision for reform will give Democrats more latitude, leeway and leverage to influence House proceedings and lead to conservatives having a weaker hand. Paul Ryan has a track record of courage, accomplishment, and leadership that I have seen firsthand, and I look forward to working with him to advance the conservative cause.” ###
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement concerning the House’s vote on the Export-Import Bank: “The more Americans learn about the Export-Import Bank’s political lending, corruption and fundamental unfairness, the more they want it to end. That’s why we’re seeing a record number in Congress vote to end Ex-Im both in the Senate, where a majority of Republicans voted against it in July, and today in the House. The last time the House voted on a long-term reauthorization of Ex-Im, only 93 members voted against it. Today, 118 voted no. Momentum is moving in favor of those who oppose Ex-Im’s corporate welfare and instead support a competitive, free enterprise economy. “On three separate occasions, a majority of Republicans on the Financial Services Committee said that they opposed bringing Ex-Im up for a vote. As Chairman, I strongly supported that decision reached by a majority of the majority. “Fifty one years ago today Ronald Reagan said, “a government bureau is the nearest thing to eternal life we’ll ever see on this earth.” But thankfully for hardworking taxpayers, today’s vote does not reopen the corporate welfare spigot at Ex-Im. Ex-Im’s charter remains expired and Senate leaders have already made it clear the Senate will not take up this bill. “But this debate has accomplished something very important. It demonstrates once again to the American people that while Democrats like to give fiery speeches decrying how Washington rigs the system to help big corporations, Democrats are perfectly fine with voting to rig the system to help big corporations. It’s nearly Halloween and Democrats once again are handing out tricks to hardworking taxpayers and treats for big corporations. How many times have we heard Democrats vilify Wall Street banks? Yet the big banks profit off Ex-Im like few others, receiving billions in Ex-Im corporate welfare. Of course, Wall Street’s big banks vigorously support Ex-Im. After all, they have hardworking taxpayers to bail out any Wall Street losses. By voting for Ex-Im, Democrats are throwing Wall Street a big, wet kiss. “Ex-Im is a part of yesterday’s economy. Our focus needs to be on tomorrow’s economy and on reforms that will give every American greater opportunities to succeed. Fundamental tax reform, tort reform and regulatory reform will do more to grow our economy and help small business entrepreneurs than corporate welfare ever could. Healthy debate on these issues, not discharge petitions for corporate welfare, are a much better use of Congress’s time. It’s hard work, but it is necessary for the American people.” ###
10.23.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement upon House passage of the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act (H.R. 3672), a package of budget reconciliation recommendations aimed at dismantling Obamacare and protecting life. “In April – for the first time since 2009 – Congress complied with the law and passed a budget resolution agreement through both the House and Senate. This fiscally-responsible budget put our nation on a sustainable path by balancing in less than 10 years, stopping our out of control spending, and eventually paying off our nation’s $18 trillion and rising national debt. “This budget also set up an opportunity implement reforms it called for through a process known as reconciliation. These reforms will save taxpayers $130 billion – all while improving the health care of Americans by beginning to finally dismantle Obamacare and using the power of the purse to protect innocent life. “To protect the unborn and promote access to health care, today’s legislation uses our Constitutional power of the purse and defunds abortion providers like Planned Parenthood. Instead of funding an organization whose main business is killing innocent life, we redirect those taxpayer dollars and invest in community health centers that provide quality accessible care for women, men, and children—including the unborn. “Today’s legislation also takes several key steps to dismantle Obamacare by repealing some of the law’s most harmful provisions, including the individual and employer mandates. This legislation also repeals several of the law’s most burdensome taxes – like the medical device tax and the “Cadillac Tax” – and gets rid of the Obamacare slush fund which has enabled the Administration to spend billions each year without input from the people’s elected representatives in Congress. “While I would have preferred to be voting on a full repeal of Obamacare, the American people would still be much better off than they are today if this bill becomes law. And the processed used will ensure this bill that begins dismantling Obamacare lands on the president’s desk where he will be forced to either admit that his signature piece of legislation is harmful and unpopular or ignore the will of the American people and veto these changes.” ###
10.22.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement upon House passage of the Default Prevention Act (H.R. 692), which he cosponsored. “That sound we hear is the alarm of our debt ceiling telling us our nation’s fiscal house is on fire. Instead of simply turning off the alarm, we must put out the fire. “Our nation is on the precipice of a spending-driven debt crisis. Despite collecting a record $3.25 trillion in taxes in the just-completed fiscal year, our nation still spent $439 billion more than it received. Clearly, the problem isn’t lack of revenue as some suggest. The problem is that Washington is spending money we don’t have and borrowing from the futures of our children and grandchildren—setting up a legacy of little more than an $18 trillion and growing national debt. “Raising the debt limit allows our nation to pay bills and obligations already incurred. However, the nation’s debt ceiling places a speed-bump on the road to national bankruptcy by forcing Congress to actively allow the nation to borrow more money instead of simply allowing Washington to keep spending unchecked. In other words, the debt ceiling gives Congress an opportunity to address the unsustainable fiscal path we find ourselves on. “President Obama and Congressional Democrats should fear the debt, but instead they promote fear over the debt ceiling. Unfortunately, Democrats have taken the nation’s creditworthiness and economy hostage in a cynical attempt to create a crisis that maximizes the Administration’s leverage. Even though President Obama is using the specter of default as a political weapon, House Republicans will not. That’s why we have passed the Default Prevention Act to take a default on our nation’s sovereign debt off the table. “In the event that the debt ceiling is not raised and the federal government cannot meet all of its obligations, this legislation allows the Treasury Department to prioritize principal and interest payments on our national debt. Given that interest on our national debt accounts for approximately 7 cents out of every revenue dollar, this explicit authority would be more than enough prevent a default on sovereign debt. In other words: if this legislation becomes law, the only way our nation defaults on our sovereign debt is if President Obama and Treasury Secretary Jack Lew decide to not to pay it.” ###
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON—Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 702, lifting the ban on crude oil exports, which he cosponsored: “The ban on exporting American-produced crude oil overseas is an energy policy from the days of eight track tapes, bell bottoms, and disco – all are out of place in the 21st century. Today’s vote to lift the ban is a tremendous step forward in updating our energy policies to reflect that we’re no longer a nation dependent on foreign sources of energy but a nation blessed with an abundance of energy here at home. Lifting the ban would also take a significant step towards revitalizing our nation’s free enterprise system and promoting free trade by rolling back yet another crony policy of the Washington insider economy. By lifting the outdated ban on crude oil exports, this legislation will grow our economy and reinforce our newfound status as one of the world’s premier energy producers.�? ###
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement regarding the filing of a discharge petition on the Export-Import Bank: “Ex-Im supporters have so far failed to convince a majority of Republicans on the Financial Services Committee to support a vote on reauthorizing the Bank. This is an issue we’ve whipped no less than three times and the majority of Republicans on the committee have said they do not favor bringing Ex-Im up for a vote. In the 12 years I’ve been a member of the committee, I am unaware of any chairman – Republican or Democrat – who ever moved a bill in committee that was not supported by a majority of the majority. “I respect my colleagues who believe Ex-Im is essential economic development, just as I respect those who believe Ex-Im is unfair and harmful corporate welfare. But I hope all Republicans, regardless of their stand on this one issue, will recognize that signing a discharge petition sets a very serious, very dangerous precedent for our Republican majority that goes far beyond Ex-Im. My colleagues who consistently and rightfully call for regular order need to understand that a discharge petition is the exact opposite of regular order. It bypasses the committees, including the Rules Committee, and it bypasses our Conference. It allows for zero amendments. Signing a discharge petition puts the minority in charge and effectively makes Nancy Pelosi the Speaker of the House. At a time when our Republican Conference is divided, this will divide it even further. Signing a discharge petition – regardless of the issue – gives the Democrats control over our agenda. That’s why they are so eager to sign it. “Let the Democrats own corporate welfare all by themselves. Republicans should instead focus on reforms that will give every American greater opportunities to succeed. Fundamental tax reform, tort reform and regulatory reform will do more to grow our economy and help small business entrepreneurs than corporate welfare ever could. That must be our agenda.” ###
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement upon passage of the Women’s Public Health and Safety Act (H.R. 3495): “Millions of Americans – including me – find Planned Parenthood and other providers of elective abortions reprehensible, and do not believe that hard-earned taxpayer dollars should be used to subsidize these organizations. That’s why I’ve long supported efforts to fully defund Planned Parenthood. While efforts to defund Planned Parenthood in Congress have intensified in the wake of the appalling videos that have come to light, several states have taken the initiative to prevent state taxpayer dollars from flowing to elective abortion providers. Unfortunately, the Obama Administration and Planned Parenthood are challenging these efforts, claiming that federal Medicaid laws prevent states from taking such action. “Elective abortions have nothing to do with health and fly in the face of the founding principle of medicine embodied in the Hippocratic Oath to ‘do no harm.’ While the Hyde Amendment prohibits taxpayer dollars from directly funding abortions, states should have the flexibility to restrict Medicaid funding for organizations that perform elective abortions. That’s why I’m pleased the House passed the Women’s Public Health and Safety Act to give states the flexibility to ensure scarce taxpayer dollars are flowing to true health care providers.” ###
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement after voting against a continuing resolution (CR) to fund the government through December 11, 2015: “As a people, we have no values more core than life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. “No American should be forced to subsidize an organization like Planned Parenthood that aborts unborn life and seemingly traffics in human baby body parts—and I have opposed forced taxpayer funding of abortion since the day I arrived in Congress. With the release of the horrific Planned Parenthood videos, even more Americans have become shocked and appalled by the practices of the largest abortion provider in America. “The Constitution grants Congress the power of the purse and that public purse should not be used for Planned Parenthood. That is why I was proud to co-sponsor Rep. Mick Mulvaney’s (R-SC) amendment that would have stripped all federal funding for Planned Parenthood from the CR. Unfortunately, that amendment was not a part of the final CR. “It is past time for Congress to stand up for every American’s right to life – both born and unborn – and reassert our power of the purse. That is why I voted against this bill, which ultimately did not block any funding for Planned Parenthood” concluded Hensarling. U.S. Congressman Mick Mulvaney (R-SC) thanked Congressman Hensarling for his co-sponsorship, saying, “Jeb Hensarling is a consistent and strong defender of the unborn, and I was proud to have him join me as a co-sponsor of my amendment to the CR that would have defunded Planned Parenthood.” ###
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, made the following speech on the House floor Friday morning in support of Defund Planned Parenthood Act (H.R. 3134), a bill which he has cosponsored. “Life. Liberty. The pursuit of happiness. As a people, we have no more sacred values and the right to life is foremost among these. “Recently shocking, appalling, horrific videos have come to light that show senior employees at Planned Parenthood casually discussing the harvesting and selling of organs of aborted children, and ways to alter their procedures in order to ‘obtain intact fetal cadavers’ which they refer to as ‘line items.’ “In perhaps the most chilling video, we see one of these so-called ‘intact fetal cadavers’ with its heart still beating. “Madam Speaker, its heart was still beating. “Madam Speaker, whether one considers themselves pro-life or pro-choice, can we not agree that the harvesting and trafficking of baby organs violates the sanctity with which every child created in the image of God is entitled to? How can a fair, civilized, and compassionate society come to any other conclusion? “Madam Speaker, today I rise to plead with my colleagues to speak up for the voiceless and the defenseless by voting to deny Planned Parenthood further taxpayer subsidies for the harvesting of baby body parts.” ###
09.10.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, made the following speech on the House floor Wednesday evening blasting the Obama Administration’s dangerous nuclear arms agreement with Iran and urging his colleagues to vote against it. “Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to President Obama’s nuclear deal with Iran. “Now, the president says it’s a good deal, and you know what? He’s right. It’s a very good deal…for Iran. But it’s a very bad deal for America. “I fear in his rush to try to build a legacy, the president has clearly given up far too much for far too little. He has done this at the expense of our security, as well as the security of our friend Israel and other U.S. allies. “Mr. Speaker, this is a deadly serious matter. “The first thing the president does in his agreement is to give them some start-up capital: an estimated $120 billion held abroad will now be repatriated back to Iran’s central bank. $120 billion to a regime whose Supreme Leader to this day calls for the annihilation of Israel. A regime that still chants ‘death to America;’ a regime that has put bounties on the heads of American soldiers and has the blood of American citizens on its hands; a regime whose sponsorship of Hezbollah has left our closest ally in the region, Israel, with 80,000 rockets trained on it. In sum: a regime that represents the world’s largest and most dangerous state sponsor of terrorism. “Now President Obama would have us believe that waiving sanctions against this regime would make the world safer. But this is the very same president that dismissed the Islamic State as the ‘JV team,’ and we see what that has gotten us. This is simply not an administration whose assessment of national security threats is credible, and the stakes involved with a nuclear Iran leave zero room for error. “In truth, Mr. Speaker, I fear it is we who sent the JV team to negotiate with Iran. Sadly, they were outplayed, outmaneuvered and outwitted, and the result of their failure is the dangerous agreement we have before us today. “It is such a flawed agreement that the president yet again tells Congress we have to pass something to actually find out what’s in it. In other words, the president has utterly failed to provide the secret side agreements. “President Obama once told us: ‘We cannot allow Iran to get a nuclear weapon.’ But under his deal, Iran’s nuclear program will not be dismantled – only temporarily slowed. And that’s if the “Iranians don’t cheat. Because the president’s team has failed to achieve anytime/anywhere inspections, it will be impossible to ensure the Iranians aren’t cheating. Ah, but don’t worry, Mr. Speaker. We’re told the Iranians will turn themselves in if they cheat. Really? “In short, the president’s agreement rewards Iran’s terrorist-sponsoring regime with billions of dollars in relief without any guarantee of compliance. “When you look at the record, Mr. Speaker, I don’t trust this administration. I don’t trust the Iranians. Why would we ever trust the two together? For the sake of national security, I urge all my colleagues to reject this flawed and dangerous agreement.” ###
07.28.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny Act (REINS Act). “We need a real economic growth that flows from Main Street up, not Washington down. That means allowing employers to enlarge paychecks and expand payrolls without the onslaught of senseless red tape coming from unelected Washington bureaucrats, who are currently running wild under the Obama administration and churning out roughly 4,000 new regulations a year. The REINS Act will do just that by requiring major new federal regulations receive Congressional approval before taking effect. This will put the people’s elected representatives in charge of what major regulations are foisted upon Main Street and ensure that a regulation enjoys widespread support, unlike the current Congressional review process where a regulation moves forward unless one can muster up enough votes in Congress to pass a bill stopping the regulation and have that bill signed into law by the president. “Americans want paychecks, not more unemployment checks. We need a federal government that will work with the private sector to create private sector jobs, not load more government bureaucrats on its back. Government must open opportunities, not smother them; foster productivity, not stifle it. When Washington stops threatening and punishing the job creators I have no doubt our economy will come roaring back.” ###
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act (H.R. 3009): “I am a strong proponent of greater local control and a smaller federal government. But these municipalities that deliberately fail to enforce our nation’s immigration laws – so called ‘sanctuary cities’ – undermine our nation’s system of legal immigration while compromising our safety and security. By cutting off specific federal grants for municipalities who provide a safe haven for illegal immigrants, this legislation enacts consequences for these sanctuary cities. “The United States is a nation founded by immigrants, and that is why we should continue to welcome those who want to come here legally and roll up their sleeves to work hard and achieve the American Dream. We cannot, however, reward those whose first act is to break our laws, and we should never provide a sanctuary for those who continue to break our laws and harm our fellow citizens.” ###
07.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), participated in a special order on the floor of the House of Representatives decrying recent videos of Planned Parenthood officials discussing selling the organs of aborted children and calling for investigations into these horrific acts. “Mr. Speaker, it is our highest ideal as Americans that every human life is endowed with dignity and has value. And as Americans, we have a shared responsibility to protect the innocent and defend the rights of those who are unable to defend themselves. “Rather than protecting and defending this dignity, Planned Parenthood is seemingly attempting to cash in on it. Recently, shocking and appalling videos have come to light exposing senior employees at Planned Parenthood casually discussing both the harvesting and selling the organs of aborted children. These videos portray a chilling, transactional approach to ending human life. “Mr. Speaker, as a matter of morality, history, science, reason, and most importantly my personal faith, I can come to no other conclusion but that every human life begins at conception and every human life is worthy of protection. “Psalm 139: 13 says, ‘For you created my inmost being; you knit me together in my mother’s womb.’ What God has knit together, apparently Planned Parenthood wishes to ‘crush.’ “But, that’s not my word, Mr. Speaker. That’s their word. You’ve heard it spoken on this house floor. A Senior Director of Medical Services for Planned Parenthood said, ‘…we’ve been very good at getting heart, lung, liver, because we know that, so I’m not gonna crush that part.’ “I’m not sure I’ve ever repeated such vile and cruel words in this House floor before, Mr. Speaker. “Whether one considers themselves pro-life or pro-choice, I would hope that every American believes that harvesting and trafficking baby organs violates the sanctity with which every child, created in the very image of God, is entitled to. “So, I add my voice thanking our leadership of this Congress for calling on investigations of these horrific acts, and I call on the Obama Administration to denounce them and find a way to stop these gruesome practices. Almost every day, Mr. Speaker, we hear someone utter words on the House Floor, we must do the least of these, truly unborn life is the least of these, so let’s start tonight and hold life precious. “And I am pleased to join my colleague, Diane Black, as an original cosponsor of legislation that would prohibit ALL federal funding from going to entities that perform elective abortions, as well another bill that would specifically prohibit federal funding for Planned Parenthood. “Often we hear that we ought to do something for the least of these; truly unborn life is the least of these. Let us recognize it. Let us hold it precious. Let us live up to our responsibilities from the Creator and grant those yet to be born that precious right to life.” ###
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today regarding the final nuclear agreement reached with Iran. “Congress has 60 days to review the details of the Administration’s agreement with Iran, and I will take the time to do just that. However, there are a number of obvious concessions laid out in this deal that are nothing short of disturbing. Even if the Iranians follow the rules and adhere to all items in this deal, their nuclear program will only be slowed and not dismantled. Without the ability to conduct inspections anywhere at any time, it will be impossible for the outside world to ensure the Iranians are really complying at all. Furthermore, the very sanctions that brought the Iranians to the negotiating table should be removed if, and only if, the Iranians can affirmatively prove they are not cheating. In short, this agreement rewards the Iranians billions of relief without a guarantee of compliance. “The president has said repeatedly that he would rather walk away and have no deal than a bad deal. Unfortunately, the more we learn, the more this looks like a bad deal. Perhaps the starkest example of this is the fact that Iran is celebrating while Israel is calling this a ‘historic mistake for the world.’” ###
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today in support of the Student Success Act (H.R. 5). “For too long, education in the United States has been held hostage by a one-size fits all policy which allows Washington bureaucrats to assert control and influence in the classroom. Not surprisingly, this intervention has resulted in more federal spending, mandates, and bureaucratic red tape, while doing little to improve student performance. President Obama and Democrat leaders believe the solution is to double down on these failed policies by further expanding the federal footprint in our nation’s K-12 education system. Time and time again we see that these failed policies divert scarce resources away from the classroom in order to comply with Washington’s red tape, and it is our children who ultimately pay the price. “The Student Success Act is a step in the right direction, reducing the federal footprint in our nation’s education system and paving the way for future reforms to ultimately remove federal intrusion into what is ultimately the responsibility of state and local officials. Specifically, this bill completely guts the ability of the Obama Administration to coerce states into adopting the one-size-fits-all approach of Common Core – or any other particular standards – through waivers, federal grants, or any other Washington mandates. “As a father of two school-aged children, I believe that the most powerful thing Congress could do to ensure that all children have the opportunity to receive a first-class education is to put control of that education back in the hands of the state and local leaders and parents who know our children best.” ###
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court's ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges. “The decisions by the Supreme Court this week are an assault on our Constitution and represent the height of judicial activism. Marriage – which is never mentioned in the Constitution – is a profound question that must be decided by the people and their elected representatives, not unelected and unaccountable judges. The principles of the rule of law, federalism, and religious liberty are fundamental to American society. As a matter of faith, I believe in traditional marriage between one man and one woman. As a matter of faith, I also believe that all men are created by God and worthy of love and respect, even when they disagree. In light of this decision, we must ensure that we protect religious freedom and conscience.” ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement on the upcoming expiration of the Export-Import Bank’s charter: “This is a small step toward renewing a competitive free-market economy and arresting the rise of the progressive welfare state and the cronyism connected to it. Ex-Im is not only corporate welfare, it is corporate welfare for foreign companies and countries. There’s no doubt some U.S. companies receive a benefit from Ex-Im, but there’s also no doubt Ex-Im hurts other companies and their workers. In fact, more are hurt than helped, and nearly 99 percent of all U.S. exports are financed without Ex-Im. Where is the fairness in giving Washington politicians and bureaucrats the power to pick who gets helped and who gets hurt? The few U.S. companies that actually benefit from Ex-Im do so at the expense of every hardworking taxpayer and all other American companies that are forced to assume the risks of Ex-Im’s loans and compete at a disadvantage. “As more Americans and more members of Congress learned about Ex-Im’s political lending, corruption and fundamental unfairness, the more they wanted it to expire. Now the challenge for supporters of a competitive free-market economy is to make sure Ex-Im stays expired. Ex-Im is a part of yesterday’s economy. Our focus needs to be on tomorrow’s economy and on reforms that will give every American greater opportunities to succeed. Fundamental tax reform, tort reform and regulatory reform will do more to grow our economy and help small business entrepreneurs than corporate welfare ever could. That must be our agenda.” BACKGROUND ON THE EXPIRATION OF EX-IM’S CHARTER NO IMPACT ON CURRENT FINANCING The charter for the Export-Import Bank will expire on June 30, but that expiration will have no impact on Ex-Im’s current obligations. Ex-Im will not cease to exist on July 1. Instead, Ex-Im will begin a gradual and orderly wind-down and – by law – financing awarded before expiration will continue through the life of the loans, loan guarantees and insurance policies. In fact, some of this financing will extend for 12-18 years after Ex-Im’s charter expires. “NONE OF US ACTUALLY EXPIRE JUNE 30” As Ex-Im Chairman and President Fred Hochberg told Politico: “Well, none of us actually expire June 30. The bank’s authority to make a new loan expires on June 30…But there’s a large function as bank that does not go away – we’ve got an over $110 billion loan portfolio that’s got to be managed and serviced…The authorization is about making new loans, but in any case we’ve got a lot of work to do here.” The Congressional Research Service reported to Congress that when Ex-Im’s charter expires: Ex-Im Bank also may “continu[e] as a corporate agency of the United States” and exercise any of its functions “for purposes of an orderly liquidation,” including (but apparently not limited to) administering its assets and collecting any obligations it holds. EX-IM’S #1 BENEFICIARY CAN FIND ALTERNATIVE FINANCING “Boeing itself may have undercut arguments to reauthorize the bank last week when it announced it would use its internal financing arm to support foreign buyers in the event the Export-Import Bank goes away, which opponents could point to as proof the bank is unnecessary.” (US News & World Report, June 11, 2015: Export-Import Bank Heading Toward Closure.) HEADLINE: Boeing to Offer Aircraft Financing If Trade Bank Shuts (Wall Street Journal, June 5, 2015) Kostya Zolotusky, a managing director at Boeing’s finance arm, “said he was confident the company could find alternative funding sources for customers” but that the company remains “mindful” of the debate over Ex-Im. (Wall Street Journal, August 7, 2013) CREDIT RATING AGENCIES: ALTERNATIVES AVAILABLE Boeing Will Survive an Ex-Im Defeat: Standard & Poor’s finds that there’s plenty of financing for aircraft sales: “We don’t believe that the expiration of Ex-Im’s authorization…would hurt Boeing’s credit quality or ability to make planned deliveries.” (Wall Street Journal, July 14, 2014) “S&P also examined the effect of cutting of Ex-Im financing to three of the bank’s other big clients – General Electric, Caterpillar and United Technologies. Their conclusion? Their credit ratings wouldn’t be affected because ‘the amounts financed are generally less than 2% of revenue.’” (Wall Street Journal, July 14, 2014) “Any U.S. congressional vote that winds down the Export-Import Bank of the United States (Ex-Im) would be management for aircraft lessors given the availability of other financing alternatives…Solid growth in financing avenues across capital markets has reduced the necessity of Ex-Im guarantees…” (Fitch Ratings report issued July 15, 2014) “We believe that the risk of Congress not reauthorizing Ex-Im is unlikely to affect our ratings on other U.S.-based exporters.” (S&P Analysis, July 7, 2014) END OF CIVILIZATION? “THAT’S NONSENSE” “In the here and now impact, would this be the end of civilization as we know it, would it be raining cats and dogs? No, that’s nonsense.” – Richard Aboulafia, Vice President, Teal Group (Quoted by Bloomberg, June 2, 2015) “I would venture a guess that it wouldn’t have any impact on Caterpillar and if it were to have impact it would be completely immaterial.” – Ted Grace, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group (Quoted by Bloomberg, June 2, 2015) “Today, with low interest rates around the world, and many commercial options for insuring against business risks, there probably is no intrinsic value to the Ex-Im Bank today and into the future. Thus, at this moment, I believe the charter should not be renewed…If the Ex-Im Bank were to disappear, I believe buyers and sellers would find attractive commercial options unencumbered by politics and special interests.” – Edmund Schweitzer III, Schweitzer Engineering Laboratories (Quoted in The Spokesman-Review, July 15, 2014 ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Obama Administration in King v. Burwell: “While the question in King v. Burwell was who could receive exchange subsidies, this case was really about the limits of executive power under our Constitution. For over 200 years, the United States has been a nation founded upon the rule of law. And while I have not liked nor agreed with every decision from the Supreme Court, I found today’s decision especially outrageous. By legalizing the Obama Administration’s decision to completely disregard the law as written by Congress because it better suited the administration’s agenda, the Supreme Court has essentially vested legislative powers to the executive branch – seriously undermining our Constitution and transforming us further into a nation governed by the rule of rulers. “This decision also leaves Americans trapped in Obamacare’s failed top-down, one-size-fits-all approach of mandates, subsidies, and broken promises that has led to Americans having to pay more for lower quality health care that is less accessible – often being forced out of the health care plans they like and no longer able to see the health care provider of their choice. “With this decision now firmly established in Supreme Court jurisprudence, I fear that this administration or any future administration now has more latitude than ever to carry out the law it wanted from Congress, regardless of what actually was passed by the people’s elected representatives.” ###
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Ratepayer Protection Act (H.R. 2042): “Affordable and reliable electricity – whether it’s used to power a family’s home in Athens or a manufacturing plant in Mesquite – is essential to helping keep the American economy moving forward. Without affordable energy, American families and businesses have less money in their pockets to spend on their priorities, such as sending a kid to college or giving workers a raise. “Instead of pursuing energy policies that will help keep electricity prices affordable and money in the pockets of Americans, the Obama Administration has done the exact opposite. Amongst the avalanche of red tape that this administration has dropped from Washington onto Main Street is a new Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) plan to regulate greenhouse gas emissions for existing power plants. This plan, which EPA is expected to finalize this summer, will set mandatory carbon goals for each state from existing power plants. Not only will this force the closure of numerous coal-fired power plants and impact electric reliability, but if this rule is implemented, Texas households could see their energy bills go up by an estimated 20 percent. The annual cost of this rule range from EPA’s estimated $7.5 billion to other projections as high as $34 billion. “None of this should come as a shock to Americans, as President Obama said while running for president in 2008 that under his plan ‘electricity rates would necessarily skyrocket.’ That’s why the House has acted to protect them by passing the bipartisan Ratepayer Protection Act, which would empower states to protect families and businesses from EPA’s costly regulations by allowing them to determine whether or not EPA’s proposed standards are in the best interest of the state. Washington is drowning Main Street in a sea of red tape, and without relief – like the Ratepayer Protection Act – the American Dream will continue to drown right along with it.” ###
06.19.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) issued the following statement today in observance of the 150th Anniversary of Juneteenth: “Today Texans and people across America celebrate the 150th Anniversary of Juneteenth. On this day in 1865, Union soldiers, led by Major General Gordon Granger, landed at Galveston, Texas, with news that the Civil War had ended. Two and a half years after President Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation, Texas’ slaves heard for the first time that they were free. “There is no other land on earth like America, but we’ve had our share of failings. And we’ve had no greater failing than allowing slavery to exist in the land of the free. “Reflecting upon important milestones in our nation’s history, like Juneteenth, reminds us to live our lives toward the dream of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. – that all of our children may live in a society where they are judged not by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character – and to work to make a more perfect Union by keeping America free.” ###
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement upon House passage of legislation granting trade promotion authority. Hensarling recently made the case for the bill’s passage with a column in National Review. “Much of the debate over TPA has centered on politics and policy. While both are important, it is principle that is most important. Today’s vote was about the fundamentally conservative principles of free trade and economic liberty that make America great, and that is why I voted for it. “Trade promotion authority (TPA) is a bill that establishes a process by which Congress will consider future trade agreements. It is not a trade agreement with any nation. “The Constitution gives the President of the United States the authority to negotiate trade deals with anyone at any time. TPA does not give the president – especially this president – any new powers or authority. It requires Congress approve any such trade deal for it to become law and it strengthens legislative branch authority by giving Congress input at the beginning of negotiations. “The details of TPA have been available online for anyone to read, and it increases transparency by requiring any future trade agreement be made public for at least 60 days before the president can even send it to Congress for consideration. In other words, everyone will be able to read an agreement before Congress votes on it. Imagine if we had that requirement for Obamacare? “TPA includes stated safeguards to protect US sovereignty and immigration laws. Section 108, clause (a), says: ‘No provision of any trade agreement entered into under section 103(b), nor the application of any such provision to any person or circumstance, that is inconsistent with any law of the United States, any State of the United States, or any locality of the United States shall have effect.’ It also includes Senator Ted Cruz’s immigration provision: ‘to ensure that trade agreements do not require changes to the immigration laws of the United States or obligate the United States to grant access or expand access to visas issued.’ “Though not perfect, TPA strengthens America’s hand and economic influence in the world, giving us an opportunity to grow our economy by removing trade barriers.” ###
05.25.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) released the following statement commemorating Memorial Day: “Freedom is not free – it comes at incredible cost. Since our founding, millions of brave Americans have gone into harm’s way so that we could enjoy the blessings of peace and prosperity. They left behind their families, their friends, and their hopes and dreams—some never to return home to them ever again. “American troops have died to liberate millions from the forces of tyranny. They’ve stared evil in the eyes and stood for all that is good in the world. Because of their heroism, their sacrifices have reverberated throughout the ages. It is their sacrifice that we honor this day, and every day. “We must also remember the families of the fallen who are left to carry on after—as President Lincoln said—‘having laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of freedom.’ “I have no words I can offer them to ease the pain of their loss; no words adequate to express my gratitude for the depth of their sacrifice. What I do know—without a doubt—is that my 13 year-old daughter and 11 year-old son will sleep in a more safe and more free America tonight because of their bravery and sacrifice. “This Memorial Day, my thoughts are on those heroes who have paid the ultimate sacrifice for their country and my prayers of comfort are with their families. Our devotion to their memory must be as boundless and endless as their devotion was to us.” ###
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today in support of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016 (H.R. 1735): “Congress has the responsibility to ‘provide for the common defense’ in order to safeguard our homeland from the many threats we continue to face and to protect the freedoms we cherish. The United States has an exceptional responsibility to stand strong and ready in a world where our enemies are unrelenting and the many threats to our national security are ever present and evolving. Specifically, this year’s NDAA includes provisions that: Give our defense forces the support they need to carry out their mission by fully equipping our troops, strongly supporting military families, and creating a new system that will allow service members who are not eligible for military retirement to participate in and contribute to a thrift savings plan that will allow for matching contributions by the Department of Defense. Streamline the acquisition process by implementing critical decisions at the beginning of the acquisition process, while maintaining accountability and placing priority on outcomes that reflect the best interests of the taxpayer and troops. Prohibit the transfer of detainees at Guantanamo Bay to the United States and also prohibits the construction of detention facilities within the United States. The bill also rescinds the authority vested in the President to unilaterally transfer detainees. “In a world where threats to our freedom are global, it is imperative that our troops remain the mightiest in the world by providing them with the tools essential for success.” ###
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today in support of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 (H.R. 1195), which the House of Representatives passed on a bipartisan vote of 400-25 after passing the Senate on a 98-1 vote. “The United States faces many challenges and threats around the world. While terrorist organizations – such as ISIS and Al-Qaeda – pose an immediate threat to the national security of the United States, I believe that no threat is more dangerous in the long term than a nuclear-armed Iran. “Strong economic sanctions put in place by Congress have pressured Iran to the negotiating table. Yet, easing sanctions without forcing Iran to permanently give up its nuclear weapons program – as the administration’s deal purportedly does – is dangerous and of the highest stakes. An agreement of this magnitude and consequence should have been submitted to the United States Senate as a treaty, as prescribed by the Constitution, making it subject to a two-thirds vote of approval. However, the Obama Administration deliberately chose to pursue the agreement outside this process, and was headed towards finalizing an agreement without the opportunity for Congress – and the American people – to weigh in. “Stopping the Obama Administration's ability to bypass Congress and craft its own agreement with Iran is the utmost priority. While the Iran Nuclear Review Act is far from ideal, it inserts Congress into this process, mandating a Congressional review period and giving Congress the ability to vote to disapprove the deal – all before sanctions are lifted." ###
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), led his colleagues in a moment of silence on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for the victims of the recent tornado and flash flooding in Texas – including three people from the 5th Congressional District which he represents – and Arkansas. Before the moment of silence, Congressman Hensarling made the following remarks in memory of those who were lost. “Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Many of us are taught that death can come unexpectedly, like a thief in the night. A thief came to Texas and Arkansas this past weekend in the form of deadly tornadoes and flash floods. In the wake of their destructive path, were left two dead in Nashville, Arkansas; one in Cisco, Texas; one in Corsicana, Texas; and in the Fifth District that I am proud to represent, one in Henderson County, Texas and two next door in Van Zandt County, Texas. They have left families, they have left friends, and they have left great holes in their communities that cannot be filled. “Besides the tragic loss of life, there were many who were left injured and, in the case of Van, Texas, 1/3 of the town was either damaged or destroyed by tornado. Should anyone have wonder about the future of Van, Texas, as a Member of Congress, I can tell you need not worry. The citizens of Van—I know their resilience, I know their values, I know their faith, and I know their can-do optimism. Van, Texas will be rebuilt. “I'm joined, Mr. Speaker, today by Congressman Westerman of Arkansas, Congressman Barton of Texas, Congressman Burgess of Texas, and Congressman Conaway of Texas. Their districts were hit; lives were lost in their districts as well. “Mr. Speaker, as members we are called upon to vote. We are called upon to speak, we are called upon to lead, and there are times we are called upon to mourn. In many of our faiths we are taught there is a time for everything, including a time to mourn. Now is that time. “On behalf of my colleagues in the well, I would ask that all Americans remember these good citizens in their prayers and their thoughts and, Mr. Speaker, I would ask that the House join us in honoring those who perished by observing a moment of silence.” ###
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON- Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) delivered the following opening statement at today’s full committee hearing on data and cybersecurity: Today’s hearing will be focused on protecting consumers and their private financial information in an age of computer hackers. The world has experienced a technology revolution; one that has brought remarkable benefits to consumers and the broader economy. But it has also increased some risks on consumers by making the theft of their personal financial information a profitable enterprise for cyber criminals and computer hackers. In the era of “big data,” large-scale security breaches are unfortunately all too common. Every breach leaves consumers exposed and vulnerable to identity theft, fraud and a host of other crimes. We have certainly all read about the high-profile, headline-grabbing breaches at Target and Home Depot. According to the Identity Theft Resource Center there were 783 U.S. data breaches in 2014, an increase of more than 27 percent over the prior year. The Center for Strategic and International Studies and McAfee Securities estimate such attacks cost the United States economy $100 billion annually. American consumers rightfully expect their personal information to be protected by their financial institutions, retailers, card networks, payment processors and, yes, by their federal government. Consumers shouldn’t be left to simply hope and pray their personal information will be safe every time they swipe their debit or credit card or enter their information online. They deserve protection. So today the committee will hear from representatives of organizations whose members constitute the major participants in the payment system. We welcome their expertise and insight. My hope is that this hearing affords Members on both sides of the aisle an opportunity to better understand what security measures are currently in place to prevent data breaches, how consumers are notified following a breach, what types of emerging technologies will help reduce the frequency and severity of breaches, and what steps are being taken by the merchant and financial services communities to address the problem and where additional federal legislation may be warranted. I further hope the committee will engage in this thoughtful and constructive dialogue on a bipartisan basis. In that regard, I wish to thank Chairman Neugebauer and the gentleman from Delaware, Mr. Carney, for starting this bipartisan dialogue off on the right foot by introducing a bipartisan bill to address this important problem. ###
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today in support of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R. 36), which institutes a nationwide ban on abortion of unborn children 20 weeks after fertilization. Chairman Hensarling is a co-sponsor of the legislation. “Today – on the second anniversary of the conviction of Kermit Gosnell for murdering infants during extremely late-term abortions – the House of Representatives voted to save the lives of innocent children from enduring the excruciatingly painful death of abortion, as there is now clear scientific evidence that unborn children can feel intense pain at 20 weeks post-fertilization. “As humans and as a people, we have no greater responsibility than to care for the vulnerable—to be a voice for those who cannot speak for themselves and a defender of those who cannot fight for themselves. Often we hear that we ought to do something for the least of these; truly unborn life is the least of these. “One of our highest ideals as Americans is that every human life is endowed with dignity and has value. How then, can we be one of just seven nations on Earth – including China and North Korea – that allow elective abortions after 20 weeks? “As a matter of morality, history, science, reason, and most of all faith, I can come to no other conclusion but that every human life begins at conception and every life is worthy of protection.” ###
05.11.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), issued the following statement on recent severe weather that hit areas of his congressional district. “My thoughts and prayers are with the citizens of Van and the surrounding areas that were impacted by last night’s tornado and damaging rains – especially the family and friends of those who perished – and the brave first responders who continue working to protect the community. My office has been in contact with local officials to offer our assistance and will continue to monitor the situation so we can be helpful to East Texans impacted by these devastating storms.” ###
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Fiscal Year 2016 budget resolution conference agreement (S. Con. Res. 11): “For the first time since 2009, Congress will actually comply with the law and pass a budget resolution agreement through both the House and Senate - returning the congressional budget process to regular order. This fiscally-responsible budget puts our nation onto a sustainable path and stops spending money we don’t have, which will allow the budget to balance in less than 10 years and eventually completely pay off our nation’s $18 trillion and rising national debt. A critical part of putting the budget on a sustainable fiscal path is restoring robust economic growth on Main Street. That is why the budget incorporates pro-growth tax reform that lowers tax rates on American families and businesses by broadening the tax base and getting rid of loopholes and special interest provisions. It also serves as the blueprint for the full repeal of Obamacare to empower patients and doctors to make health care decisions. Additionally, this budget protects seniors’ health care and retirement security by strengthening Medicare and protecting Social Security. Finally, at a time when the threats to our national security are on the rise, this budget ensures that our nation’s military has more of the resources needed to defend our nation and allow our men and women in uniform to carry out the missions we’ve tasked them with. To meet the needs of our military, our budget provides more funding than the President requested over both the five and ten year horizon. “The budget agreement also includes several key reforms to the congressional budget process. In particular, this budget will incorporate main street accounting, or fair value cost estimates, in government. This important reform will ensure the true cost of government programs – like the Export-Import Bank – can’t be hidden from taxpayers by Washington’s Enron-style accounting. “This budget agreement stands in stark contrast to the president’s budget proposal – which never balances and prioritizes big government and even bigger tax increases. Instead, House and Senate Republicans have passed a budget that prioritizes economic growth and opportunity for all Americans and gives them the opportunity to pursue their version of the American dream.” ###
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Service Committee, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed two very important pieces of tax reform legislation, which he co-sponsored. “Our tax code is not fair; it’s too complicated; it contains too many loopholes and provisions for special interests; and taxes are still too high -- forcing hardworking Americans to pay for a Washington government that is too big, too powerful, and too intrusive. “The bills passed by the House today would make two important reforms to the tax code and provide much needed relief to American taxpayers. By making the deductibility of state and local sales taxes permanent, the State and Local Sales Tax Deduction Fairness Act (H.R. 622) ensures a level playing field for hardworking taxpayers in states such as Texas by allowing individuals to deduct state and local general sales taxes in lieu of state and local income taxes. “Today, we also voted to permanently repeal the death tax. Nobody should have to pay the undertaker and the IRS on the same day. The Death Tax Repeal Act (H.R. 1105) will protect hundreds of farms and businesses across East Texas from crippling taxes that are breaking up family businesses. “The American people want and need fundamental tax reform, and I will continue to do everything I can to make sure we have a tax code that is fairer, flatter, simpler, and more competitive.” ###
04.14.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, delivered the following remarks at this morning’s House Republican press conference to discuss the committee’s bipartisan regulatory relief bills as part of “Financial Independence Week” in the House of Representatives: “Well no day quite like tax day to focus one’s attention on the lack of financial independence. The American dream for so many low and moderate income Americans is that one day they can achieve financial independence. But, regrettably, over the last six years, middle income paychecks have remained flat or have actually been slightly lower; we know that middle income bank accounts are a lot lower. Part of the problem, frankly, has been the Dodd-Frank Act. “After its passage the big banks have gotten bigger, the small banks have gotten fewer, the taxpayer has become poorer. The House Financial Services Committee that I have the responsibility of leading recently marked up 11 different bills – all of which passed on a bipartisan basis – that would provide modest clarifications to that act to help empower lower and moderate income Americans to perhaps buy that first home, in one case a manufactured house, in other cases to get a slight break on their closing costs in what we call points and fees. “But the big contest we have now is that the left hand doesn’t always know what the far left hand is doing. And notwithstanding the fact that these bills passed on a bipartisan basis, some believe that Dodd-Frank was chiseled in stone, that it came down from Mount Sinai, that it’s a matter of ideology. But we have struggling constituents who want to own that first home, who want a break on their closing costs. “I’m hopeful that as these bills have come out of committee – we had six of them on suspension yesterday, we’ll have two of them on the floor today – that all Democrats will agree with Barney Frank himself, who believes that his law was not sacrosanct. He’s indicated at least a half a dozen areas where this law can be amended. “We hope that this is not a triumph of ideology over the plight of low and moderate income Americans who richly deserve help on their road to financial independence.” ###
04.10.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, recently traveled across the 5th District for a series of town hall meetings with his constituents. “Town hall meetings are important because they give me the opportunity to connect with my constituents and hear from them about the issues they care about,” Hensarling explained. “As I have said many times, the best ideas don’t come from Washington; they come from the hardworking East Texans in the 5th Congressional District that I have the privilege to represent.” The meetings – which took place in Athens, Canton, Forney, Jacksonville, Mineola, and Palestine – were widely attended and received lots of coverage in the local press. HENSARLING ON DEFENDING RELIGIOUS LIBERTY: The congressman also fielded a question on religious freedom, specifically the case of Lt. Cmdr. Wes Modder, a Navy chaplain under fire for his alleged views on those who are gay. Hensarling said discrimination against Christians is on the rise. After the meeting, the congressman was asked on his position on Indiana's Religious Freedom Restoration Act, a law signed by Gov. Mike Pence, a friend of the congressman. He admitted he does not know all the details of the law, but supported Pence. “I hope we find some way to accommodate some Americans in a non-discriminatory fashion, but also respect people of faith because there is no more important liberty in America than religious liberty. It's the liberty that all our other liberties rest upon,” Hensarling said. (from the Palestine Herald Press, March 31, 2015) HENSARLING ON THE THREAT OF A NUCLEAR IRAN: Hensarling told those gathered, however, that the threat of ISIS “paled when compared to a nuclear-capable Iran.” If Iran has nuclear weapons, it will result in a total destabilization of the Middle East, he said, and America needs to stand beside Israel because without Israel’s constant battle against terrorists “they would be on our shore.” (from the Van Zandt News, April 5, 2015) HENSARLING ON FIGHTING THE DOJ’s OPERATION CHOKE POINT: “Most recently, the Committee has begun an extensive investigation into an Obama Administration initiative known as ‘Operation Choke Point.’ This program, which is spearheaded by the Department of Justice, has forced several legal businesses to close by pressuring financial institutions to not do business with them, effectively closing their bank accounts. Many times this pressure is not because the companies themselves have done anything wrong, but because the administration has decided that companies within that industry have a ‘reputational risk,’ – meaning they aren’t in political favor with this Administration. So far, this target list includes gun manufacturers and dealers, certain financial lenders, and tobacco shops, just to name a few. Operation Choke Point is yet another example of the Obama Administration’s executive overreach to advance their political agenda. Under my leadership, the House Financial Services Committee will continue to protect law-abiding business owners by ensuring that all businesses are treated fairly on a case-by-case basis.” (from the Northeast Texan, April 8, 2015) HENSARLING ON FAILURES OF THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION: Hensarling was greeted by a large crowd at the Canton Farm Bureau and fielded questions on topics ranging from border control to Obama Care. Hensarling did not mince words in his distrust in the current administration but did add in his remarks that he was there to serve all constituents no matter their party affiliation. “The American people expect and deserve a Congress and White House that works together to forge common sense solutions that address the real problems that families are facing. Unfortunately, President Obama and his administration continue to pursue the ‘my way or the highway approach’ to governing that focuses on advancing his own agenda instead of addressing the real problems that families are facing today,” Hensarling said. (from the Grand Saline Sun, April 4, 2015) HENSARLING ON AN OUT OF CONTROL FEDERAL GOVERNMENT: Hensarling on the other hand said that government agencies have passed too many “needless” regulations have resulted in fewer start-ups and more small business closings. “When that happens the lower and middle-class don’t get ahead.” That and a Federal Government he described as “too large, too powerful, too expensive and too intrusive” is making many Americans uneasy and pessimistic about the future. (from the Kaufman Herald, April 9, 2015) HENSARLING ON THE ONGOING FIGHT AGAINST OBAMACARE: Other concerns were about passing an immigration law….“I want people to be economic assets in America,” Hensarling said. “The first thing we need to do is secure our borders.” Hensarling said a ruling is expected in June about the future of Obamacare. The Supreme Court will decide if government subsidies are legal in states that chose not set up health exchanges. “I believe if the Supreme Court rules properly, it will be the end of Obamacare,” he said. (in the Athens Daily Review, April 2, 2015) Fifth District residents who wish to be notified of future town hall meetings like these in their area are encouraged to visit www.hensarling.house.gov to sign up for Congressman Hensarling’s e-newsletter. ###
04.01.2015	WASHINGTON –Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) is inviting high school students across the 5th Congressional District to participate in the 2015 Congressional Art Competition. “Each year, this exciting competition provides Members of Congress the opportunity to showcase the artistic talent of high school students within their districts, thereby acknowledging our nation’s gifted young artists,�? said Congressman Hensarling. “I am pleased to announce that the Fifth Congressional District is once again participating in the competition and I look forward to seeing the artwork that our talented students submit.�? As in years past, the winning entry from each congressional district will be displayed in a special exhibit located in a corridor of the U.S. Capitol building. The winning student and guest will be invited to attend a special reception unveiling the artwork in Washington, D.C. Teachers and students wishing to participate in this year’s competition should contact Congressman Hensarling’s office at (214) 349-9996 for official contest dates, rules, and guidelines. Artwork must be submitted no later than Friday, April 24th to be considered. ###
04.01.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) announced today that this year’s North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum will be held on Saturday, April 11, 2015. This informational forum, which Hensarling co-sponsors, provides interested students in grades eight through twelve with an opportunity to learn more about our nation’s service academies, their requirements for admission, and the selection process. Representatives from Texas congressional offices and all five military service academies—U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and U.S. Air Force Academy—as well as current academy cadets and midshipmen will be on hand to speak with interested students, parents, and educators about these premier educational institutions and the career opportunities they generate. Representatives from the Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Corps ROTC will also attend. The Forum, which is free and open to the public, will be held from 8:00 AM – 12:00 PM with registration beginning at 7:30 AM. Those with questions about the forum or the service academy nomination process are encouraged to contact Margaret Smith in Congressman Hensarling’s Dallas office at 214-349-9996. WHAT: North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum WHEN: Saturday, April 11, 2015 TIME: Registration- 7:30 AM; Forum- 8:00 AM – 12:00 PM WHERE: Lewisville High School (1098 West Main Street, Lewisville, Texas 75067) ###
03.27.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after House passage of the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act (H.R. 2): “Medicare is on an unsustainable fiscal path, and its looming bankruptcy threatens to break its promise to American seniors to provide for their health security. If we are to save this important program for seniors – both today and tomorrow – this program must be reformed. “The Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula – like many plans enacted by Congress – has not achieved what it intended. Originally enacted to help put Medicare on a sustainable fiscal path and rein in the costs of the program, the SGR has led to an uncertain future for physicians and seniors alike. Physicians annually face uncertainty with the prospect of steep payment cuts that could leave them unable to pay the bills and keep their practices open. Seniors face the prospect of their doctor opting out of Medicare. “Rather than let these cuts take effect, Congress has delayed them 17 times since 2003. This haphazard approach has come with a cost, and Congress often paid for postponing cuts one year with the prospect of deeper cuts the next year – a maneuver that satisfied technical budget rules, but resulted in an ever increasing tab that wasn’t getting paid. By continually kicking the can down the road in this fashion, Congress has created a situation where physicians would face a 21 percent cut in physician reimbursement rates on April 1st – which is a totally unrealistic scenario as physicians would be operating at a net loss, and would just walk away from Medicare and the seniors who rely on it. The only way to prevent this cut is to kick the can down the road again, or fix this issue once and for all. “Instead of continue with this budget gimmick, the House chose to permanently repeal the SGR and replace it with a physician payment system that moves us to a system focused on quality and that rewards positive outcomes, and away from the current fee for service model that often encourages volume and unnecessary procedures. “To offset the cost associated with fixing this problem once and for all, this bill would enact two changes to Medicare that conservatives have been seeking for years now: the wealthiest Medicare recipients would pay more of their share of the service they receive; and Medigap policies that artificially mask the cost of care would be reformed to discourage overutilization of Medicare. As I have said repeatedly, entitlements are the true drivers of our nation’s debt. And while this is a modest victory in the larger battle, these changes represent the first break in the Democrats’ refusal to consider entitlement reforms without yielding to their demands for tax increases. “While the reforms we have put in place will save taxpayers money, estimates show it will take a long term commitment to realize the savings. I have long said that I want to address the true drivers of our debt – which are the rising costs of entitlement programs like Medicare – even if change is incremental and takes time. This bill is incremental progress.” ###
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the FY2016 budget resolution (H. Con. Res. 27): “Budgets are about priorities, and the House Republican budget resolution passed today by the House of Representatives advances several important priorities. To give hardworking, middle income families the opportunity to achieve economic success, our budget calls for comprehensive, pro-growth tax reform that lowers tax rates on American families and businesses, and broadens the tax base by getting rid of loopholes and special interest provisions. To keep our promise to current and future seniors, we save, strengthen, and secure Medicare and Social Security by getting these important programs off the path to certain bankruptcy. To get our nation’s fiscal house in order and off the path to national bankruptcy, our budget stops spending money we don’t have, will balance in less than 10 years, and will allow us to begin paying down our nation’s debt. To empower patients and doctors to make their own health care decisions, our budget fully repeals Obamacare. To stop future bailouts enshrined into law by the Dodd-Frank Act, our budget ends Washington’s regime for officially designating certain financial firms as “too big to fail” and envisions the eventual elimination of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled mortgage giants that received the largest taxpayer-funded bailout in history. Our budget also brings needed accountability to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to make sure it doesn’t engage in wasteful spending but instead uses its resources to actually help protect American consumers. “At a time when the threats to our national security are on the rise, this budget ensures that our nation’s military has the resources needed to defend our nation and allow our men and women in uniform to carry out the mission we’ve tasked them with. In a perfect world, it would have been my preference to provide increased spending for our nation’s defense without using the “off-budget” Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) account. But this would have opened the door for the President to enter this process seeking dramatic increases for his priorities, ultimately threatening to undo the spending caps established by the Budget control Act. “When you compare this budget with the President’s budget, his hurts the economic and job opportunities of current and future generations of Americans by continuing to spend money we don’t have. By completely blowing up the bipartisan spending caps that Republicans and Democrats agreed to just over three years ago in the Budget Control Act, increasing taxes on hard working Americans, and failing to reform Social Security and Medicare – all the president has really done is step on the accelerator, hurdling us that much faster towards financial oblivion and leaving American families with a downsized American Dream. “Simply put, President Obama’s budget prioritizes big government and even bigger taxes. The House Republican Budget prioritizes economic growth and opportunity for all Americans and gives them the opportunity to pursue their version of the American dream.” ###
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Secret Science Reform Act (H.R. 1030) and the EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act (H.R. 749): “The EPA has been relentlessly conducting a war on carbon-based energy, issuing regulation after regulation that will significantly impact our economy, destroy jobs, and raise energy prices for hardworking Americans already struggling to make ends meet—all while refusing to make public the scientific data it used in crafting its regulations. This stunning lack of transparency leaves the public and Congress in the dark and unable to scrutinize the EPA’s actions and hold them accountable. “The bills passed by the House today would provide a meaningful opportunity for the voices of the American people to be heard in the regulatory process by reforming the Science Advisory Board to bring greater independence to the panel membership and promote greater transparency and public participation, and by requiring the EPA to base its regulations on public data—bringing much needed accountability and transparency to the EPA.” ###
03.13.2015	WASHINGTON - Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after the House passed the Long-Term Care Veteran Choice Act (H.R. 294) and legislation authorizing the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to recoup bonuses and awards paid to VA employees (H.R. 280). “Both of these measures are continuing the House’s important work of ensuring that our veterans are getting the care that they deserve and have earned through their service, holding the VA accountable in the wake of the scandals involving veteran wait times. The Long-Term Care Veteran Choice Act would allow the VA to pay for long-term care of veterans in medical foster homes, which are more home-like and family-setting style compared to more traditional nursing homes. Right now, the VA does not have the authority to pay for medical foster homes, and by making this change we are giving our veterans a choice about the long-term care that they receive. “These two bills also continue the work of holding the VA accountable after gross mismanagement of this government-run health program denied care to our veterans. According to the VA, almost $3 million in performance bonuses were awarded to 304 senior managers at the VA in 2013, despite the fact that many of these bureaucrats were overlooking or fostering the mismanagement and negligence at VA facilities that led to veterans being denied access to care in a timely fashion and backlogs of disability claims in the VA Regional Offices. The Long-Term Care Veteran Choice Act also limits the amount of awards and bonuses paid to VA employees over the next several years, while H.R. 280 allows the VA Secretary to rescind bonuses awarded for performance. Together, by limiting the amount of money that can be spent on bonuses and empowering the VA Secretary to rescind bonuses and seek their repayment, the House is taking important steps to change the culture amongst bureaucrats at the VA that allowed this agency to get severely off course in its mission to provide timely and quality care to our nation’s veterans. “As President Coolidge said, ‘the nation which forgets its defenders will itself be forgotten.’ We must never forget the sacrifices of our nation’s heroes or the promises we’ve made to them.” ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after voting against a bill passed by the House of Representatives to fund the Department of Homeland Security (H.R. 240): "President Obama’s executive action on immigration is unconstitutional and must not be allowed to stand. While the courts have halted it from moving forward for now, this is potentially a temporary reprieve. That is why I am deeply disappointed that Senate Democrats were unwilling to put action behind their criticism of the president’s illegal power grab and join Congressional Republicans in sending a bill to President Obama's desk that would have completely shut down the president's unlawful executive action. At its core, this is not a fight about immigration policy, but instead a fight that goes to the foundation of our Republic and the Constitutional principle of co-equal but separate branches of government. While I strongly support the mission of the Department of Homeland Security and believe it is critical that it has the resources it needs to protect the homeland, I cannot in good conscience vote for a bill that does not put us on a path to stop President Obama's unconstitutional executive amnesty.” ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today in response to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to a Joint Meeting of Congress. “I applaud Speaker Boehner for inviting Prime Minister Netanyahu to speak before a joint meeting of Congress. It was an honor to welcome the Prime Minister and to hear his important insight on the ongoing challenges Israel faces as a democratic nation. In the wake of ongoing events in Syria, Iran, and the ever mounting threat against our freedom by ISIS and other terror networks, it is important to hear from our strongest ally in the Middle East. “A nuclear Iran is not just a threat to Israel or merely its neighbors in the Middle East. In addition to the grave threat that the world is already a facing in the form of ISIS and other radical Islamic terrorists, it pales in comparison to the threat that we would face if Iran is allowed to obtain nuclear weapons. Iran already arms terrorist groups like Hezbollah and Hamas with conventional weapons, so it is not hard to imagine this state sponsor of terror providing nuclear weapons and technology as well. Prime Minister Netanyahu understands – perhaps better than anyone – the threat that a nuclear Iran poses, and his words should be a sobering reminder for all Americans that we must not allow it to come to pass. “Since 1948, the United States has stood with and supported the State of Israel as she has defended herself from those who seek her destruction and deny her very right to exist. In return, Israel has been our staunchest ally in the region as well as a full partner in the global war on terror. We not only share the same values but also the same vision for a world in which all peoples – including our Israeli allies – can live free from fear in lasting peace. “We face a very real and ongoing threat against our national security and it is crucial that we continue to support and stand alongside the people of Israel. It is my hope that the Obama Administration as well as my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, who deliberately chose to miss this important speech, will put partisan politics aside and make every effort to demonstrate their unwavering support for the State of Israel.” # # #
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today in support of House-passed legislation to improve 529 college savings plans (H.R. 529). “Hard-working American families are struggling to cope with the ever-rising cost of college. 529 savings plans have been a valuable tool to help these families save for college. Similar to a ROTH IRA retirement account, 529 plans use the power of compound interest to allow contributions to grow tax free for the purpose of qualified higher education expenses. In Texas alone, the nearly 140,000 529 accounts have helped families save more than $2 billion for college. “While this popular program has allowed millions of low and middle income families to save for future education expenses, it has not escaped the crosshairs of President Obama and his insatiable appetite for higher taxes. In fact, President Obama’s budget would have placed an even greater burden on American families who are struggling to save for higher education by proposing an ill-fated de facto repeal of 529 accounts by taxing the earnings. “In contrast to President Obama’s original plan that would virtually destroy 529 accounts, the legislation passed by the House today will expand educational opportunities for millions of Americans by making it easier for parents and children to save for college by expanding the program to treat computer equipment and other technology as a qualified expense while making improvements to the contribution and distribution process. “As a father of two school-aged children, I understand how daunting a task saving for college can be. Instead of burdening millions of American families by taxing these programs as the President has proposed, I and my fellow House Republicans remain committed to strengthening and expanding these successful and popular savings vehicles.” ###
02.24.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after President Obama vetoed bipartisan legislation to advance the Keystone XL Pipeline (S.1 – the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act): “Although he said that he was willing to reach across the aisle and work with Congressional Republicans to advance a common sense, pro-economic growth solution, President Obama has apparently chosen instead to bow to the demands of his extreme liberal allies who strongly oppose the Keystone XL Pipeline. President Obama vetoed this legislation because he claimed it would be ‘cutting short’ his ability to thoroughly consider the issue, but after six-plus years of study and multiple favorable environmental reviews, that dog just won’t hunt. It is unfortunate that President Obama seemingly intends to spend his last two years in office working to advance narrow partisan interests instead of those of the American people.” ###
02.13.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act (H.R. 636) and the America Gives More Act (H.R 644): “This week, the House voted to create certainty for American small businesses by passing legislation to make permanent long-standing and widely-supported higher levels of depreciation expensing that expired at the end of 2014. In addition to the important small business measures passed this week, the House also passed legislation which would provide additional incentives for charitable giving. "While the bills passed this week will improve the current tax code and give American businesses and families greater certainty, they do not change the fact that our tax code is outdated, broken, and inhibiting economic growth. The real way to provide certainty and opportunity to Americans is through the kind of fundamental tax reform that I hope and expect the House of Representatives will take up this Congress.” ###
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON— Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after the vote to send legislation approving the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act (S. 1) to President Obama’s desk. The vote on the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act (S. 1) is the 11th vote taken by the House of Representatives since 2011 to approve the Keystone XL pipeline: “Even though he’s tried to avoid it for years, President Obama finally has a choice to make regarding Keystone. He can sign this bipartisan bill into law and demonstrate he is willing to work with Congress to advance commonsense, pro-growth policies. Or, he can veto this bill and make clear to the American people that he’s going to put politics and the interests of his environmental extremist allies before the will of the American people.” ###
02.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today after voting to fully repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, also known as “Obamacare.” This legislation, which Congressman Hensarling is a cosponsor of, is the fourth time the House has passed legislation to completely repeal Obamacare in its entirety. “Obamacare is not some ugly duckling that one day is going to grow into a beautiful swan. It’s just ugly—and getting uglier by the day. Millions of Americans have seen their health care premiums skyrocket, the health plans they like canceled, and found they can no longer see their doctor – despite President Obama’s promises that health care premiums would decrease, and that you could keep both your health plan and doctor. “In stark contrast to Obamacare’s broken promises, House Republicans are yet again following through on our promises to pass legislation to repeal Obamacare. In the previous four years that House Republicans have been in the majority, we’ve passed legislation to fully repeal Obamacare. Harry Reid’s obstruction prevented a repeal bill from ever seeing the light of day in the Senate, but with a Republican majority it’s now going to get a chance to make it onto President Obama’s desk. Whether or not it ultimately gets there is up to Senate Democrats, who can either stand with the American people and vote to send this bill to President Obama’s desk or vote to keep Obamacare’s broken promises and government takeover of health care. “Maybe now that Democrats realize the detrimental impact this law will have on the health care of millions of Americans, our economy, and our national debt, they will work with us to improve health care in a way that does not allow the government to undermine the patient-doctor relationship, harm job creation or our economy, or hasten our national bankruptcy. “I will never stop working to enact common-sense measures to ensure that every American has the opportunity for patient-centered health care that is affordable, portable, and of high quality so that no debilitating illness will be ever be able to wipe out a lifetime of savings.” ###
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding the release of President Obama’s budget for the 2016 fiscal year: “Once again, President Obama has submitted a budget detached from reality. That is the only way to describe a budget that proposes increasing spending by seven percent next year alone, even though middle income American families are making less today than they did when he took office in 2009. There’s nothing fiscally responsible about a federal budget that grows faster than the family budget. “Our nation is headed for a spending-induced debt crisis if we don’t stop spending money we don’t have. Yet the president’s budget does nothing to get us off this path to bankruptcy, which will leave American families with a downsized American Dream. In fact – by removing the bi-partisan spending caps that Republicans and Democrats agreed to just three years ago – all the president has really done is step on the accelerator, hurdling us that much faster towards financial oblivion. “Paychecks belong to the hardworking people who earn them, not Washington. Yet the president’s plan takes more money out of American’s paychecks and gives it to Washington bureaucrats who’ll spend it with no accountability. Even the president’s liberal allies at the Brookings Institution and the Urban Institute believe his budget’s tax increases will hurt the very middle income Americans he claims to champion. His proposed tax on lending, they agree, will lead to lower wages and be passed down to workers. We don’t need higher taxes that trickle down to middle income Americans. We need more accountable government spending. “It’s a sad commentary on President Obama’s fiscal leadership – or lack thereof – when the most positive thing that can be said about his budget is that it was at least submitted on time this year.” ###
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, joined Congressman Jeff Duncan (R-SC) and 42 other House conservatives in urging the United States Senate to take up the FY 2015 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill (H.R. 240) as soon as action is complete on Keystone XL legislation. The FY2015 Homeland Security Appropriations legislation, which the House passed earlier this month, would completely defund President Obama’s unconstitutional overreach on immigration. “The president’s executive action on immigration is an unconstitutional power grab that tramples on the authority that the Constitution gives Congress – the people’s elected Representatives – over immigration. It ignores the separation of powers. We cannot let it stand. The House has heard the American people on this matter loud and clear. That’s why we passed a Homeland Security appropriations bill that completely funds our homeland security needs but also uses our constitutionally-granted power of the purse to fully defund President Obama’s unconstitutional executive action on immigration. The House has fulfilled the will of the American people in this fight, and it’s now up to the Senate to do the same and put this bill on President Obama’s desk. I urge the Senate to bring this important legislation up right away,” said Hensarling. Full text of the letter is as follows: Dear Senator McConnell— We write today with two purposes. First, thank you for taking up important energy legislation with the Keystone XL Pipeline bill. We understand the Senate will complete your work on this bill this week, and we are grateful that the House and Senate are finally working together to do the people’s business. As you know, appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security expire after February 27, 2015. The House of Representatives has passed responsible legislation (H.R. 240) that funds the Department for the remainder of fiscal year 2015 and defends the separation of powers by stopping President Obama’s unconstitutional executive actions. We write to urge you to bring H.R. 240 to the floor as soon as the Senate completes consideration of Keystone XL. We believe that Senate Republicans must honor the promise they made to the American people last year to stand firm against the President’s lawless actions and preserve Congress’ constitutional role as a lawmaking body. We believe that bringing H.R. 240 to the floor now is the first step in accomplishing this goal. Thank you for your leadership on this issue and for your consideration of this important request. Blessings in Liberty, Members of Congress ### To view a PDF of the letter with full list of signers, click here.
01.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act (H.R. 7): “Today – on the 42nd anniversary of the Supreme Court’s Roe v. Wade decision – thousands of citizens took a stand for the rights of the unborn and celebrate the sanctity of life by participating in the annual March for Life in Washington, D.C. and at events across the country. I was proud to stand with them and with my fellow Representatives and vote to prevent taxpayer funding for abortion. “The bill we passed today codifies into law the Hyde Amendment, which doesn’t outlaw abortions but simply says that federal taxpayers will not be compelled to subsidize them – a policy that has been the law of the land for almost forty years. “As humans and as a people, we have no greater responsibility than to care for the vulnerable—to be a voice for those who cannot speak for themselves and a defender of those who cannot fight for themselves. Often we hear that we ought to do something for the least of these; truly unborn life is the least of these. “One of our highest ideals as Americans is that every human life is endowed with dignity and has value. As a matter of morality, history, science, reason, and most of all faith, I can come to no other conclusion but that every human life begins at conception and every life is worthy of protection.” ###
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to President Obama’s 2015 State of the Union Address: “Unfortunately, it appears the president has chosen to completely ignore the message voters sent loud and clear on Election Day. Instead of using his State of the Union address to outline ways he plans to work with newly elected Congress, the president doubled down on the ‘my way or the highway’ approach that has been the growing hallmark of his administration. “The American people expect and deserve a Congress and White House that works together to forge common sense solutions that address the real problems that families are facing. Instead of higher taxes that will make it harder and more expensive to buy cars, homes, save for college or start a small business, hardworking taxpayers deserve a path forward toward financial independence – one that gives them more control over their finances. Instead of welfare checks and unemployment checks, Americans want paychecks and an economy that gives their children greater opportunity and a higher standard of living than they had. Instead of a broken health care system that offers little more than broken websites and higher premiums, Americans deserve a patient-centered health care system that will ensure all have access to high quality, affordable health-care at a price they can afford. Instead of a system where government picks winners and losers, Americans want a country where success is based on hard work on Main Street, not how much influence you can buy on K Street. “These are the issues Republicans will focus on this year. I hope the president will put partisan politics and his personal agenda aside and join us.” ###
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON – Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s plan for higher taxes, including a new tax on lending: “Hardworking taxpayers deserve a path forward to financial independence, one that gives them more control over their finances. Unfortunately, if President Obama has his way, hundreds of billions of dollars in new taxes will undeniably trickle down on to consumers. They’ll face fewer choices, higher costs and less economic freedom. No amount of White House spin can hide the fact that President Obama’s plan is nothing more than a tax on mortgage loans, car loans and small business loans. Consumers will find it harder and more expensive to buy cars, homes, major appliances, save for college or start a small business. “Americans don't want two sets of rules -- one for the wealthy who'll never need a loan from a bank to buy a car, a new refrigerator or a home, and one for everyone else. But Obama's plan to put a tax on consumer loans will do exactly that. “Raising taxes just gives Washington bureaucrats more control to inefficiently spend money without accountability. Instead, we need to hold Wall Street and Washington accountable. Dodd-Frank lets Washington designate an entire category of Wall Street firms as ‘Too Big to Fail’ and then creates a taxpayer-financed bailout fund for their use. Let’s start by ending ‘Too Big to Fail’ and Washington bailouts. Let’s make sure the bankruptcy code is ready to resolve a large financial institution that gets into trouble so that its shareholders and creditors suffer the consequences of its failure – not U.S. taxpayers. Instead of hurting consumers, let’s implement prudent and sensible capital and liquidity standards on big banks so our economy is no longer exposed to the risk of systemic failure. “If the president is really concerned there is too much risk in the financial system, then clearly Dodd-Frank isn’t working as he intended and is thus yet another administration failure. Its 400 regulations are stifling the Main Street economy. So let’s cooperate on reforms that will work to make our financial system more stable without hurting those on Main Street who had absolutely nothing to do with causing the financial crisis.” ###
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, made the following speech on the floor of the House in support of several amendments to the FY 2015 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill (H.R. 240) that would defund President Obama's unconstitutional overreach on immigration: “Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I thank him for his leadership on this critical piece of legislation. “Mr. Chairman, every President in the history of our Republic, from George Washington to Barack Obama, has raised their right hand and said: ‘I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the office of the President of the United States, and will to the best of my ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States.’ “Clause 4, Section 8 of Article I of the Constitution says the Congress – the Congress – ‘shall have power to establish an uniform rule of naturalization.’ When we as a body read the Constitution on the House floor last week, I had the honor of reading this very section for all to hear. “Section 3, Article II of the Constitution says the President ‘shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed,' but never in the history of our Republic has a President so blatantly ignored his oath. “We know our President has a pen; we know he has a phone. We just wonder when will he acquire a copy of the Constitution and read it. "His executive action on immigration is an unconstitutional power grab. It tramples on the authority that the Constitution gives Congress – the people's elected Representatives – over immigration. It ignores the separation of powers. We cannot let it stand. “Coequal branches of government, separation of powers, the rule of law – these must be preserved. In this bill, as amended, we do this by exercising the House's constitutional power of the purse. This DHS funding bill, as amended, will achieve this.” ###
01.12.2015	WASHINGTON – Sixteen members of the Texas Delegation – Congressman Brian Babin, Congressman Kevin Brady, Congressman John Carter, Congressman Blake Farenthold, Chairman Bill Flores, Chairman Jeb Hensarling, Congressman William Hurd, Congressman Sam Johnson, Chairman Michael McCaul, Congressman Randy Neugebauer, Congressman Pete Olson, Congressman Ted Poe, Congressman John Ratcliffe, Chairman Pete Sessions, Chairman Lamar Smith, and Chairman Mac Thornberry, issued the following joint statement supporting legislation to fight against President Obama’s unconstitutional executive amnesty plan. “As members of the Texas delegation, we will continue to stand firmly against any action that erodes our constitutional values, degrades our nation’s rule of law, and circumvents the legislative process. Since the President announced his amnesty plan, we have been vigorously fighting against his unconstitutional actions and have been working together to find effective solutions to win this battle. “Last December House Republicans vowed to take up legislation in the second week of the 114th Congress to fight the President’s illegal executive fiat. Today the Republicans of the Texas Delegation join together in support of legislation that is scheduled to be considered by the House this week that stops the President’s amnesty plan and reflects our conservative values. This legislation would prevent the President from enforcing his executive amnesty plan by barring any funds from being used to carry out his executive actions or any other related illegal executive action that he might take in the future. While we recognize the value that legal immigrants bring to our nation and the economy, we must ensure that our laws are followed. We support this legislation because it enforces the law, secures our border, and reinforces the oath that we have taken as legislators to preserve and protect the Constitution. “As Members of Congress, we have the responsibility to effectively work within the constraints of the Constitution and the limits of the law. As members of the Texas delegation, we have the responsibility to act in the best interest of the people of Texas. This week we will uphold both of those responsibilities by preserving our nation’s rule of law, fighting for the people of Texas, and combating the President’s unconstitutional, unilateral actions.” ###
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after participating in a reading of the Constitution of the United States on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “On Tuesday, I was humbled and honored to take the Oath of Office to serve as a Representative for the 114th Congress. The first line in that oath is a promise to ‘support and defend the Constitution of the United States,’ so I felt it important that my maiden speech of this Congress be a celebration of the Constitution. “I was privileged to read a portion of Article 1, Section 8, which gives Congress the power ‘to borrow money on the credit of the United States; to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several states, and with the Indian tribes; to establish a uniform rule of naturalization, and uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies throughout the United States.’ “President Obama has said he has a pen and a phone. Unfortunately, it would seem he is missing his copy of the Constitution -- or at least this particular section – as he has continually usurped the power of Congress over immigration. In the coming days, I look forward to working with my colleagues to stop the president from continuing his unconstitutional power grab. “There is no job more important and none that I take more seriously than upholding the Constitution. At a time when we are seeing power transferred from ‘we the people’ to Washington in ever increasing measure, it is imperative that the people’s representatives read and understand this sacred document. It is my prayer that our dedication will not stop at a simple reading—for no less than the future of our Republic is a stake.” ###
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the Keystone XL Pipeline Act (H.R. 3). “For the tenth time since 2011, the House of Representatives has passed legislation that would approve the Keystone XL pipeline – a project that is supported by a majority of Americans and has received bipartisan support in the House and Senate. “With Harry Reid no longer in a position of power to block this bill from consideration, the President will finally be held directly accountable for his decision to support greater energy independence and job creation, or appease radical liberal activists. I sincerely hope the White House will finally put the American people first and do the work they sent us here to do.” ###
01.08.2015	WASHINGTON— U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today after House passage of a bill he co-sponsored – the Save American Workers Act (H.R. 30) – which would repeal Obamacare’s 30 hour definition of full-time employment and re-instate the traditional definition of 40 hours. “In addition to forcing Americans to purchase coverage they don’t want at prices they can’t afford, Obamacare fines employers for not providing health care coverage to full time employees. The law also unilaterally revised what constitutes full-time employment from 40 hours to 30 hours per week. This change is having a dramatic impact on our economy and on jobs as workers see their hours cut to comply with the burdens of Obamacare. A Hoover Institute study has estimated that 2.6 million workers are at risk for reduced hours, which will reduce their income by 25 percent. “Americans have spoken clearly on Obamacare, and I am committed to a complete and total dismantling of this terrible law – be it in one large step through a bill like Congressman Steve King’s bill H.R. 132, which I have co-sponsored, or piece by piece through bills like the Save American Workers Act we passed today. “For four years, House Republicans have passed bill after bill to roll back the government takeover of health care, only to see them blocked by Harry Reid from even being debated in the Senate. Luckily for the American people, Harry Reid isn’t in charge anymore. If Senate Democrats will listen to the American people, we will challenge the President to choose between doing what’s right for American workers or continuing to prop up his name-sake health care scheme.” ###
01.06.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on today's vote for Speaker of the House. “In November, the American people elected a conservative Republican majority to work on their behalf to solve the many problems and challenges we face – including stopping executive overreach, especially on immigration; halting Obamacare and replacing it with patient-centered reforms; reforming our broken tax code; and putting an end to cronyism and the Washington insider economy. Following that election, I said that I would support the Speaker candidate who was elected by the House Republican Conference in November. John Boehner – who ran unopposed at that time – was chosen by Republicans to be that person. While I followed through on my commitment today, never during my time in Congress have I ever hesitated to challenge our leadership in order to defend conservative principles—and I won’t stop now. Regardless of who the Speaker is, I expect my colleagues and our leadership to join together to do the job the American people sent us here to do.” ###
11.19.2014	WASHINGTON- Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement today after he was elected to a second term as Chairman of the committee for the 114th Congress. “I am humbled by the support and trust of my colleagues as I continue my service as Chairman of the Financial Services Committee. House Republicans know the only real way to grow the economy is from Main Street up, not Washington down. Our committee will continue to focus on promoting sensible solutions to hold both Washington and Wall Street accountable to the American people.” ###
11.14.2014	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on H.R. 5682, a bill approving the Keystone XL Pipeline. “Our nation stands at a point where energy independence is within our reach, and North American energy independence is even closer. The Keystone XL pipeline is an important part of our energy future and independence. For the ninth time in four years, the House of Representatives has passed legislation that would approve the Keystone XL pipeline. Unfortunately, each of our previous eight attempts to provide relief to struggling American families through lower energy costs were blocked by Harry Reid and President Obama, who have put the agenda of their radical environmentalist allies ahead of the majority of Americans who support the pipeline and the thousands of jobs it would create. “While I am encouraged by the change of heart some Senate Democrats seem to have had on this issue – regardless of the reason – it seems the White House is doubling down on their tone deaf response to the message voters sent on Election Day. I am hopeful President Obama will listen to the American people and his own State Department, rescind his veto threat, and join the people’s representatives in finally approving the Keystone XL Pipeline.” ###
11.11.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) released the following statement commemorating Veterans Day: “Veterans Day is an opportunity to say ‘Thank you’ to those patriots who’ve answered the call to defend us, going into harm’s way so that we can enjoy the blessings of freedom, peace, and prosperity. Freedom is not free – it comes at incredible cost. Today, and every day, let us never forget that. “We must also remember our military families, who are left to carry on while their spouse, parent, or child is away serving on the front lines. Though they may not wear the uniform, they too serve and sacrifice much for the cause of freedom. “Few opportunities are more meaningful to me as a Congressman than when I am given the chance to help our veterans, whether it is obtaining long overdue medals for a hero of WWII, securing VA benefits for a struggling veteran of Korea or Vietnam, or paying tribute to the life of a soldier that was cut short defending freedom in Iraq or Afghanistan. “As the son, grandson, and brother of veterans, I have and will continue to fight for our nation’s soldiers and military veterans. As President Calvin Coolidge once said ‘A nation which forgets its defenders will itself be forgotten.’ I am committed to making sure we never forget.” ###
10.03.2014	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the first U.S. case of the Ebola virus in Dallas, Texas. “The news of the first confirmed case of Ebola in the United States is beyond troubling. My office has been and will continue to be in close contact with federal, state and local health officials to ensure we are doing everything we can to protect our citizens and prevent the further spread of this terrible disease. “The reported details surrounding the travel of this gentleman from Liberia to the U.S. have raised serious questions about current policy regarding travel and visas from West Africa, and this incident should serve as a wake-up call given the fact that the number of people who have contracted this disease is growing rapidly. Ultimately, our top priority must be to keep our citizens safe and mitigate an outbreak.” ###
09.25.2014	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on Attorney General Eric Holder’s resignation. “Eric Holder’s decision to step down as Attorney General is long overdue. From his refusing to cooperate with Congress on the investigation of Fast and Furious to failing to investigate the IRS’ violation of the Constitutional rights of Americans, Eric Holder has presided over a Justice Department that has enabled the Obama Administration to turn our nation from one governed by the rule of law to one governed by the rule of rulers. These actions as Attorney General lost him the confidence of the American people needed to serve as our nation’s top law enforcement official. While Eric Holder may be leaving, this doesn’t excuse the Obama Administration and the Justice Department from working with Congress to answer the serious questions that we have sought answers to. I hope the next Attorney General will work to uphold the rule of law and respect the Constitution so that the public’s trust in our justice system may be restored.” ###
09.18.2014	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on H.R. 4, a package of bills aimed at improving our economy and fostering job creation. “All across our nation, far too many Americans are sitting around their kitchen tables wondering how they’re going to keep a roof over their head, put food on the table, and gas in their cars to drive kids to school and themselves to a job – if they’re fortunate enough to have one in the Obama economy. American’s paychecks are shrinking and job security is waning. While our nation's spending driven debt crisis and the threat of higher taxes are holding back growth, job creators are also burdened by Obamacare, out of control Washington regulations, and our nation's convoluted and voluminous tax code. “The package of bills passed by the House today addresses many of the issues that are stifling growth. From addressing some of the onerous regulations in Obamacare and Dodd-Frank, to requiring any major new federal rules and regulations receive Congressional approval before implementation, to making the research and development tax credit and small business tax expensing permanent, these pro-growth economic policies will allow employers to enlarge paychecks and expand payrolls.” ###
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after voting to authorize limited authority for the president to vet, train, and equip a competent ground force comprised of Syrian rebels to combat the growing threat of the Islamic State in the region and around the world: “There is perhaps no greater threat facing our nation today than that of radical Islam. There is perhaps no group of Islamic terrorists more brutal, more organized, more equipped, or more capable of launching attacks on the United State and our interests abroad than the Islamic State. They are no ‘JV team,’ and every day we go without a clear and decisive foreign policy allows them to grow stronger. “After months of downplaying the threat posed by radical Islamists in Iraq and Syria, I applaud President Obama for finally for coming before the American people to acknowledge the true threat this extremely dangerous enemy represents and to lay out his plan to stop them. Unfortunately, the strategy outlined by the president is partial and incomplete. Grave concerns have been raised about the ability of airstrikes to succeed without competent and reliable ground forces, and serious questions remain about the reliability of opposition forces in Syria necessary to carry out the president’s strategy. While I share those concerns, I feel it is important to stop the immediate threat of the Islamic State. Today’s vote gives the president very limited and temporary authority to do so while affirming the important role of Congress in determining our nation’s foreign and national security policy. “While the vote taken by the House today is an important first step, it is not the final step. Nor does it guarantee success, which will only be determined by President Obama’s ability to carry out the mission authorized by this vote. Ultimately, the president must lay out a comprehensive plan to defeat the Islamic State that is grounded in sound military strategy, not political calculation, and then he must bring that plan before Congress and the American people for approval.” ###
09.10.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee Chairman, delivered a speech to The Allan P. Kirby, Jr. Center for Constitutional Studies and Citizenship at Hillsdale College today entitled, “Government Management Risks Our Prosperity and Freedom.” The following is the text of that speech as prepared for delivery: Thank you for that kind introduction, and thank you to Hillsdale College for inviting me to speak today at this impressive facility, the Kirby Center. Hillsdale is indispensable to the cause of liberty, pure and simple. Like many freedom-loving Americans, I’ve been a follower of Hillsdale’s work and lecture series for many, many years and I always look forward to receiving the latest copy of Imprimis. There is nothing else like it. Anyway, I’m delighted and honored to be invited to speak here today. As many of you probably know, just this week Congress returned from its August district work period. It was great to be back home in my native Texas for an entire month. But when I got home at the beginning of August, my wife told me she thought it was time to get a family pet. I wasn’t convinced and told her I thought we should wait. The next day, I came home and she said it was official, we were getting a pet. So, I told her I thought we should get a dog. I came home the next day and there was a cat in my house. I’ll admit, at first I was a little upset. I mean, as a Congressman, I have to persuade voters every two years to re-elect me, but I couldn’t even persuade my family to see my side when it came to the family pet. So I asked my wife why my opinion wasn’t considered and she said, “I guess after dealing with President Obama and Senator Reid for so long, I figured you were used to being completely ignored.” On a more serious note, none of us can ignore the troubling headlines we’re seeing today. They’re dominated by news of ominous foreign threats to our safety and security that emanate from faraway capitals like Moscow, Damascus, Tripoli and Tehran. But as real and serious as these foreign threats are, we cannot and must not lose sight of the domestic threats to our freedom and prosperity that emanate from another capital city far closer to home. Namely, Washington, DC. Some of these domestic threats may appear less evident in the short-term, but over time they are corrosive to our Constitution and to our wellbeing both as individuals and as a nation. None of us can afford to lose sight of James Madison’s famous warning that, “there are more instances of the abridgement of the freedom of the people by gradual and silent encroachment by those in power than by violent and sudden usurpations.” Today I want to speak about one such threat. It is a threat that has grown markedly worse in the last four years but receives far too little attention. It is the threat posed by the rise of what some have termed the fourth branch of government. Namely, omnipotent and ubiquitous agency government which I believe has clearly made us a less prosperous, less entrepreneurial, less optimistic and a less free society. Today, a record number of Americans – more than 46 million – find themselves dependent on food stamps. Median household income is down by more than $2,000 in real terms since January 2009, while working Americans are having to pay more at both the grocery store and at the gas pump. The so-called “Obama recovery” is now officially the slowest and weakest of the last 70 years. One of the reasons we are less prosperous is because we are less entrepreneurial. In fact, America is less entrepreneurial now than at any point in the last three decades, according to a recent report by the Brookings Institution. New business start-ups are at their lowest level in 30 years. And during the most recent three years of that study, businesses in America were actually closing down faster than they were starting up. The Brookings authors went on to say that if this decline in entrepreneurship continues, America will suffer “a continuation of slow growth for the indefinite future.” Less prosperity and a depressed entrepreneurial spirit have made us less optimistic. Americans today are anxious. They’re pessimistic. They increasingly believe our best days are in the past. According to the most recent Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll: 71 percent believe our country is headed in the wrong direction; 60 percent believe the U.S. is in a state of decline; And when asked if “life for our children’s generation will be better than it has been for us,” 76 percent said they do not have such confidence. Sadly, that’s an all-time high. In a Washington Post column with the depressing headline “Americans’ optimism is dying,” one commentator took a deep dive into these poll results and found that this lack of confidence cuts across economic status, gender, race, age and ideology. It touches nearly all Americans. Among them is Monica Alexander, an African-American single mom who is one of nearly 8 million Americans today who can’t find a full-time job so they settle for part-time work. “It’s been a struggle to keep food in the house, to keep gas in the car,” she says. Her son asked her: “Mom, do we really have to live like this?” Or Dominick Finelle. For 15 years, Dominick earned a six-figure salary for his family as a book illustrator. But for the past four years he’s been able to find only part-time jobs. “I’m panicking,’ he says. “All I think about is looking for work.” Americans’ growing lack of faith in the future is disturbing. It’s alarming. It’s “un-American” in the sense that it is so out-of-character for us as a people. And it corresponds not only to economic hard times but to the perceptible loss of individual freedom in America today. Indeed, the Heritage Foundation’s Index of Economic Freedom records a loss of freedom here in the United States during each year of the Obama Administration. Heritage attributes our erosion of freedom to a loss of property rights, a decline in the rule of law, and the substantial growth in the size and scope of government. Americans are beginning to take note. As a Pew Research poll last year found, for the first time a majority of the public says the federal government threatens their personal rights and freedoms. It is not lost on them that Washington now decides what their children’s teachers can teach, what kind of light bulbs they’re allowed to buy, what credit cards go in their wallets, whether they can choose their own doctor or even keep the health plans they like. Perhaps the first step in regaining our prosperity is to appreciate the critical role entrepreneurship has played in our history and economic growth. When researching the subject, I was pleased to discover that Hillsdale had already done much of the work for me when they published author John Steele Gordon’s speech on the very same subject in Imprimis. Parenthetically, one more reason you should always read Imprimis. What we should all recall is that the colonists came to America not just to seek political liberty or religious liberty, but economic liberty as well. Several of the colonies – such as Massachusetts Bay, Plymouth, and Virginia – were founded not by the Crown of England, but rather by profit-seeking corporations. Others, including Pennsylvania and Maryland, were founded by proprietors. And profit was the primary reason the Dutch founded New York and settled Manhattan. “Indeed,” Gordon said in his Hillsdale remarks, “so bent on money making were the Dutch that they did not get around to building a church for 17 years, worshiping instead in the fort.” This entrepreneurial drive helps explain why the 13 colonies were the richest place on earth on a per capita basis by the time they declared their independence, Gordon recalls. From its earliest beginnings, America has always been the land of the entrepreneur, the dreamer, and the risk-taker- and that includes the risk of failure. Someone who clearly understood this was Steve Jobs, the co-founder of Apple. In an interview, Jobs said, “I look at myself as …sort of a trapeze artist.” “With or without a net?” he was asked. “Without,” Jobs replied. Because Steve Jobs was a risk-taker, Apple became the most valuable company in the world whose innovations revolutionized our lives. Another entrepreneurial risk taker is Robin Chase, the co-founder of Zipcar, the largest car-sharing company in the world. When she launched Zipcar in 2000, she was left with $78 in her bank account. “It was a preposterous, ridiculous thing to have done,” she said. But it worked. Zipcar became a quintessential business success story. And 13 years later, Avis purchased Zipcar for half a billion dollars. What’s most important isn’t the amount of money Steve Jobs or Robin Chase were able to make for themselves, but what they were able to do with it: namely build successful companies to employ and serve others, and exercise their God-given right to pursue happiness. But it’s not just the famous entrepreneurs and nationally known names like Apple or Zipcar that drive the American economy. It’s the millions of small business entrepreneurs who take risks that create the vast majority of the new jobs in our economy. Small business owners like Rick Carmona, who lives in the Fifth Congressional District of Texas I have the honor of representing in Congress. 30 years ago, Rick started his own business, a Tex-Mex restaurant. His mother was the cook and for several years. Rick pretty much did everything else. “We didn’t make money for a long time,” he said. “But I never gave up. I just kept working at it.” But today, something is changing in America. The spirit of free enterprise, of entrepreneurial risk-taking and dream-chasing that has defined us as a nation seems to be fading away. Robert Samuelson of the Washington Post wrote a recent column headlined “Where Have All the Entrepreneurs Gone.” After analyzing the Brookings Institution data, he wrote the U.S. economy is increasingly dominated by older firms rather than new start-ups. This phenomenon is unusual for our country and it is a trend that has occurred in every state and industrial sector. Fewer entrepreneurs taking fewer risks leads to fewer jobs. It’s that simple. But what’s causing this disturbing drop in entrepreneurial risk-taking? Economists at the University of Maryland and the Census Bureau have written that “the cumulative effect of regulations” is a prime suspect and discriminates against new businesses by favoring “established firms that have the experience and resources to deal with it.” Listen to the words of Bernie Marcus, a co-founder of Home Depot: “Having built a small business into a big one, I can tell you that today the impediments that the government imposes are impossible to deal with. Home Depot would never have succeeded if we’d tried to start it today. Every day you see rules and regulations from a group of Washington bureaucrats who know nothing about running a business. And I mean every day. It’s become stifling.” Last year, a page one story in the Wall Street Journal declared a “risk-averse culture” had infected our economy and was harming U.S. workers. That story generated a lot of discussion among the newspaper’s readers, who responded with their own personal stories of how Washington policies were dashing their dreams of going into business for themselves. One reader wrote: “…government has expanded exponentially, creating self-sustaining bureaucracies that busy themselves with rules and regulations imposed on – essentially – the private sector, putting the bar higher at every turn and exhausting entrepreneurs’ energies on meaningless formalities and bleeding them with ever-increasing social burdens.” Of course, I don’t need to read the newspaper to hear this angst and frustration. I hear it from by fellow Texans all the time. Typical is what I heard a small businessman named Hal in Terrell, Texas, who told me, “The greatest risk I worry about is that, someday, my business will be destroyed by OSHA, EPA, IRS, or the Department of Labor. This is not any exaggeration. The reason so many small business folks worry about these risks is that most of us know we cannot defend ourselves. A business that, rightly or wrongly is the target of one of these agencies, is completely outgunned in terms of resources.” And I’ll never forget the day a small business owner running a cabinetry shop in East Texas came up to me and said the regulatory burden had gotten so bad he closed his business. “It got to the point where I thought my Federal government just didn’t want me to succeed,” he sadly told me, and a dozen or more people lost their jobs. So while the American people are repeatedly told that nothing is getting done in Washington, entrepreneurs across the land can only wish that were true. They know, better than anyone, that the federal bureaucracy is busier than ever. Earlier this year, a Wall Street Journal editorial reviewed the record-breaking statistics: Washington set a new record in 2013 by issuing final rules consuming 26,417 pages in the Federal Register. And not one of them was voted on by Congress – not one. Another 3,305 regulations are moving through the pipeline at the historic rate of roughly one new regulation every two hours. Whether it’s the 20-plus pages needed to define what a “retail pet store” is, to rules concerning the interstate movement of Sharwil avocados, to the thousands of pages of rules comprising the federal takeover of our healthcare system, every Washington regulation has an impact on our struggling economy. Every Washington regulation impacts the ability of someone to get a job. And let’s be honest - many of these regulations are written to protect current businesses from future competition. One study estimates the overall financial cost of regulatory compliance and its economic impact has reached $1.9 trillion annually, which translates to an annual hit of approximately $15,000 to household budgets and more than $10,000 per employee to small business budgets. I do not recall ever in my lifetime when the challenges of upward mobility and economic opportunity for low and moderate income Americans have been greater. Not surprisingly, I also do not ever recall in my lifetime when the bureaucratic regulatory, red tape burdens on our entrepreneurs and small businesses have been greater. The evidence is overwhelming that there is a clear, causal link between the two. But the true cost is not strictly financial or even measured by the harm to the American entrepreneurial spirit. The true cost is even more profound: the loss of our personal freedom. As what many term the “fourth branch of government” has risen, due process, checks and balances and the separation of powers -- all cornerstones of our political liberties -- have waned. Now, the rise of this “fourth branch of government” is not a new phenomenon. As Heritage scholar Robert Moffit notes, it began in the early twentieth century when Progressives became disillusioned with the Constitution. They believed that its purpose of securing individual rights through limited government and its structure of the separated powers could no longer meet the needs of the modern world. In short order, they advocated for the application of what they called a “new science” to politics, and they pushed for the creation of “Bureaus” to be staffed by non-partisan social scientists armed with massive amounts of data and procedures for eradicating all of society’s ills. Herbert Croly, a leading progressive voice of the Wilson era, noted that this new agency government “exercises an authority which is in part legislative and in part judicial….it is simply a convenient means of consolidating the divided activities of the government to a certain practical social purposes.” Madison, in Federalist number 47 had a different take. He wrote, “the combination of all power legislative, executive, and judiciary in the same hands…may justly be pronounced the very definition of tyranny.” The seed of this form of tyranny was planted during the Wilson Administration, bloomed during FDR’s New Deal, became overgrown in LBJ’s Great Society, and has now reached crisis proportions under President Obama -- our chief executive who possesses both a pen and a phone, but regrettably lacks a copy of the Constitution. This century-long Progressive expansion of government has unleashed the modern regulatory state as we know it – extremely powerful, extremely intrusive, terribly opaque, bafflingly bureaucratic, distinctively un-republican and alarmingly unaccountable. As we all know, Article One, Section One of our Constitution states “all legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress.” Thus, when Congress delegates its fundamental legislative authority to an unelected and unaccountable bureaucracy, it has arguably acted in an unconstitutional manner. And as it does, the people’s right to both self-government and due process is undermined. The citizen’s right to carefully deliberate proposed legislation through their representatives in Congress becomes reduced to nothing but a “notice and comment” period when they are permitted to merely lodge complaints and suggestions – all of which the unelected bureaucrats are free to ignore, all of which the unelected bureaucrats may use to retaliate. In Federalist number 52, Madison wrote: “The definition of the right of suffrage is very justly regarded as a fundamental article of republican government.” But who elected the legions of bureaucrats who now have become legislator, cop on the beat, prosecutor, judge, jury, and often compensated victim all rolled into one? The public rarely even knows their names. Today, Americans are less and less governed by the rule of law and more and more governed by the discretion of regulators. It is OSHA now, not Congress, that governs over workplace safety. It is the EPA now, not Congress, that governs our air quality. It is HHS now, not Congress, that governs over our health care. And most alarmingly to our economic opportunity and economic liberty, it is now the bureaucratic progeny of Dodd-Frank that rules over our financial markets. Jonathan Macey of Yale Law School was most prescient when he noted that, “laws classically provide people with the rules. Dodd-Frank is not directed at people. It is an outline directed at bureaucrats and instructs them to make still more regulations and to create more bureaucracies.” Specifically, after weighing in at over 2,000 pages, Dodd-Frank demands 400 new mandates be promulgated and multiple new agencies be spawned. Two of the most worrisome of these agencies are the Orwellian-named Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, otherwise known as “the Bureau” or CFPB, and the Financial Stability Oversight Council – known as FSOC. Both operate largely out of public view. Both are subject to virtually no checks and balances. And both have been granted sweeping, unilateral powers to fundamentally control huge swaths of the U.S. economy. Arguably, the Bureau is the single most powerful and least accountable federal agency in our nation’s history. It operates outside our Constitutional system of checks and balances. The Bureau, or more specifically its one unelected director, has almost absolute discretionary power to find any consumer credit product “abusive” and, thus, functionally outlaw it. When it comes to credit cards, auto loans and mortgages of hardworking taxpayers, the CFPB has unbridled power not only to make them less available and more expensive, but to absolutely take them away. In doing so, the Bureau is fundamentally unaccountable to the president since its director can be removed only for cause. It is fundamentally unaccountable to Congress because the Bureau’s funding is not subject to appropriations. The Bureau is fundamentally unaccountable to the courts because Dodd-Frank requires courts to grant the CFPB deference regarding its interpretation of Federal consumer financial law. Thus, the Bureau is regrettably unaccountable to the American people -- one of the hallmarks of agency government. All of us are familiar with the axiom that absolute power corrupts absolutely. It also breeds waste, abuse and hubris. Such is the case at the CFPB, which is why there are newspaper stories about the CFPB with headlines like “Bureaucrats Gone Wild”…“[CFPB] is Rife with Discrimination, Employees Say,” and “CFPB’s Renovation Costs Skyrocket to $216 Million; Inspector General Sees ‘No Sound Basis’ for It.” The CFPB is also engaged in the most sweeping data collections of personal, private financial records our nation has ever seen, an effort rivaling that of the NSA. Regrettably, there is no one on the CFPB payroll who can be voted out of office. There is no one to be held accountable. Now let’s look at FSOC. FSOC is an amalgamation of regulators heading agencies that either helped cause the financial crisis or were largely negligent in preventing it, notwithstanding they had the regulatory power to do so. Dodd-Frank rewards their failures by granting them the most sweeping powers over our capital markets since the New Deal. Dodd-Frank allows Federal regulators to unilaterally define vague statutory terms like “systemic risk,” “financial stress,” and “financial stability.” And by doing so, dictate the capital standards, product mix and lending activities of major financial firms within our economy. They are even empowered to break them up. As AEI scholar Peter Wallison summarized, “The FSOC’s authority is in effect a blank check to consign to Federal regulation any large firm the government wants to regulate.” Ladies and gentlemen, this is nothing short of a functional occupation of our capital markets by Federal regulators who have been empowered to now be central planners. And all of this is done outside of public view. With the exception of agencies dealing in classified information relating to national security, FSOC may very well be the nation’s least transparent federal entity. The public cannot view their proceedings because two-thirds of them are conducted in private executive sessions. Better Markets, a Washington organization that consistently advocates for more regulation of our financial system, said: “FSOC’s proceedings make the Politburo look open by comparison. No one in America even knows who they are. At the few open meetings they have, they snap their fingers and it’s over, and they are all scripted. They treat their information as if it were state secrets.” It’s obvious those who drafted Dodd-Frank fear risk-taking and innovation. But if we trade freedom for safety, in the long run we’ll get neither – and less of everything else, too. The raison d’etre of the Dodd-Frank Act was the risk of the “shadow banking system.” Yet a far greater danger is instead posed by the “shadow regulatory system.” As University of Chicago Professor Raghuram Rajan wrote in his book Fault Lines: “We have to recognize that the only truly safe financial system is a system that does not take risks, that does not finance innovation or growth, that does not help draw people out of poverty, and that gives consumers little choice.” Yet, as we see, that’s exactly what Americans are getting as Washington tries to regulate risk out of existence: today there is less innovation and growth, more people in poverty and fewer consumer choices. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the enormous challenges we face, you and I should be optimistic about the future of America. I know it to be cliché, but it is truly darkest before the dawn. - Never in our lifetimes have the failures of big government liberalism been more evident to all. What an opportunity before us! What we need today – more than any time in the last 30 years – is to return our country to its first principles of personal liberty and limited government. What we need today – using the title of Hillsdale’s Matthew Spalding’s bestseller, is to loudly and proudly proclaim that “We Still Hold These Truths” self-evident. First, Congress must reaffirm the primacy of congressional authority. Congress must end the practice of delegating lawmaking authority to unelected and unaccountable agency government. No more passing vague laws that direct agencies to fill in the blanks with specifics. The REINS Act, which has passed the House, would introduce both constitutionally and accountability into the system by requiring Congress to approve any major new regulations. The Act is as simple as it is profound. Its ultimate passage into law must be a major priority of the Conservative Movement. Secondly, Members of Congress must take back from the 4th branch of government the “power of the purse” granted in Sections 8 and 9 of Article 1 of the Constitution. If you grab a bureaucracy by its budget, its heart and mind will soon follow. Thirdly, Congress must rediscover and reinvigorate the 10th Amendment in order to reinstitute federalism, which is one of the cornerstones of our Constitutional system. As most here are familiar, in Federalist number 45, Madison wrote: “The powers delegated…to the federal government are few and defined. Those which are to remain in the State governments are numerous and indefinite.” Finally, we must all celebrate the role of risk taking as an American right, our American heritage and our destiny as a nation. We must educate our fellow citizens that when we entrust government agencies to manage our risks, we risk losing both our freedom and our prosperity. All this requires strong, dedicated and consistent leadership in Washington and in every state of our great country. Everyone has a role to play, so I call upon you not to merely be passive observers of this debate, but active participants. As for me, I intend not only to participate, I intend to lead. Because at the end of the day, the future is not in my hands as a member of Congress. It is in our hands as citizens of this great Republic. I’m reminded of Jefferson’s message to Madison, when he said, “The people are the only sure reliance for the preservation of liberty.” And that’s another reason why I am optimistic about the future of America. The American people may be anxious today, but they’re not hopeless. They may have lost faith in Washington, but they have not lost faith in America. And with the help of institutions like Hillsdale College, we never will. Thank you. ###
09.09.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today on H.R. 5078 – the “Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act” – which would stop the Obama Administration’s federal power grab and protect the long-standing federal-state partnership in the regulation of our nation’s waters. “Since the passage of the Clean Water Act (CWA) in 1972, federal government authority has been limited to ‘navigable waters,’ and the primary responsibility for the regulation of waters has fallen to the states. This federal-state partnership has since been reaffirmed twice by the Supreme Court. “Never one to let something like the separation of powers stand in the way of a federal power grab, the Obama Administration’s Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) released a rule that attempts expand federal regulations by re-define navigable waterways to include things like ditches, stock tanks, and manmade ponds. “The bill passed by the House today would protect landowners – including the many farmers and ranchers of East Texas – from this imperial presidency run amok by stopping the EPA and Corps from imposing this or any future rules that attempt to redefine our nation’s waters. It also upholds the federal-state partnership established by the CWA to ensure the rights of state and local governments to plan for their own development and the rights of landowners to make decisions about their property.” ###
09.09.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today on H. Res 644. This resolution – which the Congressman co-sponsored – condemns the Obama Administration for failing to comply with the lawful statutory requirement to notify Congress before it released five high-level Taliban operatives from Guantanamo Bay earlier this year. “As I said at the time, President Obama’s decision to release five high-level Taliban leaders without the required notification of Congress raised serious questions about the legality of the president’s actions. A recent report by the non-partisan Government Accountability Office answered those questions, concluding that the president’s unilateral decision did in fact violate the law. “This latest example of the president completely ignoring duly enacted legislation isn’t just about his flagrant disregard of his duty to ensure laws are faithfully executed. The potential ramification this unilateral decision could have on the safety and security of military and civilian personnel serving abroad is deeply troubling. “As the president weighs possible military action to combat the growing threat from ISIS, today’s resolution should serve as a stern reminder to President Obama that any action he takes to protect the American people, our homeland, and our interests abroad must be done in accordance with our laws and our Constitution.” ###
09.01.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee Chairman, delivered a speech to Americans For Prosperity's annual "Defending the American Dream Summit" in Dallas, Texas. The following is the transcript of that speech: "Thank you, thank you for that great AFP welcome. I think he still may be backstage, your president Tim Phillips, Tim I’m so grateful you invited me, but if you’re the guy who scheduled me to come right after Ted Cruz, my message is “gee thanks pal.” And by the way, to the best of my knowledge, I did not vote for national marshmallow day, I am researching that now. "Anyway, Senator Cruz, one tough act to follow, wow you wanna talk about a guy who’s burst onto the national stage, a clarion call, a freedom for we the people, and we the people of Texas are proud to call him Senator. "So I know you’ve heard from our junior senator, you’ve heard from our governor, I may be the only Texan you hear from today that is not running for president. Anyway, welcome to Texas! "So I understand you went to Gilley’s last night, hopefully you’ve discovered we like our Tex-Mex food hot, we like our Shiner Bock longnecks cold, we still boot scoot to Waylon and Willy and we hold football next to godliness. "And by the way, we don’t have one single statewide elected democrat in Texas. If you haven’t tried it out in your state, I highly recommend it. "But allow me to attempt to get serious now, because seriously in Texas when it comes to our commitment to economic opportunity, we are what America once was, and with your help, will be yet again. "Now earlier this summer I took my family, who is in the audience somewhere today, I took them to a very different part of America. We went to New York City. We took in the usual sights and sounds, but there’s one sight that stands above all and you know what it is. You hop on that ferry and you start to go across the water and there she comes, closer and closer, clearer, Lady Liberty. "And you know, seeing those images of Ellis Island, which I’ve visited before as I know many of you have, you think what was it that caused these people to leave the old world, to risk so much, and come to the new? What were they thinking when Lady Liberty was coming into clear view? "I thought to myself, as beautiful as America is, they did not come here for our fruited plains, they did not come here for our purple mountain majesties, they did not come here for our alabaster cities, no, they came here because there was something here they could not find elsewhere and that, ladies and gentlemen, was liberty. Political liberty, religious liberty, and yes, economic liberty. "They came here with a dream, a big dream, a dream that through liberty, their children could have a better life and a brighter future in the land that we call America. And yes, that dream, our dream, became the American dream. It’s the dream that is the envy of the world and there is no other dream like it. "Our forefathers risked their very lives and fortunes and sacred honor to give it birth, let us commit ourselves today that we have a sacred responsibility to preserve it. "Well ladies and gentlemen, we know that our American dream is threatened; it’s threatened from far away capitals, places like Moscow, Damascus, and Tehran. And as real as those threats are though, we cannot lose sight of the threat that emanates from another capital that is far closer to us, and that capital is Washington, DC. "Ladies and gentlemen, undoubtedly one of the greatest threats to the American dream is a federal government that has grown too large, too powerful, too expensive, too intrusive, too unaccountable and too arrogant, and I’d offer a few more descriptions, but I ran out of breath. "We all know who’s leading this effort, now I wasn’t around for the New Deal, I was barely a child during the Great Society, but it is hard not to conclude that there has ever been a greater domestic threat to our liberty than President Barack Obama and his administration. "Shortly after his first election, he ominously warned all freedom loving Americans “We have begun the work of remaking America” and that he has certainly done. The stimulus, Dodd-Frank, Obamacare, all have begun to remake America, and all have failed. "We painfully know that today we have a Washington that decides what our children’s teachers can teach, what kind of light bulbs we can put in our homes, what kind of credit cards go in our wallets, and yes, whether or not we can even choose our own doctor. "Enough is enough, we the people don’t want our country remade, we want it reclaimed. "Now ultra-liberals like the President, they believe in an enlightened, ultra-centralized and coercive Washington. A Washington bureaucracy that can resolve all questions and disputes, government of the elite, by the elite, and for the elite; whose principle purpose, incidentally, is to redistribute incomes, ensure equality of outcomes and to perfect society according to their utopian vision. For all who love freedom, for all who seek opportunity, the President’s American dream is nothing more than an American Nightmare. "We can serve this, we believe something else, we find the true America in her founding and enduring bedrock principles, faith, limited government, constitutional government, unlimited opportunity, free enterprise, and yes of course freedom. These are the ingredients of the American dream, ladies and gentlemen. "None, none are more important than faith and religious liberty, which you all know, have been under attack most recently in the Hobby Lobby case. Religious liberty is the liberty upon which all of our liberties rest; it’s what brought Quakers to Pennsylvania, Catholics to Maryland, and Puritans to Massachusetts. 'As Jefferson so eloquently wrote in 1785, “Can the liberties of a nation be secure when we have removed a conviction that these liberties are gifts of God?” Now you will find these very words inscribed on the walls of the Jefferson Memorial, yet the president and his allies seek to functionally sandblast them from the hallowed shrine, not to mention remove them from the minds and memories of our countrymen. "Just a couple years ago, the attack on religious liberty manifested itself in the 9th circuit decision that the phrase “One nation under God” in the pledge somehow ran afoul of the establishment clause. "Now I haven’t spent a lot of time in San Francisco, California, but here in Dallas, Texas, and I suspect where you have come from, it is still one nation under God. "Now perhaps second only to the self-evident truth that our liberty is an unalienable right of our creator, the greatest protection of our political liberty has been the rule of law. "But today in America we see the rule of law morphing into the rule of rulers. We have a president who has a phone and a pen, but regrettably he doesn’t have a copy of the Constitution. We have a president who refuses to faithfully execute the law that exist, but through the abuse of executive orders, creates laws where they don’t exist and all the while he has lots of help doing it. Legions of bureaucrats supporting him from the IRS, NLRB, the EPA, the CFPB - and the alphabet soup of government goes on. "You know, if a movie is ever made about this administration, I suggest it might be entitled, “Bureaucrats go Wild.” And you know what; Eric Holder and Lois Lerner would be up for Oscars. "We’ve seen an alarming increase in the power and the abuses of agencies’ government. These agencies have become lawmaker, cop on the beat, judge, jury and prosecutor, all rolled into one. As agency government has risen, due process, checks and balances, and separation of powers, all cornerstones of all political liberties, have waned. "As Madison warned in Federalist 47, “The accumulation of all powers, legislative, executive and judiciary in the same hands may justly be pronounced the very definition of tyranny.” "The very same bureaucracy that threatens our political freedom threatens our economic opportunities as well. The sheer weight, volume, complexity and cost of federal rulemaking is strangling, strangling our small businesses. Entrepreneurship in America is at new lows, where will the next Microsoft come from? Where will the next Apple come from? "As a small businessperson in East Texas told me not long ago, he said “Jeb, I’ve had to close my cabinetry business. It got to the point where I thought my federal government didn’t want me to succeed.” "I had a West Texas community banker, he wrote me not long ago and said “Ya know what, my major risks are not credit risks, risks of theft, risks of a robber coming in with a gun in my office, - my number one risk is federal regulatory risk.” "Alexis de Tocqueville in Democracy in America warned us of this when he wrote about a federal government that “compresses, innervates, extinguishes, and stupefies a people ‘til each nation is reduced to nothing better than a flock of tended industrial animals of which the government is the shepherd.” "We must unshackle our small businesses and entrepreneurs from the chains of Washington micro management; it is time to free free enterprise. "It is free enterprise that has made America the fairest, the most prosperous, and most passionate society the world has ever known. It is free enterprise that has lifted more people out of poverty than all of the big government anti-poverty programs combined. "And no other economic system empowers the common man and the common woman to earn their success through hard work, personal responsibility and creativity, not political connections. No other system empowers its citizens to pursue happiness. "And as that world famous economist, U2’s lead singer, Bono, once said, “In dealing with poverty here and around the world, welfare and foreign aid are a band-aid, free enterprise is a cure.” "Free enterprise, not the stimulus, not Obamacare, not Dodd-Frank, not the EPA and by the way, certainly not the Export-Import Bank. So ladies and gentlemen, there are many threats to our liberties today, these are serious times. "At the dawn of the republic, John Adams wrote his wife Abigail “We live, my dear soul, in age of trial, what will be the consequences, I know not.” "All of us are now living in another age of trial; the very idea of the American Dream itself is on trial. The question to be litigated is this, "Are we and should we still be the free republic that shook the world in 1776, or as president Obama wishes, are we destined and doomed to emulate the European social democracies of 2014? The stakes are high, but our dreams are big and our resolve is strong. I know that you dream along with me, we dream big dreams. "I dream of a dramatically smaller, less powerful federal government that respects we the people. I dream of a fair tax or a flat tax that is IRS free. One that ignites a firestorm of economic growth to lifts the plight of the downtrodden. I dream of a Fannie Mae Freddie Mac free future that removes us from the boom bust bailout cycle of the federal government. I dream, I dream of a nation where no firm is too big to fail or too small to matter because, ladies and gentlemen, if we lose our ability to fail in America we will soon lose our ability to succeed. I dream of the repeal of the twin scourges of Obamacare and Dodd-Frank. I dream of a spending limit amendment to the constitution to prevent national bankruptcy and a rediscovered 10th amendment to reinvigorate federalism. "And most importantly, I dream of an America with vaults, vaults of unlimited opportunity for our children and a society that reveres life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness and the God who granted them. "All of this is possible. All of this is possible; all of this is within our grasp. Never in our lifetimes, have the failures of big government liberalism been more evident to all. "So let us loudly and let us cheerfully rededicate ourselves to the noblest of causes, nothing less than the preservation of the American Dream. "I cannot be more optimistic about our victory and my optimism comes from you. As Jefferson wrote Madison “The people are the only sure repository for the preservation of liberty.” "The people, the dedicated volunteers and patriots of the Americans for Prosperity, because of you, I know our nation will be more prosperous. Because of you I know our nation will be more free. Because of you, I know my children’s birthright will be secured. "May the God who gave us life, give us courage and resolve and help us soon to restore all the liberties to our American dream. Thank you and God bless." ###
08.05.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) was in Rusk on Tuesday for a town hall meeting to update the citizens of Cherokee County on his continued efforts to hold Washington accountable to the American people and to hear from them about the issues that are most concerning to them. The issue on the forefront of most East Texan’s minds was the crisis along our southern border. “The surge of illegal crossings along our southern border has become an immigration and humanitarian crisis that was completely avoidable. This crisis was – in large part – created by President Obama overstepping his authority with policies like the 2012 Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and the administration’s deliberate failure to enforce our nation’s immigration laws as passed by Congress. The flood of unaccompanied minor children (UAC) coming across our southern border is because of – not in spite of – President Obama’s actions. “And while the president’s actions without basis in law have created the crisis, he would have most of the tools needed to effectively deal with the crisis if he were willing to take actions authorized in law. Perhaps the greatest action President Obama could take to stem the tide of unaccompanied children coming across our border would be to go on national television and make it clear that if you come to this nation illegally and are caught, you’ll be sent home. “Sadly, the President is not even willing to view the border situation with his own eyes, let alone do something substantive about it - and that’s why House Republicans have taken action,” Hensarling said. “Before adjourning for the August district work period, we passed legislation to end President Obama’s DACA policy and prevent any future executive actions to grant blanket amnesty or new work authorizations for those residing in the U.S. illegally. We also passed a bill with strong policy reforms and $694 million in fully offset funding that will increase enforcement of immigration and customs laws; accelerate judicial proceedings to shorten the time between apprehension and issuance of removal orders; nearly double support for National Guard presence on the border; and fund the care and detention of those already in U.S. custody. “The legislation passed recently by the House will not permanently fix our nation’s broken immigration system and completely secure the border. Instead it provides additional tools needed to solve the immediate border crisis the president created. Without the expedited processing and removal authority granted in this bill, many more individuals – including unaccompanied children – will risk injury and abuse while attempting to make the harrowing journey through Mexico. Furthermore, without the detention funding provided in the bill, the illegal immigrants caught by the Border Patrol could be released into our communities, where they can take advantage of taxpayer-funded services like health care, education, and even potentially welfare benefits. The United States is a humane nation but we must also be a nation that respects the rule of law and controls its borders. As many of the Border Patrol agents relayed to me during my recent trip to the southern border, the most effective way to deter others from trying the harrowing and dangerous journey is the safe and timely return of individuals currently in custody back to their countries of origin. Hensarling called on President Obama to work with House Republicans on the reform bills passed. “If he is truly interested in solving the problem, he will call on the Senate to return to Washington and promptly pass these bills so he can sign them into law.” Hensarling also talked about recent action by the House of Representatives to sue the administration for deliberatively changing the law of the United States without Congressional authorization. “Throughout his time in office, President Obama has repeatedly failed to execute the laws enacted by Congress. The disregard and indifference shown by the president and his administration to respect the constitutional role of the people’s duly elected representatives in government represents a clear and potentially permanent threat to the democracy and separation of powers enshrined in our Constitution. “The legal standing Congress has to bring suit against the president isn’t something that can be used flippantly anytime it disagrees with his or her actions. However, I believe the breadth and severity of the president’s actions warrant adjudication and resolution through the judicial branch. In passing this resolution, the House of Representatives has made it clear that it cannot and will not stand idly by while this, or any future president, encroach on the responsibilities and prerogatives of the legislative branch. “While this lawsuit is focused on but a few of the president’s attempts at unilateral and unchecked power to ignore, rewrite, create or alter the law as he sees fit, it is an important and necessary step to ensure that the executive branch stays within the limited, constitutionally-defined bounds enshrined by our Founding Fathers,” Hensarling concluded. ###
08.01.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a leading conservative and Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after the House passed emergency legislation to secure the southern border. “The surge of illegal crossings along our southern border has become an immigration and humanitarian crisis that was completely avoidable. This crisis was – in large part – created by President Obama overstepping his authority with policies like the 2012 Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and the administration’s deliberate failure to enforce our nation’s immigration laws as passed by Congress. The flood of unaccompanied minor children (UAC) coming across our southern border is because of – not in spite of – President Obama’s actions. “And while the president’s actions without basis in law have created the crisis, he would have most of the tools needed to effectively deal with the crisis if he were willing to take actions authorized in law. Perhaps the greatest action President Obama could take to stem the tide of unaccompanied children coming across our border would be to go on national television and make it clear that if you come to this nation illegally and are caught, you’ll be sent home. “Sadly, the President is not even willing to view the border situation with his own eyes, let alone do something substantive about it - and that’s why House Republicans have taken action. This package includes strong policy reforms and $694 million in fully offset funding that will increase enforcement of immigration and customs laws; accelerate judicial proceedings to shorten the time between apprehension and issuance of removal orders; nearly double support for National Guard presence on the border; and fund the care and detention of those already in U.S. custody. Furthermore, this bill redirects $40 million in existing foreign aid for Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador to aid in the swift return of individuals and families back to their countries of origin. “I am also pleased the House passed legislation to end President Obama’s DACA policy and prevent any future executive actions to grant blanket amnesty or new work authorizations for those residing in the U.S. illegally. “The legislation passed today by the House will not permanently fix our nation’s broken immigration system and completely secure the border. Instead it provides additional tools needed to solve the immediate border crisis the president created. Without the expedited processing and removal authority granted in this bill, many more individuals – including unaccompanied children – will risk injury and abuse while attempting to make the harrowing journey through Mexico. Furthermore, without the detention funding provided in the bill, the illegal immigrants caught by the Border Patrol will be released into our communities, where they can take advantage of taxpayer-funded services like health care, education, and even potentially welfare benefits. The United States is a humane nation but we must also be a nation that respects the rule of law and controls its borders. As many of the Border Patrol agents relayed to me during my recent trip to the southern border, the most effective way to deter others from trying the harrowing and dangerous journey is the safe and timely return of individuals currently in custody back to their countries of origin. “It is my hope that President Obama was sincere when he stated his desire to put politics aside and solve the problem at hand. If he is truly interested in solving the problem, he will call on the Senate to return to Washington and promptly pass these bills so he can sign them into law.” ###
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives voted to sue the administration for deliberatively changing the law of the United States without Congressional authorization. “Throughout his time in office, President Obama has repeatedly failed to execute the laws enacted by Congress. The disregard and indifference shown by the president and his administration to respect the constitutional role of the people’s duly elected representatives in government represents a clear and potentially permanent threat to the democracy and separation of powers enshrined in our Constitution. “The legal standing Congress has to bring suit against the president isn’t something that can be used flippantly anytime it disagrees with his or her actions. However, I believe the breadth and severity of the president’s actions warrant adjudication and resolution through the judicial branch. In passing this resolution, the House of Representatives has made it clear that it cannot and will not stand idly by while this, or any future president, encroach on the responsibilities and prerogatives of the legislative branch. “While this lawsuit is focused on but a few of the president’s attempts at unilateral and unchecked power to ignore, rewrite, create or alter the law as he sees fit, it is an important and necessary step to ensure that the executive branch stays within the limited, constitutionally-defined bounds enshrined by our Founding Fathers.” ###
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives voted bring much needed reforms to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). “In the wake of revelations of scandalous misconduct, neglect, and mismanagement at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), it is incumbent on Congress to hold those responsible accountable for their actions and take steps to fix the problems at the VA to ensure that our veterans receive the care and benefits they deserve. That is why earlier today, the House of Representatives voted to pass the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 3230, the Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act of 2014. “This measure will increase accountability at the VA by making it easier to fire or demote the senior executives at the VA who presided over the current state of affairs within the department, and ensure that veterans seeking medical care can access it in a timely fashion by creating an option for veterans to get private sector treatment. We owe all our veterans a profound debt of gratitude for the sacrifices they have made on behalf of our freedom. I believe it is only right that we should give them the freedom and means to choose how to receive the care they have earned. This legislation also sets up a Congressional Commission on Care to evaluate problems with access to healthcare within the VA system in order to help make sure that our veterans are never again forced to endure this kind of unconscionable neglect and degradation of service again. “There is still more that needs to be done to reform the VA and ensure it is providing our nation’s military heroes the care and benefits they’ve earned, but this bill represents a step in the right direction, and that is why I am proud to support it. I remain committed to ensuring we fix the systemic problems with the VA and keep our promise to our nation’s veterans.” ###
07.25.2014	WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, today sent the following letter to President Obama calling on him to “halt any and all deals the Export-Import Bank is working on with Russia and with Russian companies and to suspend consideration of future Ex-Im deals involving Russia.” The full text of the letter is below: Mr. President: The situation in Ukraine grows worse every day. Russia bears responsibility for this conflict, including the atrocity of the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, because Russia is supplying the separatists with advanced weapons and encouraging their attacks on aircraft and on the people of Ukraine. Russia’s actions are in direct conflict with our national interests. Yet, still, the Export-Import Bank remains open for business in Russia. In fact, total authorizations for deals between Ex-Im and Russia have increased nine-fold since you took office. While your Administration announces sanctions on Russian companies on the one hand, on the other it offers sweetheart deals to Russian companies through Ex-Im. Indeed, some of the very same Russian firms that are being sanctioned by the United States have benefitted from Ex-Im: Vnesheconombank (VEB) and Gazprombank – two state-owned Russian banks. As you know, Congress is in the midst of debating whether to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. But in the face of growing Russian aggression, Ex-Im’s continuing – and even increasing – connections with Russian companies, many of them run by Vladimir Putin’s cronies, has got to stop and stop immediately. Section 2(b)(1)(B) of the Export-Import Bank Charter provides the President of the United States with the authority to deny applications for financing that would benefit Russian companies. I therefore ask you to immediately halt any and all deals the Export-Import Bank is working on with Russia and with Russian companies and to suspend consideration of future Ex-Im deals involving Russia. Increasing economic sanctions on Russia is not a partisan issue. Only two days ago, you received a letter from Senators Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Carl Levin (D-MI), and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), the Chairs of the Senate Foreign Relations, Armed Services, and Intelligence Committees, respectively. In their letter, they called on you to “give additional consideration to imposing broader sanctions on Russia’s energy and financial industries, as well as other sectors of the Russian economy as appropriate.” I could not agree more, Mr. President, and a good place for you to start is by halting continued Ex-Im activity in Russia. Sincerely, Jeb Hensarling Chairman, Committee on Financial Services cc: The Honorable John Kerry, Secretary of State The Honorable Jacob “Jack” Lew, Secretary of the Treasury The Honorable Fred Hochberg, Chairman, Export-Import Bank The Honorable Maxine Waters, Ranking Member, Committee on Financial Services The letter can be viewed here. ###
07.22.2014	WASHINGTON— U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in response to a D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals’ 2-1 ruling which found that taxpayer funded health insurance subsidies cannot be granted to individuals participating in the federal Exchange. “Americans were told that we needed to pass Obamacare to know what’s in it. Based on President Obama’s repeated refusal to enforce the law as written and his willingness to change other parts without any legal authority to do so, it appears ‘what’s in it’ depends on what is politically convenient for the president and his allies in Washington. In essence, President Obama and Washington Democrats are making it up as they go along and the American people are paying the price in lost jobs and a lagging economy. “The American people are sick and tired of this president’s and his administration’s utter contempt for separation of powers and the rule of law. Today’s ruling sends a clear message to President Obama: just because you may not like a law – even one that you were the architect of – doesn’t mean you can unilaterally change it as you see fit.” ###
07.21.2014	WASHINGTON— U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) issued the following statement regarding Texas Governor Rick Perry’s decision to activate the Texas National Guard to assist with border security operations in South Texas: “The president’s unwillingness to truly confront our nation’s lack of border security has left humanitarian and security problems in the laps of state and local officials – especially in Texas. Governor Perry understands the difficult and overwhelming circumstances facing those working to defend our southern border, and unlike the president, he is demonstrating leadership in trying to address this crisis. “Last month, I joined other Texas Members in requesting resources and action from the president to address this situation, and after going to the border and discussing the situation with those on the ground, I believe that we need the additional personnel and resources of the Texas National Guard. I applaud the governor’s decision to activate and deploy the National Guard along the U.S.-Mexico border. I am sure his decision did not come lightly, and without federal support, it will not come cheaply for the State of Texas.” ###
07.19.2014	WASHINGTON— U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) issued the following statement following his visit to the U.S.-Mexico border in South Texas: “My visit today to our southern border was a stark and sobering reminder of the immigration and humanitarian crisis our nation is currently facing. Throughout the trip, I was amazed by the commitment and dedication displayed by the agents of our nation’s Border Patrol in the face of such a crisis. The work ethic and sense of duty exhibited by the men and women protecting our nation’s border reaffirmed my belief that, given the proper direction, authority and resources, we can permanently secure America’s southern border. “I believe, the surge in illegal immigrants now flooding over our southern border was avoidable, and our Governor raised this concern 2 years ago. However, while blame for this predictable crisis can – in large part – be attributed to the failure of President Obama’s immigration policies, we all must look forward and work together as a nation to ensure a timely and permanent solution to secure our border once and for all. “We are a humane nation but we must also be a nation that respects the rule of law and controls its border. Sending these people home as soon as possible will deter others from trying the harrowing and dangerous journey. While we must make certain the men and women of the Border Patrol have the resources they need, I continue to oppose the notion that simply throwing more money at the problem is an adequate, or permanent, solution. No amount of money will curtail the current crisis on our southern border unless it is coupled with substantive policy changes to America’s immigration and detention policies. Such changes must include giving our Border Patrol priority access to all federal lands, the inclusion and cooperation of state and local law enforcement agencies, a thorough review of U.S. asylum procedures to end the dramatic increase in fraudulent claims, and impose expedited removal procedures to ensure the safe and timely return of those crossing the border illegally to their country of origin. “I remain disappointed that President Obama refuses to visit the southern border and see the crisis firsthand. I believe the president would gain significant insight from those on the front lines, and his presence would reinforce his commitment to the brave men and women of U.S. Border Patrol who are doing their very best against insurmountable odds.” ### (PICTURED: Congressman Hensarling (R-TX) visited the U.S.-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas as part of a Congressional Delegation led by fellow Texas Congressman Sam Johnson. The visit included a stop at a Border Patrol station, in addition to a boat and aerial tour of the border in South Texas.)
07.16.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after House passage of an appropriations bill that included reforms to the Internal Revenue Service: “Since reports of IRS misconduct first surfaced, the House has taken action to investigate, interrogate, and terminate those responsible, but today, we are exercising our constitutionally granted power of the purse to further advance these goals and to hold the IRS accountable to the American people. “This appropriations bill ensures that the IRS is not abusing its authority by restricting the First Amendment rights of law-abiding, taxpaying Americans and bans the IRS from creating new rules and regulations regarding the tax-exempt status of certain groups until the pending investigation surrounding the previous unlawful actions by the IRS has ended. Additionally, the bill ensures that taxpayer resources are properly used by prohibiting funding for wasteful conferences and productions, like the infamous Star Trek video, and prohibiting funds for bonuses or awards for IRS employees unless employee conduct and tax compliance is given consideration. “Furthermore, this bill protects the American people from the harmful effects of Obamacare by stopping the transfer money from the Department of Health and Human Services to the IRS and by prohibiting funding for the IRS to implement Obamacare’s individual mandate. “These common sense issues should rise above partisanship. They hit at the heart of who we are as a people, and why we fight for justice and accountability, and fear such a large, powerful government that clearly has become ‘too big to manage.’” ###
07.11.2014	WASHINGTON— U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a leading conservative and Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement marking the 40th anniversary of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 becoming law on July 12th, 1974: “This year marks the 40th anniversary of the Congressional Budget Act being signed into law. Unfortunately, this is not a milestone to be celebrated because our nation’s budget process is broken and badly in need of an update. Out of control spending is the cause of our nation’s $17 trillion-plus debt. However the unrealistic budget process has enabled past Congresses to indulge in overspending while lurching from fiscal crisis to fiscal crisis, unable to tackle the real drivers of our nation’s looming debt crisis – our federal entitlement programs. “Reforming the broken budget process is something that I’ve worked on since first coming to Congress. I’m pleased that the budget process reform legislation that I introduced with now-House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan forms the basis upon which the House Republican budget process reform agenda is built. However, Senate Democrats refuse to work with House Republicans to bring our nation’s budget process into the 21st Century. While we have made some progress in the House of Representatives in returning the appropriations process to regular order, the current budget process remains hopelessly broken and American taxpayers deserve better. Chairman Hensarling and Chairman Ryan introduced comprehensive budget process reform legislation in the 108th, 109th, 110th, and 111th Congresses known first as the Family Budget Protection Act and later as the Spending, Deficit, and Debt Control Act. Chairman Hensarling served as a member of the House Budget Committee in the 108th through the 111th Congress, ultimately serving as the #2 Republican on the committee under now-Chairman Ryan in the 111th Congress.
07.09.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement regarding passage of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act. “The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act reforms and modernizes our nation’s outdated workforce and job training programs for the benefit of workers and taxpayers alike. By eliminating 15 separate duplicative federal programs and requiring rigorous standards to gauge the effectiveness of federal job training efforts, this legislation ensures that workers are better equipped with the education and training necessary to compete in today’s job market and employers are able to find skilled individuals to compete and create jobs here at home. The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act is a critical component of the House Republican plan to help Americans who are struggling with unemployment and underemployment. Instead of offering unemployment checks and minimum wages, House Republicans are working to ensure that American workers get the training that they need in order to climb the ladder of economic mobility and secure good-paying jobs.” ###
07.09.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) – a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee – released the following statement today regarding President Obama’s trip to Texas. “Despite being in Texas over the course of a couple days to round up campaign cash, the President’s schedule takes him no further south than Austin, and ultimately, he will not see firsthand how Texas is at the forefront of a national immigration and humanitarian crisis – created in large part by the actions of his Administration creating the impression that any minor who makes it to our country will be granted semi-permanent or permanent asylum. “Now the President has come to Congress with an emergency funding request to help clean up the situation he fundamentally created. Given President Obama’s lack of priority in enforcing our nation’s existing immigration laws, Congress cannot and should not rubber stamp this Administration’s $3.7 billion request which gives priority to dealing with the repercussions of this self-inflicted crisis over preventing and eliminating the underlying causes - which are an unsecured border and a failure to enforce our immigration laws. “While the White House has pulled together an ad hoc roundtable event in Dallas and invited Governor Perry to participate, I have low expectations that this will result in more than lip service to the larger problem. As President Harry Truman said, ‘The buck stops here.’ The President is the Chief Executive of the United States and therefore has the power and obligation to secure our border and address this situation that is hurting everyone and helping no one. “When the President Obama gets serious about securing the border, enforcing our nation’s immigration laws, and truly addressing this crisis, House Republicans stand ready to work with him.” ###
06.30.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement and letter regarding the crisis on the southern border and the mass influx of Unaccompanied Alien Children (UAC). “The children, who are crossing our border with the notion of a better life, are often at the mercy of some of the worst criminal elements in the world and ultimately, many are victims of unspeakable crimes. What has been created from this situation is a bonanza for those who profit in the world of illegal trafficking. Regardless of their perspective or ideology, how anyone can look at this situation and not be outraged is beyond me. “President Obama and his administration have abused, altered, and ignored the immigration laws of the United States and the American people are sick and tired of the administration that dictates their own laws and ignores those passed by their duly elected representatives. The actions of this president have created the impression that any minor that makes it to our country will be granted semi-permanent or permanent asylum. It is inhumane for this administration to prompt even more illegal minor crossings by giving their families false hope of amnesty and lax enforcement. "As Commander-in-Chief, the president has the ability to call upon the National Guard to assist the Department of Homeland Security and Customs & Border Patrol in administrative and humanitarian duties—and I joined many of my colleagues from Texas in calling on him to do just that, and take this step in demonstrating that he is serious about stopping the massive influx of illegal crossings at our southern border." ###
06.30.2014	WASHINGTON— U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee issued the following statement after the Supreme Court’s decision in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc.: “Today’s ruling reaffirms the fundamental right of Americans to live and work in accordance with their faith without fear of punishment from the federal government. There is no more basic, fundamental, or sacrosanct right we possess as a people than those enshrined in the First Amendment. Today’s ruling is nothing short of a full rebuke from the highest court in the land of the Obama Administration’s efforts to restrict the rights of people of faith to operate their business in a manner consistent with their religious conscience. “I remain committed to ensuring every American’s religious beliefs remain protected without fear of punishment or retaliation and will continue to work with my House colleagues to ensure that no American is forced to betray their deeply held religious convictions.” ###
06.26.2014	WASHINGTON - House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement today after the United States Supreme Court – in a 9-0 vote – ruled that President Obama exceeded his Constitutional authority when he filled vacancies on the National Labor Relations Board in 2012. “President Obama appointed Richard Cordray to head the CFPB at the same time and in the exact same manner as these unconstitutional NLRB appointees. Clearly and unquestionably, President Obama exceeded his authority when he appointed Director Cordray, just as he exceeded his authority when he made these NLRB appointments. Today’s unanimous judgment from the highest court in the land reaffirms and validates our committee’s decision not to hear testimony from Director Cordray on the CFPB’s semi-annual report until he was validly and legally serving in his position. “By the time the Senate confirmed Mr. Cordray in July 2013, he had served as Director for 18 months without legal authority. This fact calls into question the legality of the official actions he took during this time period and may represent a legal risk for the CFPB.” ###
06.25.2014	WASHINGTON- House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) delivered the following opening statement at today’s full committee hearing “Examining Reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank: Corporate Necessity or Corporate Welfare?”: Today we will examine the Obama Administration’s request to re-authorize the Export-Import Bank. First, we should examine where the money comes from to finance Ex-Im. Whose money is it? Obviously, it’s taxpayers’ money. The cashier at the corner grocery store, the cop on the beat, your children’s teachers, the small business owner struggling to keep the doors open in a tough economy. Where does the money go? It goes to foreign countries and foreign companies in the way of direct loans and credit guarantees. The taxpayer money goes overseas to China and Russia – nations that openly challenge our economic and security interests. The taxpayer money goes to oil rich countries like Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. The taxpayer money even goes to countries with a demonstrated history of atrocious human rights abuses like the Congo and the Sudan. So who benefits? Overwhelmingly – and indisputably – it’s some of the largest, richest, most politically-connected corporations in the world – like Boeing, General Electric, Bechtel and Caterpillar. In fact, in 2013 over half of Ex-Im’s financing went to a handful of Fortune 500 companies. And big Wall Street banks apparently benefit as well. As reported in the press recently, one former JP Morgan and Citigroup banker said of Ex-Im’s credit guarantees, “it’s free money.” So if you’re a politically-connected bank or company that benefits from Ex-Im, no doubt you would like it to continue. After all, it’s a sweetheart deal for you. Taxpayers shoulder the risk and you get the reward. But if you work at a small business or other American company competing in the global marketplace, it’s unfair. Ex-Im effectively taxes you while subsidizing your foreign competitors. We hear a lot from powerful voices on K Street and Wall Street about the Bank, but we should also listen carefully to some voices from Main Street like Hal Richards of Terrell, Texas in my district. “As a small business owner who exports, I think it’s outrageous that my own government puts my business and other small businesses at a competitive disadvantage through the Export-Import Bank. How is it fair?” Ex-Im tells us sending taxpayer money to foreign interests supports jobs for Americans. But the government’s chief auditor reported that programs like Ex-Im “largely shift production among sectors within the economy rather than raise the overall level of employment in the economy.” Delta Airlines, who’s CEO will testify shortly, points out that Ex-Im’s loans to foreign airlines have killed as many as 7,500 domestic airline jobs because the Bank will subsidize Delta’s foreign competitors. Caterpillar was a recent beneficiary of Ex-Im’s taxpayer financing that went to an iron ore mining project controlled by Australia’s richest citizen. And an American iron ore company called Cliff’s Natural Resources said it will no longer be able to effectively compete with its Australian competitors due to the subsidy and they are now having to now cut employee’s hours. Another American competitor feeling the sting of Ex-Im is Valero Energy in my native Texas. Ex-Im is lending $641 million to a Turkish company to build a new petroleum refinery. Valero’s CEO stated that Ex-Im’s actions “jeopardize U.S. refining jobs and undermine the strength of the U.S. refining infrastructure.” Professor Donald Boudreaux of George Mason University has summed it up neatly when he stated “… at best the Ex-Im Bank creates jobs in export industries by destroying jobs in non-export industries.” The Bank tells us it is essential to U.S. exports. But over 98% of all U.S. exports occur without risking taxpayer dollars; again, over 98%. Most of the others who take advantage of Ex-Im? Certainly they could do it without taxpayer support. Even Boeing – the Bank’s biggest beneficiary – has admitted it doesn’t really need Ex-Im and could “arrange alternative financing” without it. The Bank has also told us it doesn’t cost taxpayers a dime. The Congressional Budget Office respectfully disagrees. It tells us that if the Bank were to use fair value accounting, the accepted accounting method for almost every bank and private company in America, Ex-Im’s ledger would actually show a net loss to taxpayers in the neighborhood of $200 million per year. That’s the difference between Washington accounting and Main Street accounting. Perhaps what is most disturbing about the Ex-Im Bank is its ideological and crony-based lending practices. It has a “green” energy quota. It permits no assistance for coal projects. It has a mandate to specifically support exports going to sub-Saharan Africa. Last year more than 60 percent of Ex-Im’s financing benefitted just 10 mega corporations that clearly have a strong political and lobbying presence in this town. Recently, a Spanish multi-national corporation received a $33 million Ex-Im loan while former Energy Secretary Bill Richardson simultaneously sat on its advisory board and on Ex-Im’s as well. And Ex-Im guaranteed $10 million in loans to benefit the politically-favored Solyndra, which clearly did not favor taxpayers. And just yesterday, we woke up to the report in the Wall Street Journal, “The U.S. Export-Import Bank has suspended or removed four officials in recent months amid investigations into allegations of gifts and kickbacks, as well as attempts to steer federal contracts to favored companies.” Ex-Im may not just be guilty of cronyism; it may be guilty of corruption as well. Now I will admit that Republicans may disagree on whether Ex-Im should be reformed or allowed to expire, and I certainly hope this hearing will help illuminate that decision. But we are united in believing we cannot reauthorize the status quo. And we are also united in believing that the smarter and fairer way to promote American exports is by: fundamental tax reform; strong trade agreements; a regulatory freeze with the exception of health and safety and greater American energy independence with projects like the Keystone pipeline. ###
06.19.2014	WASHINGTON- House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) delivered the following opening statement at today’s full committee markup of legislation to bring much needed reforms to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA) and much needed transparency and accountability to the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC): Today we meet to consider three pieces of legislation, one of which is to reauthorize the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act; two other bills to bring needed transparency and accountability to the Financial Stability Oversight Council. First we will consider the TRIA reauthorization and reform bill, offered by Chairman Neugebauer whose hard work and diligence in this area should be much appreciated by all. This last weekend I had the occasion to be in New York City, and somewhere between the suggestion and insistence of the gentleman from New York, Mr. King, I went to the newly-opened 9/11 Museum. It is a most solemn experience. It is a profound experience. If you go to that museum and you do not get either goose bumps or shed a tear, I question where you come from. It is a space that somehow still manages to bring life back to those who are no longer with us. It is a great celebration of life, and I would urge all Members of this committee at some time to also take Mr. King’s suggestion and see that museum. Undoubtedly for many in this room, 9/11 is our generation’s “day of infamy.” It has changed much; it has changed the way I think about a number of public policy issues. But, 9/11 should change the way we think about much. But I do want to be clear about the Act of which we are now going to reauthorize -- TRIA. TRIA was born in 9/11. But regrettably there is nothing in TRIA that can prevent another 9/11. There is nothing in TRIA that will save lives. There is nothing in TRIA that will save property. The hard work, the most diligent work, the work of prevention, at least in the House of Representatives, is principally the work of the Homeland Security Committee, the Intelligence Committee, and the Armed Services Committee. So we know that TRIA primarily speaks to one issue and that is, after an unspeakable act of terrorism, who pays the bill? Property owners, insurance companies, or taxpayers? I, for one, believe that ultimately there are far too many costs that are involuntarily socialized by the government today. I think this is unfair to hardworking-taxpayers and helps drive the unsustainable debt that, once again, we see on the monitors to my left and to my right. A debt burden that hurts all, especially the poor and the downtrodden. I remind all that TRIA, when originally envisioned, was meant to be a transitional program. Let me quote from the statute: “The purpose of this title is to establish a temporary Federal program that provides for a transparent system of shared public and private compensation… and allow for a transitional period for the private markets to stabilize ….” Yet here we are discussing the third reauthorization. If passed, TRIA, a temporary program, would be in existence for nearly 20 years. However, after carefully studying the issue, I have concluded that today there remains a need for a Federal backstop against heinous acts of terrorism that cannot be reasonably modeled , reasonably mitigated, and whose catastrophic size truly impacts our economy. But I also know there remains much capacity within insurance and reinsurance industries to cover far greater portions of this risk. Last fall, we heard from Kean Driscoll, CEO of Validus Re, one of the largest global insurance and reinsurance leaders, who testified: “We can and do currently price conventional terrorism risk…There is adequate reinsurance capacity to cover the insurance industry’s current [retentions].” So with those thoughts in mind, the result before us is the TRIA Reform Act, a bill that makes, I believe, needed reforms to a program that everyone hopes we never have to use. Some may believe the bill goes too far too fast. I respectfully disagree. By the industry’s own admission, taxpayers are currently forced to bear incalculable amounts of risk with only a fleeting promise that they might someday get a portion of their investment back. I assure you if I was a committee of one, this is not the bill we would be considering today. For those who think it goes too far too fast, I for one think it goes not very far and too slowly. At a minimum, I would also include either premiums for the free coverage that reinsurance and large companies receive courtesy of the taxpayers. Or in the alternative, increased reserve requirements to further lessen taxpayer exposure. Regrettably, I do not feel there is sufficient support for one and further work is needed on the other. Not unlike some Members of the other body, I hope that we can review this issue in the future. But I do believe this bill is a reasonable set of changes to improve a needed-but-yet-still-temporary program and prepares stakeholders for the future by realistically assessing the true benefits and costs of TRIA’s current framework. And again, I give a profound thank you to the gentleman from Texas, Mr. Neugebauer, for all the work he has done to bring this bill together. Quickly, since I am way over time, I also wish to urge the full committee to support the bills before us on the Financial Stability Oversight Council. Both sides of the aisle have shown great concern over both the process of designating non-bank SIFIs and the impact it could have on our investors, our small businesses, and our economy. The two bills we will consider today, one will bring more transparency and an open process; the other will simply call a one-year “timeout” so that Congress has a chance to assess this work. Again, there has been great concern by Members on both sides of the aisle. I think these are reasonable bills to begin to address an incredibly important issue before our committee. I urge Members on both sides of the aisle to support all the legislation before us. ###
06.19.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) issued the following statement today in observance of Juneteenth: “Today Texans and people across America celebrate Juneteenth. On this day in 1865, Union soldiers, led by Major General Gordon Granger, landed at Galveston, Texas with news that the war had ended. Two and a half years after President Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation, Texas slaves heard for the first time that they were free. “There is no other land on earth like America, but we’ve had our share of failings. And we’ve had no greater failing than allowing slavery to exist in the land of the free. “Honoring important milestones in our nation’s quest for equality and justice, like Juneteenth, are wonderful reminders for us to live our lives toward the dream of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. – that all of our children may live in a society where they are judged not by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character – and to work to make a more perfect Union by keeping America free.” ###
06.18.2014	WASHINGTON- House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) delivered the following opening statement at today’s full committee hearing with CFPB Director Richard Cordray: This morning we welcome back Director Cordray to deliver testimony on the fifth semi-annual report of the CFPB. Protecting consumers within interstate commerce is a vitally important mission of the Federal government. And properly designed, the CFPB is capable of great good on behalf of consumers. It is also capable of great harm. In just three years, the CFPB has grown into an unaccountable federal leviathan of nearly 1,400 employees with over a half billion dollar budget and the unrestrained power to dictate which Americans can receive credit and which Americas cannot. Knowledgeable Americas are rightfully alarmed as the threat and the harm begins to mount. Since Director Cordray last appeared before our committee in January, we have learned much. First, we have learned in the first quarter of this year we actually had negative economic growth of one percent. And when you speak to practically any small businessperson, any community banker they will tell you the sheer weight, volume, complexity of the regulatory red tape burden is one of the primary reasons that they cannot expand and hire more people. We hear, for example, from Barry in Chicago. He says he owns a small insurance company, but he said, “I spend most of my days on the CFPB website reading through all of the regulations and trying to implement them into our system. My loan officers can’t believe all the new complicated forms and our borrowers are all confused. The CFPB is adding such cost to the business that only Wells Fargo, Chase, and B of A will be left for consumers to obtain loans.” Regrettably, this is not a unique piece of correspondence. It is one way that the CFPB is, regrettably, harming consumers and helping keep people underemployed and unemployed. We have also learned since Director Cordray’s last appearance the CFPB is incurring even more costs on its building renovation. What was then going to cost an estimated $145 million is now costing at least $184 million, according to information provided by the Bureau itself. That’s $30 million more than the building is even worth – a building, we must remember, that the CFPB does not even own. This is what happens, I believe, when an agency is essentially unaccountable to the people. Even more troubling, we have learned since Director Cordray was last before the committee that the joint database project by the CFPB and the FHFA will undeniably collect Personally Identifiable Information on millions of Americans in the National Mortgage Database. I’m not speaking merely of names, addresses and phone numbers – though the database will certainly include those – but shockingly also people’s Social Security numbers, their race, religion, personal financial information, and even the GPS coordinates of their homes. If this is not considered Personally Identifiable Information by the CFPB, then I don’t know what is. A breach of this database could cause untold harm to consumers by the very agency that purports to protect them. Without a doubt, this National Mortgage Database is an unwarranted and shocking intrusion into the privacy of American citizens. It is a database I would fully expect to see in either Russia or China, but I’m appalled to see it in the United States of America. And I predict as more Americans become aware of this, they, too, will be appalled and will demand accountability from this Administration. Next we clearly have the most appalling development that has occurred since Director Cordray’s last appearance here: independently corroborated reports of widespread discrimination and abuse of employees at the CFPB. Not merely virtual discrimination, not merely theoretical discrimination or statistical discrimination but appalling acts of actual discrimination. Since these allegations first came to light, this committee has served as a virtual trauma unit for employees who have come forward to report discrimination, retaliation and other apparent violations of law at the CFPB. And although our committee has publicly invited aggrieved employees from every other Federal agency within our jurisdiction to come forward if they have experienced discrimination or retaliation, so far the only ones who have come forward all work or have worked for the CFPB. Most wish to remain anonymous because they fear retaliation. But as you prepare to give your testimony, Director Cordray, I have no doubt that you are aware we will hear publicly from other whistleblowers this afternoon including one -- Mr. Kevin Williams -- whose testimony has already been delivered to the committee, who will testify later this afternoon about the CFPB: “The frequency and duration of these occurrences, speaking of discrimination, created a hostile work environment for all blacks at the Bureau whether they were unwitting manipulated black managers or mistreated hard-working black employees. It’s just that we, the later, suffered the objectively adverse consequences.” Again, this whistleblower testimony is not unique. I have no doubt that all agree, including the Director, that invidious discrimination and retaliation are not only illegal, they are also morally repugnant. Until I heard it with my own ears, I never would’ve believed that a Federal office in the 21st century would commonly be referred to as “the plantation.” I, for one, am uninterested in hearing how the “system” is to blame, Director Cordray. I am uninterested in hearing about plans to conduct listening sessions and hiring consultants when the real problem is the people you’ve hired to help you run the Bureau. These disturbing developments once again demonstrate, I believe conclusively, why there must be substantial structural reform at the CFPB. Consumers deserve accountability – not only from Wall Street but they deserve it from Washington, too. Yet, by design the CFPB remains arguably the least accountable Washington bureaucracy in the history of America and it shows. This must change. ###
06.12.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today regarding his plans for the remainder of the 113th Congress. “Although I am humbled by the calls, emails, and conversations from my colleagues encouraging me to return to leadership for the remainder of the 113th Congress, I will not be a candidate for Majority Leader next week. After prayerful reflection, I have come to the conclusion that this is not the right office at the right time for me and my family. I look forward to working with the new Majority Leader to fight for a freer, stronger, more prosperous America as Chairman of the Financial Services Committee and the Representative of the Fifth District of Texas.” ###
06.04.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) issued the following statement regarding the actions taken by President Obama and his administration to secure the release of Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl. “While I am pleased that an American citizen is no longer being held captive by terrorists and has returned home, serious questions have been raised about the events surrounding Sergeant Bergdahl’s capture and the actions taken by the Obama Administration to secure his release—the most severe among them having to do with the apparent shift in a long-held policy that the United States does not negotiate with terrorists and President Obama’s decision to release five high-level Taliban leaders without the required notification of Congress. These serious questions deserve further scrutiny and answers because the potential ramifications these unilateral decisions could have on the safety and security of military and civilian personnel serving abroad is deeply troubling. I join House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon and others in calling for congressional hearings into the events leading up to this decision and the legality of the administration’s actions in this matter.” ###
06.02.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) issued the following statement in response to the EPA’s plan to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants: “At a time when American families are already struggling to pay their electricity bills, it defies common sense to propose additional regulations that will drive those energy bills even higher. Yet, that’s exactly what President Obama’s EPA did today, using highly questionable regulatory authority to propose a cap and tax scheme that was even rejected by Congress when Democrats controlled both the House and Senate in the 111th Congress. “Not only are Americans going to get hit with higher monthly electricity bills, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Institute for 21st Century Energy, President Obama’s proposed regulations will result in an average annual job loss of 224,000 jobs between 2014 and 2030. “President Obama’s actions should come as no surprise, as he promised when running for the presidency that under his plan, electricity rates would ‘necessarily skyrocket.’ Unfortunately, unlike his promise that if you liked your current health plan that you could keep it, this is one promise to the American people that President Obama has found a way to keep.” ###
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), issued the following statement on the resignation of Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki. “As I said two days ago, accountability needs to start at the top. While I welcome Secretary Shinseki’s resignation, and feel it was a necessary and appropriate step, his resignation alone does not solve the very serious problems at the VA. Those responsible for any wrongdoing at VA facilities in Phoenix, Texas, or anywhere in the U.S., must be identified and held accountable for their actions. In order to truly fix a system that is broken and not serving our veterans properly, we must ultimately address the systemic lack of accountability across the Departments of Veterans Affairs to ensure that our veterans we never again face the kind of backlogs and degradation of service they are currently experiencing. “As President Coolidge said, ‘the nation which forgets its defenders will itself be forgotten.’ We must never forget the sacrifices of our nation’s heroes or the promises we’ve made to them.” ### NOTE: On May 13th, Congressman Hensarling joined with 23 other Representatives from Texas in a letter to the Acting Inspector General of the VA, calling on him to “expeditiously and thoroughly investigate the claims regarding misconduct at [Texas] VA facilities” and demanding that “any individuals found to have engaged in misconduct or mismanagement must face serious consequences.” The full letter can be found here.
05.28.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), issued the following statement today calling on Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki to resign. “As head of the VA, Secretary Shinseki bears ultimate responsibility for any misconduct at the department during his tenure. Today’s interim report from the Inspector General confirms that the problems of neglect and mistreatment are worse than the initial allegations that shocked the nation. While I appreciate General Shinseki’s years of military service to this nation, there must be accountability for the state of negligence and mismanagement throughout the department if we are going to correct this deplorable situation. That accountability needs to start at the top and it needs to start immediately. “We owe a debt of gratitude to our nation’s military heroes that can never truly be repaid. We must ensure they have the care they need, when they need it. I am committed to ensuring we fix the problems at the VA and keep our promise to our nation’s veterans.” ###
05.26.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) released the following statement commemorating Memorial Day: “Freedom is not free – it comes at incredible cost. Since our founding, millions of brave Americans have gone into harm’s way so that we could enjoy the blessings of peace and prosperity. They left behind their families, their friends, and their hopes and dreams—some never to return home to them ever again. “From Bunker Hill to Berlin to Baghdad, American troops have died to liberate millions from the forces of tyranny. They’ve stared evil in the eyes and stood for all that is good in the world. Even in death, their service brought light to places of darkness and despotism. Because of their heroism, their sacrifices have reverberated throughout the ages. It is their sacrifice that we honor this day, and every day. “We must also remember the families of the fallen who are left to carry on after—as President Lincoln said—‘having laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of freedom.’ “I have no words I can offer them to ease the pain of their loss; no words adequate to express my gratitude for the depth of their sacrifice. I do not know if we will ever know why, but what I do know—without a doubt—is that my 12 year-old daughter and 10 year-old son will sleep in a more safe and more free America tonight because of their bravery and sacrifice. “On this Memorial Day, my thoughts are on those heroes who have made the ultimate sacrifice for their country and my prayers of comfort are with their families. The Americans who die fighting for our country deserve the solemn gratitude of each and every one of their fellow citizens. Our devotion to their memory must be as boundless and endless as their devotion was to us.” ###
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the USA Freedom Act (H.R. 3361). "There is no more important challenge we face today than keeping our families and our nation safe. At the same time, this must be done without diminishing our individual liberty. The legislation passed by the House today ends the bulk collection of Americans’ records and increases transparency and oversight of our nation's intelligence gathering programs. It advances privacy protections and safeguards the liberties found in our Bill of Rights while ensuring that we have the tools needed to prevent potential terrorist attacks." ###
05.21.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today about House efforts to ensure that our veterans get the care and treatment they have earned. “Recent news from across the nation has brought to light troubling allegations of widespread neglect and mistreatment throughout the Veterans Affairs (VA) health care system. These allegations – if true – are unacceptable. “Despite reports that President Obama is ‘madder than hell’ about these allegations, his comments today – and the actions of his administration so far – show that he is far from it. In fact, it seems President Obama has changed President Truman’s famous sign to read: ‘the buck stops anywhere but here.’ Our nation’s heroes don’t want excuses or false scapegoats with pre-planned exits; they want and deserve accountability and solutions. “That is why I voted today to pass H.R. 4031, the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014. This legislation will make it easier to fire or demote any senior executive of the VA who presided over the current state of negligence and mismanagement within the department. “I also joined my colleagues from Texas in a letter to the Acting Inspector General of the VA, regarding the alleged problems in Austin, Waco, and San Antonio. The letter reads (in part): ‘We ask that you expeditiously and thoroughly investigate the claims regarding misconduct at these VA facilities and report your findings back to Congress. Any individuals found to have engaged in misconduct or mismanagement must face serious consequences.’ “It is unconscionable for the brave men and women who have sacrificed to make our country and the world a better, safer place to live to receive anything less than the highest quality care we can provide. We must address the systemic lack of accountability at the VA so that veterans will finally get the care they need and deserve, when they need it. I am committed to ensuring we fix the problems at the VA and keep our promise to our nation’s veterans.” ###
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed several bills to further combat human trafficking. “Trafficking in people for prostitution and forced labor is one of the most prolific areas of international criminal activity. In fact, according to the Department of Homeland Security, more slaves exist today than at any time in human history. The average age for a child to enter the commercial sex trade is 12-14 years old for girls and 11-13 years old for boys. As a human – and especially as the father of two young children – I am horrified and outraged by these statistics. “In recent years, Congress has passed several anti-trafficking laws to combat this rising epidemic. While much progress has been made, it is clear that more can and should be done. “This week, the House considered several bills which will protect and help those who have been victims of this abusive practice, and provide the tools necessary to ensure domestic and international trafficking is abolished once and for all. The passage of this legislation sends a strong message that the United States will continue to be a global leader in the fight to protect the basic human rights and dignity of the most vulnerable among us.” ###
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee Chairman, delivered a speech to The Heritage Foundation today entitled, “A Time for Choosing: The Main Street Economy vs. The Washington Crony Economy.” The following is the text of that speech as prepared for delivery: I am truly honored to be with you here at the Heritage Foundation, where so many great ideas have been born and so many important debates have taken place. We have all been blessed by the vision of Ed Feulner and the Heritage scholars who have furthered it. And who better to carry the vision forward than my former House colleague, Jim DeMint? To me, he’ll always be a House guy. I consider speaking to you from a Heritage podium a great privilege because few organizations do more to strengthen and invigorate the cause of liberty in America than Heritage. I recall something my daughter, Claire, said a few years ago. I was stuck in Washington for votes, so I called home to tell the kids goodnight. After asking me where I was and why I wasn’t there to tuck her in, Claire paused and asked, “Is Washington, DC in America?” As we observe a federal government that has grown too big, too powerful, too intrusive, too expensive and too arrogant, a child’s innocent question about geography a few years ago remains a serious question about principle today. It seems most liberals tend to equate their country with their government. They look to an enlightened, centralized, and coercive Washington government to resolve all questions and disputes – a government of the elite whose principal purpose, incidentally, is to redistribute incomes and ensure equality of outcomes. To them, Washington, DC is their America. We conservatives know differently. The genius of our Republic is not to be found in Washington’s corridors of power and favor. Instead, we conservatives find the true America in the founding and enduring bedrock principles of our Republic – namely faith, limited government, unlimited opportunity, individual freedom and free enterprise. Today, more and more Americans are experiencing the failures of liberalism’s Washington – from the broken promises of Obamacare, to the abuses of the IRS, to an economy of shrinking paychecks and growing food stamp dependency. So the moment is ripe for us to make our case to the people – that our Republic’s bedrock principles are not just our heritage and birthright, they remain our vision for a better future. A vision of growth, not austerity. One of hope and opportunity, not pessimism and dependence. A vision where honest men and women, who work hard and play by the rules, have the opportunity to succeed, regardless of the circumstances of their birth. It’s a vision that accepts no limits to how far we can go – because we are Americans. But first our movement must have a frank discussion and common understanding about one of our bedrock principles, namely the principle of free enterprise. How we think about it and act upon it is the subject of my talk today. First, there is probably no better discussion of the principle to be found, than that which is contained within Milton Friedman’s classic work Capitalism and Freedom. If only everyone with a Washington, DC office address would read it and understand it. Although I haven’t lost hope, I recall what Phil Gramm, my political mentor and former Texas A&M economics professor, once told me: “I’ve taught economics to Aggies and I’ve taught it to Senators. Aggies are smarter.” As both an Aggie and a member of the House, I agree. Whether it is termed public-private partnership, mercantilism, industrial policy, or crony capitalism, regrettably a great deal of economic activity that masquerades today as free enterprise is not. For the sake of our Republic, our movement had best unmask the imposters and come down clearly on the side of free enterprise. Now, I must confess I’ve never liked the phrase “crony capitalism.” It suggests capitalism is corrupt when American free enterprise is actually the most fair and moral economic system ever devised by the mind of man. No other economic system has lifted more people out of poverty. There has never been a better housing program, health care program, or anti-poverty program than American free enterprise. No other system allows people to earn their success through hard work, creativity, personal responsibility and individual initiative. No other system generates greater shared prosperity. This is the economy most Americans want to work in. I think of it as the “Main Street competitive economy.” “Crony capitalism” is something different. With crony capitalism, success is arranged through government-granted favors to those with the best political connections. “Crony capitalism” slows economic growth and redistributes income. It can breed corruption and undermines the legitimacy of both government and free enterprise. It is what I call the “Washington insider economy.” But regardless of its name, for generations it has been a threat to our conservative principles. Consider this: The same year our Founders rejected tyranny for freedom by signing the Declaration of Independence, The Wealth of Nations was published. In it, Adam Smith repeatedly warns against businesses that attempt to use political connections and influence to manipulate government into doing their bidding. Listen to Smith’s words: “People of the same trade seldom meet together even for merriment and diversion, but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public or some contrivance to raise prices.” Later, Smith gets even more direct, warning: “The proposal of any new law or regulation which comes from [businessmen] ought always to be listened to with great precaution, and ought never to be adopted till after having been long and carefully examined, not only with the most scrupulous, but with the most suspicious attention.” I sure wish someone – anyone – in the Obama Administration would have given some much-needed “suspicious attention” to Solyndra. Smith’s warnings from two centuries ago demonstrate that it has long been the norm for certain business interests to use their money, influence and connections to seek from government special treatment not available to others. It is why business’s interests are not necessarily freedom’s interests. To support business does not necessarily support free enterprise. Our nation’s original patriots understood this. It is why they threw three shiploads of English tea into Boston Harbor in 1773. They didn’t do this because the Tea Act of 1773 raised taxes – it actually lowered taxes on colonial tea importers – but because it granted tax-free status to the favored East India Company – giving it a virtual monopoly. You might say the East India Company was an early Government Sponsored Enterprise. Those American patriots knew cronyism when they saw it, and so must we. The Main Street competitive economy relies upon hard work, creativity, perseverance and “can do” optimism to create wealth. The Washington insider economy, in contrast, relies on earmarks, regulatory barriers to entry, subsidies, tax preferences and political influence. The Main Street competitive economy is exemplified by people like Wayne Williams, who lives in the Fifth Congressional District of Texas that I have the privilege to represent. After serving nearly four years in the Navy, Wayne came to Mesquite, Texas and got a job at the local Ford dealership. To earn some extra money, he started repairing cars on the weekends and built a reputation for good, honest, hard work. Like many, Wayne dreamed of someday being the boss. So he sold his Jeep, his pickup truck and his boat; got a small loan from the local bank; and opened his own repair shop in 1972. Today, Williams Paint and Body has 21 employees. The business is so successful, Wayne and his wife Evelyn were able to pass it on to their children. “That’s what’s so great about our country,” Wayne says. “I was just a poor country boy who wanted my family to have better than I had.” And thanks to Wayne’s hard work and the Main Street competitive economy – they do. The Washington insider economy, on the other hand, is exemplified by people like Chris Gronet, the founder and former CEO of now-bankrupt Solyndra, who personally lobbied for what became its $535 million taxpayer-backed loan guarantee. And when it arrived, he famously sent an email to fellow Solyndra executives calling the Obama Administration “The Bank of Washington.” Regrettably, when Washington is the “Bank,” taxpayers usually end up “losers” as well. You may recall that this loan went bad for the so-called “Bank” and we all ponied up for another bailout. As Governor Romney famously told the president, “You don’t just pick winners and losers. You pick losers.” Americans in the Main Street economy aren’t looking for or expecting a government bailout. They’re not looking for a subsidy, earmark, tax preference or legislated advantage. No, the good folks of the Main Street competitive economy simply want their success to depend on how hard they work in their hometowns, not who they know in Washington. Confusion between the two economies has caused many to view success with suspicion. That, in turn, makes it easier for liberals to mislead with calls for bigger government to ensure “fairness.” For too long, conservatives have shied away from talking about fairness – seemingly content to yield that value to the Left. This we do at our peril. All Americans have the right to expect their government will treat them fairly. That means everyone must be bound by the same rules. Not one set of rules for the politically well-connected and another for everybody else. Let’s look at a few examples of how the Washington insider economy is unfair to hardworking American taxpayers in the Main Street competitive economy. At 4 million words, the U.S. Tax Code is mind-numbingly complex and costs Americans $225 billion a year to comply with. It’s a disgrace. You ask, “Why?” Perhaps the biggest reason is because Washington loves to use the tax code to pick winners and losers. A host of powerful and well-connected interests – from professional sports leagues to Broadway producers to the president’s “green energy” cronies – receive special privileges and preferential treatment not available to hardworking shopkeepers on Main Street. That’s not fair. It’s time for action. Let’s turn Americans’ frustration and resentment with our unfair tax code into a groundswell for fundamental tax reform. Today I call upon every Republican in Congress to agree to scrap the code. Let’s tell K Street “No” so we can tell the American people “Yes.” Be it Fair Tax or Flat Tax, let’s not just say we’re for fundamental tax reform – let’s actually vote for it. In addition to our unfair tax code, there’s Washington’s collection of crony subsidies that distort the economy, impose unfair burdens on taxpayers and are especially damaging given America’s spending-driven debt crisis. As my friend Stephen Moore here at Heritage recently pointed out in a report, Washington pretends that business subsidies are just a small, inconsequential part of the budget. The reality is these subsidies are a “large mountain of cash” that has amounted to more than $20 billion in direct income-transfers to corporate America. “On average, each Fortune 100 company received about $200 million in such handouts” from hardworking American taxpayers, Stephen reports. It’s indefensible. Then there is the Byzantine array of subsidy programs, government production quotas, import quotas, and mandatory target price programs that constitute the farm program. The beneficiaries of these programs like to hide behind the image of the sainted, poor, iconic family farmer. But in 2012, median farm household income exceeded the median U.S. household income by 34 percent. In fact, the median income of households associated with commercial farms was over $208,000 per year. Nowhere in America, and certainly not in the Fifth District of Texas, is an income of over $200,000 considered “poor.” In addition to the iconic family farmer there is the iconic symbol of “American apple pie.” But it is shameful to think that every one of those American pies has baked into it Soviet-style sugar. This Washington insider sugar program is a sweet deal for 4,500 sugar growers whose lobby is inordinately powerful in the Washington insider economy, but it’s not a sweet deal for the millions of hardworking taxpayers and consumers of the Main Street competitive economy who are forced to pay for it. Now, please know I proudly stand before you as a third generation farmer. I grew up working on my dad’s poultry farm. My first job was to clean out chicken houses, which incidentally is wonderful training for serving in Congress. Everyone on the farm worked hard and there were some tough times. But I know firsthand that you can farm in America without taking a taxpayer subsidy. The fair way to help family farmers is to strengthen private property rights, expand trade opportunities, kill the death tax and rein in the EPA. I call on all Republicans in Congress to make the next Farm Bill the last Farm Bill by phasing out the farm program once and for all, and allowing all farmers the freedom to farm. I am sure you have been as troubled as I have been to see recent headlines like: “Lawmakers increase calls to bring back the bacon in spending bills,” and “Pork spenders push to undo congressional earmark ban.” It just goes to show that in politics there are no permanent victories. As my friend Tom Coburn said, earmarks are the gateway drug for spending addiction in Washington. Earmarks epitomize the Washington insider economy, where too often power triumphs over merit, secrecy over transparency, and special interests over the national interests. I call upon all Republicans in Congress to leave the earmark ban in place. Now let’s turn to bailouts. Chrysler, GM, Wall Street, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac – the Washington insider economy is enshrining America as a bailout nation. Few Americans have ever been interested in occupying Wall Street. Most of us are just tired of bailing it out. And we certainly don’t want a federal government that tells some they’re Too Big to Fail and tells everybody else they’re too small to matter. In America, if we lose our ability to fail, we’ll soon lose our ability to succeed. And how is it that in the GM and Chrysler bailouts, the president’s UAW allies made out just fine and thousands of secured creditors were left holding the bag? That’s the Washington insider economy at work. And no discussion of bailouts would be complete without mentioning the mother of all bailouts, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. In their heyday, few equaled their Washington influence. And Washington, in turn, rewarded them with virtual monopolies. These virtual monopolies allowed them to privatize their profits and socialize their losses. We all know they were at the epicenter of the financial crisis. It’s time to end the boom, bust, bailout cycle in our housing market. And I say to my friends in the housing industry, the best housing program is not a subsidy or federal guarantee, it’s a growing economy. It’s time for the Republican Party to live up to its pledge to end Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and end their nearly $200 billion bailout, which is exactly what the PATH Act does. The PATH Act – which stands for Protecting American Taxpayers and Homeowners – has passed the Financial Services Committee and will end these crony-corrupted mortgage giants forever. It is time for action. I call on all Republicans in Congress to support the PATH Act. The last issue I wish to discuss today is the federally-chartered Export-Import Bank, whose authorization expires at the end of September. Given that probably only 1 in 1,000 have ever heard of the Bank, and given that it is relatively modest in size compared to the roughly 10,000 other Federal departments, agencies and programs supported by the taxpayer, it begs the question: Why is the issue of its reauthorization so important? It is important because there is probably no better poster child of the Washington insider economy and corporate welfare than the Export-Import Bank. Its demise would clearly be one of the few achievable victories for the Main Street competitive economy left in this Congress. I believe it is a defining issue for our party and our movement. The reauthorization debate clearly goes to the heart of the question: which economy do we believe in? Most taxpayers would be surprised to learn that this government-run bank takes their hard-earned money and lends it out to China and Russia – nations that openly challenge our economic and security interests. It also lends their money to oil-rich countries like Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. It even lends taxpayer money to the likes of Congo, which has a demonstrated history of human rights abuses. I doubt most taxpayers believe this is either wise or fair. As many of you know, these loans and credit guarantees to foreign entities arguably serve the purpose of supporting U.S. jobs through the expansion of U.S. exports. Supporters of Ex-Im push forward Jenny Fulton of Miss Jenny’s Pickles as the face of the Bank. I’ve never met Ms. Fulton, but I’m sure she’s a fine lady who exports a good pickle. Ms. Fulton and small business owners like her are not the significant beneficiaries of the Ex-Im Bank. The real beneficiaries – the true face of Ex-Im – are multi-billion dollar corporations like GE, Ford and, of course, Boeing. That’s because more than 60 percent of Ex-Im’s financing benefitted just 10 big corporations last year. Roughly half of the Bank’s book of business supports Boeing’s aircraft exports alone, earning the Bank its common nickname – “the Bank of Boeing.” These multi-billion dollar companies would do just fine without the Ex-Im Bank’s corporate welfare. Don’t get me wrong. I like and respect these companies and, more importantly, the jobs they provide. But I think most taxpayers would be scratching their heads, if not throwing a fit, at the prospect of their government using their money to support a boutique export credit agency for some of the largest and deepest-pocketed corporate titans in America. Although few Americans have ever heard of the Export-Import Bank, I know they’ll be hearing a lot more from the Bank as we get closer to the end of its authorization. You’ll hear from Ex-Im: “We create jobs.” And they have numbers and photo opportunities and testimonials to prove it, they say. But here’s the truth: Ex-Im is not showing you both sides of the ledger. Rather than actually creating net new jobs, Ex-Im simply shifts production from one sector of the economy to another. This is precisely why the Government Accountability Office reported that government programs like the Export-Import Bank – quote – “may largely shift production among sectors within the economy rather than raise the overall level of employment in the economy” – unquote. Or as Professor Donald Boudreaux of George Mason University neatly sums it up: “…at best the Ex-Im Bank creates jobs in export industries by destroying jobs in non-export industries.” If you were to ask Delta Airlines and other U.S. air carriers, they would point out that Ex-Im’s loans to foreign airlines have killed as many as 7,500 domestic airline jobs because the Bank subsidizes their foreign competitors. Caterpillar was a recent beneficiary of Ex-Im’s taxpayer financing that went to an iron ore mining project controlled by Australia’s richest citizen. And an American iron ore company called Cliff’s Natural Resources said it will no longer be able to effectively compete with its Australian competitors due to the subsidy. Another American competitor feeling the sting of Ex-Im is Valero Energy, which employs more than 10,000. Ex-Im is lending $641 million to a Turkish company to build a new petroleum refinery in Turkey. Ex-Im’s actions “jeopardize U.S. refining jobs and undermine the strength of the U.S. refining infrastructure,” Valero’s CEO wrote to the Chairman of Ex-Im. Again, Ex-Im’s claims about creating jobs are dubious at best when you look at both sides of the jobs ledger. Speaking of accounting, you’ll also hear from Ex-Im: “We make money for the taxpayers.” But if that were the only test, perhaps we should go and purchase a profitable hamburger chain and rename it “Uncle Sam’s Burgers and Fries.” Of course, if run by the federal government it would assuredly not remain profitable. More importantly, that’s not the proper role of government in a free society. Besides, the Ex-Im Bank’s supposed “profitable” operation is suspect. If Ex-Im were to use fair-value accounting, as the Congressional Budget Office recommends, there is an argument that it might actually show a $200 million loss. Using fair-value accounting, we’d see that the Banks’ programs operate at a significantly higher subsidy rate than it currently shows in its budget. This means the programs cost American taxpayers far more to operate and deliver far less in revenue as a return than the Bank claims. Does this remind anyone else of the accounting gimmicks that the cronies running Fannie and Freddie used to mask the true financial picture of the GSEs during the late 1990s and early 2000s? And even if the Export-Import Bank was making money, as it claims, we’d do well to remember that Fannie and Freddie made money until they didn’t; the National Flood Insurance Program made money until it didn’t; Social Security used to make money until it didn’t. History teaches us that, sooner or later, every government insurance and guarantee program – almost without fail – will fail. The next argument you’ll hear from Ex-Im is: “We fill in financing gaps.” What gaps? 98 percent of total American exports are financed without the Export-Import Bank. In other words, almost every American exporter is perfectly capable of securing financing without forcing the taxpayer to be a partner in the deal. Does Ex-Im mean they’re providing financing where the private sector won’t? Doesn’t that beg the question: if the private sector won’t undertake this risk, why is Ex-Im forcing taxpayers to? Most find it inconceivable that gigantic corporations like Boeing and GE and Caterpillar can’t sell their products overseas without taxpayer assistance. The next argument Ex-Im uses comes directly from President Obama, who said: “As long as our global competitors are providing financing for their exports, we’ve got to do the same.” I hear this argument frequently from my children: “Everybody else is doing it; why can’t we?” I’ve never found it terribly persuasive. If other countries want to subsidize the products they sell us, maybe we should thank them instead of copying them. I’m not interested in engaging in a taxpayer-funded subsidy arms race with the rest of the world. Besides, the truth is that only a little more than one-third of the Export-Import Bank’s book of business is used to compete with our foreign competitors’ export subsidies. As the reauthorization debate heats up, some of the Bank’s beneficiaries and supporters are running ads claiming Ronald Reagan was one of the Bank’s biggest fans. The truth is President Reagan tried three times to zero out the Bank’s direct lending program and succeeded in reducing its authorization by 50 percent. On Ex-Im, listen to the Great Communicator get to the point: “Is it fair to ask taxpayers to help pay billions for export subsidies to a handful of America's biggest corporations?” he asked. And the resounding answer from our audience today is ______? Perhaps what is most disturbing about the Export-Import Bank is its political lending, both ideological and crony-based. The Bank is mandated to support specific sectors of political lending. It has a “green” energy quota. It permits almost no assistance for coal projects. It has a mandate to specifically support exports going to sub-Saharan Africa. It has a small business mandate as well. In other words, as Milton Friedman said, Ex-Im substitutes the judgment of bureaucrats for that of the marketplace. Then there is the Bank’s crony-based political lending. Again, last year more than 60 percent of Ex-Im’s financing benefitted just 10 big corporations that have a strong political presence in this town. Recently, Abengoa, a Spanish multi-national corporation, received a $33 million Ex-Im loan while former Energy Secretary Bill Richardson simultaneously sat on its advisory board and on Ex-Im’s as well. And Ex-Im guaranteed $10 million in loans to benefit the politically-favored Solyndra. I am reminded that Apple Computers got its start in a garage. It makes you wonder if Solyndra got its start at an Obama fundraiser. I have no doubt that an overwhelming number of Democrats will support reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank. They want to allocate credit in our economy as part of a political process. Democrats are always happy to subsidize corporate America as long as they can also regulate and control it. Let them stand up for the Washington insider economy. But not us. Let us proudly stand for fairness. Let us proudly stand for the Main Street competitive economy. Today I call upon every Republican in Congress to let Ex-Im expire. Let the American taxpayers exit Ex-Im once and for all. The smart and fair way to help American exports is with a conservative agenda: fundamental tax reform; strong free trade agreements; a freeze on most regulations; and greater American energy independence with projects like the Keystone pipeline. As we see, in a war against cronyism, Washington is a target rich environment. I have not run out of examples, but I am running out of time. What’s the cost of the Export-Import Bank and the rest of the Washington insider economy? Academic studies suggest 7 to 22 percent of GDP. For the U.S. economy, this means the annual cost may range from $1 trillion to $3.5 trillion. But its true cost is, today, too many Americans believe that “the system” is rigged and unfair. You know how the argument goes. The Left says, “This is a 99 percent versus 1 percent country. The greed of the few has impoverished the many. And if you have become successful, surely you did it through luck, larceny or political influence.” And so success is suspect; something to be vilified. We all have become familiar with their narrative – because they do such a good job repeating it over and over. Our narrative must be that only free enterprise is fair. Only free enterprise is moral. Only free enterprise is based on merit. Only free enterprise is empowering. It is the only economic system that frees ordinary people, like my constituent Wayne Williams, to achieve extraordinary results. Another such person is Christian Gheorghe. He escaped to America from Communist Romania by swimming across the Danube River in 1989. When he arrived in the U.S., the immigration officer asked him: “Why are you here?” “Freedom,” he replied. To make ends meet and learn English, he took a job as a New York City limo driver. Today, just 25 years later, he is a Silicon Valley CEO whose company recently raised $13 million from investors for its cloud-based analytics platform. Only in America. Only in the Main Street competitive economy. “The most amazing thing that America has given to me is the gift of freedom to build something from nothing,” he said. Freedom. That’s what this debate – and really every debate in this town – is about at its core. It is the debate over whether we should continue to be the free Republic that shook the world in 1776 or whether we are destined to become a European-style social welfare state of the 21st century? The answer to that question lies collectively in the hands of our movement and our party. It is our opportunity and imperative to reform the corporate welfare state. It is both right and necessary. For then – and only then – will we have the moral authority and the people’s trust to reform the social welfare state. This is the whole point of my talk today. This is a call to action for Republicans and conservatives to reject the Washington insider economy and embrace the Main Street competitive economy – its fairness, its empowerment, its morality. And when we do, America’s future will be one of unparalleled freedom, opportunity and growth. A future where all children are bound only by the size of their dreams. A future where you succeed because of your abilities and ambition, not because of who you know in Washington. At the end of the day, the future is not in my hands as a member of Congress. It is in our hands as citizens of this great Republic. As Jefferson wrote Madison: “The people are the only sure reliance for the preservation of liberty.” Thank you. ###
05.09.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 10, The Success and Opportunity through Quality Charter Schools Act. “For too long, struggling families seeking a quality education for their children have been forced to accept a one-size fits all standard under which educational choice is available only to those who can afford it. Charter schools are innovative tools that provide parents and children with educational opportunities which they would not otherwise have. “We need to strengthen and expand charter schools as we work to equip our children with a 21st century education. That’s why I supported the ‘Success and Opportunity Through Quality Charter Schools Act.’ This legislation will empower parents and help students escape underperforming schools by expanding access to quality charter schools and identifying and replicating the programs and practices which work best. “As a father of two school-aged children, I believe that the most powerful reform Congress could enact to ensure that all children have the opportunity to receive a first-class education is to put control of that education back in the hands of the state and local leaders and parents who know our children best.” ###
05.08.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and a leading conservative, issued the following statement after voting to create a Select Committee to investigate the September 11, 2012 terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya that killed four Americans: “From the beginning of this investigation, the Obama Administration has been uncooperative. Now it appears the administration is working to prevent the full truth about the terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya from ever seeing the light of day. The Obama Administration flagrantly ignored the lawful request of a co-equal branch of government carrying out its constitutionally-granted power of oversight when it willfully defied subpoenas by withholding documents from Congressional investigators. “I hope that the creation of a Select Committee will finally force the Obama Administration to come clean and reveal to the American people the whole truth about the terrorist attack that claimed the lives of four brave Americans. Their families deserve nothing less.” ###
05.08.2014	CLICK HERE TO WATCH VIDEO WASHINGTON- Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, delivered the following opening statement at today’s committee hearing with Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew: Secretary Lew, we welcome you back to the committee. We all hope on the state of the international finance system, we trust your testimony will prove insightful and forthright. I would note on his very first day in office, President Obama declared his administration would be – and I quote – “the most open and transparent in history.” The President pledged “a new era” and “an unprecedented level of openness” across the massive federal government. Regrettably, the American people have instead witnessed what Time magazine recently described as “the most secretive presidency in American history.” An administration that has “censored more documents and delayed or denied access to more government files than ever before.” Again, the source is Time magazine. Not Tea Party Monthly, again, Time magazine. From matters surrounding the IRS to Obamacare to Benghazi, this Administration has refused to be accountable to the American people and their elected representatives in the United States Congress, a co-equal branch of government enshrined in Article I of our Constitution. Too often, the Administration has obfuscated answers, delayed answers or refused to provide answers. It is a pattern seen throughout the Administration. But let’s focus for a moment on Treasury. The Center for Effective Government released a report card a few weeks ago grading federal agencies on their implementation of the Freedom of Information Act. No agency in what is supposed to be history’s “most open and transparent” Administration received an “A.” The Treasury Department received a “D.” But in fairness to the Secretary, several agencies received an “F.” This is not a surprise to many of us since requests for information from this committee, unfortunately, are too often ignored or delayed or, Mr. Secretary, produced on the eve of your next appearance. Mr. Secretary, as we know you are a busy man but appearances before our committee have proven challenging to schedule. And during your last appearance before our committee I personally asked you if the Administration had ever submitted a balanced budget – twice I did not receive an answer. In the last appearance before our committee, Mr. Garrett asked you if the Volcker Rule would have a negative impact on the corporate bond market – three times, you declined to answer that question. Mr. McHenry asked you whether Treasury had ever sought a legal opinion on debt payment prioritization – in that case, you did not answer four separate times. Mr. Secretary, when it comes to my questioning, I want to be fair. I would like an answer. I would be happy to give you a moment to put context but I would respectfully request, again, that questions that are put to you are answered. Mr. Secretary, with respect to scheduling, we know that you have recently had surgery and we are glad that you are recovering. I think most of us have said that both privately and publicly and we are certainly not unsympathetic to the havoc that wreaked on your schedule. But I do note that press reports indicate that subsequent to your return to work you did manage to schedule two full days of appearances in Detroit; two full days of meetings at the World Bank. Today we are grateful, but we also know that you are only going to schedule two hours this month for a statutorily required appearance before our committee. A statutorily required appearance that is now two months late and comes on the heels of the last statutory appearance before the committee, which was nine months late. As we both know, your next statutory appearance is scheduled next month. I would respectfully request that you prioritize the appearance and schedule sufficient time to answer all member questions. Briefly, I will turn to the state of the international finance system. On the important matter of increased taxpayer commitment to the IMF, I feel again the Administration was somewhat less than open and transparent. The fact that the IMF is moving forward with a package for Ukraine – without the quota increase – would seem to belie the Administration’s claims that the increase was essential to the IMF’s ability to render effective assistance to Ukraine. I’m sure we will hear more from the Secretary on that matter. And as I gaze to my left and to right, looking at the national debt clock spinning out of control, I again wonder about the wisdom of effectively converting an emergency commitment to the IMF to a permanent one. And when I hear of proffered reforms, a robust exceptional access framework appears to be lacking. It begs the question, whether on a going-forward basis the reforms that have been proffered -- will it lead the IMF to exacerbate or mitigate a global bailout mentality? I believe Chairman Campbell will have more to say on this subject in his opening comments and in his questions. Again, Mr. Secretary, we do welcome you back here. We wish you a continued recovery. We look forward to having you back next month where we hope you will be able to stay longer and catch up on your schedule. ###
05.07.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today after voting to hold Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee Lois Lerner in contempt of Congress and to urge the Department of Justice (DOJ) to appoint a special prosecutor to open a criminal investigation into the abuses at the IRS. “The IRS’s campaign to selectively punish and harass the Obama Administration’s political opponents was an inexcusable, indefensible, and dangerous abuse of power. That is why, over the last year, the House Oversight & Government Reform Committee and the House Ways & Means Committees have been conducting a thorough investigation to identify the individual or individuals responsible for these egregious abuses and hold them accountable. “One individual who seems to be squarely in the middle of this scandal is Lois Lerner. Ms. Lerner came before Congress, gave her opening statement, and has remained silent since then, citing her rights under the Fifth Amendment. While the Fifth Amendment protects Americans from being forced to testify in criminal cases where doing so would incriminate them, it does not grant someone the right to share their side of the story and then refuse all further questions or challenges to their version of events. By virtue of her opening statement, Ms. Lerner has waived her right to plead the Fifth. Yet she still refuses to answer any questions about her involvement in the IRS targeting scandal. After refusing multiple opportunities to testify before Congress and address the accusations against her, the House had no choice but to hold Ms. Lerner in contempt. “It has been almost a year since news of the IRS targeting scandal broke. Yet the DOJ has yet to take any meaningful action to bring those accountable to justice. So today, the House also voted to urge Attorney General Eric Holder to appoint a special prosecutor for the abuses at the IRS. “This is an issue that should rise above partisanship. The American people deserve answers and they expect those responsible to be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.” ###
05.02.2014	WASHINGTON– Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and a leading conservative, issued the following statement in reaction to the announcement that Speaker Boehner intends for the House of Representatives to vote to create a Select Committee to investigate the September 11, 2012 terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya that killed four Americans: “For almost two years, the American people have been demanding to know the truth about the terrorist attack that took place in Benghazi and claimed the lives of four Americans. Since early 2013, several key committees in the House of Representatives have been conducting a thorough investigation into the terrorist attack and demanding answers. From the beginning, the Obama Administration has been uncooperative with this investigation. “We learned this week that the Obama Administration was not just uncooperative, it was willing to defy subpoenas that were duly-issued by standing committees of the House of Representatives by withholding documents from Congressional investigators. This action by the Obama Administration is deeply troubling—and not just because they have attempted to obstruct the truth about Benghazi, but because they flagrantly ignored the lawful request of a co-equal branch of government carrying out its constitutionally-granted power of oversight. “Due to this willful obstruction by the Obama Administration, it is clear that the normal oversight process of the House of Representatives is not enough to force the Obama Administration to cooperate with a legitimate and constitutional oversight investigation. In fact, it now appears as if the Obama Administration is doing everything in its power to prevent the truth about the terrorist attack in Benghazi from ever seeing the light of day. “The House committees that have been investigating Benghazi for over a year have done a tremendous job and are to be commended for their outstanding efforts to uncover the truth. In fact, we probably would not know all that we do today without the work that they have done. From the beginning, I have supported every effort to uncover the truth about Benghazi, and I applaud Speaker Boehner’s decision to allow a House vote to create a Select Committee. I hope that by taking this investigation to a new level, we can finally force the Obama Administration to come clean and reveal to the American people the whole truth about the terrorist attack in Benghazi.�? ###
04.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today in support of FY 2015 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill. “Every day, hundreds of young men and women answer the call to defend our nation, and every day those brave men and women complete that service and return to civilian life in the country they fought so hard to protect. While we can never thank them enough for their sacrifice, we can and we must ensure they have the resources they need to do their job effectively and to enjoy the way of life their sacrifice has secured. “Today’s critical legislation supports our fighting men and women by providing them with the necessary support to maintain the strong military infrastructure they need to carry out their missions. By making responsible, targeted reductions in infrastructure spending without compromising military readiness or effectiveness, this legislation also recognizes our nation’s looming debt crisis, which Admiral Mike Mullen – former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff – called the greatest threat to our national security. “This legislation also ensures those who have served in uniform receive the services they earned through their sacrifice. I was appalled to hear the recent allegations of neglect and mistreatment at the Phoenix VA Health Care System. If these allegations prove true, someone at the VA must be held accountable for this outrageous negligence. Today’s legislation provides increased resources for rigorous oversight to investigate what took place and prevent further abuse. It also addresses the claims backlog at the VA and funds other vital programs for our nation’s military veterans to ensure our nation’s heroes receive the best care possible in a timely manner. “The United States has an exceptional responsibility to stand strong and ready in a world where freedom’s enemies do not rest and threats to our security do not relent, and Congress has a constitutional duty to ‘provide for the common defense.’ That is why I was proud to support this bill.” ###
04.29.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) recently hosted a series of town hall meetings across the 5th Congressional District to hear from his constituents about the issues that are important to them and to update them on his continued efforts to hold Washington accountable to East Texans. Making stops in Anderson, Cherokee, Kaufman, Henderson, Van Zandt, and Wood counties – Hensarling discussed some of the actions he has taken in his role as chairman of the House Financial Services Committee to bring much needed oversight and accountability to Obama Administration agencies like the CFPB and to the Federal Reserve; reduce Washington red-tape like the thousands of pages of regulations in the Dodd-Frank Act; end “too-big-to-fail” and the practice of Washington picking winners and losers; and restore confidence and certainty to job creators so they can hire new workers and create jobs. “As chairman of the House Financial Services Committee,” Hensarling said, “my number one goal has been more jobs and a healthier economy for all. That means we’ve got to root out the job-choking red tape that hurts our economy, stifles competition, and erodes free enterprise. It means proposing solutions that alleviate the heavy burdens these regulations impose, and protecting American consumers by holding Washington accountable.” Residents of the 5th District who would like to be notified of future town hall meetings and events hosted by Congressman Hensarling and his staff are encouraged to sign-up for the Congressman’s e-newsletter by visiting www.hensarling.house.gov. In Case You Missed It – Press Coverage of the Events Athens Daily Review: “Hensarling Addresses Residents’ Concerns” Jacksonville Daily Progress: “Congressman Addresses US Issues During Townhall Meeting” KMOO Radio: “Hensarling Fights for East Texans” Palestine Herald: “Congressman Jeb Hensarling Hosts Town Hall Meeting in Palestine” KETK – Tyler: “Hensarling Discusses Latest From Washington with KETK in Tyler” The Chandler & Brownsboro Statesman: “U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling visited Athens for town hall meeting” Mineola Monitor: “Hensarling plans to hold Washington accountable” ###
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman on the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement upon passage of the House Republican Budget. “We often hear from our Democratic colleagues that budgets are about priorities, and I couldn’t agree more. The House-passed budget prioritizes getting our nation’s fiscal house in order and off the path to national bankruptcy by balancing the budget and stopping the spending of money we don’t have. Our budget sets key priorities, such as saving Medicare and its promise to seniors; providing the resources needed by our troops to carry out their mission of defending our nation and our freedom; and getting rid of all the special interest loopholes and deductions that riddle the current tax code through tax reform that will give us a new tax code that is fairer, flatter, simpler, and encourages economic and job growth. “In contrast, House Democrats and President Obama have put forth budgets that prioritize the status quo of more spending, more taxes, and more debt in budgets that never balance. In failing to deal with our debt, President Obama and House Democrats are not just hurting the economic and job opportunities of future generations of Americans. As we learned from a recent hearing in the Financial Services Committee, our debt is hurting job and economic growth today. “No nation has ever spent its way into prosperity, yet the Democrat budgets continue a spending spree that is driving us towards national bankruptcy. Unless we act to get our nation off the road to national bankruptcy – as the House Republican budget does – we will continue to have slower economic growth, fewer opportunities, and family budgets that continue to stagnate as the federal budget overwhelms the family budget.” ###
04.09.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman on the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement praising the House Ways & Means Committee for their vote to refer Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee Lois Lerner to the Department of Justice (DOJ) for criminal prosecution for her involvement in the IRS targeting scandal. “Like most Americans I was both angered and appalled to learn of the IRS’s campaign to selectively intimidate Americans based upon their political beliefs. Using the IRS – perhaps the single most feared government agency – to punish and harass one’s political opponents is right out of the Watergate playbook – a playbook I thought had disappeared 40 years ago. Sadly, after a thorough investigation by Chairman Camp and members of the House Ways & Means Committee, it appears it has not. “It also appears the culture of abuse at the IRS is even more wide spread and systemic than previously known. Today’s report from the Office of Special Council of illegal campaign activity at several IRS offices – including one in Dallas – further illustrates the need for immediate action. “These are issues that should rise above partisanship. They hit at the heart of who we are as a people, and why we fight for justice and fear such a large, powerful government that clearly has become ‘too big to manage.’ The political targeting at the IRS was wrong because it tries to turn our citizens into subjects. It is wrong because it violates both our constitutional and civil rights. It is wrong because it treats citizens wishing to speak out against the government’s policies – exercising a God-given right – like an enemy under state investigation. In a word, it is tyranny. “I applaud my colleagues for passing this resolution calling on Attorney General Eric Holder to thoroughly review the evidence of criminal misconduct by Lois Lerner that has been uncovered by the Ways and Means committee investigation and to take action to correct this inexcusable, indefensible, and dangerous abuse of power.” ###
04.08.2014	CLICK TO PLAY WASHINGTON – House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) delivered the following opening statement at today’s full committee hearing on how Washington red tape impairs economy freedom: Last Friday the House debated a rather simple, common sense bill requiring the Congressional Budget Office to produce long-term, macroeconomic analysis of proposed legislation. It was strongly opposed by House Democrats. If this bill had been law just a few years ago, Members would not have had to pass Obamacare to find out what’s in it. They and the public would have known before the fact, instead of after, that according to Congressional Budget Office Obamacare will result in 2.5 million fewer jobs. Information like this should not be swept under the rug. Regrettably something similar happened in this committee just last week. The Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee received testimony from a high-ranking CFPB whistleblower concerning serious allegations of discrimination and retaliation at the Bureau. Her testimony was corroborated by CFPB’s own independent investigator. Both testified as to many other CFPB employees who have lodged these same allegations. What was the response from Democratic leadership on the committee? They demanded the hearing be canceled; in other words, the matter would regrettably be swept under the rug. Hidden from public view. Ignored. Likewise, many Democrats have harshly criticized cost-benefit analysis. Looking at the pluses and minuses of a rule, the impact on jobs, asking the question whether a rule on balance helps or harms hardworking, struggling American families. The Ranking Member, for example, declared that legislation requiring cost-benefit analysis is “dangerous.” I believe what is “dangerous” is sweeping under the rug the mounting evidence that many rules promulgated under Dodd-Frank Act and its ideological precursor, the CARD Act, are harming consumers. The Federal Reserve now reports that one-third of black and Hispanic borrowers would be hurt by the Qualified Mortgage rule. In the American Banker Association’s most recent lending survey of banks, one-third of respondents said they plan to reduce their mortgage lending only to QM loans. Perhaps that is why QM is rapidly becoming known as the “Quitting Mortgages” rule. The FDIC has reported it has become more difficult for lower-income Americans to access banking services because checking and savings account fees have gone up. Almost one-half of banks that previously offered free checking no longer do so. In a recent survey of banks regarding CFPB’s remittance rule, the ABA reported that 42 percent will now increase fees and 18 percent plan to stop offering the services altogether. 40 percent of lower income families have reported that their credit cards have been canceled, not renewed, or their limits reduced since the passage of the CARD Act. Clearly the evidence continues to mount and cannot be conveniently swept under the rug. It is time for all to take off partisan blinders and acknowledge the truth that Washington regulators aren’t always right and more red tape is not always the solution to every problem. It is time to hold Washington accountable. Frequently I receive correspondence like the following from a banker in Central Texas who I think it sums up the challenges well. He wrote: “We have provided fair, honest, and competitively priced loans and home mortgages in our market for as long as I have been with the bank. And for the record, we have not had a home foreclosure in over 25 years… Currently our ability to cope with the regulatory burden is at a critical stage. We are spending an unprecedented amount of time and resources trying to understand this process as the various agencies continue to draft new rules and guidance at will. “Just a new regulation here and there, and now consumer lending has become a compliance nightmare. There is no time left to take care of our customers or develop new relationships because all of our team is busy working on compliance issues. The spirit of the law no longer exists as the regulatory environment has changed from a helpful and supervisory approach to the ‘gotcha’ attitude where only the slightest issue can bring instant criticism to your bank. Reluctantly we are working to downsize our consumer lending program, especially in the small loan area. Also, due to the massive new regulatory focus on the mortgage loans, we have suspended our home lending activities as of this month. “This is not good news for our community, but we can no longer comply with the massive burden.” I think the letter speaks for itself. Regrettably, I receive many such letters. Thus, the subject of our hearing today. ###
04.04.2014	CLICK TO PLAY WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, went to the House floor to speak in support of the Pro-Growth Budget Act (H.R. 1874), which would require the Congressional Budget Office to provide long-term, macroeconomic analysis of proposed legislation. The following is a transcript of his remarks, which were made shortly before the bill passed the House: “I really want to thank the Vice Chairman of our Budget Committee for his leadership in trying to continually protect the working family budget from the onslaught of the federal budget. “You know I’m a little bit in disbelief, Mr. Speaker, from what I hear on the floor. Rarely has there been a more commonsense bill that has come to this floor. It simply says two things: as we make important legislative decisions in this body, we should have more information instead of less, and we should think longer term as opposed to shorter term. And yet, it is opposed by our friends on the other side of the aisle. I’m somewhat incredulous. “I would say if my Democratic colleagues don't want the information maybe they don't have to pay attention to the information. I have heard that, well not all the information I want is going to come from this particular piece of legislation. I would encourage the distinguished gentleman from Maryland to encourage his staff to provide him then with the information that he wants. “What's really important here, Mr. Speaker, is that we understand – in an economy where millions, millions of our fellow countrymen are unemployed or underemployed – how major pieces of legislation will impact the economy, their hopes, their dreams, their aspirations as they lay awake at night wondering how they'll make ends meet. You know I just wonder, Mr. Speaker, if one of the reasons that our Democratic colleagues are opposing this bill is because they know the Congressional Budget Office has now told us that Obamacare is going to cost this economy 2.5 million jobs that otherwise we would have had. What if we had that information before the bill instead of after the bill? Maybe the crown jewel would not have appeared. “Maybe they don't want the American people or Members of Congress to have that information, but the American people deserve this information, and on their behalf we demand it. We need to support this commonsense bill. I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
04.03.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today after House passage of a bill he co-sponsored – the Save American Workers Act (H.R. 2575) – which would repeal Obamacare’s 30 hour definition of full-time employment and re-instate the traditional definition of 40 hours. “Just days before Election Day in 2008, then-Senator Obama said, ‘We are five days away from fundamentally transforming the United States of America.’ The President’s crowning achievement in this effort is Obamacare, which fundamentally transforms approximately one-fifth of our economy by putting government bureaucrats in charge of our health care. “In addition to forcing Americans to purchase coverage they don’t want at prices they can’t afford, Obamacare unilaterally revised what constitutes full-time employment from 40 hours to 30 hours per week. This change is having a dramatic impact on our economy and on jobs. A Hoover Institute study has estimated that 2.6 million workers are at risk for reduced hours, which will reduce their income by 25 percent. “Senator Harry Reid may not believe that Obamacare is hurting Americans, but I hear from my constituents that it is. I recently heard from Judy in Terrell, who wrote, ‘I am a small business owner in Terrell, I work hard, pay my bills and provide jobs for several local folks. It is very upsetting that we are having to cut employees hours because we simply can’t afford Obamacare. Would the government rather them have a job or insurance? Looks like now they will be unemployed or underemployed at the peril of our government.’ “The President’s economic policies have failed and are holding back the economy—keeping hard working people from achieving the American dream. “The solution is not more government, like Obamacare and its redefinition of full-time employment, but rather to lift the wet blanket of Obamanomics off our economy and unleash it to create jobs and prosperity for the American people.” ###
03.14.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today after House passage of the SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act of 2014 (H.R. 4015), which would reform the Medicare payment system. “The current Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula, on which Medicare reimbursement rates are based, fails to provide the certainty doctors need to continue providing quality and affordable care to their patients. Combined with Obamacare’s over $700 billion in cuts to Medicare, the end result is a situation where American seniors are having trouble accessing care. “For too long, Congress has kicked the can down the road and passed short-term patches that temporarily ward off deep cuts in Medicare reimbursement rates today, but leave even larger cuts looming tomorrow. I’m pleased that today’s legislation creates a long-term fix that will provide the certainty that doctors need, the protection American taxpayers expect, and the care and service seniors deserve. I’m also pleased that this legislation provides relief for individuals from the uncertainty of Obamacare’s individual mandate, delaying it until 2019 for all Americans—not just the select few that the Obama Administration has deemed worthy. “Medicare is an important program for our seniors. Though today’s reforms are an important and necessary step, they fall far short of the meaningful reforms needed to save the program and ensure its existence for future generations. We must reform the system to ensure that it is patient-centered, allows patients to choose their doctors, and provides catastrophic coverage for those who truly cannot afford it.” ###
03.13.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after the House passed two laws to rein in executive overreach. The Faithful Execution of the Law Act (H.R. 3973) would require all federal officials who implement a formal or informal policy to refrain from enforcing federal law to report their reason for non-enforcement to Congress. The ENFORCE the Law Act (H.R. 4138) provides a procedure for the House or the Senate to authorize a lawsuit against the Executive Branch for failure to faithfully execute the law and ensures any such suit is heard on an expedited timeline to prevent the president from stalling the litigation until his term is up. “The American people expect – and rightly so – the president to enforce the law and for Congress and the judicial branch of the government to serve as a check on the authority and actions of the president, in accordance with the Constitution. Based on President Obama’s repeated refusal to enforce federal laws he disagrees with – or in the case of Obamacare, those that are politically inconvenient for him – and his plan to use executive action to enact the things he can’t get passed through Congress, it appears President Obama missed checks and balances day in his own constitutional law class. “The bills passed by the House this week will ensure the president and his administration enact all laws fairly and equally, and they will give Congress standing to rein in executive overreach.” ###
03.05.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and a leading conservative, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Suspending the Individual Mandate Penalty Law Equals Fairness Act (H.R. 4118): “According to recent press reports, the Obama Administration plans to announce another Obamacare delay, this time delaying yet again the mandate that health plans currently held by Americans meet the minimum coverage requirements of Obamacare. It appears the President is trying to smooth over his broken promise to Americans that if they liked their healthcare, they can keep it. While this delay would put-off some of the harmful impacts of Obamacare, it is nothing more than a cynical ploy to shield vulnerable Democrats from the blowback that the next wave of insurance policy cancellations will bring. “The Obama Administration seems to only dispense relief from Obamacare when doing so benefits their political objectives and allies. When the Obama Administration announced multiple delays of Obamacare’s employer mandate, it was not willing to give similar relief to all Americans by delaying Obamacare’s individual mandate. This is simply not fair. That’s why House Republicans have passed the Suspending the Individual Mandate Penalty Law Equals Fairness Act, which would delay the enforcement of the individual mandate penalty for 2014. If relief from Obamacare is good enough for employers, it ought to be good enough for their employees. “Every time the Obama Administration announces yet another Obamacare delay, it just confirms what the American people already know, which is that the law is a train wreck and hurting American families and our economy. Instead of continuing to ignore the harmful effects of this law and picking winners and losers in the Obamacare relief game, it’s time that the Obama Administration listened to the majority of Americans and put the brakes on ALL of Obamacare for ALL Americans.” ###
03.04.2014	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a leading fiscal conservative and Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today on President Obama’s FY2015 budget submission. "Yet again, President Obama has put forward a budget based more on fantasy than reality. I don’t know any other explanation for a budget that increases spending by $791 billion, adds $8.3 trillion to the national debt, raises taxes by $1.8 trillion, largely ignores the major drivers of our nation’s debt, and doesn’t come close to balancing – ever. "The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office and experts on both sides of the aisle have repeatedly warned of the dire consequences that are to come if we don't deal with our nation's impending spending-driven debt crisis. Not only does this budget continue the president’s AWOL – absent without leadership – approach to our debt crisis, it presses the accelerator towards national bankruptcy. In short, this budget is an abject failure in every way a budget can be judged. “Shrinking paychecks combined with increasing prices for things like groceries and health care continue to leave Americans struggling to make ends meet. The last thing they need is for their president – in a budget the White House has ironically titled ‘Opportunity for All’ – to raise their taxes, add more regulatory uncertainty for job creators, and ignore our looming debt crisis. These hardworking Americans want opportunity and a main street economy where, if they work hard and play by the rules, everyone can succeed.” ###
03.04.2014	Click here to view Chairman Hensarling’s remarks. WASHINGTON- House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) delivered the following floor remarks on H.R. 3370: Mr. Speaker: Our nation is tragically going broke. Our national debt, which has skyrocketed under this president, is clearly by any measure on a dangerous and unsustainable path; a path that, if unaltered, will leave our children with less freedom, fewer opportunities and a lower standard of living. That’s beyond unfair; that’s immoral. One reason America is going broke is because of poorly designed and costly government-run insurance programs. The National Flood Insurance Program is one such program. Its chief administrator has already testified that the “NFIP was, by statute and design, not actuarially sound.” In fact, the program only charges 70 percent of what its administrators believe they actually need. Perhaps that is why the program is currently $24 billion in the red to taxpayers and has no way to ever repay them. The NFIP is not financially sound because pretty much every policyholder receives taxpayer subsides. Some get explicit subsides because the law prohibits the program from charging a full and fair rate based upon their calculated actuarial risk. Others receive implicit subsidies because, according to the GAO, the program uses a faulty model that under-measures flood risk. At the end of the day, the program forces roughly 96 percent of all Americans to subsidize the remaining four percent, regardless of income or need. That means the single mom in Dallas, where I live, who is working hard as a cashier at the Albertson’s grocery store, may be forced to subsidize the flood insurance for some millionaire’s beachfront vacation home. If that’s not the definition of unfair, then I don’t know what is. To its credit, in 2012 Congress recognized that the government-run flood insurance program was fundamentally broken and unfair. We passed – almost unanimously – the Biggert-Waters Act. It phases out most of the explicit subsidies over the next few years and requires rates to be more closely based on a property’s actuarial degree of flood risk. Now, the first premiums under Biggert-Waters are starting to come due. There is sticker shock; some based on fact, some based on fear. Clearly there are many across our nation who have been unaware of their taxpayer-funded subsidies. There are some who simply can’t afford the new premiums, and others who are now having trouble attempting to sell their homes. This should be addressed by Congress. That is why over the last eight weeks Chairman Neugebauer and myself have put four different plans on the table for members who approached us about making modifications to the Biggert-Waters Act. We agreed to go slower on reforms and to temporarily cap payments as long as the program would eventually require all property owners to pay the fair amount that they owe and, overall, the program would begin to bring in more income so taxpayers could avoid yet another bailout. Regrettably, that is not the approach we are debating today. The House bill before us, although technically “Pay-Go” compliant, would postpone actuarially sound rates for perhaps a generation. It would kill off a key element of risk-based pricing permanently, which is necessary if we are to ever transition to market competition. Finally, it creates brand-new subsides for a program that is already bailout broke. Mr. Speaker, the Senate bill is not any better. It essentially represents a four-year freeze that is not “Pay-Go” compliant. My fear is that either bill represents a big step backwards from reform and leaves us just a few hurricanes or a few short years away from the next taxpayer bailout. Either bill will make it incredibly difficult to do what Congress must do, and that is phase-out this un-needed, government-run insurance program that fundamentally represents both an unfair and unsustainable middle-income entitlement. I respect my colleagues who have a different view. I respect my leadership for bringing a bill that may not be optimum to the floor. But Mr. Speaker, if we don’t protect taxpayers today, how will we ever reform the gargantuan middle-income entitlements that put us on the precipice of a debt crisis? I for one will vote no on this well-intended but misguided bill. ###
02.27.2014	Click to Play WASHINGTON- House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) delivered the following floor remarks on H.R. 3193, the Consumer Financial Freedom and Washington Accountability Act: Mr. Chairman, we are now into the sixth year of the Obama administration and probably the two most common comments I hear from my constituents are “I just can’t make ends meet in this economy” and “Washington has become arrogant, unaccountable, and out of touch.” And at the apex of these sentiments lies the newly minted, Dodd-Frank government agency known as the CFPB. And although many have yet to hear of it, the CFPB is perhaps the single most powerful and least accountable Federal agency in all of Washington. First, let’s speak of its power. Mr. Chairman, when it comes our credit cards, our auto loans, our mortgages, the CFPB has unbridled, discretionary power not only to make them less available and more expensive, but to absolutely take them away. What does an agency with this kind of power do? It imposes rules like the Qualified Mortgage rule, or QM for short. Mr. Chairman, what does QM do? According to Federal Reserve data, because of QM “roughly one-third of black and Hispanic borrowers would not meet the requirements of a QM loan.” Mr. Chairman, one-third. Core Logic, which analyzes mortgage data has said “only half of today’s mortgage originations meet QM requirements.” That is egregiously unfair to hardworking Americans. One of my small town community bankers in East Texas told me recently because of QM “I can’t tell you the number of times we have had to tell our good low-to-moderate income customers that we can no longer loan them money to purchase a home to live in.” So Mr. Chairman, this is what an agency with too much discretionary power does. It can actually abuse consumers, taking away their homeownership opportunities. That’s unfair. And let’s look at what happens to an agency that is not held accountable. Today, the CFPB is spending $145 million to renovate a $150 million headquarter building they don’t even own. And the renovation rate is three times the average Washington, D.C. luxury, class-A renovation rate. Well, what does $145 million buy? Well, it’s $461 dollars per square foot in office renovations. Mister Chairman, that is more per square foot than was spent to build the Trump World Tower. And at $461 per square foot, that was more money than it cost to spend to build the Bellagio Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas – which at the time, I’m told, was the most expensive hotel ever built. And Mr. Chairman, this is more money to renovate a building they don’t own than Dubai’s Burj Khalifa, the single-tallest skyscraper in the world. Now ironically enough, the architectural firm which designed the Burj Khalifa in Dubai is the same world-renowned architectural firm that the CFPB paid over $7 million to design their headquarter renovations. Now according to public documents, Mr. Chairman, some of the Bureau’s renovations include “a reflective carnelian granite water table” that will “lur[e] in the curious passer-by.” Also, for $145 million of hard-earned taxpayer money the Bureau is buying “a shady tree bosque” to facilitate “chance interactions in a removed place of rest and contemplation.” I can’t make this up, Mr. Chairman. This is how hard-earned money is being squandered. Here it is, the architectural drawings which have been filed publically. I’ve got to tell you Mr. Chairman, I’ve got a lot of people in my district in East Texas who live in mobile homes. They can’t afford carnelian granite water tables that apparently the CFPB is going to enjoy that my constituents have to pay for. And the only “shady tree bosque” to be found in East Texas in the Fifth District are those where hard-working ranchers work their cattle. And Instead of rest and contemplation to be enjoyed by CFPB employees, because of such blatant waste, my constituents instead of rest and contemplation lay awake at night wondering how they are going to pay the bills and make ends meet. Mr. Chairman, this is what an unaccountable, federal government agency does. It squanders the people’s money because it is not their own and they are not accountable to the people’s representatives. So that is why we are here today, Mr. Chairman. We are here to pass H.R. 3193, the Consumer Financial Freedom and Washington Accountability Act, who’s primary author Mr. Duffy of Wisconsin, has done excellent work along with many other members of our committee. This is a package Mr. Chairman of common-sense reforms designed to make the CFPB more accountable and more transparent to the American people. The bill replaces the Bureau’s single, unaccountable director with a bipartisan board. It puts the Bureau’s employees, whose compensation and benefits average $178,521- it puts them on the civil service pay scale. It introduces a safety and soundness check on its regulations, and gives the American people greater control over the massive quantities of personal financial data that the Bureau is collecting and maintaining on them at this time. Mr. Chairman, we do need consumer protection. But consumers don’t just need to be protected from Wall Street. They need to be protected from Washington as well. H.R. 3193 will protect them from the CFPB and the House should pass it without delay, today. ###
02.26.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today upon passage of H.R. 3865 – the “Stop Targeting of Political Beliefs by the IRS Act of 2014”: “Revelations that the IRS selectively punished and harassed the Obama Administration’s political opponents was an inexcusable, indefensible, and dangerous abuse of power. The fact that the IRS would move to further limit the constitutionally granted right of these groups to participate in public debate by proposing new rules on 501(c)4 organizations – even as the agency remains under investigation for their actions – is baffling. “This is an issue that should rise above partisanship. It hits at the heart of who we are as a people, and why we fight for justice and fear such a large, powerful government that clearly has become ‘too big to manage.’ What the IRS did was wrong because it tries to turn our citizens into subjects. It is wrong because it violates both our constitutional and civil rights. It is wrong because it treats citizens wishing to speak out – exercising a God-given right – like an enemy under state investigation. In a word, it is tyranny. “The ‘Stop Targeting of Political Beliefs by the IRS Act of 2014’ would delay the IRS from issuing any new rules concerning 501(c)4 organizations for one year and give the House Ways and Means Committee the ability to complete their investigation into the agency’s abuses and ensure that the single most feared government agency is never again allowed to trample on our most sacred right—the freedom of speech.”
02.12.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a leading conservative and Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding the latest developments surrounding Obamacare: “Things just keep getting worse and worse for Americans under Obamacare. Last week, we learned from the Congressional Budget Office’s latest Budget and Economic Estimates Project that Obamacare will lead to less work in America over the next decade, resulting in the equivalent of 2.5 million fewer full-time employees by 2024. And this week, the Obama Administration once again acknowledged that this plan is not ready for prime time when it announced another delay in the employer mandate; this time delaying the mandate until 2016 for businesses with fewer than 100 employees. “The continual drip of bad news from Obamacare just confirms what the American people already know, which is that the law is a train wreck and hurting American families and our economy. Instead of continuing to ignore the harmful effects of this law and granting one group of Americans relief from Obamacare but not others, it’s time that the Obama Administration listened to the majority of Americans and put the brakes on ALL of Obamacare for ALL Americans.” ###
02.11.2014	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), released the following statement in response to a document recently released by Speaker Boehner that outlines an approach for future consideration of immigration reform legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives: “I approach the debate over the best way to fix our broken immigration system with an open mind, but not an empty mind. There are several principles – as well as the views of the people of the 5th District of Texas – that will guide me as the House of Representatives debates immigration reform legislation. “First, as any Texan can tell you, our national borders are not secure. An unsecured border is a threat to both our national security and our economic security. Without real border security that eliminates illegal crossings and visa-overstays, no immigration reform plan can ever work. “Second, America is a nation of immigrants. It is our heritage and our destiny. Some of the best Americans I know were not born here, but they cherish our birthright – sometimes more than we do – because they have known something other than the freedom and opportunity that is at the very core of the American dream. Although we can’t take in the world, we should strive to find places for people who come here legally, seeking freedom and opportunity; people who want to roll up their sleeves and work to be economic assets; people who want to learn the English language – the language of opportunity and the language that helps bind us together as a people. “Third, any immigration reform plan must respect the rule of law. My heart truly goes out to those who came here from poor economic conditions; if I were unable to feed my children, I’m not sure you could make the fence high enough. But we are a nation of laws and we cannot reward illegal behavior with amnesty or allow those who broke the law to ‘cut’ in the citizenship line. It is simply not fair to all of those who waited patiently to come here legally. “Our current immigration system is broken and desperately in need of repair, but the more immediate threat is the state of our economy. As hardworking low and middle income Americans struggle with shrinking paychecks and limited opportunities due to President Obama’s policies, our real national priority should be a return to a healthy economy.” ###
01.31.2014	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), released the following statement in response to a document recently released by Speaker Boehner that outlines an approach for future consideration of immigration reform legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives: “I approach the debate over the best way to fix our broken immigration system with an open mind, but not an empty mind. There are several principles – as well as the views of the people of the 5th District of Texas – that will guide me as the House of Representatives debates immigration reform legislation. “First, as any Texan can tell you, our national borders are not secure. An unsecured border is a threat to both our national security and our economic security. Without real border security that eliminates illegal crossings and visa-overstays, no immigration reform plan can ever work. “Second, America is a nation of immigrants. It is our heritage and our destiny. Some of the best Americans I know were not born here, but they cherish our birthright – sometimes more than we do – because they have known something other than the freedom and opportunity that is at the very core of the American dream. Although we can’t take in the world, we should strive to find places for people who come here legally, seeking freedom and opportunity; people who want to roll up their sleeves and work to be economic assets; people who want to learn the English language – the language of opportunity and the language that helps bind us together as a people. “Third, any immigration reform plan must respect the rule of law. My heart truly goes out to those who came here from poor economic conditions; if I were unable to feed my children, I’m not sure you could make the fence high enough. But we are a nation of laws and we cannot reward illegal behavior with amnesty or allow those who broke the law to ‘cut’ in the citizenship line. It is simply not fair to all of those who waited patiently to come here legally. “Our current immigration system is broken and desperately in need of repair, but the more immediate threat is the state of our economy. As hardworking low and middle income Americans struggle with shrinking paychecks and limited opportunities due to President Obama’s policies, our real national priority should be a return to a healthy economy.” ###
01.29.2014	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a leading conservative and Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding his opposition to the Federal Agriculture Reform & Risk Management Act (H.R. 2642): “While the official title of this legislation is the Federal Agriculture Reform & Risk Management Act, the reality is almost 80% of the direct spending in this legislation is for food stamps. Under this president, America has become a food stamp nation with a part-time economy when we need to be an opportunity society with upward mobility. A record 47 million Americans – almost one in six – are on food stamps, and the majority of households now receiving benefits are adults of working age, not children and the elderly. “As part of a fifth-generation farm family, and having grown up working on my family’s farm, I understand the challenges faced by agricultural producers. I believe the most effective way the government can help farmers and ranchers is by respecting private property rights, reducing regulatory burdens, permanently repealing the Death Tax, expanding trade opportunities abroad, and promoting American energy independence. “I fundamentally do not agree with using taxpayer funds to make payments to subsidize able-bodied farmers at the expense of others, especially our children and grandchildren. As we are confronted by the realities of our unsustainable, unconscionable, and immoral national debt, now, more than ever, we must once put a stop to taxpayer-subsidized insurance plans. America is on the verge of a debt crisis, and we can no longer afford to do things simply because we’ve done them in the past. In every industry there are risks associated with doing business, and farming is no different. It is my hope that one day, Congress and the federal government will end the market-distorting policies they have injected into the agricultural industry for the last century, phase out these programs, and allow the free market to work. “I appreciate the work of Chairman Lucas and the members of the House Agriculture Committee, and look forward to working with them in the future to remove government interference in agriculture and give Americans the freedom to farm that includes a vigorous private market for crop and livestock insurance.” ###
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to President Obama’s 2014 State of the Union Address: “Tonight, the president talked of the many things that could be accomplished with bigger government through more regulations and spending. However, his solutions are just more of the same failed policies that have left Americans facing looming uncertainty, shrinking paychecks, rising costs, and greater dependency on the federal government. With the highest poverty rate in a generation, median household income having fallen each year that he has been in office and a record 47 million Americans on food stamps some Americans may just wonder what side of the War on Poverty the president is on. “This is not right. This is not fair. And it’s not what hardworking, struggling families in the Fifth District of Texas are looking for. People like Joseph of Mabank, who explained ‘I am a disabled veteran and have been without work for over a year…all I want is to have a good-paying job, and let the rest happen as it comes,’ or Claudia of Mineola who shared with me that she was laid off for nine months before she finally found a job that paid her 25 percent less and added 60 miles to her daily commute. She said ‘I don't have the American taxpayers bailing me out or lending me money that I can't pay back.’ “Instead of perpetual bailouts, Americans want meaningful reform of our housing finance system. That is why the House Financial Services Committee passed the PATH Act to give Americans the sustainable housing finance system we need – sustainable for homeowners so they buy homes they can actually afford to keep, sustainable to taxpayers so they will never again have to bail out Washington’s failed housing programs, and sustainable for our economy so we avoid future cycles of boom, bust and bailout. If the president truly believes in the need to address housing finance reform, as he said in tonight’s speech, he has come to the right place. “Instead of greater federal ‘investment’ in bigger government, House Republicans believe we need Washington to cut up the credit card and stop spending money we don’t have. “Instead of forcing millions off of their current health care plan and onto government run plans that offer little more than broken websites and higher premiums, House Republicans believe we need a patient-centered health care system that will ensure all Americans have access to high-quality, affordable health care. “Instead of an EPA that favors its politically-connected ‘green energy’ friends while declaring war on other forms of energy, House Republicans believe we need an all-of-the-above energy policy that ensures the energy revolution we are on the cusp of doesn’t become an unrealized energy dream. “Instead of a president who threatens to circumvent Congress and enact his agenda through Executive Orders – which may violate the Constitution – House Republicans believe we must listen to people like Joseph and Claudia, and the millions of unemployed and underemployed Americans who want us to fight and win the War on Poverty, not by waging a war on jobs like the president has laid out, but by empowering all Americans to pursue their version of the American Dream in our free-enterprise system.” ###
01.22.2014	WASHINGTON— U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, submitted the following statement into the Congressional Record marking the 41st anniversary of the landmark Supreme Court decision Roe vs. Wade. “As we approach the 41st anniversary of the Supreme Court’s decision in Roe vs. Wade, it is my hope that we will take this opportunity to remember the millions of unique and precious human lives ended by the unspeakable tragedy of abortion and bear in mind the devastating consequences it has had for women, children, and families. “As a matter of morality, history, science, reason, and most of all faith, I can come to no other conclusion but that every human life begins at conception and every life is worthy of protection. As Americans, we share a sacred responsibility to protect the innocent and defend the rights of those who are unable to defend themselves. Often we hear that we ought to do something for the least of these; truly unborn life is the least of these. Let us recognize it. Let us hold it precious. Let us live up to our responsibilities from the Creator and grant those yet to be born that precious right to life. “The struggle to protect life is at its core a struggle to change hearts and minds. It requires faith, reason, debate, compassion, and action. On January 22, thousands of citizens will take action by participating in the annual March for Life in Washington, D.C. Many more in Texas and across the country will stand with them at local events fighting for the rights of the unborn and celebrating the sanctity of life. I applaud those who take part, both in body and spirit, and I hope for the day when all Americans will come together and decide to protect and defend the unalienable right to life.�? ###
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today upon House passage of the 2014 Omnibus Appropriations bill: “The American people are worried – and rightly so – about the state of our economy and the threat posed by our nation’s ever-increasing, spending-driven debt. The American people expect their elected officials to work to address the crisis that is coming if we don’t get our fiscal house in order. Unfortunately, the appropriations bill passed by the House today doesn’t come close to meeting the expectations of the American people or the responsibility we have to future generations. “Like all agreements in divided government, today’s bill contains some good—like a $1 billion reduction in the Prevention of Public Health Fund to prevent use of the funds for Obamacare exchanges and amendments to the cost-of-living reforms for military pensions included in the Ryan-Murray budget deal to exclude those brave service men and women who are medically retired and the families of our fallen heroes. Unfortunately, this bill also contains some bad—like $125 million in increased spending for the stimulus-era Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grants, a provision prohibiting the United States Postal Service from making the kinds of common-sense reforms it needs to continue operating and prevent a taxpayer-funded bailout, and an additional $80 million for the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) which has provided questionable funding to past projects like $500,000 for a cultural center celebrating the birthplace of country music. “Perhaps most disappointing is the inclusion of a provision to delay the effective date of a key reform in the Biggert-Waters Act before it has even had a chance to become active. Flooding is an all-too-real problem for many American homeowners who find themselves beset with high insurance costs and too few options. The National Flood Insurance Program, created by the federal government to address these concerns, has instead exacerbated the problem by reducing choice, mandating pricing, inhibiting competition, and racking up a $24 billion debt to taxpayers. To reverse this unsustainable trajectory, Congress overwhelmingly passed the bipartisan Biggert-Waters Act to transition to actuarial sound rates based on each individual’s real risk. While many have legitimate concerns about that transition, it is a mistake for policyholders and taxpayers to walk away from the goal of an actuarially sound program. Doing so means forcing many policyholders to overpay so others can pay less than their fair share and placing more people in harm’s way by understating the actual flooding risks they face. “After weighing both the good and the bad, I ultimately decided to vote for this bill. However, while this may represent what is doable for the moment, it does not represent the best we can do to address the looming debt crisis that threatens future generations. As I said when the budget agreement passed late last year, there is no issue I have worked harder on than attempting to deal with our spending-driven debt. It is unsustainable, unconscionable, and immoral and I will never stop fighting to cut spending and ensure that the tax dollars of hard working Americans are not wasted on wasteful Washington spending.” ###
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON – Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) delivered the following statement at today’s hearing on how the Dodd-Frank Act’s Volcker Rule will impact job creators: As a nation we just marked the 50th anniversary of the War on Poverty; tragically, a failure on more than one level. To win, we need more jobs, which means we need less Volcker. In two weeks the President of the United States will deliver his sixth State of the Union Address. Early in his term, he received from a Democratic Congress every single major policy initiative he asked for: the stimulus, Obamacare, and Dodd-Frank from which the Volcker Rule arises – he got it all. The result of this is an unprecedented spending spree and regulatory tsunami, the effects of which are now apparent to all. We have become a part-time worker, unemployment check, food stamp, insolvent nation with few opportunities and even fewer hopes for the truly needy amongst us. The president’s policies have exacerbated the very income inequality that he now decries. Under President Obama, 6.7 million more Americans have fallen into poverty. America is suffering under the highest poverty rate in a generation, median household income has fallen each year that he has been in office, and a record 47 million Americans receive food stamps. With a record like this, when it comes to the War on Poverty, some Americans may just wonder what side the president is on. And if history proves a reliable guide, during the State of the Union address, the President will offer more of the same: more food stamps, more unemployment checks, more minimum wages – all neatly wrapped in the politics of division, redistribution and envy. That is not right. That is not fair. And it’s not what hardworking, struggling families in the Fifth District of Texas are looking for. Joseph of Mabank, Texas told me “I am a disabled veteran and have been without work for over a year…all I want is to have a good-paying job, and let the rest happen as it comes.” Claudia from Mineola in my district. She was laid off for nine months, finally found a job that paid her 25 percent less and added 60 miles to her daily commute. She said “I don't have the American taxpayers bailing me out or lending me money that I can't pay back.” It’s for Joseph and Claudia and all the unemployed and underemployed Americans that we have to fight for and you cannot win a War on Poverty as long as you are conducting a war on jobs. That brings us to the subject of today’s hearing: the 900-plus page compound, complex, confounding, confusing, and convoluted Volcker Rule. Like most of the other 400-plus rules of Dodd-Frank, the Volcker Rule is aimed at Wall Street, it hits Main Street, and regrettably the poor and downtrodden amongst us become collateral damage. First, Volcker is a solution in search of a problem. It is important to note that of the roughly 450 financial institutions that failed during or as a result of the crisis, not a single one failed because of proprietary trading. In fact, financial institutions that varied their revenue stream were better able to weather the storm and thus keep lending and thus support jobs. Instead, these bank failures came largely from a concentration in lending in the subprime and sovereign debt markets. And who steered these financial institutions into these markets? Sadly but not surprisingly, it was Washington and they’re still at it. At one of our earlier hearings on the Volcker Rule, a Democratic witness claimed the burdens placed on our economy by Volcker were no big deal because, he said, it “only applies to just a few banks.” If thousands upon thousands of negative comments the regulators received in response to their proposal from community and regional banks, businesses both big and small, did not lay that claim to rest, I believe today’s hearing will. The statement that Volcker only applies to “just a few banks” ranks right up there with “If you like your health care plan, you can keep it.” For if it were true that this 900-plus page regulation “applies to just a few banks,” why did the Public Utility Commission in my native Texas warn that my constituents could experience “higher and more volatile” electricity prices because of Volcker? That’s higher electricity prices for the poor. And why will the Volcker regulation, as one study points out, take $800 billion out of the productive economy and sideline it? That’s the equivalent of taking more than $6,900 out of every American household’s paycheck. As a nation, we can do better. We must do better. The path out of poverty is not food stamps or unemployment checks. It’s not the culture of victimization or the politics of envy. And it is certainly not the Volcker Rule which will harm numerous of our capital markets: equity, joint ventures, CDO, venture capital and especially the CLO market. The path out of poverty is well-known. It has everything to do with strong faith-based institutions, strong families, strong communities of support, strong schools designed for students- not teachers’ unions. And small businesses and entrepreneurships with access to affordable and available capital so that there are boundless job opportunities for all- especially the poor and as Chairman of this committee, this is what we will work for. ###
01.10.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today upon passage of the Health Exchange Security and Transparency Act (H.R. 3811): “Since going live on October 1st, the Obamacare health exchange website has faced problem after problem. Most of the attention has been focused on the fact that the American people couldn’t even log onto the website to use it, and even if they could log on it didn’t work properly – all as a result of inadequate testing of the website before going live. Unfortunately, that is not the only aspect of the exchange website that is inadequate. “Prior to the October 1 launch date, the Obama Administration’s own Department of Health and Human Services Inspector General found that the administration was months behind in its testing of data security. After the launch, four expert witnesses testifying before the House Science and Technology Committee unanimously agreed that the website was not secure. Three of the experts agreed that the website should be shut down until the personal data collected by the website could be secured, and one even dubbed the website ‘IdentityTheft.gov.’ “There have already been documented data security breaches of state exchanges in Minnesota and Vermont, and Experian recently released a report estimating that in 2014, the ‘healthcare industry, by far, will be the most susceptible to publicly disclosed and widely scrutinized data breaches,’ basing its prediction in part on reports of the security risks posed by the federal and state health care exchanges, which it said were ‘put together too quickly and haphazardly.’ “The American people expect – and the law already requires – that the personal information they are required to provide for the Obamacare exchanges be appropriately protected by the federal government. Unfortunately, the federal government’s track record in protecting data – notably the failure of the IRS to protect confidential tax data and the failure of the NSA to prevent Edward Snowden from stealing highly classified government secrets – is abysmal. Equally upsetting is the fact that there is currently no requirement that the Administration notify Americans if their personal information has been stolen or illegally accessed through the exchanges – leaving the decision whether or not to notify in the hands of a bureaucrat in Washington. That’s why the House of Representatives passed the Health Exchange Security and Transparency Act (H.R. 3811), which would make notification mandatory. “The lack of adequate protection for the personal information of millions of Americans is yet more proof that Obamacare isn’t ready for primetime, much less ready for a 3 A.M. infomercial.” ###
12.20.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today regarding the Administration’s latest Obamacare change: “On Thursday night, as Americans were busy preparing for Christmas, the Obama Administration announced yet another major change to Obamacare. This time, the Obama Administration has decided to provide a temporary exemption from Obamacare’s individual mandate that requires all Americans to have bureaucrat-approved health insurance by allowing Americans whose current coverage has been cancelled due to Obamacare – despite President Obama’s often-repeated promise that they could keep it – the option to purchase bare-bones “catastrophic” plans, or not even purchase coverage at all. “With each passing day, it is becoming more and more clear that the American people don’t want to buy health insurance they can’t afford from a website that doesn’t work. Yet, according to press reports, the Obama Administration has taken this action only after receiving pressure to do so from vulnerable Democratic Senators, some of whom are up for re-election next November. “Instead of recognizing that his signature achievement is a train wreck and delaying it for all Americans, President Obama continues to address problems with Obamacare in a whack-a-mole fashion. What is even more problematic is that President Obama is circumventing the law as it was passed by a Democratic Congress in 2010 by either completely re-writing the law as he sees fit or exploiting certain provisions and regulations by applying them in ways contrary to the original intent. “With millions losing their health coverage, seeing the cost of their premiums skyrocket, and facing the potential of losing their doctors as a result of Obamacare, many Americans are feeling they got an early visit from the Christmas Grinch. The good news for President Obama is it’s not too late for him to turn the holiday season around and give the American people a Christmas gift they really want by delaying all of Obamacare for all Americans.” ###
12.13.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today regarding planned delays and changes made to Obamacare by the Obama Administration: “On Thursday, the Obama Administration announced yet another round of Obamacare delays and policy changes – all of which indicate Obamacare’s January 1st date for coverage to begin will be anything but smooth. Specifically, the Obama Administration announced it was pushing back the deadline for consumers to make their first payment for coverage, pushing back the deadline for consumers to sign up for coverage beginning January 1st, and extending through January the temporary federal high-risk pool – originally slated to terminate at the end of December – that was to provide coverage until exchange coverage was available. It also announced that it was ‘urging’ insurers to provide health coverage and pay claims for consumers who haven’t even made a payment, to treat out-of-network providers as in-network providers, and even to pay for prescription drugs not covered under the plans they offer. “These join a long list of past delays and changes by the administration, clearly indicating that Obamacare is not ready for prime time. Decisions delaying the employer mandate, delaying online enrollment in small business health exchanges, delaying the beginning of the sign-up period for 2015 Obamacare coverage until after the November 2014 election, and allowing health insurers to extend existing coverage made illegal by Obamacare all point to an oncoming train wreck in January. Instead of this constant drip of piecemeal delays, the Obama Administration needs to do the right thing and spare the American people the oncoming train wreck by delaying ALL of Obamacare – preferably permanently.” ###
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement upon passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 (H.J. Res. 59): “As a former co-chair of the less than super ‘supercommittee,’ I am painfully aware of how hard it is to reach a budget agreement in the current political make-up of Washington that addresses our nation’s fiscal challenges. And while I applaud the hard work of Chairman Paul Ryan, Senator Patty Murray, and the other House and Senate negotiators for reaching this point, a bi-partisan budget agreement is, almost by definition, both modest and disappointing, and this one is no different. “As the father of a 10 year-old son and an 11 year-old daughter, I am also painfully aware of the impact our nation’s growing debt will have on future generations if we don’t address it, and address it soon. There is no issue I have worked harder on than attempting to deal with our spending-driven debt. It is unsustainable, unconscionable, and immoral. Not only are we operating on borrowed money, we are operating on borrowed time. “As a conservative, I will never stop fighting to reform our entitlements, cut spending, balance the budget, or lower taxes for hardworking Americans. But the reality is, it takes both houses of Congress and the president’s signature to a make that happen. Some have asked why we don’t just stick with the level of spending called for by the Budget Control Act. That too would require the Republican House and the Democrat Senate to agree on and pass an appropriations measure that President Obama would have to sign into law. “The bill before us today contained both good and bad. The good: this bill enacts into permanent law modest entitlement reforms of mandatory spending programs, including requiring federal workers to pay a more reasonable portion of their retirements. You cannot save America from ultimate bankruptcy without entitlement reforms. That along with an additional $23 billion in deficit reduction is the good. The bad: it increases discretionary spending for two years. After two straight years of discretionary spending reductions, this is the hardest pill to swallow. “Principled conservatives can – and did – disagree on whether or not to support this budget agreement. Though – after great thought and reflection, considering the merits of arguments made both for and against – I ultimately decided that this agreement was worthy of my support, but was a close call.” ###
12.05.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the passing of former South African president Nelson Mandela: “South Africa and the world mourn the loss of a great leader and a bold voice for democracy and basic human rights. Nelson Mandela’s indelible legacy of moral courage will endure, and continue to inspire all those who seek freedom and racial equality. I join all Americans in offering my prayers and condolences to Mr. Mandela’s grieving family and the South African people.”
11.25.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today on the Obama Administration’s deal with Iran. “In 2008, then-Senator Obama said: ‘We cannot allow Iran to get a nuclear weapon. It would be a game-changer in the region. Not only would it threaten Israel, our strongest ally in the region and one of our strongest allies in the world, but it would also create a possibility of nuclear weapons falling into the hands of terrorists. And so it's unacceptable. And I will do everything that's required to prevent it.’ “Unfortunately, as is all too often the case with this president, what he says is not matched by what he does. Easing sanctions and recognizing the regime’s nuclear enrichment program, as this interim deal does, is dangerous; it does not stop Iran’s movement towards a nuclear weapon. “The United States must continue to stand beside our friends and allies in doing whatever it takes to ensure that Iran is not able to gain a nuclear weapons capability. That is why I co-sponsored and voted in favor of a bill that passed the House of Representatives with overwhelming bipartisan support to broaden economic sanctions and tighten enforcement of existing sanctions on the Iranian regime. These stringent sanctions have given us leverage in our dealings with Iran because they are having an impact. Now is not the time to relieve the pressure. “I fear that this dangerous agreement was born of a woeful misapplication of the old Russian proverb made famous by President Reagan in his dealings with the former Soviet Union: ‘trust but verify.’ The Iranian regime’s dishonesty with regards to its nuclear program leaves it wholly undeserving of the trust that the administration seems prepared to place in it. This agreement is all too heavy on the trust and light on the verification.” ###
11.22.2013	Washington - Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) – a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee – released the following statement today regarding the ever growing list of glitches, cancellations, and broken promises of Obamacare. “In June 2009, President Obama said ‘no matter how we reform health care, we will keep this promise: If you like your doctor, you will be able to keep your doctor. Period. If you like your health care plan, you will be able to keep your health care plan. Period. No one will take it away. No matter what.’ “It is now evident the president is zero for two on these promises. Not only have millions of Americans and counting received cancellation notices from their insurance companies, we are now learning they are losing their doctors as well. “Texas Oncology – on which tens of thousands of Texans rely for cancer treatment – announced they will not accept plans in the Obamacare marketplace. UnitedHealth Care, announced it is dropping ‘thousands of doctors from its networks’ because of Obamacare. “This week, we also learned that the exchange websites – where Americans are supposed to go to enter their personal health and financial information – are not secure. The overwhelming majority of witnesses at a hearing conducted by the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology testified that they believed the healthcare.gov website had serious security flaws, stating the site should be pulled down immediately to address them. “Despite the disastrous launch of Obamacare’s exchanges, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi has proclaimed that Democrats will ‘stand tall’ for Obamacare going into the 2014 elections and Democratic National Committee Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz hassaid that ‘Democrats will run on the Affordable Care Act and win’ in 2014. Yet, in a cynical move, the Obama Administration hasannounced that it is delaying the start of the signup period for exchange coverage in 2014 from October 15th until November 15th –just beyond the 2014 midterm congressional election. “As the saying goes, ‘it’s not what you say, it’s what you do.’ Though the president has said Obamacare is great and the website is fine, he continues to change the rules of implementation for his friends and political allies while ignoring the general impact thetrain wreck is having on the average American family.” ###
11.21.2013	Washington - U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed three bills related to our nation’s energy production – the Federal Lands Jobs and Energy Security Act of 2013 (H.R. 1965), the Protecting States’ Rights to Promote American Energy Security Act (H.R. 2728), and the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act (H.R. 1900). “The role of federal regulations should be to keep our economy free, competition fair, and customers safe. Unfortunately, energy producers are drowning under an avalanche of Washington red tape that is anti-jobs, anti-business, and anti-common sense. “Since President Obama took office, total federal oil production is down 7.8 percent and total federal natural gas production is down 21 percent. The Obama Administration has proposed onerous federal regulations on hydraulic fracturing that not only duplicate regulations already in place in the states, but will cost at least $345 million a year. This, coupled with the fact that American companies must wait an average of 307 days for permit approval to drill on federal lands while the average on state lands is 12-15 days, is holding American innovation back, stifling American energy production, and costing Americans jobs and money. “We need an all-of-the-above energy policy to keep prices down for hard working American families and to improve our security by decreasing our dependence on foreign energy sources. The energy bills passed this week will reign in the over-reaching federal government and unleash energy exploration in this country.” ###
11.15.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) – a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee – released the following statement today upon passage of legislation, which he co-sponsored, that will allow American’s to keep their health care plan. “Over and over again, the president and his administration promised the American people that if they liked their health insurance plan, they could keep it. Yet today, nearly 5 million Americans have received letters from their health insurance companies notifying them that their plans will be canceled. “Many of them live in the 5th Congressional District of Texas that I represent. Hardworking Americans like Shelly in Terrell, Jerry in Mabank, William in Dallas, and Joe in Mesquite, all of whom wrote to me after receiving such letters from their insurance companies. “Not only are the American people losing coverage, they are losing confidence in their government and it’s fumbled health care plan. This is unacceptable. “Sadly, what the President offered yesterday was not an act of apology or understanding to the millions who have and will lose their health care – because under the best case scenario, all he has done is slow the pain and damage being done by his health care bill. “Americans are being forced to purchase health care they do not want, at prices they cannot afford, on a website that does not work. The White House is against this bill, claiming it would ‘sabotage' Obamacare, but Americans were promised better, and they deserve better. That is why I voted in favor of the ‘Keep Your Health Plan Act.’” ###
11.11.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) released the following statement commemorating Veterans Day: "Veterans Day is an opportunity to say ‘Thank you’ to those patriots who’ve answered the call to defend us, going into harm’s way so that we can enjoy the blessings of freedom, peace, and prosperity. Freedom is not free – it comes at incredible cost. Today, and every day, let us never forget that. “We must also remember our military families, who are left to carry on while their spouse, parent, or child is away serving on the front lines. Though they may not wear the uniform, they too serve and sacrifice much for the cause of freedom. “Few opportunities are more meaningful to me as a Congressman than when I am given the chance to help our veterans, whether it is obtaining long overdue medals for a hero of WWII, securing VA benefits for a struggling veteran of Korea or Vietnam, or paying tribute to the life of a soldier that was cut short defending freedom in Iraq or Afghanistan. “As the son, grandson, and brother of veterans, I have and will continue to fight for our nation’s soldiers and military veterans. As President Calvin Coolidge once said ‘A nation which forgets its defenders will itself be forgotten.’ I am committed to making sure we never forget.”
11.06.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) – a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee – released the following statement today regarding President Obama’s trip to Dallas, TX to attempt to promote Obamacare. “President Obama has come to Dallas yet again to pick up campaign cash and cheerlead his failed health care law. My constituents and all Americans would be better served by some truthful answers. “I’m sure Joe in Mesquite would like to ask the president why the health care plan he liked has been canceled, even when the president repeatedly promised that would not happen. I’m sure Jackie Dean in Garland would like to know why his premium has increased 33% and Lisa in Terrell would like to know why her family’s plan went up more than $4,000 a year. I know I’d like answers to all of these questions and more. “Rarely does a day go by that I do not hear from one of the millions who are being forced by the president to buy health insurance they don’t want, at a price they cannot afford, on a website that does not work. My own question is, after granting 1,200 waivers from Obamacare to favored companies and labor unions, can he not find it within his heart to give struggling American families the same? The president, who has now lost all credibility by breaking his promise to the American people, might gain just a little of it back if he would answer these questions.” ###
10.30.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) – a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee – announced today he has co-sponsored legislation that will allow Americans to keep their health care plan. “Time and time again, when extolling the virtues of the so-called ‘Affordable Care Act,’ President Obama promised the American people that if they liked their current health care plan, they would be able to keep it. Period. In fact, the president made this promise so often that the Washington Post said the pledge was ‘one of the most famous statements of his presidency.’ In light of recent reports that more than 2 million people are ‘getting booted’ from their current plans and that up to 75 percent of the 14 million Americans who have individual insurance will see their plans cancelled because of Obamacare – something the Obama Administration reportedly knew would happen – the Washington Post also said the president’s claim is a ‘whopper.’ At no point did President Obama qualify his statement to indicate that you could keep your current health plan only if it has not changed since March 23, 2010, even after his own administration had issued a regulation putting that qualification into law. “Sadly, these reports come as no surprise to the countless Americans – including many in my district – who have already received cancellation notices. That is why I am proud to co-sponsor the Keep Your Health Plan Act (H.R. 3350), which would ensure that Americans have what the president promised: the option to keep the plan they have if they like it. The bill would also ensure Americans would not face a penalty under Obamacare for doing so. “As the list of glitches, consequences, and broken promises of Obamacare grows, it is becoming increasingly clear why one of the law’s chief architects called it a ‘train-wreck.’ It is tragic that – in the land of the free – tens of millions of our fellow countrymen are being forced to buy health insurance they don’t want, at prices they cannot afford, on a website that does not work. Though this bill will help ease the burden for many Americans, the burden of Obamacare remains. It is time for the Administration to be honest with the American people about their failed law.” ###
10.16.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling – a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee – released the following statement on the Senate’s continuing resolution and unconditional debt ceiling increase, which the House considered earlier tonight: “Over the last several weeks, I have joined with my colleagues in passing plan after plan to open the vital services of the government. I have co-sponsored legislation to assure a partial government shutdown never occurs again. We have urged the president and Washington Democrats to come to the negotiating table to discuss ways we can work together to address our nation’s unsustainable spending-driven debt crisis and to ensure all Americans are treated fairly and equally under the president’s health care law. Sadly, they refused both. “First, I wish to make clear that default on our sovereign debt is unacceptable, unthinkable, and unfathomable. Unfortunately, the president has tried to conflate default on our sovereign debt with failure to unconditionally raise the debt ceiling. They are not one in the same. Independent analysis from organizations like Moody’s Investor Services and the General Accountability Office attest to this. The president has the legal, financial, and logistical means to avoid a catastrophic default on our sovereign debt. Furthermore, House Republicans passed H.R. 807, the Full Faith and Credit Act, to explicitly authorize payment prioritization and thereby remove the frightening specter of default. Tragically, Senate Democrats have refused to consider it and President Obama has even gone so far as to issue a veto threat. Even so, I – along with other House Republicans – will continue to work for its passage. “Second, every day I hear from constituents across my district whose hours have been cut or whose health care premiums have gone up because of Obamacare. Regrettably, tens of millions are being forced into health care they do not want, at prices they cannot afford, on a website that does not work. I will not quit working to replace the government takeover of our health care system with patient centered health care. “Finally, after having served four terms on the House Budget Committee, the Simpson-Bowles Commission, and the so-called Super Committee, my laptop’s memory is full for reports and testimony attesting to the fact that our nation is on an unsustainable spending path. And the refrain from too many in Washington and on Wall Street continues to be ‘we will deal with that later.’ “Not only as a Congressman, but as the father of an 11-year-old daughter and 10-year-old son, I cannot, in good conscience, support an unconditional increase in the national debt ceiling without any plan or commitment to begin dealing with the debt today. Later no longer suffices.” ###
10.09.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) – chairman of the House Financial Services Committee – released the following statement regarding President Obama’s invitation to meet with House Republicans at the White House tomorrow. “Only one person has the power to ensure we don’t default on our sovereign debt obligations, and that person is the president. House Republicans have shown repeatedly over the last few weeks, in plan after plan, that we are willing to negotiate. After continually refusing to negotiate – both in public comments and in private meetings – I am hopeful that President Obama has invited House Republicans to the White House tomorrow because he wishes to have a serious discussion aimed at finding solutions to our nation’s debt crisis, not to reiterate his refusal to negotiate and to demand we rubber stamp his spending and borrowing plan.” ###
10.05.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) – a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee – released the following statement regarding the actions taken by the House to fund the government. “So far, the House has passed three full bills that would fund the government while addressing the hardships cause by Obamacare. Sadly, the Senate and the president have refused, forcing a shutdown of the federal government. So, to lessen the blow of the Democrat’s shutdown on the American people, House Republicans also passed several bills to fund critical portions of the government: H.J. Res 70 – a bill to provide funding for our national parks so that our World War II heroes can access the memorial they so bravely fought and sacrificed for; H.J. Res 71 – a bill allowing DC to spend local funds; H.J. Res 73 – a bill providing funding for the National Institute of Health so that they can continue vital clinical trials; H.R. 3230 – a bill to ensure the heroes serving in our National Guard and Reserves continue to receive their pay; H.J. Res 72 – a bill funding our Veterans programs to ensure we keep our promises to our nation’s heroes; H.J. Res 85 – a bill funding the Federal Emergency Management Agency; H.J. Res 75 – a bill funding the Supplemental Nutrition Program, and the Women, Infants, and Children nutrition program; H.R. 3223 – a bill ensuring the thousands of federal employees impacted during this shutdown receives pay. “Sadly, only one of these bills has been passed by the Senate and signed by the president. For the most part, what the American people have heard from President Obama and Harry Reid is ‘No. We will not negotiate.’ My mother-in-law always told me that in life, the least you can do is show up. “Millions and millions of our fellow countrymen are either unemployed or underemployed. The President’s economic policies have failed. We want fundamental tax reform, we want to get rid of the red tape burden, and we want to take our nation off the road to bankruptcy. I say this not just as a Member of Congress, I say this as the father of a 10 year old son and a 11 year old daughter. The President says you can’t mess with this spending bill and we want you to rubber stamp the debt ceiling. Republicans say no, no, no Mr. President. We’ll negotiate with you in good faith. Maybe the electorate gave you the White House, maybe they gave you the Senate, but the American people gave the House to the Republican Party and we will not sit idly by while men and women are unemployed, under-employed, wondering how they are going to feed their family. We’re not going to sit idly by while he bankrupts this nation for future generations. No, no, no! We will not sit idly by. We are ready to negotiate, but we are through negotiating with ourselves. The American people will demand, ultimately, that the president and Harry Reid negotiate and we work together to get this economy back and put us on a road to fiscal solvency so that our best days will once again be ahead of us.” ### A video of Congressman Hensarling's remarks on the House floor about these efforts can be viewed here: https://goo.gl/MlvKJn.
09.30.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) – a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee – made the following comments after the House of Representatives passed a third bill to fund the government and avoid a government shutdown. “Tonight, the House voted for a third time to fund the government and avoid a shutdown. Tonight, for a third time, the House has invited Washington Democrats to negotiate with us. At this point, it all comes down to two questions. Under Obamacare, should bosses receive a special deal their workers don’t? Should Members of Congress receive a special deal that every other American doesn’t? These are questions Senator Reid and President Obama must answer for the American people. It really is that simple.” ###
09.20.2013	Washington - U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement today upon House passage of a continuing resolution to fund the government. "Today, the House acted to fund the government and prevent a government shutdown. Today, House conservatives acted – as we have 40 times before – to stop Obamacare, this time by defunding it. And today, the House once again invited the Senate to join us and the American people in this fight. “It’s time for the Senate to stand with the record 53 percent of Americans who disapprove of Obamacare. It’s time for the Senate to stand with Americans whose insurance premiums have grown by an average of $3,000 since 2008 and whose premiums could increase by 20 percent or more because of Obamacare. It’s time for the Senate to stand with the estimated seven million Americans who could lose their employer-based insurance as Obamacare drives employers to reduce or eliminate coverage for their employees. It’s time for the Senate to stand with the countless American job creators whose businesses have been stymied by Obamacare and the Americans who can’t find full-time employment as a result. It’s time for the Senate to stand with the future generations of Americans who will be saddled with a national debt driven by ever increasing health care costs. “Now is the time for the Senate to act. That is why I joined with my fellow House Republicans from Texas in a letter urging Senate Republicans and like-minded Democrats to uphold and support the measure passed by the House today.”
09.19.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and a leading conservative, issued the following statement today upon passage of The Nutrition Reform & Work Opportunity Act (HR 3102). “The original goal of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program – more commonly referred to as food stamps – was to provide a safety net for those who are too old, too young, or too disabled to help themselves and to provide assistance to those who are temporarily down on their luck. In the past five years, the United States has seen unprecedented growth in the program with one in seven Americans currently on food stamps. While some of this increase can be attributed to our nation’s struggling economy, much of the sustained expansion is a direct result of administration policies aimed to further increase dependence on the government. Loopholes that allow people to enroll even though their income exceeds the normal threshold and waived work requirements for able bodied recipients have allowed the program to go well beyond its original goal and left middle class families, who are struggling to make ends meet themselves, to pick up the tab. “The Nutrition Reform and Work Opportunity Act passed by the House today enforces work requirements for able-bodied adults, removes ‘categorically eligible’ designations that allow people to qualify when they don’t meet the income or asset requirements for public assistance, prevents taxpayer funded advocacy campaigns designed to sell people on enrolling in the program, and empowers states to provide and job training for able-bodied recipients. By addressing the key issues which have allowed the food stamp program to balloon beyond its original purpose, this bill not only saves taxpayers almost $40 billion, but strengthens the safety net for children, seniors, and the disabled, and reinforces a principle key to the American dream: the best escape from poverty is a job with a future, not permanent reliance on government.” ###
09.11.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement today in response to the president’s remarks on proposed American intervention in Syria. “Out of respect due the Commander in Chief, I listened intently to President Obama’s address last night. I considered his arguments carefully, and took into account the evidence presented to me by top administration officials in a classified briefing. I have also heard from a number of constituents throughout the Fifth District of Texas, and it is clear that many continue to harbor grave reservations about the necessity and wisdom of military strikes in Syria, and I agree with them. “As the American people know, painfully, after a decade of war, it is easier to get into one of these conflicts than it is to get out of them. Despite the president’s efforts last night, the administration remains unable to articulate a clear strategy and objective for military involvement in Syria, or even to explain how the situation there rises to the level of an imminent threat to the national security of the United States. In addition, the difficulty of distinguishing friend from foe in this region poses the serious issue that proposed military strikes could help factions that do not have our best interests at heart. For these reasons, I cannot support the resolution authorizing the use of military force and committing American resources -- and potentially the lives of our men and women in uniform -- in this conflict. “While the president’s plan for United States military intervention in Syria is not the answer, I remain hopeful for a peaceful resolution to the humanitarian tragedy there. The United States must continue to stand with our allies in unconditionally condemning the use of chemical weapons and seeking other means to prevent the proliferation of these dangerous weapons to terrorist groups, some affiliated with al-Qaeda, now active in Syria. “As the administration pursues the diplomatic plan offered by Russia, they should heed the old Russian proverb made famous by President Reagan in his dealings with the former Soviet Union: ‘trust but verify.’”
09.11.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement today in recognition of the 12th anniversary of the al-Qaeda terrorist attacks against the United States on September 11, 2001 and the 1st anniversary of the attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya. “It has been 12 years since our country was attacked and our world was forever changed when, on a bright September morning, an unthinkable act of evil visited our homeland. No matter how much time passes or how many years go by, we will never forget the lives we lost or the families who still mourn them and miss them dearly. “Americans will forever recall the stunning heroism of our fellow citizens who responded to the chaos in New York and Washington with the courage that defines us as a people. After all, it was on that day that the war against terrorism was begun in the sky above Pennsylvania by a brave patriot and his fellow passengers who chose to fight back. Their fearless charge will never be forgotten. “Instead of letting terror bring us to our knees, our nation stood tall and responded and rebounded in a way that has reminded the world that no adversary is too strong or severe to be overcome and defeated by the United States of America. “The price of liberty—and security—remains eternal vigilance. We were reminded of this truth one year ago today when terrorists attacked our consulate in Benghazi, Libya, killing four brave Americans who had dedicated their lives to the service of our nation. As the House continues to investigate the events surrounding this tragic attack, our prayers remain with the families and loved ones of Ambassador Stevens and the other courageous Americans who honored us with their service and sacrifice. We owe it to them and the American people to find the truth. “On this solemn anniversary, I join the American people in prayer and in paying special tribute to all who have given their lives since 9/11 in defense of our homeland and our cherished freedom. Their sacrifices continue to inspire a grateful nation every day as we continue the fight for a safer and freer world for our children and grandchildren.” ###
09.10.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement today after hosting a telephone town hall meeting with thousands of constituents from across the 5th Congressional District of Texas to hear their thoughts on a proposed military strike in Syria. “Like most members of Congress, I recognize the grave and important matter before us as we weigh the president’s request for military action in Syria. I also realize how vital it is that the voices of the American people are heard in this debate. That is why I hosted a telephone town hall meeting with my constituents tonight. “In listening to concerned citizens from across my district in cities like Mesquite, Forney, Athens, Palestine, Jacksonville, Canton, and Winnsboro, it is clear the president and his administration have been unable to persuade the American people that military action in Syria is the correct thing to do. From questions concerning what clear and present danger Syria poses to our national security, to concerns about how American military action may further destabilize the region and embolden our enemies, to worry over how action could pull the U.S. into a deeper conflict, it is clear from tonight’s call that the American people are not convinced of the need to move forward with the president’s plan. I must say, I agree with them. “Thus far, President Obama has not made a compelling case justifying how military action in Syria – which will require committing American resources and potentially the lives of our men and women in uniform – is in the national security interests of the United States. Even though I disagree with the president most of the time, I will listen attentively tomorrow night as he makes his case to the American people, giving him the respect due the Commander in Chief. However, unless the president lays out a new and more compelling case than the one I’ve received, both publicly and in a classified briefing with top administration officials, I don’t see how I can support his plan for military action in Syria.” ### (PICTURED ABOVE: Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) joins thousands of constituents from across the 5th Congressional District of Texas to discuss the current situation in Syria and to hear their thoughts on the president's proposed military strike.)
09.04.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in response to the president’s call for military action and request for Congressional approval of his proposed response. “Like most members of Congress, I recognize the grave and important matter before us, and I am considering the president’s request and case for military action in Syria very carefully. “As appalled as all Americans are over the Syrian civil war – the use of chemical weapons being the most egregious act amongst a number of atrocities committed thus far – serious questions remain about the precise nature of the president’s proposed response. “Is a U.S. military response vital to protecting U.S. security interests? “If so, how will the president’s proposed response be effective in protecting those interests in both the short and long term? “If this plan is – as the president has said – part of a greater global response, how does the plan for U.S. action fit into larger global efforts, and who will support it? “In a region where distinguishing between friend and foe proves exceedingly challenging, who does the administration identify as our friend? “At the end of the day, how does the president define success in this mission? “The president made the right decision to seek authorization from Congress for military action in Syria. However, he has to effectively make the case for authorizing military action by answering these critical questions if he is to receive the congressional approval he is seeking.” ###
08.29.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement today in response to reports that President Obama is weighing potential military intervention in Syria. “The commitment of American military resources, taxpayer dollars, and – most importantly – potential lives is not something to be taken lightly. Neither is the safety and security of the American people, our homeland, and our interests abroad. Syria is engaged in a troubling and tragic civil war that has drawn outside influences from the Middle East and beyond. While there are a number of reported atrocities being committed in this conflict, the use of chemical weapons certainly ranks as the most egregious act thus far. Even so, President Obama must make the case for intervention in Syria to the American people and to Congress—clearly defining how military action is in the best interest of our national security and credibility abroad, citing the legal authority for such action, and laying out a clear and detailed plan. A decision by the Obama Administration to commit American forces in Syria without meaningful consultation with and support from Congress would be unacceptable.” ###
08.28.2013	A Taxpayer-Friendly Alternative to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac By: Rep. Jeb Hensarling August 28, 2013 Soon we will mark the fifth anniversary of the financial crisis that wrecked our economy, left millions of Americans unemployed and from which we have yet to recover. From a public policy perspective, the great tragedy of the financial crisis was not that Washington failed to prevent it, but that Washington helped lead us into it. The crisis largely started with a noble intention: Every American should own a home. The result was that well-meaning but misguided policies — principally the “Affordable Housing Goals” of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac — either strong-armed or enticed financial institutions into loaning money to people to buy homes they sadly couldn’t afford. In fact, over 70 percent of the nontraditional mortgages that led to the crisis were backed by Fannie, Freddie and other taxpayer-subsidized programs. In typical fashion, Washington responded to the crisis by passing a 2,000-page bill that did more to exploit the crisis than solve it. Today, because it did not solve the problem, taxpayers have been forced to pay for the mother of all bailouts — nearly $200 billion for Fannie and Freddie. That’s unimaginable. Today, taxpayers remain on the hook for more than $5 trillion in mortgage guarantees, roughly $45,000 per American family. That’s unconscionable. Today, the federal government has a virtual monopoly on the housing finance system, enabling Washington elites — similar to those at the IRS — to control who can qualify for a mortgage. That’s unfair. Americans deserve better. We deserve a system that protects current and future homeowners so every American who works hard and plays by the rules can have opportunities and choices to buy homes they can actually afford to keep. We deserve a system that protects hardworking taxpayers so they never again have to bail out big government-sponsored corporations like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or even those who irresponsibly bought expensive homes they couldn’t afford. We deserve a system that finally breaks the Washington-induced destructive cycle of boom, bust and bailout. That’s why the House Financial Services Committee, which I chair, recently approved the PATH Act — the Protecting American Taxpayers and Homeowners Act. The PATH Act creates a sustainable housing finance system by limiting government control, putting private capital at the center of the mortgage system and giving homebuyers more informed choices about their mortgage options. With the PATH Act, we end the bailout of Fannie and Freddie and phase out their failed taxpayer-backed business model. The PATH Act also protects the Federal Housing Administration, which is so overextended that it is heading for its own bailout. Today, FHA can use taxpayers to insure mortgages for millionaires and homes valued as high as $729,750. We return FHA to its traditional mission: serving first-time homebuyers and those with low and moderate incomes, as well as ensuring it will be able to insure loans to any qualified borrower if ever faced with another economic crisis. Finally, the PATH Act removes artificial barriers to private capital to attract investment and encourage innovation. Others, including some who profit from the status quo, have discussed different reform plans. I welcome them, but all of us must be careful. We cannot allow a plan to become law that simply puts Fannie and Freddie in the federal witness protection program, gives them cosmetic surgery and new identities, then releases them upon an unsuspecting public. We can no longer allow Wall Street investment firms to offload their credit risks on Main Street taxpayers under the guise of promoting homeownership. No, America needs real reform and a healthier economy. The best housing program is not a subsidy, guarantee or tax credit; it is a good job in a growing economy. The PATH Act will strengthen our economy. It is our path toward real reform and a truly sustainable housing finance system that’s built to last. Rep. Jeb Hensarling, R-Dallas, represents the 5th Congressional District and is the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. He may be contacted through hensarling.house.gov. View online at The Dallas Morning News here. ###
08.02.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement upon passage of the Keep the IRS Off Your Health Care Act (H.R. 2009), a bill Hensarling co-sponsored that prevents the IRS from implementing or enforcing any part of Obamacare. “The Internal Revenue Service, the same agency which has confessed to using government resources to investigate and harass political opponents of the president, is the very agency the president plans to give the power to oversee Obamacare. If this is what they do with tax applications, what will the IRS do with our personal health records? “After learning how the IRS has been treating taxpayers, the American people are rightly concerned with how they will treat patients. We cannot allow this government agency – which has already trampled on our most sacred right of free speech – to interfere in our personal health care decisions. That is why I was proud to support today’s bill to prevent the IRS from implementing or enforcing Obamacare. ”The majority of Americans agree that Obamacare will have a detrimental impact on our health care, our economy, and our national debt, so it came as no surprise this week when the acting chief of the IRS said he – and the majority of IRS employees – would rather stay with his current plan than switch to Obamacare. House Republicans have voted nearly 40 times to defund, repeal, and replace the law in part of in full. “Moving forward, House Republicans should continue to use every opportunity to stop Obamacare - through measures like today’s vote, the debt limit debate in the fall, or through the appropriations funding process including a potential continuing resolution bill. I have encouraged House Republican Leadership to use all means possible to get rid of this harmful government takeover of our healthcare system. I will never stop working to enact common-sense measures to ensure that every American has the opportunity for patient-centered health care that is affordable, portable, and of high quality so that no debilitating illness will be ever be able to wipe out a lifetime of savings.” ###
07.27.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today in response to House votes earlier this week on amendments to the Defense Appropriations bill offered by Rep. Justin Amash (R-MI) and Rep. Mike Pompeo (R-KS).“Earlier in the week, the House of Representatives debated two important amendments which would have impacted the National Security Agency’s (NSA) data gathering program. Like many, I too have deep concerns about the NSA program’s potential impact on the Fourth Amendment rights of Americans. It is because of these concerns that I voted in favor of an amendment introduced by Rep. Mike Pompeo (R-KS), which explicitly prohibits the NSA from targeting U.S. persons and protects the content of communications from the NSA, ensuring that the NSA cannot access the content of American citizen’s communications without a court-ordered search warrant. “While I remain fiercely committed to defending the Fourth Amendment rights of American citizens, I am equally aware of my constitutional obligation under Article I, Section 8, which gives Congress the duty to provide for the common defense. I also take seriously what those who have served on the front lines, like my colleague Rep. Tom Cotton (R-AR), who saw combat in both Iraq and Afghanistan, have said about how valuable the intelligence obtained from phone data is to keeping our nation and families safe. “Though I agree with the goal expressed by Rep. Justin Amash (R-MI) – which is to protect our Fourth Amendment freedoms – I felt his amendment was too blunt an instrument and I was unable to support it. Like my colleague Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-MN) argued on the House floor, I believe we need to consider all the facts before we take action to completely shut down this program. I strongly support the continued congressional investigations into the NSA program to ensure that this administration is held accountable. That is why I sent a letter to House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers (R-MI) asking him to continue with vigorous efforts to oversee the NSA data gathering program. While I believe a shutdown of the NSA’s data gathering program is premature at this point in time, I remain open to doing just that as oversight and investigations continue. You may be certain that I will continue working to preserve the proper balance between the preserving the individual liberty of the American people and ensuring that we have the tools necessary to protect our nation and families.” ###
07.25.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement today in response to Attorney General Eric Holder’s announcement that the Obama Justice Department will continue to target Texas.“For a supposed constitutional law professor, President Obama and his administration sure seem to have trouble understanding and following the constitution –especially when it comes to the separation of powers. If I were one of the president’s students, I think I’d ask for my money back. The Obama Administration’s decision to circumvent the ruling of the Supreme Court and the will of the voters in Texas is nothing more than brazen attempt to advance the president’s stated political agenda. In addition to learning the constitution, maybe the president should take the time to learn the phrase, ‘Don’t mess with Texas.'” ###
07.24.2013	Sustainable Housing Finance Bill Ends Fannie Mae & Freddie Mac Bailout, Gives Consumers More ChoiceWASHINGTON – Three years after the Dodd-Frank Act failed to address the need for housing finance reform and end the record taxpayer-funded bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the Financial Services Committee – under the leadership of Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) – today approved legislation to end their bailout and create a sustainable housing finance system for America. “The PATH Act creates a housing finance system that’s designed for homeowners so every American who works hard and plays by the rules can have opportunities and choices to buy homes they can afford to keep. It creates a housing finance system that’s designed for hardworking taxpayers so they never again have to bail out corrupt financial government enterprises like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, whose top executives engaged in accounting shenanigans to trigger huge bonuses for themselves,” said Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX). “With the reforms in the PATH Act, Americans will finally have a housing finance system that is worthy of them.” The bill – the Protecting American Taxpayers and Homeowners Act, the PATH Act – ends the largest bailout in history – the nearly $200 billion taxpayer-funded bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac – and phases out the troubled Government-Sponsored Enterprises within five years; increases competition by ending the federal government’s domination of the housing finance market that has left taxpayers liable for $5.1 trillion in mortgage guarantees; and gives consumers more choices in determining which mortgage product best suits their needs. The Financial Services Committee held 12 hearings since January and heard from more than 50 witnesses on the need to create a sustainable housing finance system for America and approved the PATH Act reforms after a 10-hour markup on Tuesday. Opponents Claims Refuted Some opponents of the bill claimed it would end the 30-year fixed rate mortgage, but phasing out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will not end the 30-year fixed rate mortgage since the government-sponsored enterprises are not lenders and such mortgages exist today without a government guarantee. Some opponents of the PATH Act also claimed it would raise cause a rise in interest rates. But, in fact, relative to current law, the PATH Act will make homeownership more affordable. Chief economist Mark Zandi of Moody’s Analytics has testified that one single mortgage-related regulation of the Dodd-Frank Act could cause mortgage interest rates to increase 1-4%. Likewise, the American Securitization Forum stated that a Dodd-Frank regulation “could double the interest rate” and the National Association of Homebuilders has warned that proposed Dodd-Frank regulations “could grind the housing finance system to a halt.” CoreLogic, a firm that analyzes markets, reports 52% of the Americans who bought homes in 2010 would not be able to finance a mortgage under requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act. The non-partisan Congressional Research Service has also stated in a report that Dodd-Frank’s mortgage provisions are likely to “reduce access to mortgage credit” and “increase barriers to homeownership for both creditworthy and disadvantaged borrowers.” “The PATH Act helps taxpayers and homeowners. It gives power and control back to consumers. Under the current broken system, unaccountable Washington elites have more of a say over who gets a mortgage than your local bank. The current system is a government monopoly run by the same types of Washington bureaucrats who run the IRS. America can do better. Americans deserve better,” said Chairman Hensarling.
07.17.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a strong opponent of President Obama’s government takeover of healthcare, released the following statement after the House voted to delay both the employer and individual mandate portions of Obamacare. “Less than two weeks ago, as many Americans were preparing for Independence Day celebrations, the Obama Administration quietly announced they were going to delay the employer mandate portion of Obamacare. The reason? The fallout from the all the problems with the employer mandate would be too great. Funny – when the American people asked for more time so their elected representatives could read the bill before Obamacare was jammed through Congress, President Obama and leading Democrats refused, insisting delays would be harmful. “Though it comes three years late – and is not the permanent delay of the law via full repeal that we desperately need and that I will continue to fight for – I’m willing to support this one year delay if that will help save the American people from a law which the majority of Americans agree will have a detrimental impact on our health care, our economy, and our national debt. That is why, in addition to passing legislation to delay the employer mandate, I also voted to delay the individual mandate for one year. After all, if a delay of Obamcare’s mandate is needed for businesses – many of whom have lobbyists in Washington – shouldn’t hard-working American families receive the same relief? “Instead of welcoming House Republican’s support of the very delay he requested, President Obama issued a veto threat – putting partisan politics above common sense legislation and choosing political gain over the well being of American families and businesses.” ###
06.28.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a leading conservative and Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to House passage of two pieces of legislation aimed at increasing the production of American energy – the Outer Continental Shelf Transboundary Hydrocarbon Agreement Authorization Act (H.R. 1613) and the Offshore Energy and Jobs Act (H.R. 2231): “All across our nation, far too many Americans are sitting around their kitchen tables wondering how they’re going to keep a roof over their head, put food on the table, and gas in their cars to drive kids to school and themselves to a job – if they’re fortunate enough to have one in the Obama economy. These Americans are already struggling to make ends meet, and they’re wondering when they’re going to catch a break. House Republicans want to provide them that break by through expanded offshore energy production which will lower the cost of energy and increase the creation of good-paying American jobs. That’s why we passed the Outer Continental Shelf Transboundary Hydrocarbon Agreement Authorization Act (H.R. 1613) and the Offshore Energy and Jobs Act (H.R. 2231). Both pieces of legislation will make it easier to explore for and produce energy from America’s offshore resources – helping lower the cost for Americans to fill up their cars and heat their homes, and creating good-paying American jobs.” “In stark contrast, President Obama and his radical environmental allies want to drive up the cost of energy. When campaigning for the presidency, President Obama said he believed electricity rates needed to ‘necessarily skyrocket.’ After failing to ram an energy price-raising cap and trade plan through a Democratic-controlled Congress early in his first term, President Obama is back at it once again. Earlier this week, President Obama has unveiled a plan to use the heavy hand of Washington’s regulatory authority to implement policies to accomplish his climate change agenda that will result in the destruction of American jobs and rising energy bills for American families.” “The contrast between President Obama and House Republicans couldn’t be clearer.” ###
06.18.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), issued the following statement today in support of H.R. 1797, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which institutes a nationwide ban on abortion of unborn children 20 weeks after fertilization. Chairman Hensarling is a co-sponsor of the legislation. “As humans and as a people, we have no greater responsibility than to care for the vulnerable—to be a voice for those who cannot speak for themselves and a defender of those who cannot fight for themselves. “I, like all Americans, was disgusted to learn of the horrific and illegal abortion procedures performed by Kermit Gosnell. Gosnell preyed upon women who trusted him in their most vulnerable moments and systematically murdered children at their most helpless stage. We must protect women from these atrocious and unsafe abortions, and we must save children from these excruciating deaths. “In the grand jury report on the Gosnell trial, a neonatal expert reported that the cutting of a baby’s spinal cord during a late-term abortion causes them, ‘a tremendous amount of pain.’ Furthermore, according to a report by fetal pain expert Dr. Kanwaljeet S. Anand, ‘the human fetus possesses the ability to experience pain from 20 weeks of gestation, if not earlier, and the pain perceived by a fetus is possibly more intense than that perceived by term newborns or older children.’ “By banning abortion after 20 weeks, today’s bill will save the lives of innocent children from enduring the excruciatingly painful death of a late abortion.” ###
06.14.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today in support of H.R. 1960, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2014. “Congress has a constitutional duty to ‘provide for the common defense’ in order to safeguard our homeland and the freedoms we cherish. The United States has an exceptional responsibility to stand strong and ready in a world where freedom’s enemies do not rest and threats to our security do not relent. Today’s critical legislation: Gives our defense forces the support they need to carry out their mission: Fully equips our troops, strongly supports military families, and thoroughly prepares our fighting forces for the challenges that await us in the 21st century. Takes care of our military personnel and retirees: Maintains current law mandating a 1.8% annual troop pay increase. Prevents a number of administration proposals for new TRICARE fees and fees increases, while maintaining reforms that put the program on a sustainable path and providing retired beneficiaries an opportunity to remain in TRICARE Prime. Honors victims of Ft. Hood tragedy: Honors the service and sacrifice of those wounded or killed in the attack at Fort Hood on November 5, 2009 by awarding them the Purple Heart medal and grants those killed in the attack combat casualty status, ensuring their surviving relatives receive the benefits their loved one’s sacrifice secured. Combats sexual assault in the military: Provides for specially trained victims’ counsels to provide legal services to victims of sexual assault, strengthens whistleblower protections, and alters the Uniform Code of Military Justice to enhance prosecution of offenders. “To paraphrase Thomas Jefferson: the price of liberty, and security, is eternal vigilance. Today’s legislation recognizes that truth and the full reality of the world’s dangers by ensuring history’s mightiest military is equipped to face them, and I was proud to support it.” ###
05.22.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Northern Route Approval Act (H.R. 3): “I believe America should work to become energy independent of all foreign sources. An important step towards that independence is to become North American independent. Approving the northern segment of the Keystone XL pipeline will allow us to increase our ability to derive energy from our neighbor to the north as opposed to nations like Saudi Arabia or Indonesia where uncertainty is always a factor. Furthermore, the full implementation of the Keystone XL pipeline is expected to create 20,000 jobs here in America at a time when millions of Americans are unemployed and underemployed. “Unfortunately, The Obama Administration has repeatedly dragged its feet when it comes to opening doors to new energy sources for the American people. In other words, America’s increased energy boom is not happening because of the Obama Administration – it’s happening in spite of it. “Despite the fact that the Keystone XL pipeline has undergone extensive environmental studies by the federal government over the past four and half years – all of which have come back favorable – President Obama still refuses to grant the approval needed for construction of the pipeline to begin. Even if President Obama did approve the Keystone XL pipeline, it could be further delayed through frivolous litigation and other stalling measures. Our nation’s economic and security can’t let this important jobs and energy project continue to languish. That’s why the House of Representatives passed the Northern Route Approval Act (H.R. 3), which eliminates the need for a Presidential Permit, limits litigation that could delay the project, and addresses all other necessary federal permits for the Keystone XL pipeline. Similar legislation was necessary in 1973 to allow construction of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline to move forward.” ###
05.22.2013	“I don’t know the level of responsibility that you and the president bear for this scandal, but I know it’s not zero.” CLICK HERE TO WATCH WASHINGTON – At an oversight hearing on the U.S. Treasury Department today, Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) pushed Secretary Jacob “Jack” Lew for answers on the IRS scandal and assurances that Americans will not be targeted under his watch. Chairman Hensarling’s exchange with Secretary Lew is below: Chairman Hensarling (Hensarling): Mr. Secretary, I’m personally not going to spend a whole lot of time with you on discussing who knew what, when, with respect to the IRS scandal but I would like to say this: I don’t know the level of responsibility that you and the president bear for this scandal, but I know it’s not zero. I think the American people would like to hear a little bit more from you and the president that the buck stops here, as opposed to “hear no evil, see no evil, and I know nothing, nothing, nothing.” And that may just be a little bit of unsolicited advice. So I’m not going to look retrospectively, I’m going to look prospectively. I know you’ve seen the forms that the IRS has sent American citizens. The IRS now reports to you, Mr. Secretary, and has for the last two and a half months. So I look through these forms and I find out where the IRS is asking American citizens for all of their activity on Facebook and Twitter, including hard copies of all advertising on social media. Under your watch, will it be appropriate for IRS agents to ask for this information? Secretary Lew (Lew): Mr. Chairman, I take responsibility for the management of the Treasury Department and for the management oversight of the IRS. There is a difference between general management oversight and the very important line that exists between policy roles and and the administration of the tax system. For decades we’ve had appropriate lines…. Hensarling: Mr. Secretary, the administration just fired someone. That would seem to indicate there is some control over the policies of the IRS. So to the extent that you have the ability, and the administration has the ability, to hire and fire the head of the IRS, will it be appropriate for the IRS going forward to ask for this information from American citizens? Lew: Mr. Chairman, if I could just finish the thought that I was on. There is a very important distinction between hiring a commissioner of the IRS and there is one other political appointee at the IRS – that is the General Counsel…. Hensarling: OK, are you positing an inability to impact the policies… (crosstalk) Lew: …and there is involvement on policy matters, but on administration of the tax…… Hensarling: So are you unable to impact the policy? Lew: On policy, I will continue as secretaries of Treasury have, and should, to express views on tax policy… (crosstalk) Hensarling: Ok, in your view is it appropriate… (crosstalk) Hensarling: Mr. Secretary, in your opinion, is it appropriate to ask American citizens about their prayer life, how often they attend prayer meetings, and what percentage of time organizations spend in prayer groups? Lew: Mr. Chairman, I’m not familiar with the specific document that you are looking at. As a general matter, there is the highest regard for the personal privacy… Hensarling: It’s been released by the IRS so I hope you do look at it. Lew: …of individuals is a very high priority. Protecting individuals from the kind of questions that invade their privacy. This is a very high priority. Hensarling: You have some ability to impact who heads the IRS, so in your personal opinion, is it appropriate for the IRS to be asking about the prayer life of American citizens? Lew: Mr. Chairman, it’s a hypothetical question, since I’m not familiar with….. Hensarling: It’s not hypothetical, Mr. Secretary, to the people who received this application on penalty of perjury if they didn’t disclose their prayer lives to the IRS. Lew: Mr. Chairman, I cannot respond to a form that I haven’t had a chance to see. I’m happy to get back to you. Hensarling: Okay, if you would, Mr. Secretary. And after being on the job for two and a half months, and it’s one of the biggest scandals that has rocked Washington in years, I would hope in the matter of priorities of the Secretary of Treasury that you would undertake to review this material going forward. Lew: Mr. Chairman, I have made clear that it is an extraordinarily high priority, my highest priority to restore confidence in the IRS. That’s why we have a new acting commission who is taking over today. His first job is to find out who is accountable and make sure people are held accountable for any actions that were wrongful. Secondly… Hensarling: Mr. Secretary, regrettably my time is running out. I assume you will have ample opportunity to speak more about the IRS. I’m going to change subjects which may be more pleasant for you. In the FSOC report, on page 13, it states “the counsel recommends that the Treasury, HUD and the FHFA continue to work with Congress and other stakeholders to develop housing reform system.” Mr. Secretary, I have been either the Chairman or the Vice Chairman of this committee for the last two and a half years and I am unaware of any activities of either HUD or Treasury to work with Congress. I’m aware of the white paper that was released that has now gathered dust for over two years. So I’m not sure who Treasury and HUD have been working with but it hasn’t been this committee. And I see my time has expired. I would like to have the opportunity to speak to you about this later to find out if the administration intends on doing anything with their white paper besides allowing it to gather dust on housing reform. ###
05.20.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) released the following statement regarding death of Firefighter Stanley Wilson, a 28-year veteran of the Dallas Fire-Rescue Department who tragically lost his life this morning in the line of duty: “The scriptures tell us that ‘greater love have no man than this, that he lay down his life for his friends.’ Today, we grieve the loss of a hero who did just that. Stanley Wilson was, by all accounts, a selfless and dedicated first responder who devoted 28 years of his life to keeping the citizens of Lake Highlands and Dallas safe. Melissa and I join the Lake Highlands community in honoring Stanley for his valiant service and offering our prayers of support and comfort to his loved ones and the Dallas Fire-Rescue family. “I do not know the kind of courage it takes to run into a burning building when everyone else is running away, but I am thankful for men like Stanley Wilson who do. May the grief of the Wilson family be tempered by the knowledge that their husband and father is, and will always be, a hero.” ###
05.16.2013	“Obamacare is not some ugly duckling that one day is going to grow into a beautiful swan. It’s just ugly—and getting uglier by the day.” CLICK TO VIEW VIDEO WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today after voting to fully repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, also known as “Obamacare.” This is the 37th time the House has voted to repeal Obamacare either in part or entirely.“Senator Max Baucus, one of the principle architects of Obamacare, recently referred to the law as ‘a huge train wreck.’ Obamacare is not just a huge train wreck; it is a trail of broken promises: The president promised health care premiums would go down thanks to Obamacare. Instead, the average family’s annual premium has increased $3,000 since 2008, and one national insurer predicts a 96% average increase for new customers in the individual market for 2014; The president promised that those who liked their health insurance could keep it. Instead, as many as 65 million hardworking Americans are going to lose their existing employer-sponsored coverage; Much of the $1 trillion in new taxes contained in the law will fall on average, hardworking American families – despite the president’s promise that no family making less than $250,000 would see a tax increase; The president said he “refuse(d) to do anything that undermines the basic idea of Medicare as a guarantee for seniors who get sick.” Instead, because of his health care law, senior enrollment in Medicare Advantage will be cut in half by 2017 and their health care will be rationed by the Independent Payment Advisory Board – one of 159 boards, commissions, and programs that have been created by the law and placed between Americans and their doctors; Speaker Pelosi boldly promised that Obamacare would create 4 million jobs. Instead, the Congressional Budget Office says that our labor force is going to shrink by almost a million people over the next decade due to the law. Other studies predict that could be higher—almost 3.2 million. “And this doesn’t even take into account that the Internal Revenue Service, the very same agency which just confessed to using government resources to investigate and harass political opponents of the president, is the very agency the president plans to give the power to oversee Obamacare. If this is what they do with tax applications, what will the IRS do with our personal health records? After all, this is not just a government program. It puts 1/5 of our economy – and more importantly your healthcare – in the hands of IRS bureaucrats.“Obamacare is not some ugly duckling that one day is going to grow into a beautiful swan. It’s just ugly—and getting uglier by the day. “Maybe now that Democrats realize the detrimental impact this law will have on the health care of millions of Americans, our economy, and our national debt, they will work with us to improve health care in a way that does not allow the government to undermine the patient-doctor relationship, harm job creation or our economy, or hasten our national bankruptcy. “I will never stop working to enact common-sense measures to ensure that every American has the opportunity for patient-centered health care that is affordable, portable, and of high quality so that no debilitating illness will be ever be able to wipe out a lifetime of savings.” ###
05.10.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today in response to the Obama Administration’s admission that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has been targeting conservative groups. “I am outraged by the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) admission today that they targeted conservative groups. The revelation that government resources were used to investigate or harass one’s political opponents is unthinkable. This is the kind of thing you would expect from at third-world dictatorship, not the United States of America. There must be an investigation at the highest levels of government into this inexcusable, indefensible, and dangerous abuse of power.” ###
05.09.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement today in response to President Obama’s trip to Texas to discuss his administration’s plan to create jobs. “I think it’s ironic that the president decided to start his jobs tour in Texas considering the things that make our state a leader in job creation – low taxes, sensible regulations, and a balanced budget – seem to be foreign concepts to the president. In fact, from the excessive regulations in legislation he considers his landmark achievements like the Dodd-Frank Act and Obamacare, to the $1.6 trillion in additional taxes he has added to the economy over the next 10 years, and the 58 percent increase in our national debt since he took office, one might wonder why the President is visiting Texas at all since he doesn’t seem to believe in our model for job creation. “I hope the president will spend his time in Texas talking to hardworking taxpayers like the single mom from Chandler who wrote me recently saying that she is struggling to make ends meet due to tax increases and the rising cost of gas and insurance. I hope he will hear from Texas job creators like the Palestine plant operator who told me, when I visited his business recently, that out of control regulations from Washington and the uncertainty they bring make it nearly impossible to expand his business and hire more workers. “If the president will truly listen to the people of Texas, maybe he will come back to Washington ready and willing to work with us to truly address the economic challenges that threaten job creation.” ###
05.08.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement today following a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s hearing that brought to light significant new information about the terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya, which resulted in the killing of four Americans, including U.S. Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens. At the hearing, three witnesses with knowledge of the situation in Benghazi before, during, and after the attack provided testimony that differs substantially from the official account produced by the Obama Administration’s Accountability Review Board. “It is important that the American people are told the truth regarding last September’s tragic assault on Americans serving our county in Libya. Unfortunately, in this matter, the Obama Administration’s apparent intimidation of potential whistleblowers and continued obstruction remains counterproductive. “From the testimony of Gregory Hicks, former Deputy Chief of Mission and Ambassador Stevens’s second-in-command in Libya, and other witnesses who spoke today, we know that several aspects of the administration’s account of the Benghazi attack were wrong or misleading—from administration officials seeking to ‘scrub’ the terrorist connection from its talking points about Benghazi by characterizing the incident as a spontaneous demonstration in response to a YouTube video, to the assertion that the U.S military was not in a position to respond soon enough that night. The latter is made even more tragic by Hicks’s testimony that military assets attempting to respond to the Benghazi attack were told to stand down, when timely U.S. military action might have been able to save American lives. “While these witnesses were able to shed some important light on the events surrounding Benghazi, unanswered questions remain. The American people deserve the truth and the Obama Administration owes us answers. I applaud Chairman Issa for holding today’s hearing and the chairman of the other four committees of jurisdiction for continuing their rigorous investigation into these tragic events.” ###
05.08.2013	CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, made the following remarks on the House floor today in support of the Full Faith and Credit Act (H.R. 807): “I thank the distinguished Chairman of the Rules Committee for yielding, Mr. Speaker. I also want to thank the gentleman from California, Mr. McClintock, who has been perhaps the most cogent defender of the constitution on the floor of the United States House of Representatives and who has provided his leadership today to ensure that we do not have default on sovereign debt but we put this nation on a path to fiscal sanity, and I thank him for his leadership. “Mr. Speaker, the folks in the Fifth Congressional District of Texas that I’m proud to represent, have a lot of insecurity about their personal economy, and they have great fear that their children will not enjoy a brighter future. “I heard my friend, the gentleman from Colorado, say that everyone gets paid. Well, Mr. Speaker, maybe that's part of the problem. Maybe that is one of the reasons why under President Obama’s leadership there has been more debt created in the last four years than in our nation's first 200. We are awash in debt and Mr. Speaker, we know that we have a debt not because we have insufficient taxes, but because we spend too much. Math is a pesky thing. “In the last 10 years, the Department of Agriculture’s spending is up 114 percent, H.U.D. up 61 percent, H.H.S. 79 percent. Our total government spending has increased 70 percent, and the family budget – measured by family median income – the family budget, which has to pay for the federal budget is down six percent. “Now, some have said: ‘Well revenues are a problem.’ Revenues are up 52 percent, but you can't raise taxes enough to chase the spending that the Democrats and the president want to foist upon the American people. They have put us on a path to national bankruptcy. At some point we've got to quit spending money we don't have. “Again, we are on the precipice of a debt crisis, and we have it because of spending too much. “Now some on the other side of the aisle, their answer to the debt ceiling is to get rid of it. Some have introduced legislation just to get rid of the debt ceiling. You know, that's kind of, Mr. Speaker, like a fire breaks out in your home and your response is to unplug the smoke detector because of that nuisance noise in the background that maybe your house is on fire. And I would remind my friends on the other side of the aisle, Greece didn't have a debt ceiling vote, and yet we have Democrats who say no, let's just get rid of it. But for those who believe that we're not going to get rid of it, we have other friends from across the aisle who essentially want to use it as a hostage; a hostage for something that is not a debt. “A debt is when you go out and you borrow money and you must pay it back. Every family understands this. It’s one thing for an American family to borrow money to pay their mortgage versus borrowing money so that they can pay for a Las Vegas vacation that they would like to take. They are not equivalent. “Mr. Speaker, paying sovereign debt is not the same thing as borrowing money so that this institution and this town can continue to spend money for pottery classes in Morocco, to pay for the travel expenses of the Alabama Watermelon Queen, to pay for robotic squirrels, and all the rest of the lunacy that this federal government spends and takes away, takes bread off the table of hardworking American families. “Now Mr. Speaker, we believe that the president has this power. But he says: ‘Oh, no, no, I don't have this power.’ And so I find it ironic that we are willing to codify what we already believe to be the law of the land and the president says: ‘No, I want to veto that.’ Again, he wants to use this as a hostage. “This is a very simple bill, introduced by the gentleman from California, to require our treasury to make good on all of our debt payments, that's it. We must stop borrowing money to squander our children's future. This bill will help us do this. “But the Democrats, they don't want to take this specter of default off the table. It's the only way they can continue spending. Now, they say they do and if they do, Mr. Speaker, I look forward to seeing their name up on the big board, soon. “This is the right thing and the smart thing to do, and I urge the House adopt this rule and adopt this bill.” ###
04.26.2013	CLICK TO PLAY VIDEO WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, announced this week that the committee would not recognize President Obama’s unconstitutionally appointed czar: “No unelected Washington bureaucrat should have the power to decide whether a family in Mineola can obtain a mortgage, a factory worker in Jacksonville can get a car loan, or a farmer in Athens can have a credit card in order to buy feed. “Unfortunately, that is exactly what the benignly named 'Consumer Financial Protection Bureau' (CFPB) was designed to do. Dodd-Frank gives the CFPB director unprecedented control over the financial destiny of Americans with virtually none of the checks and balances that apply to other government agencies. “Not only does this agency represent an assault on the fundamental economic liberties of American consumers, but a federal court recently ruled that the process President Obama used to appoint its director was unconstitutional. “By law, the Financial Services Committee – which I chair—can only receive testimony from a director who is appointed in accordance with the Constitution and the law. That is why I announced this week that the committee will continue to conduct rigorous oversight of the CFPB, but we will not recognize President Obama’s unconstitutional appointment. “As long as I am chairman of the Financial Services Committee, we will follow the law.” ###
04.25.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) made the following remarks after attending the dedication of the George W. Bush Presidential Library and Museum today: “It was a pleasure to be in Dallas today to honor the service of President George W. Bush and to commemorate the grand opening of his presidential library and museum. “I first met, then citizen, George W. Bush on the campaign trail for his father—he a loyal son and I a dedicated staffer for Senator Phil Gramm. Little did I know then that I was in the trenches with our future president. Even at that first meeting more than two decades ago, his integrity, deep faith, love of his family, and dedication to our great nation were evident. And it was those characteristics that guided his presidency. “There are many defining moments in a presidency. Though history will ultimately judge his legacy, there will be no question that September 11, 2001 was one such moment for President Bush. Thanks to his leadership, resolve, and dedication to the safety and security of the American people, my eleven-year-old daughter and nine-year-old son live in a safer, more secure America and for that, I will always be grateful.” ###
04.12.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) announced today that this year’s North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum will be held on Saturday, April 20, 2013. This informational forum, which Hensarling co-sponsors, provides interested students in grades eight through twelve an opportunity to learn more about our nations’ service academies, requirements for admission, and the selection process. Representatives from North Texas congressional offices and all five military service academies—U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and U.S. Air Force Academy—as well as current academy cadets and midshipmen will be on hand to speak with interested students, parents, and educators about these premier educational institutions and the career opportunities they generate. Representatives from the Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Corps ROTC will also attend. The Forum, which is free and open to the public, will be held from 8:00 AM – 12:00 PM, with registration beginning at 7:30 AM. Those with questions about the forum or the service academy nomination process are encouraged to contact Margaret Smith in Congressman Hensarling’s Dallas office at 214-349-9996 WHAT: North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum WHEN: Saturday, April 20, 2013 TIME: Registration- 7:30 AM; Forum- 8:00 AM – 12:00 PM WHERE: Coppell High School (185 W. Parkway Blvd., Coppell, TX 75019)
04.10.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding the budget President Obama submitted to Congress today, 65 days after the statutory deadline: “Apparently, the president assumes the American people are grading on a very steep curve when it comes to his budget passing the test of fiscal responsibility. I don’t know any other explanation for President Obama submitting a budget that increases spending by $964 billion, adds $8.2 trillion to the national debt, raises taxes by $1.1 trillion, largely ignores the major drivers of our nation’s debt, and doesn’t come close to balancing – ever. This year, President Obama doesn’t even get a participation grade for merely submitting a budget, as this budget is 65 days late and marks the first time in over 90 years that the presidential budget submission was not the starting point of the budget process. “Shrinking paychecks combined with increasing gas and grocery prices have left Americans struggling to make ends meet. The last thing they need is for their president to raise their taxes, add more regulatory uncertainty for job creators, and ignore our looming debt crisis. These hardworking Americans want opportunity and a main street economy where, if they work hard and play by the rules, everyone can succeed. “The balanced Republican budget provides the fairer economy and greater future for our children that the American people demand, and I was proud to support it.” ###
04.08.2013	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement honoring the life and legacy of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher upon news of her passing: “The world owes an enormous debt of gratitude to Margaret Thatcher. This Iron Lady knew no oppressor she would not challenge and no person who could not be helped through the hard work and individual responsibility that allowed a grocer’s daughter to become a prime minister. Though her time on this earth comes to an end, her spirit lives on in the hearts and minds of freedom-loving people the world over. May we now continue to honor her legacy by taking up the mantle of freedom she dedicated her life to advance.” ###
04.01.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) released the following statement regarding the shooting of Kaufman County District Attorney Mike McLelland and his wife Cynthia: “The shooting of Mike and Cynthia McLelland is nothing short of a tragedy that has shocked our nation. I have known Mike as someone who embodies the role of a dedicated public servant at all times. This incident and the shooting of Mark Hasse are stark reminders that our law enforcement personnel put their safety and lives on the line every day. Melissa and I join citizens across Texas and our nation in offering our prayers of support and comfort to the McLelland family, friends, and coworkers. “I am confident that law enforcement at all levels will work to apprehend and prosecute those responsible for these brazen murders.”
03.21.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today upon final passage of a continuing resolution to fund the government through the end of the fiscal year. “Not only did the Senate join the House in passing legislation to fund the government through the end of the fiscal year at reduced spending levels, but for the first time in nearly four years, the Senate actually produced a budget. “Though the House and Senate budgets differ greatly – for example, the House Republican budget balances while the Senate Democrat budget never does – the mere existence of a Senate budget is a victory as it allows us to have a true debate on the fiscal course of our nation. “With the continuing resolution completed and both chambers putting forth a budget, the House and Senate can begin working together to pass a budget solution that I hope will reduce out of control government spending and address the true drivers of our unsustainable debt.” ###
03.20.2013	“No nation in the history of the world has ever taxed its way into prosperity. America will not be the first.” CLICK HERE TO WATCH THE FLOOR REMARKS WASHINGTON – House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) spoke on the floor of the House today during debate on the FY2014 Budget, urging his colleagues to pass a balanced budget and put our nation back on a fiscally sustainable path: “We’ve heard from so many of our colleagues that budgets are about priorities, and I believe this to be true. So what does it say about Democrats’ priorities when the president is almost two months late in submitting his budget, and Senate Democrats have taken over four years to even bother to write a budget? I suppose it says, Mr. Chairman, that budgets have a way of getting in the way of Democrats as they wish to tax us more, as they wish to borrow more money from China, money our kids will have to pay back. And budgets get in the way of Democrats wanting to spend more of our money on a Washington-insider economy that doesn’t work for the rest of us. “Now we know that Obamacare just raised a trillion dollars of taxes, much of it falling on working families. The so-called ‘fiscal cliff’ raised taxes almost another $700 billion, much of it falling on small business owners who can no longer offer raises, promotions, or even hire new workers. And now, all these Democrat budgets are looking for an additional trillion dollars of tax increases on top of that. That comes out to about $9,000 for every working household in America. Mr. Chairman, that’s not fair. That’s not helpful to this struggling economy. No nation in the history of the world has ever taxed its way into prosperity. America will not be the first. “Mr. Chairman, no nation has ever spent its way into prosperity either, yet the Democrat budgets continue a spending spree that is driving us towards national bankruptcy. A day of reckoning is coming. You cannot have federal programs growing at 2%, 4%, 6%, 8% when the new reality under this president is 1.5% to 2% economic growth, and the family budget, which ultimately pays for the federal budget, is stagnant. “Now the families that I represent in the 5th Congressional District of Texas, they have several concerns. They want to feel more secure in their jobs. They want to quit seeing their paychecks shrink in the face of higher prices. They want a healthier economy where their success is dependent upon how well they work, not on who they know in Washington. In other words, they don’t want a Washington-insider economy where they can only succeed if Democrats choose to ‘invest’ in them. Mr. Chairman, not every American belongs to a government employee labor union that supported the president in the last election; not every American has a failing, bankrupt solar energy company. And so for the rest of them, these hard working Americans, they want an opportunity, and they want a main street economy – that if they work hard and they play by the rules, every American can succeed. And finally, the people I represent, they believe it is just immoral, immoral to saddle our children with these trillions of dollars of debt. ###
03.13.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today in support of the Preserving the Welfare Work Requirement and TANF Extension Act of 2013 (H.R. 890). H.R. 890 prohibits the Obama Administration from waiving the work requirements in the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) program, which was an essential element of the 1996 welfare reform law requiring states to ensure 50 percent of their welfare caseload is engaged in or preparing for work, and reauthorizes the TANF program through the end of 2013: “The historic 1996 welfare reform law was based on the premise that the best escape from poverty is a job with a future, not permanent reliance on government. This reform law – which ensured a strong safety net for those who are too old, too young, too disabled to help themselves and those who are temporarily down on their luck – improved the lives of countless families and individuals. “The Obama Administration’s removal of work requirements undermines this historic achievement and puts dependency ahead of opportunity. “’Fairness’ comes not from limiting opportunities, but from expanding them. The bill passed by the House today preserves the success of the 1996 welfare reform law and ensures we remain a society which cherishes the dignity of work and promotes the happiness that comes when individuals are able to climb the ladder of earned success.”
03.13.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today after House Republicans met with President Obama. “The only way we can solve our nation’s spending-driven debt crisis is by working together, so I applaud the president for meeting with House Republicans today. And while I find myself agreeing with much of what the president says, I disagree with most of what the president does. “The president has promised spending reductions would be a part of the deal to avoid the fiscal cliff. The president got his tax increases, but he has yet to deliver on the spending cuts he promised the American people. “The president has said the sequester was ‘a bad idea’ and ‘would not happen.’ Yet the president and Senate Democrats refused to consider either one of the two bills House Republicans passed to replace the cuts with common-sense spending reductions that did not jeopardize national security. “The president has warned that the main drivers of our spending-driven debt crisis are our entitlement programs. Unfortunately, despite explicit warnings from Medicare and Social Security trustees that these programs will soon be bankrupt and break the promise of these programs for current and future retirees, the president has yet to put forward a proposal to save them. “It is my sincere hope that the president will stop talking about what needs to be done and start working with House Republicans to address the challenges we face." ###
03.06.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today upon House passage of a continuing resolution to fund the government through the end of the fiscal year. “By funding the government through the end of the fiscal year at reduced spending levels, the bill passed in the House today – though not perfect – is one small but vital step towards fiscal sustainability. “While the president and members of his administration continue their campaign to scare the American people with false reports of airline delays and teacher pink slips or canceled self-guided White House tours in an attempt to bolster their ‘sky is falling’ narrative on the impact of the sequester, House Republicans have acted to prevent a government shutdown. “Make no mistake about it—if the president continues his attempt to scare the American people with the threat of a government shutdown, it will be because he has failed to act. “Our nation’s debt crisis is a result of Washington spending too much, not taxing too little. The president already got his tax increases, yet he has failed to deliver the spending cuts he promised the American people. It is past time for the president and Senate Democrats to stop playing games and get serious about working with House Republicans to address our spending-driven debt crisis.” ###
02.26.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) – a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee – joined CNBC’s The Kudlow Report and FNC’s Hannity last night to discuss the Federal Reserve’s monetary policy and President Obama’s harmful sequestration. CLICK TO WATCH KUDLOW CLICK TO WATCH HANNITYHensarling on the effects of the Federal Reserve’s monetary easing: (from “The Kudlow Report”) “I have the greatest amount of respect for Chairman Bernanke. But whether we're on QE-3, QE-33, or QE-Infinity, I feel that the marginal benefit of the policy is almost negligible and the risks are considerable. The risks of incredibly high inflation are possibly bringing us into a next recession. Chairman Bernanke could prove to be Chairman Houdini and unwind this whole chained-in box at exactly the right time, but I have severe doubts. I mean, you know to get a healthy economy, to get economic growth, it's not a monetary policy challenge we have today, it has everything to do with too many taxes, dumb regulation, vilifying success in Washington, and lots of uncertainty about the national debt. “Why are banks sitting on -- I think it's $1.6 trillion or $1.7 trillion in excess reserves? You look at non-financial corporate balance sheets, and you see a comparable number. I mean, there's over $3 trillion sitting on the sidelines. What is more QE going to do but create an incredible inflationary pressure? And at some point this economy is going to take off, and so there's an incredible inflationary risk here, number one. It could happen tomorrow, it could happen the next day. I don’t know how to time it, but sooner or later we know that if the chairman doesn't unwind this properly, there's going to be a huge problem. And today, you talk to my constituents in East Texas when they're filling up their Ford F-150 pickup trucks, I can assure you they are feeling inflation. Whether or not it's part of the chairman's core inflation, they feel it.” On the president’s indiscriminate sequestration cuts:(from “The Kudlow Report”) “If the president says this isn't the way to go about it—it's well established that it was his idea in the first place. That’s been admitted by his spokesman. So number one, it's his idea in the first place. Second of all, he is the chief executive. He has the ability to manage this to some extent. I mean, is he the commander in chief or is he the scarer in chief? The bottom line is, as Kay pointed out…I would prefer that we not do these indiscriminate cuts, but come on. There are so many families in East Texas that I represent that would trade their challenge for the challenge of trying to get by on 2.5 percent less. Over the last ten years, the federal budget has almost doubled. At some point, you've got to quit spending money you don't have and borrowing 30 to 40 cents on the dollar from the Chinese and sending the bill to our children and grandchildren. On the president’s plan to replace his sequester: (from “The Kudlow Report”) “What the president is trying to do is frankly a shell game. When he talks about a balanced approach, he already has $600 billion in revenue. You know, where's the $3 in budget savings for every $1 in revenue? We haven’t seen that. All he talks about is revenue.” On our spending-driven debt crisis:(from “Hannity”) “I've got a nine-year-old son; my daughter is turning eleven on Thursday. And you’ve nailed it. This is not just an economic question, it's a moral question. It is a question of generational theft. You know, Sean, at what point do you quit spending money you don't have? If we continue on this trajectory – the one that the president and the democrats have put us on – you know, our children are going to be competing for fewer jobs, with shrinking paychecks, living in smaller, older homes, and they're going to be confined to small, timid dreams. We are on the verge of being the first generation in America's history to leave the next generation with less freedom, fewer opportunities, and a lower standard of living, and that's frankly immoral. “The deficit is the symptom; it is spending that is the disease. I mean, over the last ten years, federal spending has almost doubled and the economy has only increased about 15 to 16 percent, and working families haven’t seen their income increase at all. It is a spending problem, and right now, the president has taken spending from 20 percent of the economy to about 25 percent and it's on its way to 40 percent. I mean, at this spending trajectory, working families are going to have tax rates that will make France's new socialist president blush.” ###
02.15.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) – a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee – issued the following statement on H.R. 273 which eliminates the 2013 statutory pay adjustment for Federal employees: “Across our nation, too many hardworking Americans are watching their paychecks shrink and the cost of gas, health care, and putting food on the table climb. In order to get by, families – including many in the Texas communities I represent – are forced to tighten their belts and do with less just to make ends meet. All the while, our national debt tops $16 trillion and climbing. “While continuing to keep the pay of Members of Congress and federal employees frozen for another year won’t solve our problems on its own, it is one step among many we can take to put our nation back onto a sustainable fiscal path. “The president obviously feels that Washington has earned an across-the-board pay increase. Too many problems face our nation that Washington has failed to properly address. Working Americans across the nation only receive a pay raise – if they earn one at all in this economy – as a result of positive performance. Washington should be no different.” ###
02.12.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) – a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee – issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “The president’s speech tonight can be summed up in a few short words: same song, different verse. By and large, the problems we face today – out of control spending, high unemployment, rising health care costs, entitlement programs on a fast track to insolvency – are not new. Regrettably, neither are the president’s solutions to these problems. “For the past four years, the president has talked about the problems we face and promised solutions. Unfortunately, the results have failed to live up to his rhetoric.”
02.06.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) – a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee – issued the following statement today upon passage of the “Require a PLAN Act” (H.R. 444) legislation he cosponsored that requires the White House to submit a balanced budget to Congress: “House Republicans have consistently put forward fiscally sustainable budgets, and will do so again this year with a budget that balances in 10 years, because we know that America’s spending-driven debt crisis is the greatest existential crisis we face as a nation. Nothing less than our economic freedom and security and that of our children and grandchildren is at stake. “After four years of budgets with taxes and spending that harm our economy from the White House, and no budget at all from the Democrat controlled Senate, the American people – who work hard each day to balance their own budgets – have had enough. “If the Democrats who control Washington can’t be counted on to do the job the American people elected them to do and pass a budget on their own, House Republicans will do everything in our power to require them to do so. “If we are to avert our nation’s oncoming spending-driven debt crisis, it is absolutely critical that Washington Democrats engage in an honest debate with House Republicans about the choices we face as a nation and work with us to find common sense solutions to our nation’s fiscal challenges.” ###
02.05.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) – chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and sponsor of the Sequestration Transparency Act – issued the following statement today in response to President Obama’s statement on sequestration: “The sequester was President Obama’s idea—he proposed it and he insisted it be a part of the 2011 debt limit deal. House Republicans have voted twice to replace the arbitrary and harmful sequestration cuts with targeted, common-sense spending reductions that do not threaten our national security. Unfortunately, Senate Democrats rejected those plans, offering no replacement solutions of their own. “While it is encouraging to see that the president now agrees that his sequestration plan is ‘harmful’ and ‘economically damaging,’ his call for higher taxes on hard-working American families will only serve to discourage economic growth. “To create the kind of healthy economy the American people want and deserve, we must reform our tax code and stop out of control Washington spending.” ###
02.05.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) – chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and formerly the number two Republican on the House Budget Committee under now Chairman Paul Ryan – issued the following statement regarding the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) release of its annual Budget and Economic Outlook: “While the Obama Administration may believe that it has ‘acted with great fiscal responsibility,’ there is mounting evidence to the contrary. The latest jobs report shows unemployment remains stymied. The latest economic growth report shows the economy is shrinking. Now we receive word through today’s CBO report that our nation is continuing down the path to national bankruptcy, as this year’s deficit is projected to be $845 billion, and our publicly held debt continues to rise and set post-war records as a share of the economy. “President Obama may believe these reports reflect a healthy economy, but hardworking American taxpayers know better. While the Democrats who run Washington may be content to continue doing the same things over and over again while hoping for different results, House Republicans will put forth a budget that offers common sense solutions that address our spending-driven debt crisis and restore fiscal sanity to Washington so that we may pass onto our children and grandchildren the same economic freedom and security our parents and grandparents gave to us.” ###
02.05.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s failure to submit a budget to Congress by the statutory deadline yesterday: “Yet again, President Obama has missed the deadline set in law to submit his annual budget to Congress. In fact, this is the fourth time in five years that President Obama has failed to meet this deadline. While the president is doing slightly better than the United States Senate – which hasn’t passed a budget in almost four years – this is still not a record to be proud of. The American people deserve better. “It is unfortunate that the Democrats who control Washington can’t seem to be bothered with fulfilling their responsibilities under our nation’s budget laws. After four straight years of trillion dollar-plus deficits, a $16 trillion-plus national debt, and our nation firmly on its way to becoming Greece if we don’t stop spending money we don’t have, I can think of little that should be a higher priority to President Obama and Senate Democrats than putting forward a budget that shows the American people how they plan to put our nation onto a sustainable fiscal path. “House Republicans have done the job the American people sent us here to do by consistently passing fiscally-responsible budgets. Though Washington Democrats have criticized these budgets, they have yet to offer any real solutions of their own. It’s time for them to get off the sidelines and get into the debate. That’s why just a few weeks ago the House passed legislation to withhold Senators’ pay until they pass a budget, and this week the House will pass legislation requiring the President to submit a balanced budget proposal. In the coming weeks, House Republicans will again pass a budget that puts our nation on a path to a balanced budget within 10 years, and we will again ask Washington Democrats to work with us to find common sense solutions to our nation’s fiscal challenges. For the sake of our economic freedom and security, and the future of our children and grandchildren, we hope they will.” ###
02.01.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), a leading conservative and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today regarding the latest unemployment report released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics which found that the unemployment rate increased to 7.9 percent. “Even with 157,000 of our fellow citizens finding employment last month, America still is experiencing an economic deficit due to President Obama’s failed economic policies. Historically, our nation's economy has grown around three percent annually, but under President Obama, the new normal has become around two percent. In fact, just this week we learned that the U.S. economy shrank during the fourth quarter of last year for the first time since 2009. “Even while the unemployment rate has not fallen below what it was when he took office, the president has announced he's calling it a day on his so called “jobs council” after only four meetings in two years. President Obama and Senate Democrats may think this is what an economic recovery looks like, but this is not what one looks like to the men and women of East Texas who either want a job and can’t find one, or are struggling to make ends meet because of shrinking paychecks. “Our economic deficit does not exist because the federal government has not spent enough money, has taxed too little, or hasn’t issued enough regulations. It exists because Washington is spending our nation into a debt crisis, our nation’s tax code is too complex and anti-growth, and our nation’s job creators are drowning in a sea of red tape. “To get our nation’s economy healthy and growing and creating jobs, we must enact pro-growth policies. That means we must stop spending money we don’t have; enact fundamental tax reform to make our tax code fairer, flatter, simpler, and more competitive; and remove the burden of excessive and unnecessary Washington red tape that is currently holding back economic growth and job creation.” ###
01.25.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) – a leading conservative and Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee – released the following statement regarding the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit's ruling on President Obama’s alleged “recess” appointments: "President Obama’s administration has too often demonstrated a disregard for legislative authority and the separation of powers. In making these appointments, he essentially tried to erase from our Constitution the requirement – placed there by America’s founders – that senior executive branch officials be appointed only with the “advice and consent” of the Senate. This Constitutional requirement is a check on the abuse of executive power, and clearly President Obama overreached. "This ruling makes clear that the President’s alleged recess appointment of the CFPB director is unlawful or unconstitutional or both. It also clearly calls into question the legal validity of any and all actions undertaken by the CFPB since this appointment was made, adding even greater uncertainty to our still struggling economy. "As it is currently structured, the CFPB is the most powerful and least accountable agency in all of Washington. The Dodd-Frank Act places the CFPB under the control of a single person who has sole authority to command more than 1,000 government employees and spend hundreds of millions of dollars – no questions asked. In addition, the CFPB director has unprecedented power to decide what financial products and services will – and will not -- be available to everyday American consumers. No one unelected bureaucrat should have the power to deny a credit card to a hardworking single mother who is trying to put food on the table for her children. "Congress and the Administration should take this opportunity to make common sense reforms to the CFPB so it is transparent and accountable to the American people. At a bare minimum, the CFPB should be governed by a bipartisan commission – which is how other federal agencies charged with consumer or investor protection operate. And to ensure there is proper oversight of this massive bureaucracy, the CFPB should be subject to the same appropriations process as other agencies. The House passed similar legislation in the last session of Congress and our committee will once again advance a proposal to bring accountability and oversight to the CFPB. "I commend those senators who continue to insist on first making the CFPB accountable before approving any nominee for director. It’s time for the President to work with those of us who want stronger consumer protections and accountability of this government agency." ###
01.23.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading conservative and Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on House passage of a bill requiring the Senate to pass a budget or forfeit pay. “Out of control Washington spending is burying our children and grandchildren under a mountain of debt. Yet it has been 1,365 days since the Senate passed a budget or any serious plan of action to address out of control government spending. Every day, hardworking taxpayers must set priorities in their family budgets. Yet the Senate has failed to do the same for nearly four years. Americans deserve better from their elected officials. “Hardworking Americans and small business owners can’t wait any longer for the Senate to do its job and get serious about controlling spending by passing a budget. That is why the House voted today to require that Senators pass a budget or have their pay withheld until they do. Simply put: no budget, no pay. “The consequence of failing to address our spending-driven debt crisis is no less than the economic freedom and security of future generations. The House has acted again and again to put an end to Washington budget gimmicks and halt Washington’s spending addiction, but we cannot solve this problem on our own. We desperately hope the Senate will work with us to pass a commonsense budget that cuts spending and puts America the road to a healthier economy.” ###
01.18.2013	WASHINTON – Current and former Chairmen of the Republican Study Committee Reps. Scalise, Jordan, Price, and Hensarling, today issued the following statement on the path to a balanced budget and controlled Washington spending. “Preserving the American Dream for future generations is dependent on controlling Washington spending and ending Washington budget gimmicks. Out of control Washington spending is killing American jobs, while placing an unbearable mountain of debt on the backs of our children and grandchildren. The old way of doing things has to end. It is time to put American families first by moving the federal government towards a budget that balances in the next ten years. “The first step to halting Washington’s spending addiction is passing a budget that cuts spending. The House has passed such a budget, and will again. For the past four years, the United States Senate has refused to pass a budget at all, failing the American people in the process. That practice has to end this year. “Next week, we will vote for a bill requiring that the Senate pass a budget, or the Senators’ own salary will be withheld. It’s simple: The American people expect Washington to pass a budget and live by it. No budget, no pay. That will represent the first step to put us on a path to a balanced federal budget in the next 10 years. “Unless we quickly address the skyrocketing national debt, America will continue to follow Greece down the path towards insolvency. In order to allow time for the Senate to act, next week's bill will extend the debt limit for three months. This is a necessary first step as we work to halt the decline of America and puts the focus where it belongs: on the Senate who has failed to do their jobs to pass a budget for more than three years.” As part of agreement, the House will work to put the country on the path to a balanced budget in 10 years. House leadership also agreed to stand by the $974 billion discretionary number that is part of the sequestration process. ###
01.17.2013	WASHINGTON— U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement on President Obama’s planned action on gun control. “My thoughts and prayers remain with the victims of the tragic shooting in Newtown, CT. As a father, I can think of no greater tragedy than kissing my kids goodbye as they go off to school and never seeing them again. “I believe the Newtown tragedy provides us the opportunity, as a nation, to have an honest and frank discussion on a number of issues including mental health, the entertainment industry, our existing gun laws and how we best protect our children. While the President has a right to voice his opinion and he has the right to sign or veto legislation sent to him by Congress, I believe these issues should be discussed, debated, and acted upon in the proper legislative process and must respect the constitutional doctrine of separation of powers. I will not support any measure that is offensive to the Constitution and violates the 2nd Amendment right to keep and bear arms.” ###
01.15.2013	Government to use Sandy ‘relief’ as cover for…more spending Billions earmarked in non-storm-related expenses By Rep. Jeb Hensarling, Tuesday, January 15, 2013 There is no doubt that Hurricane Sandy rendered unspeakable damage to lives and property on our East Coast. It truly represents one of the great natural disasters of recent history. For millions of our fellow citizens, the devastation has been unfathomable. We are a compassionate nation, and that is why this week the House of Representatives is taking up its second Hurricane Sandy relief bill. Sadly, Hurricane Sandy isn't the only disaster we face as a nation. The tragic reality is that our nation is broke. We have amassed more debt in the last four years than was accumulated from President George Washington through President Bill Clinton. Our spending trajectory is unsustainable by any account. Our swelling $16.4 trillion debt threatens our national security, our economic well-being and our children's very future. If we don't quit spending money we don't have, it is they who will become the next victims -- think Greece. It is past time to re-examine the proper role of the federal government in providing disaster relief and how that relief is financed. In the wake of a tragedy like Hurricane Sandy, all agree, no matter what, that disaster victims must receive basic necessities like food, water, power, medicine and law enforcement. This is undebatable. Yet as we continue to borrow more than 30 cents on the dollar, much of it from the Chinese, can and should the federal government continue to fund the restoration of private homes, businesses and automobiles? When wealthy states like New York and Connecticut spent $4.7 million on streetscapes and $30 million a year in taxpayer funds to rent new office space while state-rented office space stood vacant, can and should the federal government continue to pay to rebuild their infrastructure? According to a recent report by the Heritage Foundation, the yearly average for disaster declarations has grown from 28 during the Reagan administration to 90 during the Clinton administration, 130 during the George W. Bush administration, and 153 during the Obama administration. This isn't just nature at work. This is a move toward "nationalizing" disaster, consequently lowering the threshold of what is considered truly disastrous. This has allowed states and localities to abdicate more and more of their responsibilities to a federal government that owns a printing press for money and has no balanced budget requirements. Also, spending restraint is usually the first thing to go in the heat of a crisis -- especially when someone else is picking up the tab. Case in point: The Sandy relief bill passed by the Democratic-controlled Senate -- the same Senate that has refused to pass a budget in the last three years -- includes $150 million for fisheries as far away as Alaska, $8 million to purchase cars for the Homeland Security and Justice Departments, $58.8 million to replant trees that were damaged on private land, $135 million to improve weather forecasting, and $10.78 billion largely for future construction improvements to public transportation not even related to Hurricane Sandy. In fact, 64 percent of the so-called "emergency" funding in this bill will not be spent until 2015 or later. We must always be vigilant to ensure the Obama administration's cynical motto, "never let a serious crisis go to waste," is not allowed to rule the day. Given our spending-driven debt crisis, changes must be made. Like many members of Congress, when disaster has befallen my district or state, I have worked to help ensure funding was provided through the Federal Emergency Management Agency. However, I have consistently fought for disaster funds to either be in the budget or offset through the rescission of lower-priority spending. A nation on the road to bankruptcy must prioritize its spending. There should be no more "emergency" disaster funding without offsetting cuts to lower priority spending. Next, the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) must be functionally and significantly reformed. I have long been critical of this ineffective, inefficient and indisputably costly experiment in government-provided flood insurance. The program operates with non-actuarial rates, encouraging unsustainable development and running up $21 billion in debt with zero hope of repayment. A reauthorization bill passed last year began eliminating outdated subsidies, but Sandy hit before many of these provisions could take effect. Certainly, we have a contractual obligation to pay the NFIP claims of people whose lives were turned upside down by this terrible storm. Yet we also have an obligation to ensure hard-working taxpayers aren't always stuck bailing out failed government programs. The Financial Services Committee, for which I am chairman, will take up legislation to get the government out of the subsidized insurance business and transition us to a private, stable insurance system that can keep the promises it makes without borrowing tens of billions of dollars that we do not have. America is not just operating on borrowed money -- we're operating on borrowed time. Today, it is not a question of if bond markets will turn on us, but when. Unless we change our out-of-control spending ways, we will be the first generation in American history to leave the next generation with less freedom, fewer opportunities and a lower standard of living. We have no greater moral responsibility than to preserve the blessings of liberty and opportunity for future generations. A compassionate nation will not allow a great physical tragedy of today to ever become an even greater fiscal tragedy for our children tomorrow. Rep. Jeb Hensarling, Texas Republican, is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. NOTE: A version of this article will appear in the January 16, 2013 print edition of The Washington Times. View online at The Washington Times here. ###
01.02.2013	WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) issued the following statement on H.R. 8, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012. “America is staring in the face of a spending-driven debt crisis, the likes of which is putting us on the road to becoming Greece. After amassing more debt in four years than in all of our nation’s previous years combined, shockingly the president’s only solution is to offer both more small business tax increases and more federal spending increases. “Massive tax increases were built into current law and despite our attempts, Republicans could not avert them with a president who was unwilling to work with us in a meaningful way. The president now owns the job losses and economic harm that otherwise would not have occurred. Equally harmful if not more, the president is misleading the American people by trying to convince them his tax policies can solve our debt crisis. Besides costing Americans more jobs, his desired taxes amount to approximately 3% of his desired spending; almost 20% of the additional trillions he proposes to add to the national debt over the next 10 years. The only way to pay for the president’s historic spending spree is to impoverish our children with debt, or ultimately and massively increase taxes on working Americans. “Although the president claimed throughout this campaign he wanted a balanced approach of tax increases and spending reductions, H.R. 8, as amended by the Senate, not only encompasses his desired tax increase, but shockingly includes spending increases as well. I cannot support this in good conscience. I respect those of my Republican colleagues who reluctantly supported the bill in order to stave off further tax increases and economic harm. There were no good options to be had. “The only way to give working Americans greater economic opportunity and their children brighter futures is to do the following: quit spending money we don’t have; institute pro-growth tax reform; and reform and secure current entitlement programs for future generations.” ###
12.12.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman-elect of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today regarding the Federal Reserve’s announcement of additional monetary stimulus. “Unfortunately, as evidenced by today’s announcement, the Federal Reserve continues to use expansive monetary policy to cover a multitude of fiscal policy sins. “At a time of negative real interest rates and trillions in excess reserves, there is little which monetary policy can achieve to promote economic growth and much the Fed risks by its continued commitment to an overly accommodative monetary policy stance. “The longer the Federal Reserve stays on its current course, the greater the risk to our economy and its already fragile recovery. I fear the risk of high inflation is great if this policy is not reversed in a timely manner. “There are limits to what monetary policy can achieve. Unfortunately, it’s clear the Fed plans to continue with a high risk strategy.” ###
11.28.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) issued the following statement today after he was elected Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee for the 113th Congress. “I want to thank Chairman Spencer Bachus (R-AL) for his outstanding service on this committee over the last six years. He has been a tireless proponent of free enterprise and free markets, and it has been a pleasure to serve under his leadership. “I am humbled by the support and trust of my colleagues, and I look forward to serving as Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee next Congress. “I am grateful for the opportunity to lead this committee, and I look forward to working alongside my colleagues to foster the deepest, most liquid, competitive, efficient, innovative, and transparent capital markets the world has ever known. To do this we must end the phenomenon of “too big to fail” and reinstate market discipline. We must also reduce taxpayer risk in the marketplace and cut the sheer weight, volume, complexity, and uncertainty of the federal red tape burden that makes capital more expensive and less available. When we do, we can revive and strengthen the free enterprise system—the best housing and jobs program known to man.” ###
11.01.2012	WASHINGTON – House Republican Conference Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) issued the following statement today regarding the latest unemployment report released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.“Today’s news is a serious reminder that President Obama has failed the American people and that his policies are only making our economy worse. Even though the president told us 45 months ago that unemployment would never rise above 8 percent, his record is now 2 for 45, with unemployment at least 7.8 percent for every month of Barack Obama’s presidency. Not only is the jobless rate going up, but as more Americans lose hope altogether, the ‘real’ unemployment rate is now 14.6 percent.“President Obama had an entire term in office to turn around our economy and restore job growth for the American people and he failed. He enjoyed two full years with his party in complete control of Congress, and now more than 20 million Americans are struggling to find full-time work; the number of food stamp recipients is at an all-time high; new business creation is at a generational low; half the nation is living in or near poverty; everyone is paying more to fill up their cars, put food on their tables, and send their kids to school. That the president commented not long ago that ‘the private sector is doing fine’ is full proof that America needs a fresh start.“The president’s failed leadership stems from a failed vision that sees government as the center of all progress, productivity, and prosperity in our society. In his view, Americans don’t produce success – the government does. When this vision prolonged the worst economic conditions since the Great Depression, the president turned to the politics of diversion, division, and envy designed to preserve only one job: his own.“The House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators has stood as an alternative to the president’s failed approach and has ushered more than 30 bipartisan jobs bills through passage onto Harry Reid’s doorstep, where most of them are still waiting. Our plan protects all Americans from higher taxes, ends our spending-driven debt crisis, unleashes American energy production, and strengthens and saves our health and retirement security plans for future generations. Our plan will get America back on track and I look forward to working with a president who will help us do it.”
10.31.2012	Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, appeared on Battle Line with host Alan Nathan, a nationally syndicated radio show on the Main Street Radio Network, on Wednesday, October 10th to discuss the attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya in September. Below are excerpts from the interview. “… I think the American people are seeing a foreign policy that is literally disintegrating and burning before their eyes on the television screen. We have an administration that can’t explain what they knew and when they knew it. The left hand doesn’t know what the right hand is doing. It’s in complete disarray. The American people deserve answers and we’re not getting them. We have a president who is on the verge of allowing a 10% cut to happen to our national defense; who is allowing great space between us and our ally in the Middle East, Israel, which is clearly not strengthening our hand. Again, the American people deserve answers and they are not getting them. And they are seeing a foreign policy that the president once bragged on literally going up in flames before their eyes. “…there was a hearing in Washington today, with the Oversight Committee, and it clearly appears that there are elements of the administration who aren’t shooting straight with the American people; Who aren’t telling the American people the truth about what is clearly a terrorist attack. I don’t know that the president intentionally mislead the American people, but again, there are elements of the administration that certainly give the appearance that they did mislead the American people, and at a bare minimum, they don’t know what is going on. They have misstated the facts, and you wonder again, how much of this is getting tainted by the fact that there is a campaign upon us, and something that they used to view as a political strength is now clearly a political weakness. I don’t know all the answers to that, but the American people are going to be able to make up their mind in the most vociferous way the first Tuesday in November.” ###
10.26.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Republican Conference and vice chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today regarding the preliminary estimate by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) of gross domestic product (GDP) for the third quarter of 2012. “Today’s report on economic growth is another disheartening sign that the president’s economic policies have failed – four years into this administration and the economy is moving slower than it was the year before. When the president spends most of his time threatening the job creators who make our economy run with higher taxes and more red tape, it’s no wonder the economy grows slower than it should. Unfortunately, today’s estimate is more than just a numerical measurement for the millions of Americans who are struggling to put food on their tables and fill up their cars during the longest streak of high unemployment since the Great Depression. The longer we have a president who clings to policies and rhetoric that stifle innovation and punish success, the longer Americans will have to wait for the jobs, growth, and prosperity our nation deserves.” ###
10.05.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today in response to the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ report on unemployment for the month of September. “After promising Americans that unemployment would never rise above eight percent 44 months ago, the administration’s record now stands at 1 for 44. What remains even more disappointing, however, is the data below today’s jobs report headline. “Today’s report confirms what 23 million Americans who can’t find adequate work already know – our economy has stalled. The percentage of able Americans seeking employment has plunged to a 32-year low as fewer people search for jobs, and the amount of jobs added in September is still short 36,000 of what our economy needs to just keep pace with people entering the workforce for the first time. With economic growth in the second quarter of 2012 recently revised down to an anemic 1.3 percent, it is now clear that the president’s policies have failed and are making things worse. “Twelve days into his presidency, President Obama promised to fix our economy, saying ‘if I don’t have this done in three years, then there’s going to be a one-term proposition.’ This president told us if the Democrat-controlled Congress passed his failed stimulus plan, we would never see 8% unemployment. The president told us if the Democrat controlled Congress passed his failed stimulus plan, our unemployment rate would be at 5.6% today. After the Democrat-controlled Congress passed his failed stimulus plan and after almost four years of 8% unemployment, it’s clear that by his own estimations, his economic policies have failed the American people. “Instead of giving job creators the encouragement they need to put their fellow Americans back to work, this administration has fought them at every corner – from threatening them with higher taxes that according to Ernst and Young will cost the U.S. over 700,00 jobs, to demonizing their success to crediting government with their achievement. How can the president help small businesspeople grow and create jobs when he diminishes their worth and devalues their own hard work? He can’t, and the results continue to speak for themselves. “House Republicans know that small businessmen and women are not only fully responsible for their success, but that they are also responsible for the success of millions of American families across the country. Our Plan for America’s Job Creators protects small businesses from any new taxes and cuts the red tape that’s kept our economy tied down for too long. The president’s politics of diversion, division, and envy has run its course. It’s time for a different vision, and a much different direction.” ###
09.14.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today in response to the Obama administration’s report on the expected effects of sequestration on defense and non-defense programs as required by the Sequestration Transparency Act, legislation which Chairman Hensarling introduced in the House of Representatives. “Today’s ominous report confirms what so many defense officials have warned in regard to sequestration, including the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, who declared it an ‘unacceptable risk,’ and Defense Secretary Panetta, who compared it to ‘shooting ourselves in the head.’ This report comes not long after the Congressional Budget Office confirmed that allowing sequestration to occur at the same time that taxes go up – as the president wants – would drive the nation over a ‘fiscal cliff.’ “When it comes to averting this looming national defense crisis, President Obama has been AWOL – absent without leadership. Even though the sequester was originally concocted by his administration, the president could not even manage to meet last week’s legal deadline for explaining how he plans to implement these cuts, in violation of the law he signed just last month. Just this week, the House passed legislation that would require the president to put a plan for replacing the sequester on the table – something House Republicans did in May. “Does President Obama truly want to cut 10 percent of our national defense at a time when the United States is still under attack from radical forces abroad? Does President Obama truly want to send such a signal of weakness to both our friends and enemies at a time when our safety and freedom are more dependent than ever on a strong and capable America? “House Republicans remain committed to achieving the full savings required by the Budget Control Act because we have to stop spending money we don’t have, and we are the only ones who have passed a plan that would replace the defense sequester with other spending reforms and stop the job-killing tax hike. The most sensible way to achieve the $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction required by the Budget Control Act is through commonsense spending reform, not a weakened national defense. “I extend much gratitude to my colleagues Senators John Thune and Jeff Sessions as well as House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan for their hard work in passing the Sequestration Transparency Act which paved the way for today’s report.” ###
09.12.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today condemning the attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya by violent protesters which resulted in the killing of four Americans, including U.S. Ambassador to Libya J. Christopher Stevens. “Last night’s assault on Americans serving our county in Libya was both tragic and deplorable. My prayers today are with the families and loved ones of Ambassador Stevens and the other brave Americans who honored us with their service. We will not forget the sacrifice they made for the cause of liberty.” ###
09.11.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today in recognition of the 11th anniversary of the al Qaeda terrorist attacks against the United States on September 11, 2001. “It’s hard to believe 11 years have already passed since our country was attacked and our world was changed forever on that grave September morning. On 9/11, an unthinkable act of evil struck our nerve but it never came close to breaking our spirit. Instead of letting terror bring us to our knees, our nation stood tall and responded and rebounded in a way that has reminded the world that no adversary is too strong or severe to be overcome and defeated by the United States of America. “No matter how much time passes or how many years go by, we will never forget the lives we lost or the families who still mourn them and miss them dearly. We must also remember the timeless axiom that all which is necessary for evil to prevail is for the good to do nothing. After all, it was 11 years ago today that the war against terrorism was begun in the sky above Pennsylvania by brave patriots who chose to fight back. When our military was called to action to defend our liberty, the men and women in uniform followed in the footsteps of those passengers and generations of warriors before them as they fought – and continue to fight – to defend freedom, bring evil to justice, and protect the land we call home. “On this solemn anniversary, I join the American people in prayer as we pay tribute to the nearly 3,000 Americans taken from us in New York, Pennsylvania, and at the Pentagon, as well as those who have given their lives since 9/11 in defense of our homeland and our cherished freedom. Their sacrifices continue to inspire a grateful nation every day as we continue the fight for a safer and freer world for our children and grandchildren.” ###
09.07.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today about the Obama administration’s failure to meet the legal deadline for submission of a report on the expected effects of sequestration on defense and non-defense programs. The Sequestration Transparency Act, which Chairman Hensarling introduced in the House of Representatives, required the administration by law to release the report. “I am exceedingly disappointed by President Obama’s failure to uphold the Sequestration Transparency Act — a bipartisan law which he signed just one month ago. His administration has broken faith with the American people – especially the men and women of our military – who expected their president to do his duty and explain exactly how our national security will be affected by the sequester. “As sequestration – which was originally proposed by this administration – looms nearer, time is running out to avert ‘devastating’ cuts to our national defense. As the nation waits for the administration’s delayed report, House Republicans still have the only plan to replace these dangerous defense cuts with common-sense spending reductions.” ###
09.07.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today regarding the latest unemployment report released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. “For the 43rd month in a row, unemployment remains above 8 percent in the worst jobs crisis since the Great Depression. The president’s policies continue to fail and are making the economy worse. The Obama economy has left more than 20 million Americans struggling for work, new business creation at a generational low, and more Americans on food stamps than ever before. It is long passed time for a new direction that delivers the jobs, hope, and prosperity the American people have been waiting for. “President Obama had his shot at reviving our economy and he failed. That’s why job growth is so slow, and it’s why the American people are sick and tired of this administration’s attempts to distract them with the politics of diversion, division, and envy. Tough times call for solutions and serious leadership, not excuses and fear-mongering. Washington Democrats have chosen to put politics before our nation’s jobs and debt crisis for far too long. The results speak for themselves. “Since entering the majority, House Republicans have passed dozens of jobs bills that continue to be ignored by the Democrat-controlled Senate. The president’s plan to punish small businesses with more taxes and red tape while spending more money we don’t have has failed. It’s time to give our plan a chance.” ###
09.04.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today in response to the U.S. national debt surpassing $16 trillion for the first time in American history.“With our nation now $16 trillion in the red, there has never been a more urgent time to stop spending money we don’t have. Sadly, a third of our historic debt was compiled under this president – more debt than was accumulated in our first 200 years combined. Sadly, President Obama has proven utterly incapable of taking our nation’s spending-driven debt crisis seriously. Today’s dangerous milestone is a reminder that the only way to take our nation off the fast track to bankruptcy is with new policies in a new direction led by a new president. “Our record-high debt is the result of failed leadership as much as it is from failed policies that only grew government instead of our economy. Despite pledging to cut the deficit in half by the end of his first term, President Obama has allowed the deficit to surpass a trillion dollars each year he’s been in office. We are currently borrowing nearly 40 cents on the dollar, much of it from the Chinese, and sending the bill to our children and grandchildren. We must change course. We must enact the commonsense reforms in the House Republican budget if we are to strengthen our economy today and save the American dream for the next generation.” ###
08.03.2012	WASHINGTON – House Republican Conference Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) issued the following statement today regarding the latest unemployment report released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. “Another month under the president’s failed leadership has produced yet another month of 8 percent-plus unemployment. With the jobless rate stuck above 8 percent for the past 42 months and a devastating ‘real unemployment’ rate of 15 percent plaguing the nation, Americans are craving new leadership and new policies that get government out of the way of new jobs and a real recovery. “Slow job growth is sadly not the only symptom of President Obama’s failed policies: the economic growth rate for last quarter was recently downgraded from tepid to miniscule; new business start-ups remain at a 17-year low; the number of Americans on food stamps is at an all-time high; half the nation is currently living in either low income or poverty. It’s no wonder the president has resorted to the politics of diversion, division, and envy in order to distract Americans from his massive record of failure. Our nation deserves so much better. “While the president and Washington Democrats waste time trying to raise taxes on job creators during the worst unemployment crisis since the Great Depression, House Republicans have been busy implementing our Plan for America’s Job Creators to turn the economy around. Over the past month, we’ve passed legislation to repeal the president’s job-killing health care law, reign in red tape, enforce clarity on the looming sequestration cuts, and stop the automatic tax hike from hitting small businesses at the end of the year. These initiatives join the dozens of House-passed jobs bills still sitting on the doorstep of the Democrat-run Senate. “The American people have had to suffer under the Obama economy long enough. It is apparent that the easiest way to create the jobs and economic growth we need to make America strong again is with a new president at the helm and I look forward to that day arriving.” ###
08.01.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today regarding H.R. 8, the Job Protection and Recession Prevention Act, to prevent scheduled tax increases by extending current tax rates for one year.“The House has taken action to prevent the automatic tax hike that is set to strike hardworking families and small businesses at the end of this year. Unless President Obama and the Democrat-controlled Senate follow our lead, taxes will go up and jobs, wages, and economic growth will go down. It is time for the president and his party to act for the sake of rescuing Americans from an imminent but preventable economic disaster.“With economic growth in the last quarter being downgraded from ‘tepid’ to ‘miniscule’ and unemployment stuck above 8 percent for more than three years, the anemic state of our economy speaks for itself. A new study shows that allowing the president’s desired tax hike to happen would result in more than 700,000 job losses throughout the nation during what is already the worst unemployment crisis and slowest recovery since the Great Depression.“House Republicans strongly believe that higher taxes on any American are the last thing our economy needs right now. President Obama and Democrats seem to believe that we can be the first nation on Earth to tax our way into jobs and prosperity. The right way forward is obvious: If we want to help millions of Americans still struggling through the Obama economy, then we have to stop the tax hike.�?
07.27.2012	WASHINGTON – House Republican Conference Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) released the following statement regarding the second quarter Gross Domestic Product (GDP) released today by the Department of Commerce. This quarter’s 1.5% GDP reflects a .5 percent drop from last quarter and a 1.5% drop from the second quarter of 2011. “Today’s anemic economic report cements what Americans already know - that President Obama’s policies have failed and made our economy worse. The facts speak for themselves: 41 straight months of unemployment at or above 8 percent, a record number of Americans on food stamps, and nearly half of all Americans now classified as poor or low income. “During the final quarter of 2010, when our economic growth was almost twice as strong as it is today, the president would not raise taxes. Now, in a much weaker economy, the president and Senate Democrats think it is a good idea to raise taxes on our nation’s job creators. Private economists estimate this tax increase will impact nearly one million small businesses, costing our nation 710,000 jobs during the worst unemployment crisis since the great depression. “It is beyond comprehension why the president and Senate Democrats want to force us into a double-dip recession. That is why the House will vote to stop the tax hike next week to bring much needed certainty to our job creators, families, and seniors.” ###
07.26.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today regarding the passage of H.R. 4078, the Red Tape Reduction and Small Business Job Creation Act. The legislation would impose a moratorium on non-health and emergency-related federal regulations until national unemployment drops beneath 6 percent. It also includes measures to curtail so-called “midnight regulations” and to highlight the prevalence of “sue and settle” agreements.“Small business owners know no greater adversary than Washington red tape, and red tape has no better friend than this administration. In order to restore much of the freedom and certainty job creators need to do their job, House Republicans have taken action to freeze the regulations that are freezing small businesses until unemployment drops to 6 percent or lower.“The Obama administration’s failed policies are directly at odds with job creators across the nation, especially in the realm of red tape. Since the president took office, the implementation of major regulations has increased by more than half, leaving more red tape on the books than ever before in American history. The president may not believe small businessmen and women created their own businesses, but they are saying, ‘Mr. President, not only did you not create our business, but your regulatory policies are actually hurting our business.’“Washington red tape has become so oppressive and so frustrating that one small business owner in my district told me that he no longer believes his government wants him to succeed. Instead of portraying successful job creators in the most negative light, the president should work with House Republicans to reduce the regulatory burdens that are making it impossible for businesses to grow and create much-needed jobs during the worst jobs crisis since the Great Depression.” ###
07.25.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today regarding the passage of H.R. 459, the Federal Reserve Transparency Act, to permit and mandate a full audit of the United States Federal Reserve by the Government Accountability Office (GAO). “I don’t think Congress should be setting monetary policy, but I do believe Congress and the American people we represent deserve transparency, especially in light of the blurring of monetary and fiscal policy we’ve witnessed in recent years. While I would like to see the Fed focused exclusively on monetary policy, today’s Fed sets price controls for business-to-business transactions and promulgates rules on credit cards, mortgages, and executive compensation, all while exposing taxpayers to their multi-trillion dollar balance sheet. In fact, the Fed’s balance sheet has more than tripled since the beginning of the 2008 financial crisis. The Federal Reserve Transparency Act provides the American people and their representatives in Congress with long overdue transparency with regard to all of the Fed’s operations. I applaud my colleague Representative Paul for his efforts to bring this issue to the forefront of the nation’s attention.” ###
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today in response to the decision by the U.S. Supreme Court. “Like many Americans, I am extremely disappointed by today’s decision. The president’s health care law was essentially and regrettably upheld. While I respect the Court’s ruling, I do believe it was wrongly decided. I do not believe the federal government is empowered by the Constitution to mandate the purchase of health insurance and I continue to believe that the president’s health care law is bad for our nation’s health and bad for our nation’s future. “We must never forget that the president’s health care law increases health care costs, cuts more than $500 billion from Medicare, forces people who like their current private insurance into exchanges, threatens quality of care, and assaults religious freedom, while also making it harder for small businesses to hire more workers during the weakest recovery since the Great Depression. “Instead of spending two years engineering a government takeover of health care, the president should have worked with Congress – both Democrats and Republicans – to enact policies that will grow our economy and create wealth and jobs for all Americans. “For these reasons, House Republicans have already voted 30 times to repeal, defund, or dismantle parts of the law. I stand ready to once again vote to repeal what the Supreme Court left standing. For the sake of our freedom, our health care, our families, and our economy, the president’s health care law must be eliminated in its entirety. “I look forward to the next Congress, where Republicans can work with a new president to enact step-by-step reforms that are patient-centered and will make health care more affordable for Americans.” ###
06.07.2012	WASHINGTON— Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), House Republican Conference Chairman, issued the following statement today in support of H.R. 436, the Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2012, to repeal the Medical Device Tax, a 2.3 percent tax which will be imposed on the sale of medical devices by manufacturers or importers as a result of the president’s health care law. Today’s vote marks the 30th time that House Republicans have voted to defund, dismantle, or repeal a piece of the law. “One of the most – if not the most – significant impediment to new job creation is the president’s health care law. At a time when we should be making it easier for job creators to hire more workers, this law is imposing a crippling tax on American manufacturers. “The Medical Device Tax is a threat to tech manufacturers across the nation – including in the Fifth District of Texas – and only encourages further layoffs, slashed salaries, and more businesses fleeing overseas. A business owner in Jacksonville, Texas, has alerted me that if this new tax gets implemented, then his manufacturing business ‘will suffer severely.’ “Repealing this senseless tax hike is as much a matter of common sense as is blocking the largest tax increase in American history, which will take place in six months from now if the president gets his way. The American people – including President Clinton – know that new taxes on anybody are the last thing this economy needs. “Today’s bill is a part of the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators to remove the stifling uncertainty this president has built up with his record spending, record regulations, and record-high tax threats. The longer job creators have to struggle to operate around the president’s failed policies, the longer Americans will have to wait for the jobs and recovery they need.”
06.01.2012	CLICK HERE TO WATCH Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, appeared this morning at a press conference with members of House Republican Leadership to address the state of the Obama economy in light of this morning’s report that the unemployment rate has risen to 8.2 percent, making May the 40th straight month that unemployment has been stuck above 8 percent. His full remarks are below: “I guess the only news this morning is that 3 ½ years later, the president's policies are still failing; 3 ½ years later, millions of Americans still remain unemployed; 3 ½ years later, millions of Americans are underemployed. Again, the president's policies continue to fail. “This should not be a surprise. If you threaten the single largest tax increase in America's history, much of which will fall upon small business people and entrepreneurs, you're not going to get robust economic growth. If you have an avalanche of new regulations, as have ensued under this administration, you're not going to have robust economic growth and job growth. If you go about vilifying success and free enterprise, you're not going to have robust economic growth. If you engage in serial trillion-dollar deficits – which business people know sooner or later they’re going to have to pay for – you're not going to get robust economic growth. “And so unfortunately for our constituents who’ve seen their gas prices almost double under this administration, who know that their real disposable income is down under this administration, who look around and still see their friends, their neighbors, unemployed under this administration, again, the news today is 3 ½ years later, the president's policies are still failing the American people.”
06.01.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today regarding the latest unemployment report released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. “Today’s report marks 40 straight months of unemployment above 8 percent – a devastating milestone for millions of Americans suffering through the Obama economy. When we count those who’ve had to stop searching for work or can’t find full-time jobs, the real unemployment rate is actually 14.8 percent, totaling more than 23 million Americans. “The president’s policies are failing and making the economy worse. Americans are losing hope in this administration’s ability to rekindle the entrepreneurial confidence that small businesses need to expand and employ more people—and for good reason. The labor participation rate is near a 32-year low; new business start-ups are at 17-year low; the number of Americans having to rely on food stamps is at an all-time high; half the nation is now classified as low-income or in poverty. This is not the kind of ‘change’ Americans had hoped for. “Our nation is in desperate need of a new direction. Sadly, as long as the president continues to threaten the single largest tax increase in American history, bring about trillion-dollar deficits which small business people know they’ll eventually have to pay off, and increase the size and complexity of regulations on American businesses, we will continue to have the slowest and weakest recovery since the Great Depression. “While the president continues to pursue a failed agenda based on his failed vision of ever-increasing government, House Republicans have been offering the nation a new path forward: our Plan for America’s Job Creators. The longer Washington Democrats keep ignoring our plan and rejecting new ideas, the longer the American people will be denied the jobs, growth, hope, and opportunities they deserve.” ###
05.31.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today in support of H.R. 3541, the Prenatal Nondiscrimination Act (PRENDA), to outlaw abortions performed solely because of the unborn infant’s gender, also known as “sex-selective abortions.” “It’s awful enough that abortion ends innocent human life. It’s an even more gruesome tragedy when abortions are used to deliberately end the lives of unborn baby girls simply because of their gender. This unconscionable form of discrimination occurs far too often in far too many places around the world – sadly, including in the United States. We’re a far better society than that. Today’s bill represented a strong stand against such senseless discrimination and in favor of basic human dignity. I was proud to support it as part of my longstanding commitment to preserving the sanctity of human life. “In my heart and in my head, I can come to no other conclusion than that life begins at conception. I continue to believe that as a matter of law, science, and faith that there is no more fundamental right than the right to life. Life is a gift from our Creator. Without an enduring defense of this precious gift, no other right endowed to us by our Creator can be sustained.” ###
05.31.2012	Hensarling and Ryan Introduce the Sequestration Transparency Act WASHINGTON –House Republican Conference Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) and House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) today introduced the Sequestration Transparency Act, a bill to require President Obama to submit a report to Congress detailing how his administration plans to implement the budget sequestration cuts required to take place in January 2013 under current law. “This month, House Republicans passed a plan to replace the dangerous and arbitrary defense cuts called for under sequestration with common sense spending reductions that begin the process of ensuring we live within our means,” said Hensarling. “Not only has the Democrat-controlled Senate not produced a budget in over 1,000 days, neither the Senate nor the president have offered a credible solution to replace the scheduled sequester cuts that the president’s own Defense Secretary warned would ‘hollow out the force and inflict severe damage to our national defense.’ If the president isn’t willing to work with Republicans to replace these harmful cuts, he should at least detail for the American people how his administration plans to implement them.” “Military families and taxpayers alike deserve answers from our chief executive on the consequences of the sequestration process and the specific steps that he will take to address these concerns,” said Ryan. “House Republicans advanced specific, common-sense reforms to replace dangerous cuts to our national defense and key domestic priorities. The legislation we’re introducing today requires the President to join a debate he continues to evade.” If current law is not changed, across-the-board spending cuts will be enforced under the Budget Control Act, resulting in a 10% cut to the Department of Defense and an 8% cut to non-defense discretionary spending—known as sequestration. Unfortunately, despite repeated requests from both the House and Senate, the administration has persistently refused to provide basic details about the scope, severity, and extent of the arbitrary cuts required by the sequester. To address these concerns, the Sequestration Transparency Act would require the president to submit a report to Congress that includes an estimate of the sequestration percentages and amounts necessary to achieve the mandatory reduction for each spending category on an account level. Additionally, the Sequestration Transparency Act would require the report to include any other data or explanations that would enhance public understanding of the looming sequester and actions to be taken under it. Senate Republican Conference Chairman Senator John Thune (R-SD) and Senate Budget Committee Ranking Member Jeff Sessions (R-AL) introduced companion legislation in the Senate last week. ##
05.25.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement in observance of Memorial Day. “Freedom is not free – it comes at incredible cost. Since our founding, millions of brave Americans have gone into harm’s way so that we could enjoy the blessings of peace and prosperity. Called on by their country, acting out of patriotism and in the most dangerous of circumstances, soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines have demonstrated extraordinary courage in defending our country and the principles of democracy that we hold dear. They left behind their families, their friends, and their hopes and dreams—some never to return home to them ever again. “From Bunker Hill to Berlin to Baghdad, American troops have died to liberate millions from the forces of tyranny. They’ve stared evil in the eyes and stood for all that is good in the world. They’ve overcome obstacles and defied impossible odds. Even in death, their service brought light to places of darkness and despotism. Because of their heroism, their sacrifices have reverberated throughout the ages. “We must also remember the families of the fallen who are left to carry on after—as President Lincoln said—‘having laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of freedom.’ “Though there is much I love about being a United States Congressman, I never feel smaller or more inadequate than when I take a pen in hand to write to the loved ones of a fallen hero from the Fifth Congressional District. I tell them I wish there was something profound I could say to ease the pain of their loss. There is not. I cannot feel their pain; I do not know their sacrifice. I do not know if we will ever know why, but what I do know—without a doubt—is that my 10 year-old daughter and 8 year-old son will sleep in a more safe and more free America tonight because of their bravery and sacrifice. “On this Memorial Day, my thoughts are on those heroes who have paid the ultimate sacrifice for their country and my prayers of comfort are with their families. The Americans who die fighting for our country deserve the solemn gratitude of each and every one of their fellow citizens. Our devotion to their memory must be as boundless and endless as their devotion was to us.” ###
05.18.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today in support of H.R. 4310, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2013. “Congress has a constitutional duty to ‘provide for the common defense’ and House Republicans have always been proud to meet that duty in order to safeguard our homeland and the freedoms we cherish. The United States has an exceptional responsibility to stand strong and ready in a world where freedom’s enemies do not rest and threats to our security do not relent. “This act recognizes the full reality of the world’s dangers and restores the strength of history’s mightiest military to properly face them. Furthermore, this bill guarantees that in defense of our nation and our interests, the individual liberties of American citizens are not infringed. “With today’s critical legislation, our national defenses will be given the full support they need to carry out their missions: our troops will be fully equipped; military families will be strongly supported; our allies will know that America still has their back; and our fighting forces will be thoroughly prepared for the challenges that await us in the 21st century. “I have always been a firm believer that politics should end at the water’s edge. With that sentiment in mind, I expect the president and Congressional Democrats to help meet our moral and constitutional duty and remember that the price of liberty, and security, is eternal vigilance.” ###
05.17.2012	CLICK TO WATCH Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, appeared this morning on CNN’s Starting Point to discuss GOP efforts to deal with our spending-driven debt crisis and the challenge posed by the president and Washington Democrats. Below are excerpts from the interview. Hensarling on our national debt crisis “The American people know at some point you have got to stop spending money you don’t have. We have a legitimate debt crisis. Under the president this nation has racked up more debt in three years than in the previous 200 on a nominal basis. We have serial trillion-dollar deficits. Not only is it unsustainable, I think the American people think it’s immoral to be borrowing roughly 40 cents on the dollar, much of it from the Chinese, and sending the bill to our children and our grandchildren. It’s a threat to our national security our economic opportunity and clearly our children’s future.” “When people look at your network and other networks and see what’s going on in Greece, I think they’re waking up to the fact that if we don’t get our fiscal house in order, what we’re seeing overseas we may see here. So again, regardless of what today’s polling data or yesterdays polling data may show … the American people want us to live within our means.” Hensarling on the debt ceiling “The Speakers says, ‘You know what? We’re not going to do business as usual in Washington.’ And we applauded his leadership … we said, ‘You know what? The debt ceiling is not something to be ignored, it is an opportunity put reforms in place so we can live within our means.’ And that’s what the American people expect. They don’t want business as usual and that’s what we’re hearing out of the White House.” “If you look at the cash flow, there is more than enough cash flow to insure that our sovereign debt is paid. That’s not the issue. What is the issue … are we going to do business as usual? Otherwise why do we even have a debt ceiling? Why don’t we ignore it?” “The threat to our credit rating doesn’t come from a debate over a debt ceiling vote, it comes from the fact that we are spending money we don’t have.” “Sovereign debt is a red herring – it is a complete red herring….The only way that our sovereign debt would be compromised is if the president and the Treasury chose not to pay it.” Hensarling on the House GOP “Path to Prosperity” budget “Republicans have put forward a budget that frankly will grow government each and every year, but it makes sure that the family budget doesn’t go broke trying to pay for the federal budget and that we don’t cheat our children. … The American people want to make sure our children have a better life. We want small businesspeople to be able to grow their businesses and they’re not going to do it when the president is threatening the single largest tax increase in American history, much of it to fall on small businesses.” “We actually balance the budget. We put America on a sustainable fiscal path. And we continue to grow government, but we do it prioritizing and living within our means. We get a tax code that’s fairer, flatter, simpler, more competitive to create economic growth.” Hensarling on Senate Democrats’ failure to pass a budget “When you talk about political showmanship, the president’s budget got zero votes in the Senate. The Democrats control the Senate, so you need to talk to them about political showmanship. We’re trying to solve a problem here, and when it comes to being able to compromise and compromise on policies, as a member of the Super Committee, even though it’s against my principles and policies – I was willing to put tax increases on the table, something Democrats demanded, and we Republicans unified around the plan. The Democrats never put a plan on the table. They said nothing short of a trillion-dollar tax increase, and they refused to engage in an kind of meaningful entitlement reform.” “Democrats in the Senate haven’t even passed a budget in the last three years. Apparently, they don’t even want a speed bump on the road to national bankruptcy. We have done our part – we are looking for a partner.”
05.16.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today in support of H.R. 4970, the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2012 (VAWA), to provide federal support for programs and organizations that help assist women who are victims of domestic abuse, stalking, and sexual assault.American women deserve nothing less than absolute justice and unconditional care whenever the tragedy of domestic violence or sexual assault rears its hideous face. Our bill to reauthorize VAWA supports all victims of violence and aids the fight to prevent new ones, regardless of who they are or where they come from. This bill takes strong measures to guarantee that our nation’s most vital assistance programs are able to provide for the defense and dignity of all female victims, around whom the full focus of federal attention to this issue belongs. “I applaud my friend and colleague, Congresswoman Sandy Adams (R-FL), for crafting this powerful piece of legislation and helping ensure its passage through the House. Violence against women knows no party line, and eradicating it from our society ought to be a non-partisan cause. Those who seek to reduce this deeply personal and intensely important issue to just another political football ought to seriously reexamine their priorities. “House Republicans are resolutely focused on solving this problem, not cheapening it. It is my hope that Democrats will pause from politics as usual and work with us instead of grandstanding against us in order to turn this victim-centered, all-inclusive bill into a reality.” ###
05.04.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today regarding the latest unemployment report released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. “Job growth is not as strong as it can be because job creators are simply not as confident in this economy or its future as they should be. By any historical standard, our recovery should be booming and new jobs should be flourishing by now. Instead, because of the president’s failed policies, job growth is not even keeping pace with population growth as we remain stuck in the longest period of 8 percent-plus unemployment since the Great Depression. “The only thing that seems to be consistently growing in the Obama economy is uncertainty about our future. The president’s failed agenda is forcing us down a path of historic debt and deficits, historic regulation, and historic tax increases. Instead of helping job creators put Americans back to work, Washington Democrats spent most of the past month flaunting a reckless new tax on small businesses out of a cynical fixation on ‘fairness.’ “One of my constituents recently wrote to me saying: ‘My husband and I own a small business and would be included in the group that is struggling to stay afloat. … We are not greedy people. We enjoy opportunities to help our community, job seekers, and the market in which we work.’ Unfortunately, hardships for job creators and job seekers won’t subside softly as long as America continues down the Obama path of failed leadership, divisive politics, and broken promises. “Americans deserve better than 14.5 percent real unemployment. Our nation’s young adults deserve better than a 50 percent out-of-school unemployment rate. The House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators offers a positive new path to jobs and prosperity. Clearly, President Obama is not serious about achieving our pro-growth solutions; I look forward to working with a president who is.” ###
04.20.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today regarding the new report by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) confirming that President Obama’s proposed budget for fiscal year 2013 would stunt economic growth and stifle job creation. “As the nation struggles through the longest period of unemployment above 8 percent since the Great Depression, so many Americans are asking themselves, ‘How could this economy get any worse?’ The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has an answer: enact President Obama’s budget. “Failed leadership and failed policies have consequences. That is the message from today’s CBO report regarding the president’s budget proposal which should have been written in red ink instead of black. For anyone who thought that $3.5 trillion dollars in new deficits over the next decade – paired with the largest tax hike in American history, as the budget also entails – wouldn’t do damage to our economy, this report serves as a splash of cold water. “Today’s report is a reminder that we have to stop spending money we don’t have if we want to grow our economy and confirms that no nation can tax, spend, borrow, or bail out its way to prosperity. House Republicans passed a budget that will solve our debt crisis and grow our economy though tax reform that will make our code fairer, flatter, and simpler.” ###
03.29.2012	WASHINGTON— Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), House Republican Conference Chairman, issued the following statement today regarding the passage of the House Republican budget, the “Path to Prosperity,” a part of the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators. “The passage of the House Republican budget is a sign of hope for the future of our nation and future generations for whom the American dream is in danger. Americans know that President Obama has placed us on an unsustainable trajectory toward bankruptcy and decline, but today the nation has a better choice: a path to renewed liberty, opportunity, solvency, and prosperity. “Last month, the White House released a budget that ignores the real drivers of our debt, imposes the largest tax hike in history on job creators and hardworking families, and doubles-down on the same failed policies that gave us our first four trillion-dollar deficits in a row. The budget forced the Boston Herald to conclude that ‘President Barack Obama has apparently decided that he is not going to be part of the solution to the nation’s enormous deficit — which would make him, yes, part of the problem.’ It’s no wonder that it failed to garner even a single Democratic vote. “House Republicans have always understood the danger posed by our spending-driven debt crisis and have always chosen to be part of the solution. That is why for the second year in a row we have passed a budget that lifts our nation’s crushing debt burden by confronting our real debt drivers, spurs job creation with pro-growth tax reform, and strengthens and saves our health and retirement security programs for future generations. “Despite the emergence of the worst debt crisis in American history, Harry Reid and the Democrat-controlled Senate have failed to pass a budget of their own for three years. Fortunately, the American people have better sense. One of my constituents from the Fifth District of Texas recently wrote me a letter saying: ‘This debt is stunning. I can't imagine leaving this problem to my daughter to resolve. We need to ‘man-up’ and take ownership of this problem.’ That is what House Republicans have done. “Our nation is at a crossroads. The president’s plan leads us down the road to guaranteed bankruptcy, less freedom, and a defeated American dream. The House Republican budget leads us on a path to prosperity, opportunity, and greater hope for the future. It is time for President Obama and congressional Democrats to ‘man up’ and get on board with the Path to Prosperity.” ###
03.23.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today to mark the second anniversary of the signing of President Obama’s health care reform legislation into law. The House has since voted to repeal the law as part of the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators. “The president’s health care law was a legislative abomination two years ago and it still is today as it continues to threaten our nation’s job creators, taxpayers, families, and senior citizens. The importance of repealing this law – piece by piece if necessary – cannot be overstated. “Because the president cannot stand by his record of failed policies and broken promises, he has resorted to the politics of envy and division—while using the rhetoric of ‘fairness.’ But is it ‘fair’ the administration has issued nearly 2,000 waivers from the health care law, more than half of which went to unions and the president’s political allies? Is it ‘fair’ the law will do dramatically different things than the president and his party’s leaders promised Americans the law would—and would not—do? “Democrats said the law would create jobs – it didn’t. They said it would lower costs – it hasn’t. They said Americans would be able to keep their own plans and their own doctors – they won’t. “Before the law was passed, Nancy Pelosi told us it would ‘almost immediately’ create 400,000 jobs. Instead, we are now told by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) that it will cost us almost one million jobs from this economy. “President Obama told us his law would make health care more affordable and ‘lower … premiums by $2,500 per family per year.’ Instead, the CBO now projects that the law’s new benefit mandates will force premiums to rise in the individual market by $2,100 per family. “One of the most ominous parts of the law is the creation of a new government control panel – the Independent Payment Advisory Board. The board will be comprised of 15 unelected bureaucrats – hand-picked by the president – whose sole job it will be to control Medicare’s cost growth by imposing price controls that will slash senior access to doctors and other providers. “While Democrats seems to think that 15 unaccountable Washington bureaucrats deserve the power to decide personal medical choices for seniors, Republicans believe no government acronym, no government bureaucrat, and no government board can ever substitute the good judgment of a chosen family doctor. That is why this week House Republicans passed the Protecting Access to Healthcare (PATH) Act to put a stop to this reckless new government intrusion before it begins. It marked our 26th vote to repeal, defund or dismantle a part of the president’s law. “It is time to take a stand against the president’s health care rationing board. It is time for Harry Reid and the Democrat-controlled Senate to pass the PATH Act, stop blocking our actions on behalf of seniors and job creators, and work with us to fully repeal this entire dangerous law.” ###
03.22.2012	WASHINGTON –Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) is asking high school students who live or attend school in his congressional district to participate in the 2012 Congressional Art Competition: An Artistic Discovery. “Each year, this exciting competition provides Members of Congress the opportunity to showcase the artistic talent of high school students within their districts, thereby acknowledging our nation’s gifted young artists,” said Congressman Hensarling. “I am pleased to announce that the Fifth Congressional District is once again participating in the competition and I look forward to seeing the artwork that our talented students submit.” The competition is open to all high school students who live in the Fifth Congressional District of Texas. As in years past, the winning entry from each congressional district will be displayed in a special exhibit located in a corridor of the U.S. Capitol for one year. The winning student and a guest will be invited to attend a special ribbon-cutting ceremony unveiling the artwork in Washington, D.C. on Wednesday, June 20, 2012. Two complimentary airline tickets, courtesy of a major airline, will be provided to attend the ceremony. Teachers and students wishing to participate this year’s competition should contact Alexandra Collumb in my Dallas office at (214) 349-9996 or Amy Gould in my Athens office at (903) 675-8288 for official contest dates, rules and guidelines. Artwork must be submitted to Congressman Hensarling’s office no later than Friday, April 20th to be considered. CLICK HERE FOR MORE INFORMATION ON THE COMPETITION AND TO DOWNLOAD AN APPLICATION
03.19.2012	WASHINGTON – Staff from U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling’s office will be traveling across the 5th congressional district on Thursday, March 22 and Friday, March 23, 2012 to meet with constituents needing assistance with federal agencies. Hensarling’s staff will make stops in each county in the congressman’s district at the times and locations listed below. “Dealing with federal agencies can be an intimidating experience. I want my constituents to know that my staff and I stand ready to help. I hope that you will let my office assist you in your dealings with federal agencies or bureaucracies,” Hensarling said. Providing outstanding constituent service is a priority of Congressman Hensarling, and these meetings across the district will provide additional opportunities for constituents with questions or concerns to bring those to his attention. District offices located in Dallas and Athens are always open for constituents to visit, as well as mail, fax, email or call for assistance. “This is an opportunity that allows 5th district Constituents to have a face-to-face discussion with my staff and to make it more convenient for them to get help.” Hensarling added. All constituents with questions or concerns regarding immigration, passports, IRS, Medicare, the military, Social Security, USDA, Veterans Affairs, federal grants, or other federal issues are welcome to attend and will be assisted on a first-come, first-serve basis. ***Under federal law, constituent consultations with Congressional staff are strictly confidential. No information about constituents or their conversations will be disclosed without their consent. *** ###
03.07.2012	CLICK HERE TO WATCH WASHINGTON— Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), chairman of the House Republican Conference, delivered the following remarks on the House floor today in support of the JOBS Act. Hensarling—who serves as co-chairman of the House Financial Services Committee where the bills included in the package originated—managed debate on the bi-partisan legislative package that will help small businesses and entrepreneurs access vital equity capital and put Americans back to work. “Mr. Chairman, it is clear that jobs and the economy are issue number one for our constituents. Many of them don’t see the recovery. Even though professional economists may see it, it is clearly the slowest and weakest recovery in the post-war era. “We still have now three full years of 8 percent-plus unemployment. Half of our population is now being classified as either low-income or in poverty. Again, our constituents are demanding jobs. “Public policy makes a difference. Republicans have many disagreements with our president over public policy. We disagree with the $11 trillion of additional debt that he has put into his budget. We disagree with the $1.9 trillion in new job-killing tax increases he wants to impose, much of it on small businesses. We believe the Keystone pipeline with its 20,000 shovel-ready jobs should be approved. We believe these policies harm job growth and the economy. “But Mr. Chairman, we have a rare occasion today, and that is there is something we do agree on. We have found an opportunity to work on a bipartisan basis on common ground with the President of the United States. “The president said, ‘It is time to cut away the red tape that prevents too many rapidly growing startup companies from raising capital and going public.’ House Republicans agree. Thus, we are happy to bring to the floor, on a bipartisan basis, the JOBS Act. “The president has issued his Statement of Administration Policy endorsing this legislation. Again, a rare occurrence, and I believe it is something that our constituents would like to see us do. They want to see us stand on principle, but they also want to see us compromise on policies to advance those principles. “So this is a bill that will give these emerging growth companies—perhaps the future Googles, perhaps the future Apples, the future Home Depots, the future Starbucks—that opportunity to now begin to access equity capital where the hurdles, the red tape, the cost burdens, have been too high. “We know that of the many root causes of the economic debacle we had, clearly this was an economy that was over-leveraged. We in Congress need to do whatever we can to enable the startup companies, the job engines of America, to be able to access the equity markets and not just the debt markets. “This is a bill which has been mostly approved previously by large majorities either in the Financial Services Committee or on the floor. I want to thank the gentleman from Tennessee, Mr. Fincher, for his leadership, Chairman Bachus, Leader Cantor, the ranking member Mr. Frank from Massachusetts. “The American people want to see jobs, hope, and opportunities, so let’s pass the JOBS Act. Let’s pass it now.”
02.29.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement in response to testimony today by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke at a meeting of the House Financial Services Committee, where Hensarling serves as Vice-Chair. “With the national unemployment rate at or above 8 percent for the last 36 months, Chairman Bernanke today described the economic recovery as “modest,” relative to historic terms. However, when we take into account those Americans who are underemployed and those who have given up and left the labor force all together, the real unemployment rate is 15.4 percent. With half of all Americans now classified by the Census Bureau as low income or in poverty and one in seven now relying on food stamps, the term “modest” is indeed modest. “We are in the midst of the slowest, weakest, recovery in the post war era, yet we are seeing the most accommodative monetary policy that we have ever seen. With recent statistics—including those provided by the Federal Reserve—showing public companies are sitting on $2.1 trillion dollars in excess liquidity and banks have $1.5 trillion dollars in excess capital, all signs point to the fact that our true challenges are on the fiscal side. “Recently, the Dallas FED President, Richard Fisher, made me aware of a Harvard study showing the greatest impediments to job creation to be taxation, red tape, uncertainty. A recent Gallup poll shows that roughly half of all small businesses believe that health care and government regulation is what is keeping them from hiring more workers. Job creators like Home Depot’s co-founder Bernie Marcus are saying that, ‘I can tell you today that the impediments the government imposes are impossible to deal with. Home Depot would have never succeeded had we tried to start today.’ I would add to that the voices of just about every small business person I have talked to in the Fifth Congressional District of Texas that I represent. In light of this I find myself questioning not only the efficacy of current monetary policy, but the risk as well. “While I was pleased that Chairman Bernanke expressed concern and anxiety over our nation’s structural debt, the actions he has taken to create artificially low interest rates are masking the true cost of our fiscal folly—postponing and exacerbating the problem.”
02.17.2012	Hensarling: “He got the spending he asked for, but the American people didn’t get the jobs they were promised.” WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, today issued the following statement marking tomorrow as the third anniversary of President Obama signing the trillion-dollar economic “stimulus” bill into law. “The stimulus is a stark reminder of how the president got the policies he wanted, and how those policies have failed the American people and are making things worse. “The president told us that if the government spent more money, unemployment would be at six percent today. He got the trillions of dollars of spending he asked for, but the American people didn’t get the jobs they were promised. “The president promised by the end of his first term he would cut the deficit in half. Instead, it’s more than doubled and we’re hitting our fourth year of trillion-dollar deficits. “Unemployment has now been above 8 percent for 36 straight months – the longest period of sustained high unemployment since the Great Depression. The number of Americans on food stamps is at an all-time high, while the number of new business start-ups is at a 17-year low. Nearly half of our fellow citizens are now classified as living in either low income or poverty. “If nothing else, the president’s failures help prove that we cannot tax, spend, borrow, or bail out our way to economic prosperity. But instead of learning the mistakes of the past, the president is intent on repeating them by offering another budget that includes the largest tax increase in American history. “Because the president is unable to tout his failed policies, he has turned to the politics of division and envy, calling for more tax hikes on job creators at a time when we can least afford it. There is nothing fair about continuing to borrow nearly 40 cents on the dollar, much of it from the Chinese, and sending the bill to our children and grandchildren. There is nothing fair about spending more money we don’t have for economic growth that never comes.
02.07.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, delivered the following remarks on the House floor today in support of H.R. 3581, the Budget Accounting and Transparency Act of 2012. CLICK HERE TO WATCH “I thank the gentleman for yielding; I appreciate his leadership, and certainly his leadership as one of the foremost budget hawks in the entire United States Congress. “Madam Chair, we just learned that the president will not be a day late and a dollar short with his budget. Instead, he will be a week late and a trillion dollars short on his budget. We also learned from the Congressional Budget Office this will not be his first year, his second year, his third year but his fourth year, to be a trillion dollars short on his budget. Now Madam Chair, we received a little good news last month. 200,000 of our fellow citizens were able to find work. Unfortunately, almost 13 million remain unemployed. More people on food stamps than ever before. Half of all Americans are either low-income or in poverty under the policies of this president. It is clear that this president’s policies have failed; they have made our economy worse. And because he cannot run on his record, he has regrettably turned to the politics of division and envy. “To help the economy, to help create more jobs, Madam Chair, number one we have got to quit spending money we don’t have. Second of all, the American people, job creators, have to be able to know that they have a fact-based budget. One that is honest as the American people themselves. We need fair value accounting. You know if you’re a small business in the Fifth District of Texas and you don’t have fair value accounting, you probably go broke. Well, the federal government doesn’t use fair value accounting and guess what? The federal government is broke. That is why we must pass the gentleman from New Jersey’s bill, the Budget Accounting Transparency Act. “No more Fannie and Freddies. No more Solyndras. Let’s insure that we account for these costs. It’s a part of the Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators- to give our job creators the confidence they need to hire and grow this economy.” ###
02.01.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, delivered the following remarks on the House floor today in support of H.R. 1173, the Fiscal Responsibility and Retirement Act of 2011, to repeal the CLASS Act. “Madam Chair, it is clear that the president’s policies have failed. One in seven now have to rely on food stamps, half of America now is either classified as low income or in poverty, and millions remain unemployed. Yesterday the Congressional Budget Office announced one more of the president’s failures, and that is he is on track to deliver his fourth—fourth—trillion-dollar deficit in a row. Somebody needs to tell the president we’ve got to quit spending money we don’t have for jobs we never get. “One more failure Madam Chair, is the president’s health care program. Not a week goes by that I don’t hear from hardworking small business people in the Fifth District of Texas. I heard from a furniture businessman in Garland, Texas, who told me, ‘I could start two companies and hire multiple people but based on this administration and the lack of facts with Obamacare, I’ll continue to sit and wait.’ I heard from a gentleman who ran a music business in Palestine, Texas, ‘Our business is hampered by the uncertainty of tax policy, regulations, and Obamacare.’ I had one in Dallas, Texas, after having to lay off 24 people in the last two years, wrote to me and said, ‘You know what, we’re going to have to terminate one more in February, due almost entirely to the impact on my business of the health care reform we have. We are stymied.’ “There is no doubt that the president’s health care plan is killing jobs. House Republicans have repealed it in its totality. It has been blocked by the president and by Democrats, so if we can’t do it in its totality we’ll do it piecemeal. We need to start out by repealing the CLASS Act, which Secretary Sebelius said is ‘totally unsustainable;’ Democrat Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad called it a ‘ponzi scheme of the first order.’ “The president’s policies have failed. It’s time to enact the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators. It’s time to repeal the CLASS Act.” ###
01.24.2012	Hensarling: “President Obama’s ideas have already been turned into reality, and reality is showing that they not only failed—they are making the economy worse.” WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address. “Because the president cannot run on his record, he has turned to the politics of envy and is trying to divide America. He cloaks his class warfare rhetoric under the guise of ‘fairness,’ but what is fair about doubling-down on ideas that have already failed to revive our economy and are causing historic pain for the American people? “Three years ago, President Obama told us that if we passed his trillion-dollar ‘stimulus’ plan, his health care law, and the Dodd-Frank Act, then the economy would grow and jobs would flourish. He got his policies; America did not get the results. The president’s ideas have already been turned into reality, and reality is showing that they not only failed—they are making the economy worse. “Almost two million more Americans have lost their jobs since President Obama took office, while the nation is stuck in the longest period of sustained high unemployment since the Great Depression. Gas prices have doubled, new business start-ups have fallen to a 17-year low, and the number of Americans relying on food stamps is at an all-time high. According to the Census Bureau, almost half the country is now living in either poverty or low income. What’s ‘fair’ about any of this? “The president may talk about a ‘new era’ for manufacturing and the middle class, but just last week he buried 20,000 shovel-ready jobs when he disapproved of the bi-partisan, environmentally-reviewed Keystone XL energy project in order to please a segment of his base. Clearly for this administration, people still come second to politics. “Rather noticeably, the president forgot to mention that today marked the 1,000th day since his fellow Democrats in the Senate even bothered to pass a budget. Forcing the government to operate without a budget is just one way the president and his party have taken our spending-driven debt crisis from worrisome to catastrophic. “Without spending discipline, raising taxes will not solve our nation’s debt crisis and could seriously harm small businesses. Fairness is found not in taxing some people more but in subsidizing them less. Let’s scrap the tax loopholes. Let’s end the special interest taxpayer subsidies the president defends—like those he gave to Solyndra—and stop his administration’s bailouts. “It’s a new year, and President Obama must begin to consider new ideas. Some have already been turned into legislation, such as the 27 bipartisan jobs bills passed under the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators awaiting the Democrat-run Senate’s approval. It is time for the president and his party to give our jobs crisis the priority it demands so that the American people can get the jobs and economic recovery they so desperately deserve.” ###
01.24.2012	As President Barack Obama prepares to deliver his State of the Union Address Tuesday, it is important that Americans recall the record of his earlier promises before he makes new ones. Three years ago, we were told if Congress passed his administration’s priority legislation – the trillion-dollar “stimulus,” his heath care law and the Dodd-Frank Act – then the economy would recover and job growth would flourish. Now, with all the key elements of his agenda in place, where do we find ourselves? Since his Inauguration in 2009, almost 2 million more Americans are out of work. Despite assurances that the stimulus would keep the nation’s jobless rate below 8 percent, unemployment has been mired above 8 percent for the past 35 months—the longest period of sustained high unemployment since the Great Depression. Meanwhile, the average price of gas has doubled; new business start-ups are at a 17-year low, and the number of Americans relying on food stamps is at an all-time high. Though the president has said he would do “whatever it takes to move this economy forward,” just last week he wasted a golden opportunity to help create at least 20,000 new jobs when he declined to approve construction of the popular Keystone XL energy pipeline. Despite every commonsense reason to support this project, from its strong bipartisan support to its extensive three-year federal review, the president effectively buried 20,000 shovel-ready U.S. jobs. The president must address these issues in his speech Tuesday. He should also note that Tuesday marks the 1,000th day since the Democratic-controlled Senate even bothered to pass a budget. Forcing the government to operate without a real budget is just one way the president and his party have taken our nation’s spending-driven debt crisis from worrisome to catastrophic. For the first time since World War II, our total debt burden exceeds the size of our entire economy and represents a clear impediment to job growth. In just three years, the president has racked up more debt than was created between the presidencies of George Washington and George H.W. Bush. Regardless of the president’s intentions, his policies have failed the American people and continue to hamper a full recovery. I recently heard from a constituent in Garland, Texas. He summed up our nation’s small business sentiment. “I could start two companies and hire multiple people,” he said, “but based on this administration and the lack of facts with Obamacare, I will continue to sit and wait.” Because the president cannot run on his record, he has, regrettably, turned to the politics of envy and is trying to divide America. Without spending discipline, raising taxes will not solve our nation’s debt crisis — and could seriously harm small businesses. Fairness is found not in taxing some people more but in subsidizing them less. Let’s scrap the tax loopholes. Let’s end the special interest taxpayer subsidies the president defends—like those he gave to Solyndra—and stop his administration’s bailouts. Going forward, the president should not forget the important work completed in the House last year. Republicans passed a budget that addressed the real drivers of our debt and included fundamental pro-growth tax reform. We also sent the Senate more than 30 bipartisan jobs bills as a part of our Plan for America’s Job Creators. Twenty-seven are still stacked-up, awaiting Democratic consideration. No nation can borrow, spend, tax or bailout its way to jobs and economic growth. I’m hopeful the president will admit his policies have failed and begin to work with both Republicans and Democrats in Congress to give Americans the jobs and recovery they desperately need – and deserve. Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) is the chairman of the House Republican Conference and vice chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. (CLICK HERE TO READ ON POLITICO)
01.06.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference Chairman, issued the following statement today regarding the latest unemployment report released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics and the need for Democratic leaders to support the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators. “Despite false assurances that the president’s trillion-dollar ‘stimulus’ bill would keep the jobless rate from surpassing 8 percent, unemployment has now been higher than 8 percent for 35 straight months. “As of last month, when we include the number of Americans who have given up hope and are no longer looking for work, along with those only able to find part-time work, the nation’s ‘underemployment’ rate is a devastating 15.2 percent—totaling 23.7 million Americans. “Senior Democrat leaders wrongly claimed that each of their signature policies would boost economic growth and job creation—from the taxpayer-funded ‘stimulus’ to Dodd-Frank to the government takeover of health care. Democrats were wrong, their policies failed, and the American people suffered. “The Obama economy continues to plague the nation with the worst jobs crisis since the Great Depression. While House Republicans continue to offer serious solutions, the only ‘jobs bills’ Democrats can take credit for were failed government-funded stimulus bills. “By implementing the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators, Republicans have guided more than 30 bipartisan jobs bills through the House and onto Harry Reid’s door step. Unfortunately, 28 of these House-passed jobs bills are still being blocked or ignored by Senate Democrats, while President Obama continues to fixate more on his re-election needs than America’s jobs needs. “Just last month, the president and his party had a golden opportunity to support a major job-creating initiative that would have created thousands of new jobs for the American people. The Democrats, again putting politics before people, failed to do the right thing and blew their opportunity to help millions of Americans who are struggling through the Obama economy. “House Republicans have acted. We have done our job to create jobs, and will continue to do so in the New Year. Mr. President and congressional Democrats—it’s time for you to start doing your jobs and help us turn this economy around.” ###
01.04.2012	WASHINGTON – House Republican Conference Chairman and Financial Services Committee Vice Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) issued the following statement today condemning President Obama’s unprecedented “recess appointment” of Richard Cordray as director of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).“Today’s ‘recess appointment’ of a director to head the CFPB—with the Senate not even in recess—marks a dangerous break from precedent and demonstrates this administration’s continued failure to focus on the serious scrutiny and reform this agency deserves. “President Obama’s action today, along with the unchecked leadership of the CFPB, represents an abuse of executive power and an unwillingness of this administration to be held accountable to anyone. The constitutionality of this appointment is dubious at best, and I applaud my Republican colleagues in the Senate who are standing up to oppose it.“Under Dodd-Frank, this single credit czar will have the power to decide whether the Rodriguez family of Mesquite, Texas, can obtain a mortgage; whether the King family of Athens, Texas, can get a car loan; or whether the Schoen family of Kaufman, Texas, can even get a credit card in order to buy their groceries.“Senate Republicans were absolutely right to stop this nomination last year, and they are right to demand meaningful changes to this new government bureaucracy so that it is more accountable to the American people.”###
12.13.2011	CLICK TO PLAY Congressman Hensarling:“Once again, House Republicans have passed a bill to further extend unemployment insurance. Once again, House Republicans have voted on a bill to extend the payroll tax holiday. We ought to remember why we are here: we are here because our fellow citizens continue to suffer in the Obama Economy.“We’ve tried the president’s policies and they have failed, and that is why unfortunately we are here again today. But, as the Speaker, and the Leader, and the Whip have pointed out, we don’t bring a bill that is a ‘Republican bill.’ It’s got the president’s ideas in it, it has bipartisan ideas, and yes, it has some of our ideas. And yet the president has threatened a veto. It seems like he will not take ‘yes’ for an answer. Instead he is finding an excuse to pick a fight, seemingly so he can run against the House. The president needs to decide: does he want to govern or does he want to campaign? He may be looking for political scapegoats but the American people are looking for job solutions.“The president seems to have threatened to veto this bill, one, because House Republicans don’t want to raise taxes. Why would you want to raise taxes on anybody in this economy? Why is taking more away from small businesspeople and job creators going to be helpful to our economy? It isn’t, and without spending discipline, it won’t help on the deficit problem at all. “Second, the president seems to have a problem in making a decision on the Keystone pipeline. We’re not telling him what decision to make. We’re saying, ‘Mr. President, will you at least do your job? Will you do what you said you would do and make a decision?’ Already, people are losing their jobs. There is a report out of Arkansas today that people are getting laid off because of the president’s indecision. If he is unwilling or incapable of making the decision, there is a lot of people who are running for president who are willing to make the decision for him.“At this point right now, at Christmas, the president can join us to give Americans tax relief and jobs without spending money that we don’t have. The president has an opportunity to sign a jobs bill. If he wants to run against some portion of Congress, I suggest he run against Harry Reid and Senate Democrats. House Republicans have acted. We have done our job. Mr. President, it’s time for you to do your job. Senator Reid and Senate Democrats, we have done our job—it’s time for you to do your job.” ###
12.02.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today regarding the latest unemployment report released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics and the urgent need for Democratic leaders to support the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators.“Today’s unemployment report reminds us why the American people are so fed up with the Obama economy – it’s only brought about more power for Washington, more debt for our children and grandchildren, less confidence for job creators, and far too few jobs for Americans. “With this morning’s news, our nation’s jobless rate has now been stuck at or above 8 percent for 34 straight months and at 9 percent or higher for 28 of those months. Not since the Great Depression has unemployment in America been so high for so long.“Fostering job growth remains job number one for House Republicans. By following the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators we have successfully passed more than 25 bipartisan jobs bills so far this year. Unfortunately, more than 20 of these bills continue to be ignored and opposed by Democrat leaders in the Senate and White House. “The lack of leadership by the president and his party and their refusal to put America’s employment needs before their election needs is only making the path to recovery longer and harder for job seekers and job creators.“When it comes to job creation, House Republicans are continuing to do the job that Democrats have proved they can’t do. While Democrats dither, House-passed jobs bills continue to stack up like cordwood on Senator Reid’s doorstep and three more bills will be added to that pile by the end of this week. Each of these bills will encourage an environment of greater confidence for our nation’s businesses and entrepreneurs to build, invest, expand, and put millions of Americans back to work.“With the Christmas season now upon us, there is no better gift that the Democrat-run Senate could give the nation than to give our jobs bills the approval they deserve so Americans can see the job growth they deserve and have been waiting for.” ###
11.30.2011	WASHINGTON– Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today in support of H.R. 3094, the Workforce Democracy and Fairness Act, to rein in the job-killing activism of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) and reaffirm protections that workers and job creators have been granted for decades. “Under this administration, the NLRB has become a threat to the freedom and dignity of the American workers it’s meant to protect as well as a roadblock to the job growth so many out-of-work Americans are depending on. The NLRB’s recently proposed overhaul of the nation’s union rules would harm and undermine the workplace by empowering labor bosses and weakening laborers’ decision-making rights. This bill, if enacted, will stop such activism in its tracks. “Job creators have enough to worry about thanks to Washington’s record spending and reckless red tape. The NLRB’s misguided priorities are only feeding the environment of uncertainty that’s preventing job creators from doing their job. Federal regulatory agencies should serve to keep the economy free, fair, and functioning, not as political tools for the administration in power. “The NLRB’s recent record of overreach must come to an end. This bill halts the NLRB’s assault on American workers by curbing the board’s centralized power and restores the proper role and rights of employers in the workplace’s unionization process. “This bill is another product of the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators which is committed to restoring the freedom and confidence of our nation’s private sector employers to grow and put millions of Americans back to work. With more than 20 House-passed jobs bills still awaiting a fair vote in the Senate, it’s more important than ever that Democrat leaders put their politics aside and pass these bills.” ###
11.21.2011	WASHINGTON– Today, the Co-Chairs of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, Representative Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) and Senator Patty Murray, released the following statement. "After months of hard work and intense deliberations, we have come to the conclusion today that it will not be possible to make any bipartisan agreement available to the public before the committee’s deadline. "Despite our inability to bridge the committee's significant differences, we end this process united in our belief that the nation's fiscal crisis must be addressed and that we cannot leave it for the next generation to solve. We remain hopeful that Congress can build on this committee’s work and can find a way to tackle this issue in a way that works for the American people and our economy. "We are deeply disappointed that we have been unable to come to a bipartisan deficit reduction agreement, but as we approach the uniquely American holiday of Thanksgiving, we want to express our appreciation to every member of this committee, each of whom came into the process committed to achieving a solution that has eluded many groups before us. Most importantly, we want to thank the American people for sharing thoughts and ideas and for providing support and good will as we worked to accomplish this difficult task. "We would also like to thank our committee staff, in particular Staff Director Mark Prater and Deputy Staff Director Sarah Kuehl, as well as each committee member's staff for the tremendous work they contributed to this effort. We would also like to express our sincere gratitude to Dr. Douglas Elmendorf and Mr. Thomas Barthold and their teams at the Congressional Budget Office and Joint Committee on Taxation, respectively, for the technical support they provided to the committee and its members." ###
11.18.2011	“Let’s save our country. Let’s amend the Constitution. Let’s balance the budget.”CLICK TO PLAY WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), Chairman of the House Republican Conference and Co-Chairman of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, issued the following statement today in advance of a historic vote on a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. “Our national debt has topped $15 trillion. That is $128,000 for every household in America. The American people know that it’s because Washington spends too much, it’s not because they’re under taxed. If we try to tax our way out of this, we will be the most highly taxed nation in the world. That’s why the crisis has to be solved from the spending side. “The deficit is the symptom—it is spending that is the disease. “Many will say amending the Constitution is a very sacred responsibility, only to be undertaken with the greatest care and deliberation. I agree. But, let us recall the Founding Fathers provided an amendment process. No less than a Founding Father than Thomas Jefferson himself said, and I quote, ‘I wish it were possible to obtain a single amendment to our constitution, I would be willing to depend on that alone for the reduction of the administration of our government, I mean an additional article taking from the federal government the power of borrowing.’ “49 of 50 states have some form of balanced budget requirement, including Texas. Every family has to balance their budget, every small business. Should we expect anything less from a great nation? “Unfortunately, Republicans and Democrats can’t seem to agree on spending. They can’t seem to agree on taxes. But can’t we all agree as Americans that it’s at least way passed time to stop mortgaging our children’s future and bankrupting the greatest nation in history? Let’s save our country. Let’s amend the Constitution. Let’s balance the budget.” ###
11.03.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), House Republican Conference Chairman and Financial Services Committee Vice Chairman, issued the following statement today in support of H.R. 2930, the Entrepreneur Access to Capital Act, and H.R. 2940, the Access to Capital for Job Creators Act, to enable businesses and entrepreneurs to access more capital to create more jobs. “The passage of these bills is further evidence that the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators is committed to knocking down the regulatory roadblocks standing in between job creators and the confidence and capital they need to do their job. These are just two more House-passed jobs bills that Americans expect the Senate to support and the president to sign. “Both of these bills are geared toward getting Washington out of the way of our nation’s entrepreneurs and small business people who are eager to expand but find themselves bound by needless red tape that ultimately keeps them from putting Americans back to work. “You can’t have capitalism without capital. Jobs can’t grow when cash flow slows. America is blessed with the most talented and ambitious entrepreneurs in the world. Why limit their potential and sideline jobs by keeping job-creating capital on the sidelines? House Republicans know that smarter regulations and fewer roadblocks to capital will allow the energy of our private sector to be unleashed and job creation to flourish. “America’s private sector has historically been our nation’s most effective job-creating engine. There is no reason why burdensome Washington regulations should hinder it, particularly during the worst unemployment streak since the Great Depression. These jobs bills, like the many others that House Republicans have passed so far this year, will help re-invigorate our economy and give the American people the job growth they’ve been waiting for.” ###
12.02.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today regarding the latest unemployment report released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics and the urgent need for Democratic leaders to support the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators.“Today’s unemployment report reminds us why the American people are so fed up with the Obama economy – it’s only brought about more power for Washington, more debt for our children and grandchildren, less confidence for job creators, and far too few jobs for Americans. “With this morning’s news, our nation’s jobless rate has now been stuck at or above 8 percent for 34 straight months and at 9 percent or higher for 28 of those months. Not since the Great Depression has unemployment in America been so high for so long.“Fostering job growth remains job number one for House Republicans. By following the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators we have successfully passed more than 25 bipartisan jobs bills so far this year. Unfortunately, more than 20 of these bills continue to be ignored and opposed by Democrat leaders in the Senate and White House. “The lack of leadership by the president and his party and their refusal to put America’s employment needs before their election needs is only making the path to recovery longer and harder for job seekers and job creators.“When it comes to job creation, House Republicans are continuing to do the job that Democrats have proved they can’t do. While Democrats dither, House-passed jobs bills continue to stack up like cordwood on Senator Reid’s doorstep and three more bills will be added to that pile by the end of this week. Each of these bills will encourage an environment of greater confidence for our nation’s businesses and entrepreneurs to build, invest, expand, and put millions of Americans back to work.“With the Christmas season now upon us, there is no better gift that the Democrat-run Senate could give the nation than to give our jobs bills the approval they deserve so Americans can see the job growth they deserve and have been waiting for.” ###
11.30.2011	WASHINGTON– Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today in support of H.R. 3094, the Workforce Democracy and Fairness Act, to rein in the job-killing activism of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) and reaffirm protections that workers and job creators have been granted for decades. “Under this administration, the NLRB has become a threat to the freedom and dignity of the American workers it’s meant to protect as well as a roadblock to the job growth so many out-of-work Americans are depending on. The NLRB’s recently proposed overhaul of the nation’s union rules would harm and undermine the workplace by empowering labor bosses and weakening laborers’ decision-making rights. This bill, if enacted, will stop such activism in its tracks. “Job creators have enough to worry about thanks to Washington’s record spending and reckless red tape. The NLRB’s misguided priorities are only feeding the environment of uncertainty that’s preventing job creators from doing their job. Federal regulatory agencies should serve to keep the economy free, fair, and functioning, not as political tools for the administration in power. “The NLRB’s recent record of overreach must come to an end. This bill halts the NLRB’s assault on American workers by curbing the board’s centralized power and restores the proper role and rights of employers in the workplace’s unionization process. “This bill is another product of the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators which is committed to restoring the freedom and confidence of our nation’s private sector employers to grow and put millions of Americans back to work. With more than 20 House-passed jobs bills still awaiting a fair vote in the Senate, it’s more important than ever that Democrat leaders put their politics aside and pass these bills.” ###
11.21.2011	WASHINGTON– Today, the Co-Chairs of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, Representative Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) and Senator Patty Murray, released the following statement. "After months of hard work and intense deliberations, we have come to the conclusion today that it will not be possible to make any bipartisan agreement available to the public before the committee’s deadline. "Despite our inability to bridge the committee's significant differences, we end this process united in our belief that the nation's fiscal crisis must be addressed and that we cannot leave it for the next generation to solve. We remain hopeful that Congress can build on this committee’s work and can find a way to tackle this issue in a way that works for the American people and our economy. "We are deeply disappointed that we have been unable to come to a bipartisan deficit reduction agreement, but as we approach the uniquely American holiday of Thanksgiving, we want to express our appreciation to every member of this committee, each of whom came into the process committed to achieving a solution that has eluded many groups before us. Most importantly, we want to thank the American people for sharing thoughts and ideas and for providing support and good will as we worked to accomplish this difficult task. "We would also like to thank our committee staff, in particular Staff Director Mark Prater and Deputy Staff Director Sarah Kuehl, as well as each committee member's staff for the tremendous work they contributed to this effort. We would also like to express our sincere gratitude to Dr. Douglas Elmendorf and Mr. Thomas Barthold and their teams at the Congressional Budget Office and Joint Committee on Taxation, respectively, for the technical support they provided to the committee and its members." ###
11.18.2011	“Let’s save our country. Let’s amend the Constitution. Let’s balance the budget.”CLICK TO PLAY WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), Chairman of the House Republican Conference and Co-Chairman of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, issued the following statement today in advance of a historic vote on a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. “Our national debt has topped $15 trillion. That is $128,000 for every household in America. The American people know that it’s because Washington spends too much, it’s not because they’re under taxed. If we try to tax our way out of this, we will be the most highly taxed nation in the world. That’s why the crisis has to be solved from the spending side. “The deficit is the symptom—it is spending that is the disease. “Many will say amending the Constitution is a very sacred responsibility, only to be undertaken with the greatest care and deliberation. I agree. But, let us recall the Founding Fathers provided an amendment process. No less than a Founding Father than Thomas Jefferson himself said, and I quote, ‘I wish it were possible to obtain a single amendment to our constitution, I would be willing to depend on that alone for the reduction of the administration of our government, I mean an additional article taking from the federal government the power of borrowing.’ “49 of 50 states have some form of balanced budget requirement, including Texas. Every family has to balance their budget, every small business. Should we expect anything less from a great nation? “Unfortunately, Republicans and Democrats can’t seem to agree on spending. They can’t seem to agree on taxes. But can’t we all agree as Americans that it’s at least way passed time to stop mortgaging our children’s future and bankrupting the greatest nation in history? Let’s save our country. Let’s amend the Constitution. Let’s balance the budget.” ###
11.03.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), House Republican Conference Chairman and Financial Services Committee Vice Chairman, issued the following statement today in support of H.R. 2930, the Entrepreneur Access to Capital Act, and H.R. 2940, the Access to Capital for Job Creators Act, to enable businesses and entrepreneurs to access more capital to create more jobs. “The passage of these bills is further evidence that the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators is committed to knocking down the regulatory roadblocks standing in between job creators and the confidence and capital they need to do their job. These are just two more House-passed jobs bills that Americans expect the Senate to support and the president to sign. “Both of these bills are geared toward getting Washington out of the way of our nation’s entrepreneurs and small business people who are eager to expand but find themselves bound by needless red tape that ultimately keeps them from putting Americans back to work. “You can’t have capitalism without capital. Jobs can’t grow when cash flow slows. America is blessed with the most talented and ambitious entrepreneurs in the world. Why limit their potential and sideline jobs by keeping job-creating capital on the sidelines? House Republicans know that smarter regulations and fewer roadblocks to capital will allow the energy of our private sector to be unleashed and job creation to flourish. “America’s private sector has historically been our nation’s most effective job-creating engine. There is no reason why burdensome Washington regulations should hinder it, particularly during the worst unemployment streak since the Great Depression. These jobs bills, like the many others that House Republicans have passed so far this year, will help re-invigorate our economy and give the American people the job growth they’ve been waiting for.” ###
10.27.2011	Hensarling: “A tax bad enough to delay is a tax bad enough to repeal.” WASHINGTON – House Republican Conference Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) issued the following statement today regarding H.R. 674 to repeal the job-killing 3% withholding tax scheduled to go into effect on January 1, 2013. “Repealing the 3 percent withholding tax will let job creators keep more capital to create more jobs. As part of the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators, this repeal bill will restore confidence in businesses and entrepreneurs that it’s safe to invest, expand, and hire more Americans. Senseless taxation like the 3% withholding tax only kills confidence and erases capital. Jobs can’t grow when cash flow slows. “While House Republicans believe in enforcing lawful taxpayer compliance, the 3 percent withholding tax is the absolute wrong way to go about doing it. The tax automatically—and wrongly—assumes that job creators who provide goods and services to the federal government are somehow evading full taxation. Hitting them with an up-front pre-tax will end up punishing all tax-payers instead of penalizing just tax-evaders. “In this struggling economy, job creators don’t have rainy day funds to pay for a needless ‘suspicion tax.’ The money soaked out of businesses through the 3 percent withholding tax would do little to boost revenue but do much to bring about higher prices for consumers, lower wages for workers, and lost jobs for the American people. “Americans can’t choose to pay less than 100 percent of their bills; neither should the federal government. A tax bad enough to delay is a tax bad enough to repeal. The passage of this repeal bill marks a perfect opportunity for the president to work with House Republicans to put Americans back to work.” ###
10.13.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), issued the following statement today in support of H.R. 358, the Protect Life Act, to amend the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPFCA) to incorporate permanent, bill-wide statutory language to prevent federal funding for abortions through any program authorized or appropriated by the PPFCA. The bill would also protect the right of conscience for health care professionals by ensuring that private insurance companies are not mandated to cover abortion. “This bill, like H.R. 3 that the House passed in May, helps codify what has de facto been our policy for 35 years through the Hyde Amendment. It ensures that taxpayers will never be compelled to subsidize abortions, and that our nation’s private health care providers will never be forced to cover them. Simply put, this bill effectively shuts down every path around the Hyde amendment hidden in the Democrats’ government takeover of health care. “In my heart and in my head, I can come to no other conclusion than that life begins at conception. As a matter of law, science and faith, there is no more fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution than the right to life. No American should ever be compelled against his or her will to contribute to the loss of innocent human life.” ###
10.13.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), issued the following statement today in honor of South Korean President Lee Myung-bak’s visit to the Nation’s Capital and his address to a joint gathering of Congress. “Today I had the pleasure of listening to President Lee’s inspiring words to Congress on the importance of the unbreakable friendship between the United States and the Republic of Korea. That friendship was made even stronger by yesterday’s passage in the House of what will be America’s largest free trade agreement with any nation in all of Asia. Thanks to this new agreement, American businesses will be free to compete on a more even playing field with our allies in Europe and elsewhere and create thousands of new jobs for the American people. I personally told President Lee that he can expect plenty of new exports of Texas beef to his country. “As President Lee indicated, our countries’ deep alliance is rooted not merely in commerce but in our shared commitment to the ideals of freedom, democracy, and human rights—values mocked and rejected by Korea’s neighbor to the North. As long as the dark shadow of dictatorship plagues the Korean Peninsula, the United States must meet its moral duty and stand with our ally in defense of its people, its principles, and our enduring partnership.”
10.12.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today in praise of the House-passed free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea to enhance American job creation and prosperity. “There is not decades but centuries of historical evidence that free trade creates jobs. The agreements passed by the House today as part of the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators are among the most powerful job-creating bills we’ve approved this year. As elected leaders, when we stand for free trade, we stand with American consumers and sellers, job seekers and job creators. “I applaud Chairman Camp and my colleague from Texas, Chairman Brady, for their excellent effort in guiding these critical agreements to the floor for passage. The result could be, according to the administration, up to 250,000 new American jobs. As the top exporting state in the union—with total exports exceeding $200 billion, and exports to Colombia, Panama and South Korea topping $12 billion just last year—Texas knows the economic power of free trade fully well as Texas businesses have been able to create more than 250,000 jobs in the past year alone. “I believe it speaks to the fundamental economic liberties and necessities of the American citizen to open up as many markets to American goods and products as possible. And, for example, if a struggling school teacher in Mesquite, Texas wants to buy a fifteen dollar sweater made in Peru, as opposed to a twenty five dollar sweater made in Peoria, she ought to have that right as a citizen of a free nation. As a people, it’s just commonsense to do what we do best and trade for the rest. “House Republicans have been focused on job creation since Day One. Part of that effort has been to oppose the president whenever he’s proposed more taxes or new regulatory burdens on job creators. But when the president wants to support the creation of new jobs and new markets through increased trade, we will work with him hand in hand. Today represents the culmination of years of work to help American businesses of all sizes export more goods to earn more capital to create more jobs. As free trade grows, jobs and income flow. “The passage of these free trade agreements marks a victory for economic liberty, for national prosperity, and for the enduring alliances with our friends in freedom around the world. It is also further proof that job creation remains job number one for House Republicans as we continue, week after week, to carry out the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators.” ###
10.06.2011	Hensarling: “The Cement MACT regulations represent the worst kind of Washington red tape. They are anti-jobs, anti-business, and anti-common sense.” WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today in support of H.R. 2681, the Cement Sector Regulatory Relief Act of 2011, to relieve job creators of the expensive and excessively onerous restrictions imposed by the EPA through its new Cement MACT (maximum achievable control technology) rules. “In this time of record poverty and record unemployment, Washington should be at the side of job creators, not on their backs. With this bill, employers across America would be saved from the EPA’s oppressive Cement MACT rules that studies say would cost billions in capital and thousands of jobs. “Karl Watson, a Texas job creator and president of Texas-based CEMEX USA, has said in no uncertain terms what would happen if the Cement MACT rules were allowed to go into effect: ‘For our industry, it’s probably going to be 18-20 plants that just will not be able to comply with this, either physically or economically, and they’ll close down.’ Thanks to this bill, that will not have to happen. “Our nation’s infrastructure would not exist without cement. The new Cement MACT rules not only threaten cement producers, but their customers as well. It’s no surprise that the EPA says these rules would cost the industry an astonishing $2.2 billion, or that the Portland Cement Association has already warned Congress about the direct loss of up to 4,000 jobs after the rules’ implementation. “America’s businesses should be able to depend on federal regulations to keep our economy free, competition fair, and customers safe. Unfortunately, the Cement MACT regulations represent the worst kind of Washington red tape. They are anti-jobs, anti-business, and anti-common sense. “House Republicans support smart regulations that instill confidence in job creators, not abusive red tape that only leads to lost investments, closed factories and longer unemployment lines. This bill is just one more product of our Plan for America’s Job Creators to restore the freedom and confidence our private sector needs to grow again.” ###
10.04.2011	CLICK TO PLAY WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Republican Conference and co-chairman of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, issued the following statement today in response to President Obama’s speech at Eastfield College in Rep. Hensarling’s district. “While I would have liked to have been at Eastfield College today to welcome the president personally, I would have offered less welcome to his latest economic plan. “We’ve got to quit spending money we don’t have for jobs we never get. House Republicans have a different plan. Number one, we put forward a budget that leads us to fiscal sustainability and eventually a balanced budget. “Second of all, we prevent all the president’s job killing tax increases and we make the tax code fairer, flatter, simpler and more competitive to create jobs. “Next, we have jobs bills stacked up in the Democratic-controlled United States Senate like cordwood—a lot of them aimed at trying to reduce the regulatory burden on our job creators. But unfortunately, we can’t get any support from our president, and we can’t get any support from Harry Reid. “We’re not suffering so much from a lack of capital in our economy, it’s a lack of confidence and that lack of confidence, frankly, is in a lot of the policies of the president.” ###
09.13.2011	WASHINGTON – Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today encouraging Americans to use the America Speaking Out (ASO) initiative to express their opinion about a balanced budget amendment (BBA) to the U.S. Constitution. “America Speaking Out is about listening closer to the American people at a time when our spending-driven debt crisis is threatening our nation’s jobs, our national security, and our children’s future. The only permanent solution to ending Washington’s job-killing spending spree once and for all is to pass a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. “Every American family and business is expected to live and operate within its means. 49 out of 50 states have adopted some version of a balanced budget provision. There’s no good reason why the same rule shouldn’t apply to the federal government. It is time stop spending money we don’t have. It is time to stop borrowing 42 cents on the dollar, much of it from the Chinese, and then sending the bill to our children and grandchildren. “Part of the reason House Republicans are more confident than ever about the cause for a balanced budget amendment is because the American people are more intensely concerned about our nation’s fiscal future than ever before. There is now a serious public demand for fiscal accountability the likes of which we’ve never seen. The American people have said enough is enough, and we fully agree. “The time for a balanced budget amendment is now. The American people are already on our side. House Republicans are ready to make history and show the people that their government will not abandon its responsibility at this crucial time in our history.” Note: America Speaking Out is an online community launched by House Republicans aimed at giving the American people a voice and the power to set the agenda in Congress. To learn more, visit www.americaspeakingout.com. Through ASO, Americans can express their opinion about the BBA, which will be voted on in the House this fall. To learn more about the need for a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, please visit www.gop.gov/balancethebudget.
09.09.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today in recognition of the tenth anniversary of the al Qaeda terrorist attacks against the United States on September 11, 2001. “Ten years after the deadliest attack on our soil in American history, the world can still look upon a proud and resilient nation as we bow our heads and lower our flags to honor the victims of that grave September morning. The words ‘Never Forget’ still hold true for all Americans as the wounds of that day are still felt and lost loved ones are still deeply missed. “Americans will forever recall the stunning heroism of our fellow citizens who responded to the chaos in New York and Washington with the courage that defines us as a people. After all, it was on that day that the war against terrorism was begun in the sky above Pennsylvania by a brave patriot and his fellow passengers who chose to fight back. Their fearless charge will never be forgotten. “On the morning of 9/11, history came knocking and a new generation of patriots answered the call that previous generations had answered before them. These warriors would go on to showcase the very best of our nation as they liberated two countries from despotism and brought countless terrorists to final justice. As the killing of Osama bin Laden reminded the world, those who threaten our people and our way of life will never succeed and will ultimately share the same fate. “The world has changed in many ways over this hard decade, but the fundamental purpose of the United States in the world has not. Just as we led the fight for liberty against tyranny on so many fronts throughout the 20th century, we must stay committed to winning the global struggle for freedom over Islamist terror in this new century. As our enemies adapt, evolve, and persevere, so too must we. The price of liberty—and security—remains eternal vigilance. “On this solemn anniversary, I join the American people in prayer and in paying special tribute to those who have given their lives since 9/11 in defense of our homeland and our cherished freedom. Their sacrifices continue to inspire a grateful nation every day as we continue the fight for a safer and freer world for our children and grandchildren. In this long war, I have no doubt America will be victorious.”
09.08.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today in response to President Obama’s evening address before a joint session of Congress. “After the first month since 1945 with absolutely no change in employment, it’s clear we need jobs that earn, not jobs that cost. American workers and job creators haven’t been waiting for the right speech; they’re waiting for right policies to address the triple threat of taxation, regulation, and spending that’s crushing job creation. “By asking the Joint Select Committee to increase the $1.5 trillion target to cover the full cost of his plan, the president is essentially tasking a committee designed to reduce the deficit to pay for yet another round of stimulus. Deficit reduction is part of job creation. This proposal would make the already arduous challenge of finding bipartisan agreement on deficit reduction nearly impossible, removing our options for deficit reduction for a plan that won’t reduce the deficit by one penny. It’s not the role of this committee to spend more money we don’t have on jobs we don’t get. “House Republicans have introduced a Plan for America’s Job Creators and we’ve passed more than a dozen job-creating bills this year, each designed to empower employers and workers by getting government out of the way. It is inexcusable that Democrats in the Senate have blocked action on almost every one of these measures. House Republicans can’t restore confidence in the economy by ourselves – it’s time for the president and his party to put results before politics. Working together, Washington can seize this opportunity to bring jobs, hope and opportunity back to the American people.”
09.08.2011	WASHINGTON – Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), co-chairman of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, delivered the following remarks to open today’s organizational meeting of the committee. “The late Spanish philosopher George Santayana famously wrote, ‘Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to fulfill it.’ “In 2009, Professors Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff published what may be the seminal work on the subject of past debt crises entitled, ‘This Time is Different.’ Studying many different examples over a vast expanse of world history, their work paints a tragic mosaic of high unemployment, currency debasement, civil unrest, lost economic growth and in extreme cases the collapse of a nation. This is a past we in America do not want to fulfill. Unfortunately, when it comes to our own debt crisis, the needle on the gauge has now entered the red zone. “To begin, our debt threatens our jobs. “Speak to any Fortune 500 CEO or small business person. It is clear that our debt hangs like the Sword of Damocles over their hiring decisions. As one small businessman put it, ‘Jeb, I know somehow, someway I’m going to have to pay for all this debt. So now is not the time I’m going to take the risk of buying new equipment or hiring a bunch of folks.’ “As his elected representative, how can I possibly ignore such a sentiment—especially when I hear it everywhere I go and I know it’s shared by thousands and thousands of other employers from coast to coast? “It should be obvious that deficit reduction and a path to fiscal sustainability are themselves a jobs program. “Secondly, our debt threatens our national defense. “No less of an authority than the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Mike Mullen, has said, ‘The single biggest threat to our national security is our debt.’ In interest payments alone, we are enabling China to buy two jet fighters a week. “Is it not our public duty to respond to this kind of warning with the same alarm and resolve that would be summoned to defeat any other threat to our nation? “Finally, our debt threatens our children’s future. “Ominously, spending has grown from its historic norm of 20 percent of our economy to 24 percent and is on a glide path to grow to 40 percent and beyond over the course of a generation. “If financed through borrowing, interest payments alone will crush our economy. If financed through taxes, the tax burden will have to more than double – a burden never dreamed of by the American people and the businesses which employ them. Should we let this happen, we would be the first generation in America’s history to leave the next with less freedom, fewer opportunities, and a lower standard of living. “I will not sit idly by and watch the American dream disappear for my nine year old daughter and seven year old son. I believe that is a sentiment shared by all my colleagues. “So what exactly is driving our debt? President Obama has said, ‘The major driver of our long-term liabilities, everybody here knows it, is Medicare and Medicaid and our healthcare spending. Nothing comes close.’ I agree. The president has also said, ‘If you look at the numbers, then Medicare in particular will run out of money and we will not be able to sustain that program no matter how much taxes go up. …. It’s not an option for us to just sit by and do nothing.’ Again, I agree. “That takes us to the charge of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction. “In order to succeed, this committee must primarily be about saving and reforming social safety net programs that are not only failing many beneficiaries but going broke at the same time. “Undoubtedly, this will be part of an ongoing debate about our nation’s values, the role of government in a free society, and our generation’s place in history. “I approach our task with a profound sense of urgency, high hopes, and realistic expectations. The question we must ultimately ask ourselves given this moment in history is, ‘Does the product on balance take America in the right direction or in the wrong direction?’ “As we proceed, like any other committee in Congress, there will be public hearings. There will be ample opportunities for the public to have their opinions heard. And like any other committee of Congress, there will also be some discussions among members that will not be public. However, no final product will be adopted without ample public notice and a public vote. “Whatever this committee may achieve, I hope we at least can agree that it is past time to quit spending money we don’t have. It is past time to quit borrowing 42 cents on the dollar, much of it from the Chinese, and then sending the bill to our kids and grandkids. “I do not believe this committee alone will solve the nation’s debt crisis. But a bi-partisan negotiated reduction in the growth of our nation’s debt would be a wonderful, needed, hopeful step in the right direction. “Beyond this committee and this congress, our generation will one day be judged. Will history record that we wrote the first chapter of America’s decline? Or will history record that we kept faith with the founding fathers and previous generations and left the next generation with greater blessings of liberty and vaults of limitless opportunities? The choice is ours, let the work begin.”
08.10.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today after Speaker John Boehner announced that he was appointed to represent House Republicans as the co-chair of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, serving along with Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) and Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI). “Times are tough, and Texas families have had to make many sacrifices over the last few years. While they didn’t cause this debt crisis, they’ve learned how to make do by tightening their belts and living within their means. It’s time Washington did the same, and I'm honored that Speaker Boehner has entrusted me to work with our colleagues to tackle these challenges and help solve our spending-driven debt crisis. “With the recent stock market fluctuations and historically high unemployment, confidence in our economy is at a low and the American people are understandably frightened about their economic future. Job creation and growth depends squarely on our confidence in the economy. As long as we keep borrowing 42 cents on the dollar and sending the bill to our children and grandchildren, our debt will grow and confidence will continue to shrink. “The debt crisis is a legitimate threat to our nation’s future, and the American people cannot afford to wait any longer. Everyone can agree that we must stop spending money we don’t have, and the time to act is now. This commission will not be able to solve the crisis in a matter of months, but we can work together to tackle these challenges in order to bring back jobs, hope, and opportunity for the American people.” Note: The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction is a 12- member bipartisan, bicameral panel tasked with finding at least $1.5 trillion in deficit reduction over the next decade.
08.01.2011	CLICK FOR VIDEOWASHINGTON – House Republican Conference Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) made the following remarks today on the floor of the House of Representatives prior to the passage of the revised Budget Control Act of 2011. The legislation will avert a credit default without raising job-killing taxes, cut and cap federal spending, and guarantee a vote on the balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. “Mr. Speaker, the American people want more jobs and they want less debt. The American people are telling Washington, ‘You’ve got to quit spending money you don’t have. You’ve got to quit borrowing 42 cents on the dollar, much of it from the Chinese, and then sending the bill to our children and grandchildren.’ “Our crisis today is not the debt ceiling, it is our debt, and it is a spending-driven debt. That is why we are here today. Mr. Speaker, I would like to say that this bill solves our problem. It doesn’t. It’s a solid first step. Nobody, nobody on our side of the aisle, wants to increase this debt ceiling. It’s not in our DNA. But we do believe that ultimately, you ought to stay current on your bills, and you’ve got to quit spending money that you don’t have. “And in this bill—although the sums are very, very small—when we pass this bill, if the president signs it into law, it will be the first time in my lifetime that for two years in a row we have actually cut discretionary spending in Washington D.C. and made a very slight directional change in the right direction. The numbers are small, the directional change is huge. “But more importantly, Mr. Speaker, the seeds of the ultimate solution are planted in this bill and that is the balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. The American people aren’t looking for a balanced approach, they are looking for a balanced budget, and to have it work it needs to be enshrined in our Constitution. This bill will assure for the first time in fifteen years both the House and the Senate vote on a balanced budget. Those are the seeds of the solution to save this country for the next generation.”
07.30.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today as he voted against the plan put forward by Senator Harry Reid to give the president his request of $2.4 trillion in a debt limit increase with no real controls on spending. “Our national debt is nearly $14.3 trillion, almost more than our entire economy. The problem is not the debt ceiling: it’s the debt. Record unemployment and government spending is killing private sector growth and keeping job creators on the sidelines, and President Obama’s policies are making things worse. “Senator Reid’s plan gives the president the largest debt ceiling increase in history to continue his spending binge through 2012, without making significant spending cuts or reforms. It doesn’t have the support of the House, and it may not even pass the Senate. House Republicans have offered multiple plans to tackle the debt crisis, control spending, and strengthen the economy, only to see these bills die in the U.S. Senate. “We cannot afford to continue borrowing 42 cents on the dollar, much of it from the Chinese, and send the bill to our children and grandchildren. We have the opportunity right now to stop spending money we don’t have and to quit kicking the can down the proverbial road. That was the basis of Cut, Cap and Balance, and that is the basis of the House-passed Budget Control Act. “The American people know the only balanced approach is a balanced budget. It is time for Senate Democrats and President Obama to finally support a plan that will seriously control spending and lead us to a balanced budget. If we want jobs and hope and opportunity, we are going to have to cut; we’re going to have to cap and, ultimately, we will have to balance the budget.”
07.29.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Budget Control Act of 2011. “Our nation’s debt crisis is a result of Washington spending too much, not taxing too little. In order to steer our nation off the road to bankruptcy and rebuild confidence in our economy, Washington must stop spending money we don’t have. Unfortunately, the president has pushed for tax increases on small businesses and families to pay for his spending spree, and days before his August 2nd deadline, has yet to submit his first plan to deal with the nation’s debt crisis. Days before the president’s August 2nd deadline, the Senate has yet to pass their first plan to deal with the nation’s debt crisis. Days before the president’s August 2nd deadline, not only have Republicans passed our first plan to deal with the debt crisis, today we passed our second plan to deal with the nation’s debt crisis. “This plan is not the ultimate solution. The president has made sure of that. He has not come to the table to address spending in a meaningful way, and make no doubt about it: this is a spending-driven debt crisis. But our legislation will ensure that the nation keeps current on its bills today. It will ensure that we have a process to cut spending by more than $900 billion and the ability to cut $1.8 trillion over the next ten years. And most importantly—as someone who has fought tirelessly to restore fiscal sanity in Washington from my first day in Congress—for the first time in 15 years we will have an opportunity to actually put forward a solution to the debt crisis by voting on a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, one that failed by one vote in the United States Senate 15 years ago. “These are extraordinary times, and they demand an extraordinary remedy. We are on the verge of being the first generation in America’s history to leave the next generation with less opportunity and a lower standard of living than we enjoy today. The American family has to balance its budget; companies that are trying to create jobs have to balance their budgets; why would we expect that a great nation can continue on indefinitely without balancing its budget? To solve the crisis going forward for future generations and to create jobs, hope, and opportunity—it is time for a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution of the United States of America.”
07.23.2011	CLICK TO VIEW VIDEOIn this week's address, House Republican Conference Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) outlines the Cut, Cap and Balance Act passed in the House of Representatives this week. It is designed to cut wasteful government spending, cap future spending and put in place a Balanced Budget Amendment to ensure a prosperous economic future for our children and grandchildren. It is the only viable plan that will spur job creation in our country without raising taxes on the American people. The president and Senate Democrats have failed to come up with their own plans to save our economy. It's time for them to stand with the American people and House Republicans to get our fiscal house in order.
07.18.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, today issued the following response to President Obama’s threat to veto Cut, Cap and Balance legislation the House is scheduled to vote on this week. “I find it incredibly ironic that President Obama is one of the few Americans who think we don’t need a constitutional amendment ‘to do our jobs.’ The point of cutting up the credit cards in order to raise the debt ceiling isn’t to meet his tax and spend demands; it’s to force him to stop spending money we don’t have. “Since he took office the national debt has increased by $3.7 trillion and here we are, days away from default, and the president still hasn’t given us a plan for how we’re going to tackle this spending-driven debt crisis. “It took the U.S. from 1776 to 1992 to accumulate the same amount of debt that President Obama accumulated in two and a half years. This is a spending-driven debt crisis, and the solution must be to control spending, not to raise taxes. “Thomas Jefferson regretted that an amendment to ensure we paid our bills each year was not included in our Constitution. There has never been a more urgent time than now. Our debt crisis is a legitimate threat to the future of our children and grandchildren, and extraordinary problems call for extraordinary action. America cannot afford to wait any longer.” ###
07.11.2011	“Any plan to raise taxes on job creators will do nothing to solve our debt crisis, but will do everything to worsen our job crisis.” WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today after President Obama’s press conference to address ongoing debt limit negotiations. “Today we heard the president claim that the American people are ‘not paying attention’ to what Washington plans to do about our nation’s debt crisis. He is wrong to assume that the outcome is only on ‘our plate.’ As last week’s devastating jobs numbers showed us, all Americans have an interest in the path that Washington chooses to take next. They know that if more spending and more debt meant more jobs, then this president’s policies would have already helped our ailing economy. Instead, he’s made things worse. “The reason we are facing a debt crisis in the first place is because Washington spends too much, not taxes too little. Any deal to raise the debt ceiling must not include any new tax increases. As the president readily admits, there is already a terrible lack of confidence among our nation’s job creators that’s given us the worst sustained unemployment streak since the Great Depression. Any plan to raise taxes on them will do nothing to solve our debt crisis, but will do everything to worsen our jobs crisis. Such a plan is not supported by the American people and will not be supported by House Republicans.” “To revive our economy, resume job creation, and save America from bankruptcy, we must stop spending money we don’t have. If we’re going to raise the debt limit, a permanent fiscal solution is needed, which is why the House will vote on the Balanced Budget Amendment next week.” ###
07.11.2011	“Any plan to raise taxes on job creators will do nothing to solve our debt crisis, but will do everything to worsen our job crisis.” WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today after President Obama’s press conference to address ongoing debt limit negotiations. “Today we heard the president claim that the American people are ‘not paying attention’ to what Washington plans to do about our nation’s debt crisis. He is wrong to assume that the outcome is only on ‘our plate.’ As last week’s devastating jobs numbers showed us, all Americans have an interest in the path that Washington chooses to take next. They know that if more spending and more debt meant more jobs, then this president’s policies would have already helped our ailing economy. Instead, he’s made things worse. “The reason we are facing a debt crisis in the first place is because Washington spends too much, not taxes too little. Any deal to raise the debt ceiling must not include any new tax increases. As the president readily admits, there is already a terrible lack of confidence among our nation’s job creators that’s given us the worst sustained unemployment streak since the Great Depression. Any plan to raise taxes on them will do nothing to solve our debt crisis, but will do everything to worsen our jobs crisis. Such a plan is not supported by the American people and will not be supported by House Republicans.” “To revive our economy, resume job creation, and save America from bankruptcy, we must stop spending money we don’t have. If we’re going to raise the debt limit, a permanent fiscal solution is needed, which is why the House will vote on the Balanced Budget Amendment next week.” ###
06.29.2011	FORNEY – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading fiscal conservative and Chairman of the House Republican Conference, was in Forney today to talk with constituents at the Forney Rotary Club luncheon about recent action taken to remove Washington’s barriers to job creation and grow the economy.“Last week, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) reported that our record-high debt will surpass our economy by the year’s end. This is more terrible news for job creators, job seekers, and future generations of Americans who will spend their lives paying off the bills we’re sending them,” said Hensarling. “With government spending on course to make up 34 percent of our economy by 2035—a 70 percent increase compared to the 20 percent post-World War II average—time is running out to correct our nation’s fiscal course.”Hensarling discussed the state of jobs in America, “On top of this crushing level of debt, unemployment is at 9.1 percent, the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced it takes a record average of ten months to find a job, new business creation is at a 17 year low, and 1 in 7 Americans are on food stamps. These are exceedingly tough times for the American people, but unfortunately things will not get better until we confront and control our out-of-control debt.” Hensarling warned, “America is experiencing a severe lack of jobs and a severe lack of economic certainty, all caused by a severe lack of fiscal leadership.”“The solution to the crisis we are facing is to grow our way into economic prosperity and to grow our way into jobs,” said Hensarling. “Every week, House Republicans have brought measures to the House floor to deal with one of the greatest impediments we have to job creation today and that is the uncertainty provided by this Administration and by the previous Democratic-controlled Congress—whether it be blocking the largest tax increase in American history, repealing the government takeover of health care, rolling back costly Obama Administration regulations on job creators, and cutting job-destroying spending—Republicans have changed the culture of Washington.”Hensarling went on to discuss the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators. “Our plan will empower families and restore confidence to job creators. By reforming our tax code and placing a cap at 25% for businesses and individuals, we will make our tax code fairer, flatter and simpler therefore, making us more competitive. Our plan empowers small business owners by eliminating harmful regulations that harm job creation. By requiring Congressional approval of any new regulations going forward, we will bring certainty back to the job creator. By increasing American energy exploration and production, our plan for job creators will bring down energy costs and free up money to expand business and hire new employees. We also address, head-on, our out-of-control spending by paying down our debt and beginning to live within our means. These common-sense solutions will help get America back to work and I am proud to support this plan.”“There has never been a more urgent time to stop spending money we don’t have. As yet another summer of non-recovery wares on, Republicans will stay solidly committed to spurring job creation, reviving our economy, and preserving the American dream for our children and grandchildren,” concluded Hensarling.
06.22.2011	“There has never been a more urgent time to stop spending money we don’t have.” WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today regarding the long-term budget analysis released by the Congressional Budget Office and its implications for our economy and job creation. “The report that our record-high debt will surpass our economy by the year’s end is more terrible news for job creators, job seekers, and future generations of Americans who will spend their lives paying off the bills we’re sending them. With government spending on course to make up 33 percent of our economy by 2035—a 70 percent increase compared to the 20 percent post-World War II average—time is running out to put the nation on a desperately-needed new fiscal trajectory. “By any historic standard, this nation ought to be back to work by now, but reports like today’s show why we are not. On top of this crushing level of debt, unemployment has been above 8 percent for 28 straight months—the longest jobless streak since the Great Depression. It’s no wonder the top three credit ratings agencies have issued warnings about our debt being so high, and entrepreneurship is at a 17-year low. “These are exceedingly tough times for the American people, but unfortunately things will not get better until we confront and control our out-of-control debt. In President Obama’s first term alone, the CBO predicts that our public debt will have increased by nearly 84 percent. America is experiencing a severe deficit of jobs and a severe deficit of economic certainty, all caused by a severe deficit in fiscal leadership. “There has never been a more urgent time to stop spending money we don’t have. As yet another summer of non-recovery wares on, Republicans will stay solidly committed to spurring job creation, reviving our economy, and preserving the American dream for our children and grandchildren.”
06.15.2011	CLICK HERE TO WATCH A VIDEO OF THE SPEECHWASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, made the following statement today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives regarding the nation’s severe economic conditions and the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators.“MR. SPEAKER, we found out last week that new business creation is at a seventeen year low, and Americans are asking, ‘Mr. President, where are the jobs?’“Unemployment has now languished at the highest levels since the Great Depression, and Americans are asking, ‘Mr. President, where are the jobs?’“One in seven families are now on food stamps, and Americans are asking, ‘Mr. President, where are the jobs?’“The Bureau of Labor Statistics released that the time it takes to get a new job is at an all-time high, and Americans are asking, ‘Mr. President, where are the jobs?’“House Republicans have a Plan for America’s Job Creators—to put the nation on a fiscally sustainable path, to restore confidence, to make our tax code competitive, and to take the burden of regulation off of our job creators so that American workers can get the paychecks they need and deserve.”
05.31.2011	“We need to cut up the president’s credit card, not give him a new one.” WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today in opposition to the House vote to raise the federal debt ceiling without any accompanying spending reforms. “I applaud today’s vote by the House to deny this Administration and congressional Democrats a free pass to keep spending our nation further into unprecedented debt. It’s fully clear that President Obama’s plan to raise the debt ceiling without any spending cuts is not only unwise but also unpopular. We need to cut up the president’s credit card, not give him a new one. “Drawing a tough line in the sand on raising the debt ceiling is one of the most important things that we can do to create jobs today because job creators are not fools. They know that massive quantities of debt will lead to massive quantities of tax increases which ultimately lead to massive quantities of unemployment. By voting against a naked debt limit increase, House Republicans are sending a clear message to job creators that we’re committed to reducing economic uncertainty in order to empower them to employ. “We’re currently borrowing roughly 40 cents on the dollar, much of it from the Chinese, and sending the bill to our children and grandchildren. The Chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff has called our $14 trillion debt ‘the single greatest threat to national security.’ We are on an unsustainable fiscal course that is costing us jobs, slowing our economy, and threatening our future. A vote to increase the debt limit without cuts is a vote for the status quo, and that is indefensible and unacceptable. “In order to bolster job growth today and avert national bankruptcy tomorrow, we have to stop spending money that we don’t have. This means taking urgent action to reform and save the entitlement programs that are currently our biggest debt drivers. This means attaching serious spending cuts to any increase of the debt ceiling. Defaulting on our debt would be dangerous, but giving a green light to infinite job-killing spending would be downright irresponsible and disastrous.”
05.27.2011	(CLICK HERE TO VIEW VIDEO) Freedom is not free. It comes at incredible cost. Throughout our nation’s history, whenever our country has been attacked, or when the enemies of freedom have threatened peace in our world, American men and women in uniform, from all backgrounds and all walks of life have answered the call to defend us. Over the past 234 years, millions of brave Americans have gone into harm’s way so that we could enjoy the blessings of peace and prosperity. Too often, may of us take these freedoms for granted—freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom to assemble and the freedom to live our lives the way we choose. You know, my friend and colleague, Congressman Sam Johnson, himself a decorated veteran, often talks about the short message he found scratched on the wall of his prison cell, in Vietnam where he was held as a P.O.W.: “Freedom has a taste to those who fight, and almost die, that the protected will never know.” From the American Revolution to Operation Iraqi Freedom, many of America’s best and brightest, many of whom we know as friends or family, have paid the price of our freedom with their lives. Called on by their country, acting out of patriotism and in the most dangerous of circumstances, soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines have demonstrated extraordinary courage in defending our country and the principles of democracy that we hold dear. Many Americans left behind their friends, their hopes and dreams and their families, some never to return to them or to their country ever again. We must also remember the families of the fallen who are left to carry on after—President Lincoln once said—“having laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of freedom.” As President Calvin Coolidge once said, “A nation which forgets its defenders will itself soon be forgotten.” We are all committed to making sure we never forget. So, whether you plan to attend a ceremony in your town or just gather together with friends and family—I urge you to take a moment out and remember our defenders who paid the ultimate sacrifice on this Memorial Day. My thoughts are on those heroes who have paid that ultimate sacrifice for their country and my prayers of comfort continue to be with their families. It is because of their bravery and sacrifice that my seven-year-old son and nine-year-old daughter will sleep in a safer America tonight. As Ronald Reagan said, “We will always remember. We will always be proud. We will always be prepared, so that we may always be free.”
05.26.2011	“It is about empowerment, it is about confidence—this will create jobs, this is the Republican solution”VISIT WWW.JOBS.GOP.GOV TO LEARN MORE ABOUT OUR PLAN WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today on the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators. “This morning we had a confirmation that the economy grew at a tepid 1.8% in the last quarter. This confirms yet again that the Obama recovery is the weakest we’ve had in the post-war era. The Obama recovery continues to fail and the American people continue to suffer. “In the 5th Congressional District of Texas that I am proud to represent, there are so many of my constituents who have friends, family members, and neighbors who remain unemployed and do not have the ‘hope’ the president promised. All the president and congressional Democrats have delivered is a stimulus plan that cost the American people $1.2 trillion and helped destroy or forestall a million private sector jobs. That’s not exactly a bargain the American people wanted. “The president and congressional Democrats still have not realized that they cannot spend, tax, borrow, and bail out their way into economic prosperity. House Republicans know that you can grow your way into economic prosperity and you can grow your way into jobs. That’s why we’re presenting the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators. “Every week we have brought measures to the House floor to deal with one of the greatest impediments we have to job creation today and that is the uncertainty provided by this Administration and by the previous Democratic-controlled Congress—whether it be the perpetual bail out of Wall Street, ObamaCare, or bureaucrats gone wild. House Republicans know that it is time to balance the regulatory burden against the unemployment burden. It is time to ensure that our tax code is competitive with our competitors. It is time that our job creators quit paying almost $4 a gallon for their gasoline. “It is about empowerment, it is about confidence—this will create jobs, this is the Republican solution and I am proud to be part of our House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators.”
05.24.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today regarding Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s visit to Washington, DC and his address to a joint meeting of Congress. “It was a tremendous honor to welcome Prime Minister Netanyahu to the House floor and listen to his inspiring words before a joint gathering of Congress. He spoke with passion and refreshing clarity about the unbreakable bond between the United States and Israel, and how we are both engaged in ‘an epic battle … between tyranny and freedom.’ In that fight for the future, America has stood and must continue to stand firmly on the side of freedom with our friends in Israel. I am as proud as ever to contribute to that noble cause. “As I stated after President Obama’s address last week, it is wrong for his Administration to endorse a ‘peace plan’ that entails Israel reinstating its 1967 borders. Such an approach is deeply misguided and does not address the real challenges to Israeli security directly caused by the Palestinian Authority’s dangerous alignment with Hamas. “Since 1948, the United States has stood with and supported the State of Israel as she has defended herself from those who seek her destruction and deny her very right to exist. In return, Israel has been our staunchest ally in the region as well as a full partner in the global war on terror. We not only share the same values but also the same vision for a world in which our Israeli allies can live free from fear in lasting peace.” # # #
05.24.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement in support of four veteran-related bills passed by the House of Representatives yesterday.“I am pleased to support these bills which will improve the benefits our nation’s military men and women currently receive for their heroic service and ensure our fallen heroes receive proper honor for their sacrifice,” said Hensarling. “Veterans and their families have made tremendous sacrifices to protect our freedom and the benefits they receive are a token of appreciation from a grateful nation. To quote Calvin Coolidge, ‘The nation which forgets its defenders will itself be forgotten.’ I am committed to remembering the service of our defenders and I am proud to support these bills in that effort.” “Veteran’s Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2011” (HR 1407): provides a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) for veteran disability and military survivor benefits at the same percentage as the COLA for Social Security beneficiaries—ensuring Veterans continue to receive the annual cost-of-living adjustment they deserve. This bill also provides help to disabled veterans for construction costs associated with home modifications—such as wheelchair ramps and handrails—so they can live comfortably in their homes. “Restoring GI Bill Fairness Act of 2011” (HR 1383): strengthens the Post 9-11 GI Bill by suspending the current cap on education benefits for veterans attending non-public schools. “Honoring American Veterans Act of 2011” (HR 1627): establishes clear and objective criteria for approving monument requests at Arlington National Cemetery. The bill also preserves the integrity of Arlington National Cemetery by ensuring any qualified veteran—regardless of rank or favoritism—has the opportunity for burial in the cemetery. H.R. 1657 to amend Title 38 of the United States Code: toughens enforcement penalties for misrepresenting a business as being veteran owned, this bill would increase penalties for violators misrepresenting themselves and degrading the honor of those who serve. Veterans with questions about these or any other military service benefits are encouraged to contact Hensarling’s Dallas office at (214) 349-9996.
05.19.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today in response to President Obama’s speech at the State Department on U.S. policy in the Middle East and North Africa. “I’m pleased to hear the President articulate the United States’ longstanding support for the democratic rights of all people, especially those currently risking so much for democratic reform in the midst of the ongoing ’Arab Spring.’ However, calling on our ally Israel to reinstate its 1967 borders is a deeply wrong-minded approach that ignores the obvious reality beneath the problems that persist in that conflict—namely the Palestinian Authority’s dangerous alignment with Hamas. “I'm particularly astounded that as the President implores Congress to raise the debt ceiling to its highest level in history, he offers $1 billion in debt relief to the Egyptians and a new infrastructure fund to benefit them without offering any way to pay for either. When it comes to spending money we don't have, the President is clearly out of touch with reality and the American people.” ###
05.06.2011	“These are not signs of an economic recovery;they’re the result of a failed agenda that needs to be reversed.” WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the Republican Conference, issued the following statement today regarding the latest jobs report released by the U.S. Department of Labor and the need to reverse the failed policies that are stifling the nation’s economic recovery. “This 9% unemployment rate reminds us that one of the most serious recessions is being followed by one of the most tepid recoveries in the history of the postwar era. This is attributable to the policies of the President and the previous Congress. “The problem with our economy right now remains clear – government is too big, too intrusive, and too expensive to allow the private sector to create jobs at the pace that our nation’s workers need. Right now, 1 in 7 Americans are on food stamps—an 11.6 percent increase from last year. Productivity growth slowed between the last quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011. And the number of Americans filing for jobless assistance is at an eight-month high. These are not signs of an economic recovery; they’re the result of a failed agenda that needs to be reversed. “Record spending led to record deficits, and record debt continues to plague our economy with enormous uncertainty that’s preventing businesses and industries from innovating, expanding, and hiring more workers. When President Obama and Washington Democrats call for more spending, more taxes, and more government, job creators and investors take notice. As government grows, the private sector slows. “At a time when we are already borrowing 42 cents on the dollar, much of it from the Chinese, and sending the bill to our children and grandchildren, continuing the Democrat spending agenda is a recipe for national decline. The House-passed Path to Prosperity is the blueprint for how Washington can help revive our economy, create jobs, and avert national bankruptcy by adhering to a principle that American families already live by: we cannot spend money that we don’t have. “America is at a crossroads. We can continue the trend of the past several years and ignore the threat that an unprecedented $14.3 trillion debt poses to our nation’s jobs, our national security, and our children’s future. Or we can choose to take our spending-driven debt crisis seriously and set the nation on a brand new fiscal trajectory that grows the economy and saves the American dream for our children and grandchildren. House Republicans have taken the steps to put our nation on the right fiscal course. It’s time for Washington Democrats to join us.”
05.02.2011	WASHINGTON- Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today regarding the news that U.S. forces have killed al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. “The news that so many Americans have been waiting for since September 11, 2001, has finally come: Osama bin Laden is dead. “Words cannot adequately express how proud I am of the brave American warriors and intelligence officers who helped deliver justice yesterday. They, along with all servicemen and women serving our great nation, deserve the praise and appreciation of every American. I also congratulate President Obama and his administration for this important victory. "I stand with Americans from coast to coast who are celebrating this news, while remembering the victims of the attack that changed the world on that September day. As the President rightly stated in his address to the nation, America did not start this war. But thanks to the resolve of the American spirit and the heroism of our fighting forces, this war will end on our terms: in victory over terror in the name of peace and freedom for all."
04.28.2011	Congressman Discusses Recent Spending Cuts and Need for Fiscal SanityFORNEY – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading fiscal conservative and Chairman of the House Republican Conference, was in Forney today to talk with constituents about the federal debt crisis and recent action he has taken to further cut job destroying spending and Washington waste.“There is a true, spending-driven debt crisis in America,” said Hensarling. “The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen has said the biggest threat we have to our national security is our debt. Economist Robert Samuelsson has said this spending could trigger an economic and political death spiral. Democrat, Erskine Bowles, who headed up the presidents fiscal responsibility commission said the debt is like a cancer; it’s truly going to destroy the country from within.”“And yet what do we have?” asked Hensarling. “We have the president presenting a new budget that will, again, double the national debt in five years, triple it in ten, and add thirteen trillion dollars worth of red ink to the nation’s debt. This is after expanding garden variety government eighty-four percent in two years. East Texans know we must stop spending money we don’t have.” Hensarling explained how House Republicans have now passed over $700 billion in cuts this Congress. “In February, the House voted to repeal the government takeover of health care, which would cut new spending by $2.6 trillion over ten years and reduce the deficit by $700 billion. In addition, by repealing the bill’s job-destroying 1099 provision, we end burdensome reporting requirements on small business owners while saving taxpayers $24.8 billion in wasteful spending found in ObamaCare.” Hensarling continued, “The House also voted to de-fund National Public Radio, reducing job-destroying spending and getting government out of the radio business. These cuts and others over the last three and a half months bring the total savings this Congress to more than $700 billion.”Hensarling went on to discuss how the Republican-led House of Representatives is listening to the American people and cutting spending as the House recently passed the “Path to Prosperity” budget proposal. “The fact-based budget proposal the House passed cuts through the rhetoric in Washington to reach this simple truth: in order to create jobs today and avoid national bankruptcy tomorrow, we must stop spending money we don’t have. Our historic budget will put us back on track to cut spending, encourage job creation, reduce our deficits and debt, foster economic growth, and reform and protect health and retirement security for all Americans.“No nation can spend, tax, borrow, or bail-out its way to prosperity. The ‘Path to Prosperity’ operates on the honest premise that we are in a debt crisis because Washington spends too much, not because it taxes too little. We don’t have a revenue problem—we have a spending problem. By cutting $6.2 trillion in government spending and reducing deficits by $4.4 trillion over the next decade compared to the President’s budget, the ‘Path to Prosperity’ stops spending money we don’t have and enacts common sense reforms to change the spending trajectory in Washington. Our plan also repeals and defunds the job-destroying government takeover of health care and significantly lowers spending, restraining the size of government to 20 percent of the economy by 2015 and 15 percent of the economy in 2050.” Hensarling cited that decades of economic studies have shown that countries who implement spending cuts to reduce their debt actually boost job creation and economic growth in the short-term. “Americans know full well that you can’t help the job seeker by punishing the job creator. And we can’t tax, spend, borrow and bailout our way to economic growth and job creation. The Democrats tried, and as a result, federal spending rose to record highs and unemployment climbed to 9 percent or higher for more than 20 months—the worst jobless streak since the Great Depression.” “The American people fear—rightfully so—that historic debt will lead to historic taxes which will result in even fewer jobs for Americans. To create a better environment for job growth and save our children from national bankruptcy, the federal government must stop spending money that it simply does not have.”Hensarling continued, “I didn’t come to Congress to just talk about reducing our debt; I came to do something about it. As the debt has grown, my determination to save future generations from bankruptcy is even stronger. At a time when we are borrowing 42 cents on every dollar, much of it from the Chinese, we need to take significant steps to ending Washington’s culture of spending so that economic confidence can be restored and Americans can go back to work.”“America faces a choice of two futures. Either we can ignore the spending-driven debt crisis, continue the status quo and accelerate the unnecessary decline of our exceptional nation, or we can reverse course and build a freer and more prosperous future for every American. The ‘Path to Prosperity’ is a plan to put America back on fiscally responsible ground to reduce debt and increase job growth, and we call on Senate Democrats and President Obama to join us in this fight,” concluded Hensarling.
04.27.2011	WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling released the following statement after severe weather hit East Texas Tuesday evening, including many areas in the 5th District.“My heartfelt sympathies and prayer go out to those affected by the storms last night. I have reached out to FEMA as well as city and county officials to offer my office’s assistance during this difficult time.“I will continue to monitor the situation closely and will work to bridge the gap between local and federal agencies to make sure 5th District residents get the assistance they need. Those seeking help are encouraged to contact my Athens office at (903) 675-8288.”
04.18.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today regarding the United States’ long-term credit outlook being downgraded from “stable” to “negative” by Standard & Poors’ (S&P).“Today’s news is a stark reminder that we must stop spending money that we don’t have. Most Americans already know that our spending-driven debt crisis poses a major threat to our national future, but now we’re seeing troubling evidence that our unprecedented debt—$14.2 trillion and growing—is already having an alarming effect on our ability to compete in this global economy and create much-needed jobs.“S&P stated the reason for its new rating being our ‘very large budget deficits and rising government indebtedness’ and that ‘the path to addressing these is not clear.’ This is bad news, but not surprising news. When the President of the United States chooses to treat our national debt as campaign fodder and insists on more spending and more taxes instead of less of each, confidence in our economy’s strength and credibility is sure to dwindle. “While House Republicans are leading the fight against rampant federal spending by offering common sense spending cuts and a jobs-focused budget to put us on the path to growth, President Obama is doubling down on a senseless plan to add $13 trillion to our nation’s debt and burden job creators with more taxes. “S&P’s global head of sovereign ratings said in regard to deficit reduction, ‘U.S. policymakers are still talking about it, but others are beginning to act.’ This should serve as a clear signal to President Obama that it’s going to take more than partisan speeches to bridge our differences and tackle our spending-driven debt crisis head-on. It’s going to take serious leadership.“To get our fiscal house in order now and to save us from national bankruptcy in the future, we must quit borrowing 42 cents of the dollar, much of it from the Chinese, and sending the bill to our children and grandchildren. It’s past time for President Obama and Senate Democrats to follow our lead by addressing the spending part of our debt crisis, and not just look for ways to raise more taxes.”
04.14.2011	“We are in a debt crisis because job-destroying spending is too high, not because taxes on the American people are too low.”WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today as the House of Representatives began consideration of the “Path to Prosperity” budget proposal introduced by House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan. “The fact-based budget proposal the House is considering cuts through the rhetoric in Washington to reach this simple truth: in order to create jobs today and avoid national bankruptcy tomorrow, we must stop spending money we don’t have. Our historic budget will put us back on track to cut spending, encourage job creation, reduce our deficits and debt, foster economic growth, and reform and protect health and retirement security for all Americans. “All that the American people have heard from President Obama are speeches designed to win him the next election, not save the next generation. We cannot help the job seeker by punishing the job creator. At a time when employers are craving certainty in order to create jobs, the president wants to burden them with the largest tax increase in American history. Our plan would prevent this job-crushing tax hike and restore confidence to our economy by tearing down the walls of uncertainty caused by reckless spending and regulations. “For too long, Americans have experienced a leadership deficit from the same administration and party that burdened our nation with record-high, trillion-dollar budget deficits for three years in a row. The president might not have put us on this road to national bankruptcy, but he’s pushing the accelerator. It’s not surprising that a majority of Americans believe our country is headed on the wrong track—we are. “No nation can spend, tax, borrow, or bail-out its way to prosperity. Our plan operates on the honest premise that we are in a debt crisis because Washington spends too much, not because it taxes too little. We don’t have a revenue problem—we have a spending problem. Our plan repeals and defunds the job-destroying government takeover of health care and significantly lowers spending, restraining the size of government to 20 percent of the economy by 2015 and 15 percent of the economy in 2050.“America faces a choice of two futures. Either we can ignore the spending-driven debt crisis, continue the status quo and accelerate the unnecessary decline of our exceptional nation, or we can reverse course and build a freer and more prosperous future for every American. This is a plan to put America back on the path to prosperity and job growth, and we call on Senate Democrats and President Obama to join us in this fight.”
04.13.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today after President Obama’s speech on deficit reduction. Hensarling served on the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform created by the White House and was in attendance for the president’s speech.“This was a speech designed to get him through the next election, not to save our country for the next generation. For the first time in two years the president has joined the deficit debate, and what he brings to the table is more job-killing taxes and more rationing of health care. “The American people deserve a budget plan that takes our nation off the road to decline and onto a path to prosperity. New platitudes and new taxes will not grow our economy or solve the spending-driven debt crisis.“These record deficits are the symptom – spending is the disease. The only way to grow our economy and save the American dream for our children and grandchildren is to stop spending money that we don’t have. “In the time since he’s taken office, we’ve experienced the first and second trillion-dollar deficits in American history, and we’re on our way to our third. Unemployment is still hovering around 9 percent. Instead of offering a real plan to cut spending, the president’s resorting back to raising taxes on job creators, which will discourage job creation, destroy economic growth, and do nothing to get spending under control.“It will take more than another speech outlining his vision to reverse the direction that President Obama has taken our nation since taking office. For two straight years, the president and congressional Democrats spent money that we don’t have at record highs and left the nation in record debt that will have to be paid off by future generations. “In the face of this spending-driven debt crisis, new platitudes will not compensate for the continued leadership deficit from this administration or restore jobs and grow the economy for the American people.”
04.11.2011	DALLAS –Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) is asking high school students across the 5th Congressional District to participate in the 2011 Congressional Art Competition: An Artistic Discovery. “Each year, this exciting competition provides Members of Congress the opportunity to showcase the artistic talent of high school students within their districts, thereby acknowledging our nation’s gifted young artists,” said Congressman Hensarling. “I am pleased to announce that the Fifth Congressional District is once again participating in the competition and I look forward to seeing the artwork that our talented students submit.”As in years past, the winning entry from each congressional district will be displayed in a special exhibit located in a corridor of the U.S. Capitol building. The winning student and two guests will be invited to attend a special ribbon-cutting ceremony unveiling the artwork in Washington, D.C. Teachers and students wishing to participate this year’s competition should contact Amy Gould at (903) 675-8288 or amy.gould@mail.house.gov for official contest dates, rules and guidelines. Artwork must be submitted to Congressman Hensarling’s office no later than May 6th to be considered.
04.07.2011	Click Here to View My Comments“Even though I have been in Washington for a few terms, I have not lost my ability to be outraged. To have the President of the United States issue a veto threat on a bill to fund our troops is an outrage. This is the 3rd bill to come out of the House that would have funded our troops. When I look at the details of this particular bill, everything I see in this bill is something that either the Democrats have already agreed to or something they have already signed into law. So why, Mr. President, are you issuing a veto threat?“To put it into larger context, you want to say ‘Senator Reid, Mr. President -- what part of broke do you not understand?’ Did you not get it at the first trillion dollar deficit, did you not get it after the second trillion dollar deficit, did you not get it after the third trillion dollar deficit? Did you not get it after the single largest debt we have had in American history? How much more money do you want to borrow from the Chinese and send the bill to our children and our grandchildren? How many more of our fellow citizens have to remain unemployed because job creators know that massive quantities of debt lead to massive quantities of taxes, which in turn keeps their capital on the sidelines? “Here is the outrage -- the outrage that apparently Republicans are guilty of is we are putting forth a bill to fund the government at only 98% of last year’s level, and that is what Democrats are threatening a shutdown over. Again, I have not lost my ability to be outraged.”
04.05.2011	“Runaway Red Tape Ties Job Creators’ Hands.”WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today on the successful Senate vote on H.R. 4 to repeal the 1099 paperwork provision that Democrats used to help fund their government takeover of health care. Also this week, the House of Representatives is scheduled to take up measures to begin reversing the FCC’s “net neutrality” ruling and stop the EPA’s destructive plan to impose a national energy tax on the American people without congressional approval. “I strongly applaud the Senate for voting to repeal the job-destroying 1099 paperwork rules that the government takeover of health care imposed on our nation’s small businesses. The federal government should empower America’s small business owners to fill out new W-4 forms, not force them to file new 1099s.“Every week since coming to Congress, the House Republican Majority has come to town to cut reckless spending and roll back senseless regulations. That is because expensive red tape ties the hands of employers who are already burdened by an uncertain economy and regulatory power grabs. “This week, the House is scheduled to take up two pieces of legislation to cut the red tape. The Energy Tax Prevention Act will put a halt to the job-destroying national energy tax concocted by unelected bureaucrats at the EPA and reassert Congress’ authority to determine our nation’s energy future. And we will begin the process of reversing the FCC’s partisan 3-2 ruling that imposes needless government regulations on the Internet. The FCC believes that since the Internet works so well today, a government takeover is necessary to prevent anything from going wrong in the future. That kind of logic is flawed and betrays the timeless rule that says—as a former Democratic FCC commissioner put it—‘if ain’t broke, don’t break it.’ “The Internet works. Washington doesn’t. Why would you put Washington in charge of the Internet?”
04.05.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today regarding the House Republicans’ “Path to Prosperity” budget proposal.“The fact-based budget proposed by Chairman Ryan provides what President Obama and congressional Democrats have repeatedly failed to offer: a responsible plan that sets the nation on a fiscally sustainable course; an economic growth plan to jump-start the most tepid recovery in recent history; a plan to put us on a path to pay off the job-destroying debt that threatens to bankrupt our children’s future.On economic growth: “The Path to Prosperity will spur economic growth through pro-growth tax reforms that will lower rates and broaden the base. The president’s budget raises taxes over the next ten years by $1.5 trillion, while our plan will prevent this job-destroying tax hike and eliminate the roughly $800 billion tax increase imposed by the government takeover of health care. On spending: “Washington has to stop spending money it doesn’t have. President Obama’s budget would add $13 trillion to our nation’s debt over the next decade and fuel the toxic environment of uncertainty that is already plaguing our economy and costing jobs. It increases government spending to 23 percent of the economy by 2021—that’s 17 percent higher than the post-World War II average. In contrast, the House Republican budget significantly lowers government spending, restraining the size of government to 20 percent of the economy by 2015 and 15 percent of the economy in 2050.”On health and retirement security: “Our budget will protect and save our nation’s health and retirement security programs, and make no changes to them for Americans 55 and older. By doing nothing to address their long-term sustainability for future generations of retirees—as is the case with the President’s budget—the entitlement crisis, according to the Trustees of Social Security, would lead to a 22 percent cut in benefits for all Social Security recipients by 2037. The Social Security Trustees say, ‘If no substantial action is taken until the combined trust funds become exhausted in 2037, then changes necessary to make Social Security solvent over the next 75 years will be concentrated on fewer years and fewer generations.’ The Medicare Trustees say that, ‘Without corrective legislation … the assets of the [Medicare Hospital Insurance] trust fund would be exhausted within the next 7 to 19 years.’ Our plan forces Congress to ensure our obligations to citizens in or nearing retirement and guarantee their solvency for the future.”On the government takeover of health care:“Our plan repeals and defunds the government takeover of health care.“In order to create jobs today and save future generations from national bankruptcy, we have to stop spending money that we don’t have. At a time when our nation is more than $14 trillion in unprecedented debt, we cannot spend, tax, borrow, or bail-out our way back to prosperity.“Decades of broken promises and accounting gimmicks have led to our government borrowing 42 cents on the dollar, much of it from the Chinese, and sending the bill to our children and grandchildren. The prospect of leaving future generations with less freedom and a lower standard of living—the loss of the American dream—is becoming a stark reality.“The status quo cannot continue. It’s time for a seismic shift in our government’s spending priorities. Our budget lays out the facts about our debt crisis and puts us on a path to prosperity that will restore fiscal sanity and keep our nation’s promise to current and future generations. It’s time to move past politics and put our families, our economy, and our country first. The Path to Prosperity does just that.”
04.04.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today regarding Senate Democrats’ continued failure to pass or propose a credible bill to fund the government while cutting job-destroying spending.“It’s been 44 days since the House passed H.R. 1 to fund the government for the rest of this fiscal year—a bill that was only necessary because the last Congress, led by the Democrats, failed to pass or even propose a budget for the first time in U.S. history. For more than a month, Senate Democrats have continued their record of failure by refusing to pass a long-term bill of their own.“The Continuing Resolution passed by House Republicans contained the largest discretionary spending cut since the end of World War II and was designed to reduce the deficit and spur job creation. We are ready to take that bill to the negotiating table, but House Republicans cannot negotiate by ourselves.“If a government shutdown occurs, it will be because Democrats failed the American people by propping up meaningless smoke and mirrors instead of taking our nation’s spending-driven debt crisis seriously. House Republicans have consistently stepped up to the plate to tackle these challenges while Senate Democrats, led by Harry Reid, have sat on the sidelines and done nothing. Enough is enough. It is time for action.”
03.30.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Jeb Hensarling, a leading fiscal conservative and Chairman of the House Republican Conference, has been recognized by the National Taxpayers Union—the nation’s oldest taxpayer watchdog group—as having one of the largest saving agendas in the House of Representatives for the 111th Congress.Of the 435 Members in the House, only 163 had net spending agendas that would reduce the budget. Of those 163, Congressman Hensarling’s spending agenda was rated the second highest for spending reduction with a proposed savings of over $300 billion. Congressman Hensarling has been rated among the top two budget reducers in every Congress he has served.In addition, Congressman Hensarling’s budget reform bill was named the third largest spending reduction bill in the 111th Congress. The bill, entitled the “Spending, Deficit and Debt Control Act” has been heralded as the “Gold Standard” of budget enforcement legislation by conservative groups including NTU, Americans for Tax Reform, Citizens Against Government Waste and Citizens for a Sound Economy.Upon learning of his latest NTU rankings, Hensarling said “I am grateful to the National Taxpayers Union for the outstanding work they do analyzing legislation and rating the impact of bills on taxpayers. I am honored to have been named among the top budget reducers again this year.”“No nation can spend, borrow, and bailout its way to economic growth and job creation. At a time when we are borrowing 40 cents on every dollar, mostly from the Chinese, we need to take significant steps to ending Washington’s culture of spending so that economic confidence can be restored and Americans can go back to work.”The National Taxpayers Union is a nonpartisan, nonprofit citizen group founded in 1969 to work for lower taxes, smaller government, and economic freedom. Member rankings are reached by averaging the net cost of all legislation they sponsored or co-sponsored in the 111th Congress.
03.23.2011	WASHINGTON – House Republican Conference Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) issued the following statement today to mark the one-year anniversary of the signing into law of the job-destroying government takeover of Americans’ health care commonly known as “Obamacare.”“The most urgent reason to repeal Obamacare is simple: we can’t afford it. We can’t improve health care in this country by bankrupting our children and grandchildren. Because of Washington’s job-destroying spending spree, government can't even pay for the promises it made to current generations, much less those of the future.“Obamacare will increase spending by nearly $2.6 trillion and help cause our debt to triple during this decade. This is an outrageous burden to place on our children and grandchildren who will be forced to foot the bill. They deserve serious leadership from today’s leaders who will fight to ensure that our government stops spending money that it does not have.“Real health care reform is needed in our country, but despite what Democrats claim, Obamacare is nothing more than a government behemoth that takes away Americans’ freedom to make health care decisions and gives it to federal bureaucrats. Anybody who likes the way the federal government is running AIG, Fannie Mae, and Freddie Mac will love the way it will run the nation’s health care system. But for most Americans, Obamacare is still a travesty and Republicans will stand with them this year and every year until it is finally and fully repealed.”
03.23.2011	HOLLY LAKE – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading fiscal conservative and Chairman of the House Republican Conference, was in Wood County today to talk with constituents about the federal debt crisis and recent action he has taken to further cut job destroying spending and Washington waste.“There is a true, spending-driven debt crisis in America,” said Hensarling. “The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen has said the biggest threat we have to our national security is our debt. Economist Robert Samuelsson has said this spending could trigger an economic and political death spiral. Democrat, Erskine Bowles, who headed up the presidents fiscal responsibility commission said the debt is like a cancer; it’s truly going to destroy the country from within.”“And yet what do we have?” asked Hensarling. “We have the president presenting a new budget that will, again, double the national debt in five years, triple it in ten, and add thirteen trillion dollars worth of red ink to the nation’s debt. This is after expanding garden variety government eighty-four percent in two years. East Texans know we must stop spending money we don’t have.” Hensarling explained how House Republicans have now passed over $700 billion in cuts this Congress. “In February, the House voted to repeal Obamacare which would cut new spending by $2.6 trillion over ten years and reduce the deficit by $700 billion. In addition, by repealing Obamacare’s job-destroying 1099 provision which would end burdensome reporting requirements on small business owners while saving taxpayers $24.8 billion in wasteful spending found in Obamacare.” Hensarling continued, “Just last week, the House also voted to de-fund National Public Radio, reducing job-destroying spending and getting government out of the radio business. These cuts and others over the last three months bring the total savings this of Congress to more than $700 billion.”Hensarling went on to discuss how the Republican-led House of Representatives is listening to the American people and cutting spending. “Last month, we sent the Senate H.R. 1 – a bill that cuts $61 billion from current spending and keeps the government running through the end of the year. Senate Democrats rejected our plan, offering instead a plan that calls for less than $6 billion in cuts over the next six months. These tepid cuts are not acceptable to me or the American people. That is why the House passed a short-term resolution that cuts $2 billion a week in spending for the next three weeks- keeping our pledge to cut spending while keeping the government open. It’s past time for the White House and the Senate to join our efforts to give the American people the spending cuts and certainty required to create new jobs, and the leadership they deserve.”Hensarling cited that decades of economic studies have shown that countries who implement spending cuts to reduce their debt actually boost job creation and economic growth in the short-term. “Americans know full well that you can’t help the job seeker by punishing the job creator. And we can’t tax, spend, borrow and bailout our way to economic growth and job creation. The Democrats tried, and as a result, federal spending rose to record highs and unemployment climbed to 9 percent or higher for more than 20 months—the worst jobless streak since the Great Depression.” “The American people fear—rightfully so—that historic debt will lead to historic taxes which will result in even fewer jobs for Americans. To create a better environment for job growth and save our children from national bankruptcy, the federal government must stop spending money that it simply does not have.”Hensarling continued, “I didn’t come to Congress to just talk about reducing our debt; I came to do something about it. As the debt has grown, my determination to save future generations from bankruptcy is even stronger. At a time when we are borrowing 42 cents on every dollar, mostly from the Chinese, we need to take significant steps to ending Washington’s culture of spending so that economic confidence can be restored and Americans can go back to work,” concluded Hensarling.
03.18.2011	“It’s time to enact fundamental reform before these companies go from ‘too big to fail’ to ‘too late to fix.’”WASHINGTON – House Republican Conference Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) today re-introduced legislation to stop taxpayer-funded bailouts of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and put these two companies on a path towards privatization. The failures of the two government sponsored enterprises (GSEs) have directly cost taxpayers more than $150 billion.“The two largest, most influence-exerting, regulation-avoiding, bailed-out institutions weren’t banks and weren’t located on Wall Street. They were Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage market financial Frankensteins that were created not in a competitive marketplace, but in a government lab in Washington,” Hensarling said. “The GSEs are on track to be the nation’s biggest bailout, more than AIG and GM and all the big banks combined. It’s time to enact fundamental reform of Fannie and Freddie before these companies go from ‘too big to fail’ to ‘too late to fix.’” Financial Services Committee Chairman Spencer Bachus said, “Reforming Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is a top priority for the Committee. The bill Vice-Chairman Hensarling has proposed is a fulfillment of the commitment Republicans made when we urged Democrats to include reform in their bill to restructure financial services regulation. Republicans will continue to offer solutions that wind down the operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in order to protect the taxpayers from another bailout and to reform the entire housing finance system.”“The very essence of the American dream is to leave your children with more freedom, greater opportunity, and a higher standard of living than you enjoyed. Part of that dream is to own a home,” Hensarling said. “Our goal is to help home-buyers stay home-owners, and free taxpayers of the burden that comes when homes get sold to buyers who simply can’t afford them.” In February of this year the Administration released a report required by law outlining several options for long-term housing finance reform. One of the options would transition to a very limited role for the taxpayer in housing finance, similar to Hensarling’s proposal. “It’s my hope that President Obama will work with us to pursue a path that will protect taxpayers, end the billions of dollars in bailouts, and bring certainty back to the mortgage market,” Hensarling concluded. History of the GSE Bailout Elimination and Taxpayer Protection Act Hensarling’s GSE reform legislation was originally introduced in 2008. Similar legislation was included in the Republican financial reform legislation, H.R. 3310, the Consumer Protection and Regulatory Enhancement Act. The Hensarling bill was introduced again in March of 2010 and was later offered as an amendment to the Democrats’ financial regulatory reform bill, now known as Dodd-Frank. U.S. Senator John McCain offered an amendment to the financial regulation bill that was modeled after Hensarling’s legislation. Last Congress, Republican Ranking Member Spencer Bachus repeatedly called on then-Chairman Barney Frank to hold legislative hearings on Hensarling’s GSE legislation, but the Democrats refused. Additionally, House Republicans included a commitment to end the GSE bailouts by reforming Fannie and Freddie in the Pledge to America. Summary of the GSE Bailout Elimination and Taxpayer Protection Act• Legislation applies only to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the “GSEs”).• Establishes a finite end to the GSEs’ conservatorship 2 years from the date of enactment.• Immediately implements several fundamental GSE reforms to protect taxpayers:Repeals of the GSEs’ misguided affordable housing goals mandate and the Affordable Housing Trust Fund;Starts shrinking the size of the GSEs by capping their maximum portfolio size at $700 billion and gradually reducing that cap to $250 billion over five years;Reduces the GSEs’ market share by returning the conforming loan limit to its pre-housing crisis standard limit of $417,000;Increased guarantee fees (‘G-Fees’), to eliminate the GSEs’ competitive advantage and bring more private capital into the market; andA prohibition on any reduction to the senior preferred stock dividends the GSEs contractually agreed to pay taxpayers under their conservatorship.• Upon the end of the conservatorship, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) must evaluate the financial viability of each GSE. If it is determined not to be viable, the FHFA would follow the procedure laid out by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (P.L. 110-289) for placing that GSE into receivership.• If determined to be viable, the GSE would be allowed to resume limited market operations under its own control for a maximum of three (3) years, with the following new rules:Enhanced authority for FHFA to adjust the minimum capital requirements for the GSEs as appropriate, mirroring the existing capital adequacy requirements other regulators already have in place for banks (12 U.S.C. 3907);A minimum down payment requirement of at least 5 percent for all new loans, increasing to 7.5 percent in the second year and 10 percent by the third year, to increase the quality of all loans touched by the GSEs;Repeal of the GSEs’ exemption from having to pay state and local taxes, to remove one of the distinct advantages of being a GSE; andRepeal of the exemption allowing GSE securities to avoid full SEC registration.• At the end of that 3 year period, each GSE’s charter expires. At that point, Fannie and Freddie must conduct all new operations as fully private sector companies competing on a level playing field without any government advantages. • Provides for the orderly wind down of any legacy business commitments post-charter expiration over a 10 year period following the model successfully used in the Sallie Mae transition from GSE to a private company (P.L. 104-208).
03.17.2011	WASHINGTON – House Republican Conference Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) issued the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1076, a bill that, if enacted, would prohibit federal funding for National Public Radio (NPR) as a way to reduce job-destroying spending.“Republicans fully understand that to bolster job growth today and avert national bankruptcy tomorrow, the federal government must stop spending money that it doesn’t have. This especially applies to government programs that are particularly defective or wasteful. That is why the House voted today to ban federal funding for National Public Radio.“Government has no business in the news business. Even NPR’s own former fundraising executive recently admitted that the organization ‘would be better off in the long run without federal funding.’ “NPR is widely recognized as a partisan media outlet that has long served as a platform for decidedly left-leaning programming and commentary. This is a highly objectionable trait for an organization that is funded by American taxpayers. Thanks to today’s House vote, we are one step closer to ensuring that will no longer be the case.“America’s spending-driven debt crisis demands serious leadership that will take action to put the nation back on a fiscally sustainable course for the future. At a time when we are borrowing 42 cents on every dollar, much of it from the Chinese, today’s vote to defund NPR is a small but significant step to ending Washington’s culture of spending so that economic confidence can be restored and Americans can go back to work.”
02.17.2011	WASHINGTON –Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the House Republican Conference, today issued the following statement on the two year anniversary of the president signing the “stimulus” bill into law, which cost taxpayers over $1 trillion, exploding the national debt while failing to deliver much needed employment to millions of Americans.“After two years, it’s clear we can't borrow, spend, and bail out our way to economic prosperity. No nation can. If Democrats are serious about creating jobs they need to join us to end the spending binge in Washington and get government out of the way.“Instead of learning the mistakes of the past, this president is intent on repeating them by borrowing, taxing, and spending his way through the next budget. We have to stop the spending today in order to grow the economy and create a better environment for job creators to start hiring.“The stimulus approach to job creation clearly did not work. The solution for job creation we heard from the American people is to remove the uncertainty in the economy stemming from policies and irresponsible spending created in Washington.“Taxpayers forked out more than $1 trillion and for what? An unemployment rate of 9 percent or higher for 21 straight months and job-crushing debt to be handed off to our children and grandchildren. It’s an incredibly expensive economic embarrassment, and I will continue to fight to keep taxpayer money from being wasted again.”
02.17.2011	FRANKSTON – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling’s Regional Representative, Amy Gould, recently presented United States Army Veteran Ray L. Tanner with honors he earned more than 50 years ago. Congressman Hensarling worked to obtain the following awards based on Mr. Tanner’s service records and other official documents: • Bronze Star Medal based on the award of the Combat Infantryman Badge • American Campaign Medal • European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with 2 bronze service stars • World War II Victory Medal • Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award • Honorable Service Lapel Button World War IIAccording to U.S. Army regulations, the Bronze Star Medal was established by the President in 1944. It is awarded to any person who, while serving in any capacity in or with the United States Army after December 6, 1941, distinguished themselves by heroic or meritorious achievement or service, in connection with military operations against an armed enemy; or while engaged in military operations involving conflict with an opposing armed force in which the United States is not a belligerent party.“Veterans have made tremendous sacrifices to protect our freedom,” said Hensarling. “We need to let them know that we appreciate all that they have done for our Country. Today, there are over 25 million Veterans in the United States, and there is no group of Americans to whom we owe greater thanks.”“I am humbled and privileged to help honor Mr. Tanner as he receives his long overdue medals. One of my greatest honors as a United States Congressman is to assist these deserving veterans in obtaining the medals they are due,” said Hensarling.
02.15.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Delivering the Weekly Republican Address, House Republican Conference Chairman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) highlights the new majority’s commitment to creating a better environment for job growth by ending Washington’s spending binge and reducing uncertainty for those who create jobs. Chairman Hensarling highlights the steps the new majority has already taken to cut spending and grow the economy, and reiterates that there is no limit to the amount of spending Republicans are willing to cut. Chairman Hensarling is in his fifth term representing Texas’ Fifth Congressional District. Audio of the address is available here. Video is available here for viewing.“Hi, I’m Congressman Jeb Hensarling of Texas, and I serve as Chairman of the House Republican Conference.“Now down here in Texas, we have a saying: ‘when you’re digging a deep hole for yourself, stop digging.’“Now this isn’t a rule the powers-that-be in Washington have been willing to follow, and because of that American workers are clearly paying the price.“Under President Obama’s economic policies, we’ve seen not only our first, but our second trillion dollar deficit in our nation’s history, and we are well on our way to our third.“These deficits are unsustainable and unconscionable. They add uncertainty to our economy. They weaken confidence in our government. And they keep job-creating investment on the sidelines.“Now to help get our economy back to creating jobs, we need to end the spending binge in Washington and get government out of the way. We need to stop the digging. That’s what history tells us, it’s what economists tell us, and that’s what the American people are demanding.“Instead of working with us to cut spending though, President Obama has asked Congress to yet again increase the debt limit. Now no one wants America to default on its debt. “But if the President wants our help to pay off his debts, he’s going to have to begin the process of cutting up the credit cards. In other words, we need major spending cuts and major spending reforms.“Unfortunately, instead of committing to these cuts and reforms, the President has called for – are you ready for this – even more ‘stimulus’ spending, as ineffective as it’s been. “Now, you’ve probably heard the President talk about cutting spending, but what he’s really after is savings to pay for more quote-unquote ‘investments’ in yet even more ‘stimulus’ programs.“You know, my questions for the President are these: Mr. President, how does spending us down the road to national bankruptcy help us ‘win the future’? And Mr. President, how does borrowing even more money from the Chinese make us more competitive?“After two years, it’s pretty clear we can’t borrow, spend, and bail out our way to economic prosperity. No nation can. So while I appreciate the President’s ‘can-do’ rhetoric, his job-destroying policies won’t do, and that’s what matters most to American families.“Now the new House majority is listening to the people and taking a responsible approach to cutting spending and growing our economy. Here’s what we’ve done since going to work on behalf of the American people just one month ago today: “We voted to reduce the deficit by $700 billion and to reduce spending by more than $2.6 trillion by repealing the job-destroying health care law. This week, our Republican colleagues in the Senate kept their promise to fight for repeal.“We voted to save taxpayers $617 million by ending taxpayer funding for political candidates and conventions.“We banned Congressional earmarks and cut our own budget by five percent, because you’ve got to lead by example.“We’ve changed the culture of the House by now holding weekly ‘YouCut’ votes to actually cut spending and eliminate wasteful government programs.“And this month, we will put forward a continuing budget resolution that outlines billions of dollars in spending cuts because we pledged to cut spending back to the pre-‘stimulus,’ pre-bailout levels.“In order to get Americans back to work and create jobs, there is no limit to the amount of spending that we’re going to be willing to cut.“Of course, Americans know you don’t simply ‘win’ the future, you’ve got to plan for it.“And that’s what makes this issue so important. Washington’s spending binge isn’t just hurting our workers, it’s threatening our children’s future as well.“We’ve reached a tipping point where we are firmly on the course to be the first generation in America’s history to leave the next generation with less freedom and a lower standard of living. In other words, loss of the American Dream.“It doesn’t have to be this way. If we are principled, if we are courageous and smart, together we can preserve the torch of liberty for our children and our grandchildren and they will have a brighter future. “Thank you for listening.”
02.08.2011	“Congressman Discusses Early Action in Cut and Grow Congress” MINEOLA – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a leading fiscal conservative and Chairman of the House Republican Conference, was in Wood County on Thursday, February 3rd to discuss recent action he has taken to cut wasteful Washington spending and to remove Washington’s barriers to job creation. Hensarling explained how the new Republican-led Congress was laying groundwork to change the way of doing business in Washington. “House Republicans made a Pledge to America that we would change the way Congress works, cut spending immediately and hold an up-or-down vote on the job-destroying ObamaCare law. We did all three during the first month of this session.” Hensarling also told attendees he voted to reduce the budget for each Member, each committee, and the leadership offices of the House of Representatives by 5%. The legislation he supported also reduces the budget of the Appropriations Committee by 9%. “House Republicans are walking the walk on reducing the size and scope of the federal government by first cutting the House budget,” said Congressman Jeb Hensarling. “The cost of government is not what it taxes, but what it spends, and House Republicans are starting right here, right now, to actually spend less on government. We challenge the Obama administration and Senate Democrats to join us.” “We’ve voted to save taxpayers $617 million by ending taxpayer funding for candidates and conventions. We’ve cut our own budget by five-percent, saving taxpayers at least $35 million to start. We’ve changed the culture of the House by holding weekly “YouCut” votes to cut spending and eliminate wasteful government programs,” added Hensarling. Hensarling also shared his thoughts on President Obama’s State of the Union address recently. “Unfortunately, what the American people heard during the State of the Union was broad themes coupled with recycled, ineffective ideas reminding me that, while I tend to agree with about 80% of what the President says, I disagree with about 80% of what he does,” explained Hensarling. “A key theme to the President’s speech was ‘investment.’ When the American people hear the word ‘investment,’ they know that means more spending and that results in us going out to borrow another forty cents on the dollar, mainly from the Chinese, and send the bill to our children and our grandchildren. East Texans know that you cannot make a great nation more competitive by bankrupting future generations. When American people hear ‘investment,’ they know that means double down on the failed stimulus plan that has brought us nothing but trillion dollar deficits and near double digit unemployment. We will never be competitive with the Chinese if all we do is borrow their money and we will not create jobs by punishing job creators.” Hensarling also went on to discuss the vote by the House to repeal Obama Care that took place on January 19. “Creating jobs is the stated top priority of President Obama. But, the government health care takeover requires small business owners to provide federally-approved health insurance for their employees, or else they get slapped with a fine of up to $2,000 per full-time employee. Combine that with the half a trillion dollars in new taxes, the 1099 form mandate, the minimum benefit standard and all the other job crushing regulations on small businesses already struggling to make ends meet, and I fail to see how this will somehow create jobs,” Hensarling added. Another reason Hensarling said ObamaCare must be repealed was simply, “The American people don’t want it.” Hensarling also discussed important steps the 112th Congress took during the first month of the year. “The 112th Congress began with the adoption of a House rules package that fundamentally changed the way the House works. We now require legislation to cite Constitutional authority - we require that the American people have an opportunity to read legislation before we vote on it - and we changed budget enforcement rules that for too long prioritized the federal budget over the family budget.” House Republican members also voted to ban all earmarks. It was also a historic moment for the new Congress when the members required the reading of the Constitution in the well of the House as the first item of business. “It is our duty to change the culture in the 112th Congress and restore the reputation of this historic institution that we are so privileged to serve on behalf of Americans. We have reached a tipping point where we are firmly on course to be the first generation in America’s history to leave the next generation with less freedom and a lower standard of living. It doesn’t have to be this way. If we are both courageous and smart, together we can preserve the torch of liberty for our children and grandchildren,” concluded Hensarling.
01.21.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, today made the following comments in favor of repealing Obamacare.To View Video of Congressman Hensarling’s Remarks on YouTubeGo Tohttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VGeQpPQ_Twc Remarks of House Republican Conference Chairman Jeb Hensarling:“Mr. Speaker let me offer 1.6 million reasons why we should repeal Obamacare. That’s the number of jobs that will be lost from just one provision the employer mandate, according the NFIB, the largest small business organization in America.“The half a trillion dollars in new taxes, the 1099 form, the minimum benefit standard, all job crushing regulations.“Mr. Speaker, when it comes to Obamacare you cannot help the job seeker by punishing the job creator.“Let me offer 2.6 trillion more reasons that we must repeal Obamacare. That is the true cost of this legislation, 700 billion dollars more added to the deficit.“Now I know my friends on the other side of the aisle will contend something else, but somehow in their accounting, they left out the $115 billion dollars it cost to implement, they double counted almost half a trillion dollars in taxes, social security, cutting Medicare by half a billion, the slight of hand of 10 years of taxes, six years of spending.“Mr. Speaker, you cannot improve the health care of a nation by impoverishing its children.“Here's one more reason, Mr. Speaker. The American people don’t want it. It's personal.“Here's my story, two days ago, I was in San Antonio, Texas, and my mother had a large tumor removed from her head. They wheeled her away at 7:20 in the morning, and by noon, I was talking to her along with the rest of our family. It proved benign, thanks to a lot of prayers and good doctors at the Methodist hospital in San Antonio. My mother's fine. I’m not sure that would be the outcome in Canada, the U.K., or anywhere in Europe.“No disrespect to our President, but when it comes to the health of my mother, I don't want this President or any President or his bureaucrat or commissions making decisions for my loved ones. Let's repeal it today, replace it tomorrow.”-30-
01.14.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, today delivered the following remarks condemning the attack in Tucson, Arizona, mourning those killed and wishing Godspeed in their recovery to those who were injured.To View Congressman Hensarling’s Remarks on YouTubeGo Tohttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ewORGUJxAfERemarks of Congressman Jeb Hensarling:I appreciate the gentleman from Virginia, the distinguished Majority Leader, for yielding.Madam Speaker, I haven’t come to the House floor with any prepared remarks. Frankly, I’m not sure my vocabulary, I’m not sure my thoughts can do the moment justice.I would say in the victim that we know, Congresswoman Giffords -- Gabby, if there is a sweeter, a kinder, a more gentle member of the House, I know not their name. So many of us consider her to be a friend. I think if there was a poll of members of the House she would probably be voted least likely to offend any human being which makes this incident, this tragedy, so unfathomable. We all pray for her full recovery. This House is not whole without her smile, without her voice, without her presence.Madam Speaker, I did not know Gabe Zimmerman, but I know a lot of great Americans, young people, who decide to dedicate themselves to public service and work on my staff; and I know how they are a part of my extended family.I didn’t know Dorwin Stoddard, Phyllis Schneck, Dorothy Morris, but they are parents, they are grandparents, they are spouses, and we think of our own family.I didn’t know Judge John Roll, but again someone who committed their life to public service.And last, but not least, I don’t know Christina-Taylor Green; I didn’t have that pleasure. A nine-year-old child thrilled to learn about our representative democracy and brought down in an act of evil. I never met her, but I think about my eight-year-old daughter and I think about my seven-year-old son, and how they learn about their father’s business.And so all of us come together in this time of mourning, but this time of resolution. We mourn the loss of these great American citizens, but we resolve that representative democracy - that the traditions of the House - will not be a casualty of this tragedy. The people’s House will be open.The Members – the people’s representatives -- will be accessible. It can be no different in this country.We cannot allow the tragedy to be compounded by changing the way we conduct the people’s business. This cannot happen. And so we come here today to mourn, but we come here to be resolved that this individual who is responsible for a heinous, evil act will not succeed in interfering with the people’s business in the people’s House. Godspeed in her recovery - to Gabby, our colleague.Mr. Hensarling’s remarks end
12.03.2010	“I am unable to support it because at its core it calls for a massive tax increase on the American people without fundamentally addressing the largest, long-term driver of our nation’s debt crisis – rising health care costs.”Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a member of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform and the second ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement after declining to endorse the commission’s final proposal put forward by Co-Chairmen Erskine Bowles and Senator Alan Simpson:“Commission Co-Chairmen Bowles and Simpson have put together a serious and provocative proposal. Their leadership is to be commended. Their proposal helps illustrate the magnitude of the crisis. Their proposal is worthy of congressional debate. Although I embrace key elements of their proposal, I regrettably cannot in good conscience endorse it. “I am unable to support it because at its core it calls for a massive tax increase on the American people without fundamentally addressing the largest, long-term driver of our nation’s debt crisis – rising health care costs. You cannot change the ruinous spending path of our government if you leave the recently passed health care law virtually untouched and leave out fundamental reform of Medicare. It cannot be done. In fact, this proposal would actually double down on the recently enacted health care law and drive more Americans into government-run health care through repeal of the employee health care exclusion. The nation has a fiscal crisis because the government spends too much, not because the American people are under-taxed. “It is neither desirable nor necessary to increase taxes to address the nation’s fiscal crisis. First, according to CBO, taxes as a percentage of GDP are already going up over the course of the next generation from the historic norm of approximately 18%, while spending is due to double from 20% to 40%. Secondly, the taxes necessary to close the fiscal gap would lower our standard of living and make us the most highly-taxed industrialized nation in the world. Finally, without effective spending limits, there is no guarantee increased taxes would simply not be used for even more spending.“Again, further tax increases on the American people should be off the table. If put on the table, as they are in this plan, fundamental health care reform and a total spending cap must be put on the table as well. In this plan they are not. Using history as my guide, when tax increases have been called for in the past to be coupled with spending restraints, the tax increases usually materialize and the spending restraints do not. We should all remember that ultimately the cost of government is what it spends not what it taxes.“I applaud the Co-Chairmen’s proposal for recognizing the need to fundamentally reform our nation’s tax system. The system we have today is simply too confusing, too complex, and is a drag on job creation and economic growth. In order to create jobs and continue to grow our economy in the 21st century, I believe we must move towards a simpler, flatter tax system that ensures we are competitive in the world. Economic growth is clearly part of the solution to our crisis. Getting rid of so-called ‘tax expenditures’ in order to lower marginal rates would undoubtedly bring about both economic growth and more tax revenues. However, despite lowering marginal tax rates and the corporate tax rate, this plan still results in a $2 trillion tax increase. “I’m pleased the proposal includes discretionary spending caps. It should include mandatory spending caps as well. However, I am concerned about the firewall prescribing specified levels of discretionary spending reductions to both security and non-security spending. I believe the first responsibility of Congress is to provide for the defense of the American people, and we should spend every penny necessary to defend our nation. However, at the same time, like any other government agency, spending in the Department of Defense is not immune from waste, fraud, and abuse. I believe that we should scrutinize every penny of spending across the entire federal budget – including the Pentagon – to ensure that taxpayers money is not being wasted. However, I am concerned that arbitrary levels of cuts to defense spending could unnecessarily endanger our national security. “With respect to Social Security, personally I believe in voluntary, personal carve-out accounts with a government guaranteed floor for those under 55 as contained in the Roadmap for American’s Future. I want to use the power of compound interest to grow our way out of this. That is not in this plan, but having said that and while I do not agree with lifting the earnings cap to increase the share of revenues collected by Social Security, I would be more than satisfied to at least save Social Security for the next couple of generations including the generation represented by my 8 year old daughter and my 7 year old son, and support the other proposals that are included in this plan. “I came to the commission’s deliberations with an open mind, but not an empty mind. Along with others, I brought solutions. I advocated for the adoption of H.R. 4529, Paul Ryan’s Roadmap for America’s Future; H. J. Res. 79, a Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution co-authored with Mike Pence of Indiana and John Campbell of California; and H.R. 3964, the Spending, Deficit, and Debt Control Act, which would impose binding caps on spending, establish biennial budgeting, and many other budget process reforms to ensure that the federal budget does not grow faster than the family’s budget ability to pay for it. Regrettably, very few of these ideas found their way into the final report. “Despite being unable to support the commission’s final product, I want to again commend the work and dedication of Erskine Bowles and Senator Alan Simpson. I firmly believe that when we as a nation come together on a solution to our nation’s fiscal crisis, the work done by Erskine Bowles and Senator Simpson will have played a large role in getting us to that point. “We are undoubtedly on the verge of being the first generation in America’s history to destroy the American dream. I do not believe the American dream is a shiny new Cadillac. I do not believe the American dream is home ownership. I believe the American dream is leaving your children with greater freedom, greater opportunity, and a higher standard of living than you enjoyed. Every generation in our country has always kept faith with the American dream. Unless we solve our fiscal crisis very soon we will not have kept that faith. We will not solve our fiscal crisis by doubling the tax burden on the next generation in order to balance the budget. We will not solve our fiscal crisis by monetizing our unconscionable debt. We can only solve our fiscal crisis by reforming current entitlement programs for future generations. Hopefully, the work of the commission will lay the foundation for the national “adult conversation” and Presidential leadership necessary to achieve that goal.
11.30.2010	“In a lame duck session, a lame duck Congress should not turn our economy into a dead duck economy.”To View Video of Congressman Jeb Hensarling’s StatementClick the Linkhttps://www.gop.gov/media/press-conferences/10/11/30/113010-republican-leadership-press-conferenceGOP Conference Chairman Jeb Hensarling:“I’m Jeb Hensarling, the incoming Chairman of the House Republican Conference, with far less eloquence than either Lincoln or McCarthy, no tax increases for nobody. It is poor grammar, but it is great economics. The American people spoke loudly and clearly on Election Day and we heard them. Uncertainty is leading to unemployment. That is the number one issue you hear with small businesses throughout this land and it is an absolute travesty that weeks before the year’s end, people still do not know their effective tax rates.”“In a lame duck session, a lame duck Congress should not turn our economy into a dead duck economy. The way they would do that is by increasing taxes, particularly on small businesses. The way they would do that is to send a signal to the American people, to the credit markets, that they’re not serious about doing anything about spending. What they ought to do is put us on the path, today, to roll back the spending excess to pre-stimulus, pre-bailout levels to ensure that there are no tax increases on the American people or small businesses. And that is the message that I believe the President will hear loud and clear from the incoming Speaker here in fifteen minutes.”End of Hensarling Remarks
11.10.2010	DALLAS- Freedom is not free – it comes at incredible cost. Throughout our nation’s history, whenever our country is attacked or when enemies of freedom threaten peace in our world, American men and women in uniform answer the call to defend us. They go into harm’s way so that we can enjoy the blessings of freedom, peace and prosperity.As a member of the United States House of Representatives, occasionally people will thank me for my sacrifice. I will accept thanks for service but I will not accept gratitude for sacrifice. I have sacrificed nothing for my nation. The men and women who wear our nation’s uniform- they have sacrificed. I have never had a shot fired at me in anger. I’ve been away from my family maybe five days at a time. I particularly think of one of my colleagues, Congressman Sam Johnson, a great American hero who didn’t see his family for 7 years as a “guest” of the North Vietnamese. In Sam’s book, “Captive Warriors,” he writes about a phrase found scribbled onto the walls of his cell: “Freedom has a taste to those who fight and almost die that the protected will never know.” I am one of the protected, and many of the protected are reading these words.One of the greatest honors I have as a Congressman is helping honor our veterans. Few opportunities are more meaningful to me than those, whether it is obtaining long overdue medals for a hero of WWII, securing VA benefits for a struggling veteran of Korea or Vietnam, or paying tribute to the life of a soldier that was cut short defending freedom in Iraq or Afghanistan.Recently I was honored to speak at a deployment ceremony for an Army Reserve unit embarking on a 400-plus day mission to Afghanistan. I was reminded not only of the enormous sacrifice of those who were set to deploy, but also the sacrifice of the wives, husbands, sons, daughters and parents who were about to send their loved ones into harm’s way. Our military is strengthened by the love and support of their families. We have a civic responsibility to support those keeping the home fires burning while their loved ones are defending us.As the son, grandson and brother of veterans, I have and will continue to fight for our nation’s soldiers and military veterans. As President Calvin Coolidge once said “A nation which forgets its defenders will itself be forgotten.” I am committed to making sure we never forget.NOTE: If you have issues pending with a branch of the Armed Forces, the Veterans Administration or any other federal agency and would like Congressman Hensarling’s assistance, please contact his Dallas office at (214) 349-9996.
10.17.2010	“Fiscal Hawk” Earns Third-highest Score in Entire HouseWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) today announced he has received the National Taxpayers Union “Taxpayers’ Friend Award” and an “A” rating from the nation’s oldest taxpayer watchdog group. Hensarling’s 95% score is the third-highest pro-taxpayer score out of the 430 Members of the House who received a National Taxpayer Union rating. This award marked Hensarling’s sixth consecutive “Taxpayers’ Friend” recognition.Hensarling, who the Dallas Morning News recently said “has gained a reputation as one of Washington's most serious fiscal hawks,” is the second ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee and a member of the National Commission of Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. He is the author of legislation dubbed the “gold standard” of budget reform and one of the co-authors of the Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution. Hensarling has earned one of the National Taxpayers’ Union’s (NTU) top five scores each year since 2005. Upon learning of his latest NTU designation, Hensarling said “I am grateful to the National Taxpayers Union for the outstanding work they do analyzing legislation and rating the impact of bills on taxpayers and am honored to receive their A rating and the ‘Taxpayers’ Friend Award’ again this year.”“When you review the NTU scorecard it becomes clear why America is accelerating down the road to national bankruptcy,” noted Hensarling. “Only 55 Members of the House and Senate attained scores sufficient for an A rating, while 267 Senators and Representatives earned the dubious honor of being rated a ‘Big Spender,’ and that number is unchanged from 2008 despite two years of trillion-dollar-plus deficits.”The 362,000-member National Taxpayers Union is a nonpartisan, nonprofit citizen group founded in 1969 to work for lower taxes, smaller government, and economic freedom. This year’s House score for the 1st Session of the 111th Congress was calculated on 333 roll call votes in the House of Representatives.
10.15.2010	“…the deficit is merely a symptom; the disease is out of control federal spending.”Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), the second ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee and a member of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, released the following statement in response to the Treasury Department’s release of the final budget totals for Fiscal Year 2010:“As the federal government officially closes the books on another fiscal year, let’s hope this coming year is better for taxpayers than the one we just finished,” said Congressman Hensarling. The federal government’s fiscal year begins on October 1 and runs through September 30. According to the Treasury Department, FY2010’s deficit was $1.294 trillion and the federal government spent $3.456 trillion. This means that almost 40 cents out of every dollar was borrowed. “For only the second time in American history – the previous year being the first – the federal government ran a $1 trillion-plus deficit. However, the deficit is merely a symptom; the disease is out of control federal spending. Over the past two years, Congressional Democrats have embarked upon an unprecedented spending spree in an attempt to spend, borrow, and bailout our way to economic prosperity. In fact, since President Obama took office, non-defense discretionary spending has increased by 84%, and grown to nearly 25% of the economy – well above the post-World War II historic average of 20%. First, there was the $1.2 trillion failed stimulus bill, then the $410 billion omnibus in 2009, then the $871 billion cap and trade bill that would impose a national energy tax, then the $445.8 billion omnibus in 2010, then the $2.6 trillion health care bill resulting in a government takeover of health care, and then finally a $26 billion bailout for states. All of this spending caused the deficit to balloon to nearly 10% as a share of the economy, a level that greatly exceeds the 3% or less level determined as sustainable by President Obama’s former Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Dr. Peter Orszag.”“Out of control spending is the reason that Representatives Mike Pence, John Campbell and I authored a Spending Limit Amendment to the United States Constitution (H.J. Res. 79), which would limit federal spending to no more than 20% as a share of the economy. We must address the root cause of the problem if we hope to get our fiscal house in order, which I believe we must do. Otherwise, we will be the first generation in American history to leave the next with less freedom, less opportunity, and a lower standard of living.” “Congressional Democrats owed the American people a debate on our nation’s spending priorities. However, instead of an honest debate, they deliberately chose to avoid such a debate so that the American people would not have an opportunity to examine their record. This was truly disappointing because it appears to have been a decision that was motivated by concerns about the next election, not the next generation,” concluded Congressman Hensarling.
10.13.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the second ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee and the co-author of H.J. Res 79, the Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution, issued the following statement on Republican Whip Eric Cantor’s op-ed on earmarks:“As a long-time earmark reformer, I applaud Whip Cantor’s approach to fixing the small problems so that the American people will once again trust Congress to solve our nation’s greatest challenges. I also appreciate the leadership that Leader John Boehner, Whip Cantor and many other Republicans exhibited when we approved our earmark moratorium earlier this year.“While not all earmarks are bad, all too often the earmark process represents the triumph of secrecy over transparency, the special interest over the national interest, and seniority over merit. All too often, earmarks fundamentally disrespect the hard-earned money of American workers and too many earmarks are in the nature of an unacceptable, no-bid contract.“While they represent a small fraction of Washington’s total spending, there is no doubt that congressional earmarks are a large part of Washington’s reckless culture of spending that costs the taxpayer money."When it comes to earmarks, Congress can't go back to business as usual."To view Cantor’s op-ed in today’s POLITICO go to https://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=A3C56C6F-C6EC-08BF-FB69B9D4AAAF99AC
10.08.2010	“I’ve talked to Fortune 50 CEO’s in Dallas and Main Street small business owners in Mineola, TX, and they’ve all told me that policies created in Washington, such as failure to deal with the impending tax increases at the end of the year, the new health care law, a threatened national energy tax, and the Dodd-Frank permanent bailout bill, have made job creators uncertain about the future and hesitant to invest in expanding their businesses and hiring employees.”DALLAS, TEXAS -- Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the second ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee and a member of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, released the following statement in reaction to today’s jobs report:“Despite the recession being declared ‘officially’ over, today’s jobs report showing the unemployment rate mired at a near double-digit level confirms that for many Americans the recession continues.”The Department of Labor announced today that the unemployment rate for September was 9.6%, and 95,000 Americans lost jobs. This marks the 17th straight month that the unemployment rate has been above 9%. “The Obama Administration and Congressional Democrats have attempted to spend, borrow, and bailout our way to economic prosperity. What do the American people have to show for it? Instead of sustained job creation, the American people have gotten sustained growth in the federal debt. Our economy is not suffering from a capital crisis; it is suffering from a confidence crisis. According to the Federal Reserve, there is almost $2 trillion in capital sitting on the sidelines that could be used to create jobs and economic growth. I’ve talked to Fortune 50 CEO’s in Dallas and Main Street small business owners in Mineola, TX, and they’ve all told me that policies created in Washington, such as failure to deal with the impending tax increases at the end of the year, the new health care law, a threatened national energy tax, and the Dodd-Frank permanent bailout bill, have made job creators uncertain about the future and hesitant to invest in expanding their businesses and hiring employees. I have no doubt that if we remove the uncertainty in the economy that our economy will come roaring back.”
09.29.2010	“…never underestimate the creativity of the elected official to get around statutes that they have helped write…”Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) is the author of H.R. 3964, the Spending, Deficit, and Debt Control Act to reform Washington’s broken spending process; an original co-sponsor of H.R. 4529, Rep. Paul Ryan’s Roadmap for America’s Future, to put our nation’s finances on a sustainable path and co-authored, H.J. Res 79, the Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution, to ensure that the federal budget does not grow beyond the ability of the family budget’s to pay for it.From Congressman Jeb Hensarling’s remarks at today’s meeting of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform:“…never underestimate the creativity of the elected official to get around statutes that they have helped write. I do believe, though, that it’s important to recognize that, really, biennial budgeting and performance-based budgeting, in many respects, go hand-in-hand. I mean, as we know, what we do around here is we measure the inputs to a program, and we don’t measure the outputs. And so, if you want to show that you care about the veteran, if you want to show that you care about the elderly, it’s all measuring the inputs regardless of what the performance is.And I will say this also, you know the only time that we get any kind of oversight around here is when we have bifurcated government, when we have one party in charge of Congress, and the other party’s in charge of the White House. That’s the only time, you know. It should not be used as a political tool. It ought to be institutionalized, and regardless of who occupies the administration, Congress has to do the oversight if we want to get a grip on our budget.But I just wanted to add my voice. Indeed, Paul and I, I think, have worked on this for eight years, so far to no avail, but hope springs eternal.”
09.23.2010	Congressman Jeb Hensarling is the second ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee, the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, and a member of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. Hensarling statement: The second plan [in] the Republicans’ pledge to America is a plan to stop, stop out of control spending and actually reduce the size of our government. We want to put, today, our government on a path to a balanced budget and actually begin to pay off the national debt. Today we can act immediately to reduce spending by cancelling unspent stimulus funds. The American people know that after three million of their countrymen have lost their jobs, the only thing the stimulus has stimulated is the national debt. We can cut government spending to pre-stimulus, pre-bailout levels saving immediately 100 billion dollars. You can not spend, bail-out, and tax your way into economic prosperity. We will establish a hard cap on new discretionary spending; now think about it, we would go from the first House without a budget to a House with a binding budget under our pledge. And we would actually cut Congress’ budget at a time when families are having to cut back, small businesses are having to cut back, why not Congress? If you’re going to lead, you need to lead by example. In every single week, we go to the House floor under the Democratic rule and have a vote to increase spending. Under this pledge, weekly we will have a vote to cut spending. To reduce the size of government, Republicans pledge to end TARP once and for all. No more 700 billion bailout, revolving bailout funds for the administration. End government control of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which will prove to be the mother of all bailouts to the American taxpayer and the root cause of the economic crisis – totally ignored by the President and the Congress. We propose to impose a federal net hiring freeze on all non-security employees. Federal payrolls should not increase and cause small business payrolls to decrease. We will root out government waste and sunset actually sunset outdated and duplicated programs. The closest thing to eternal life on earth should not be a federal program. We will reform the budget process, one that actually focuses on the long-term, one that focuses on the next generation not the next election. The practice of borrowing almost forty cents on the dollar, much of it from the Chinese, sending the bill to our children and grandchildren is not just unsustainable, it is unconscionable – with this pledge Republicans will save the American dream as it drowns in a sea of red-ink. We will make it bigger and brighter for the next generation, we will not allow the torch of liberty to be mortgaged; it will be handed off to the next generation. Statement ends Hensarling spokesman George Rasley noted that, “Participating in this event was a real honor for Jeb. I think he was invited in recognition of his leadership in developing many of the bills that are incorporated in the GOP Pledge to America; ending TARP, caps on discretionary spending, ending the taxpayer bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and reforming the budget process to focus on the long term are all in bills he has sponsored or worked to develop.”
09.15.2010	“no tax increases on nobody” Hensarling Remarks:“Where are the jobs? The Democrats have tried to spend their way into more jobs with the stimulus. Three million of our fellow Americans have lost their jobs. Unemployment hovers around 10%. The Democrats have tried to ‘bailout’ their way into more jobs – serial bailouts of Fannie, Freddie, and UAW. The list goes on. Unemployment hovers at 10%, and three million have lost their jobs.” “The Democrats have tried to borrow their way into more jobs: two deficits in a row over a trillion dollars, highest debt in American history. Unemployment hovers around 10%. Three million have lost their jobs.”“Now Democrats want to try to tax their way into more jobs through a tax on small business and investors. I don’t know if it is ideological blindness or economic incompetence, but the Democrats do not get it. Republicans are united: ‘No tax increases on nobody.’ Now that may be poor grammar, but it is sound economics. We demand on behalf of the American people, an up or down vote on tax relief – tax relief for all Americans.”
09.15.2010	To View Congressman Jeb Hensarling’s Comments at Today’s HearingGo to YouTubehttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FMyRERyAhcMCongressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) is the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit. A former member of the Congressional Oversight Panel (Panel) for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) Hensarling now serves as a member of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. He is the author of H.R. 4889, the GSE Bailout Elimination and Taxpayer Protection Act, the only bill currently before Congress to end the taxpayer bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
09.15.2010	“We will be living with the consequences of this ill-advised program years after it has ended.” WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a former member of the Congressional Oversight Panel (COP) for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit issued the following statement in recognition of the second anniversary of Lehman Brother’s bankruptcy filing:“TARP was originally sold as an emergency injection of liquidity to thaw frozen credit markets that when repaid would be used to reduce the deficit. Unfortunately, it has morphed into a revolving bailout fund to promote the Administration’s political, social, and economic agenda.”“The second anniversary of Lehman Brother’s bankruptcy filing underscores the stark contrast between forcing failed companies and investors to accept the consequences of their bad decisions through bankruptcy compared to bailing them out through politically driven programs like TARP.”“Using TARP repayment as a metric of success is a false premise. TARP funds should have always been expected to be repaid. The repayment metric merely provides political cover for an Administration which chose to distribute bailout funds without regard to making the taxpayer whole.”“Administration officials point to lowered loss projections for TARP as though they are evidence that the program has worked. To argue that TARP is a success because taxpayers are going to lose less than some originally predicted is crazy. CBO’s latest estimate predicts the program will cost the taxpayer a whopping $66 billion dollars – hardly cause for celebration.” “The ultimate cost of TARP must be measured not only by dollar signs, but also by the level of government involvement it has introduced into the market. By legitimizing the notion of ‘Too Big Too Fail,’ TARP introduced an unprecedented level of government involvement into the market, paving the way for passage of the Dodd-Frank permanent bailout bill. We will be living with the consequences of this ill-advised program years after it has ended.”
09.09.2010	Hensarling & Bachus Letter don’t “shoot the computers first and ask questions later”WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and FSC full committee Ranking Member Spencer Bachus (AL-06), today called upon House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank (MA-04) to conduct a hearing on high frequency trading.The letter calling for the hearing noted that, “On May 11, 2010, the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance, and Government Sponsored Enterprises held a hearing to examine the market events of May 6, entitled ‘The Stock Market Plunge: What Happened and What is Next.’ The hearing provided the Committee with a great deal of speculation about what might have caused the May 6 events, but coming only days after the occurrence, it necessarily lacked concrete findings as to the cause of the tumultuous trading. It has now been more than four months and Federal regulators have still been unable to explain precisely what triggered the events.In their letter the Republican leaders of the House Financial Services Committee pointed out that SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro said recently, “…we have not waited for the report to begin taking steps to address weaknesses identified on May 6” and expressed concern that the SEC may be moving forward with some proposals without having the empirical evidence needed to ensure that the diagnosis fits the disease. A “shoot the computers first and ask questions later” approach will not restore investor confidence or promote capital formation.Hensarling, a longtime leader on the issue of high frequency trading, noted over a year ago that, “this is not a debate about who has access to what technology; it is a debate about the health, efficiency, and competitiveness of our markets.” During the May 11, 2010 FSC hearing on the so-called “flash crash” Hensarling demanded and obtained a commitment from SEC Chairman Shapiro to make public the Commission’s findings once the “trigger or triggers” are identified. Despite Shapiro’s subsequent comments that action is needed, to date, the Commission has not made any public determination of the trigger or triggers. On August 24, 2010 Hensarling and Bachus sent Shapiro a letter urging action based only on economic and empirical data, not political pressure.
08.30.2010	Local Congressman One of Only Nine Members to Receive Score of 100WASHINGTON – Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) has been awarded the Defender of Economic Freedom Award by the Club for Growth, a free market advocacy organization with over 55,000 members nationwide. The award honors members of Congress who have a strong voting record on issues that spur economic growth. “With his score of 100, Congressman Hensarling is a champion of the pro-growth agenda,” said Club for Growth president Chris Chocola. “During one of the toughest economic years in memory Jeb showed that the principles of free enterprise and free markets are the only way to create jobs and rescue our economy.”Hensarling is one of only nine Members of Congress to receive a score of 100 for 2009. In order to rank members of Congress, the Club for Growth tracks each lawmaker’s record on how they vote on pro-growth policies. A score of 100 indicates the highest support for pro-growth policies. The rating examines legislative actions that reflect the Club for Growth’s immediate pro-growth policy goals, including cutting and limiting government spending, lowering taxes, expanding free trade, regulatory reform and deregulation.“I am honored to accept this award from such a respected organization as the Club for Growth,” said Congressman Hensarling. “No nation can spend, borrow, and bailout its way to prosperity. It is time to remove the looming storm clouds of Obamanomics, cut spending and get our fiscal house in order. The Club for Growth is an important voice to encourage government to open opportunities, not smother them and to foster productivity, not stifle it. When Washington stops threatening and punishing the job creators I have no doubt our economy will come roaring back.”Link to Club for Growth scorecard: https://www.clubforgrowth.org/projects/
08.10.2010	KAUFMAN, TEXAS –Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) recently met with a group of Kaufman County veterans to hear their concerns and input on federal issues and legislation that affects them. “As a Congressman, one of my top priorities is to ensure that our nation's military service veterans receive the help and care that they need and deserve,” Congressman Hensarling said. “There is no group of people to whom our nation owes more than our veterans. That is why it is so important for me to stay in touch with them about issues that affect them.Hensarling, the son, grandson and brother of veterans, went on to tell veterans attending, “I value your input on legislation impacting our current fighting men and women and our veterans.” “Throughout our nation's history, whenever our country has been attacked or when the enemies of freedom threaten peace in our world, American men and women in uniform, from all backgrounds and all walks of life, answered the call to defend us. We owe these brave Americans a debt of gratitude that we can never fully express, but we can make sure that they are well taken care of for their service."“President Calvin Coolidge once said, ‘The nation which forgets its defenders will itself be forgotten.’ I for one am committed to ensuring this nation never forgets.”
07.29.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a leading fiscal conservative and outspoken proponent of earmark reform, who is the second ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee and a member of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, today delivered the following remarks on the House floor in opposition to the earmark-laden THUD appropriations bill: Mr. Hensarling: I thank the gentleman for yielding. Mr. Speaker, the American people are asking this Congress and this President what part of broke don't you understand? Already we have seen on June 30 the third largest one-day increase in the national debt in our history. $166 Billion , larger than the entire annual deficit of 2007. Already this year the deficit has crossed the trillion dollar mark for only the second time in American history. Of course the first time, as we know, was last year. We are looking at the largest national debt in our nation's history. As a percentage of our economy, it rivals that of World War II. And it's only due to get worse. And yet since the democratic majority has come in, President Obama has been elected, this body has gone on a spending spree. Toda y borrowing 41 cents on the dollar mainly from the Chinese to send a bill to our children and grandchildren. At one time the house majority leader, now Mr. Hoyer of Maryland, said to run deficit when they can to fiscal child abuse. Now we seemingly hear from the other side the refrain Que Sera Sera. First time in the history of the house the house hasn't even attempted to pass a budget. Mr. Speaker, I guess the only reason you want a budget is because you want a limit on spending. If you don't want to limit your spending, you don't need a budget. So we have no budget. We are going directly to the appropriations bill. In this case the THUD bill is 38% larger than it was in fiscal 2008, the year before the Democrats went on their spending spree. You know, Mr. Speaker, again how much of this spending meets the test of borrowing 41 cents on the dollar, mainly from the Chinese, sending the bill to our children and our grandchildren? I have the pleasure of serving on the president's fiscal responsibility commission. It's chaired by the gentleman from North Carolina, of staff to President Clinton, he likens the national debt, quote, this debt is like a cancer. It's truly going to destroy the country from within and yet, Mr. Speaker, our democratic majority brings to the floor a bill spending 38% more than just a few years ago. Recently it was reported in The Hill that our Chairman and the Joint Chiefs of Staff said the nation's debt is the biggest threat to U.S. national security. We have the Democratic majority brings a bill to this floor spending 38% more on THUD than just three years ago. The director of the Congressional Budget Office, Democratic appointee, has said, quote, U.S. fiscal policy is unsustainable. Unsustainable to an extent that it can't be solved through minor changes. Yet, the Democratic majority brings a bill spending 38% more since when they came into office. Economist Robert Samuelson said the spending could, quote, trigger an economic and political death spiral. Yet the Democratic majority brings a bill spending 38% more from when they took over. You know, Mr. Speaker, Americans have seen what has gone on in Greece. They have seen the riot in the street. Greece is having to sell sovereign territory. Their debt in relation to their economy is about 112%. Ours is at 90%. We are truly at a tipping point which is why the American people are saying, what part of broke don't you understand? No nation can borrow, spend, or bell u p its way to economic prosperity. This bill needs to be defeated.
07.28.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a leading fiscal conservative and outspoken proponent of earmark reform, who is the second ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee and a member of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, today delivered the following remarks on the House floor in support of the House Republicans’ YouCut program to reduce federal spending: Mr. Hensarling: I rise in opposition to this ill-advised rule. Number one, we have an Appropriations bill before we have a Budget. There is no budget, Madam Speaker. My friends on the other side of the aisle, the Democrats, don't even want a speed bump as they drive down the road to national bankruptcy. We are supposed to have a Budget before we have Appropriations bills. And in fact I think the Democratic Chairman of the Budget Committee said it best when he said, “if you can't budget you can't govern.” Well, according to the House Budget Committee, the Democrats clearly can't govern. This year will mark the first time in history that the House has failed to even consider, much less pass, a Budget, and yet we have a rule allowing us to spend yet more of the people's money. It also marks the second year in a row where the Democrats have chosen to bring these bills under closed rules. I, myself, had six different amendments. And when we're spending the people's money, the people's representatives ought to be heard. None of my six amendments will be heard, Madam Speaker, because the Rules Committee decided they would have a closed rule and they didn't want to hear from my amendments. Madam Speaker, I believe that the American people need to continue to focus on this practice of earmarking. The Republicans have taken an earmark moratorium. We said, you know what, the process is broken. Now, not every earmark is bad, Madam Speaker, but the process is broken. And yet the Democrats continue to bring them. And had I had an opportunity I would have brought an amendment saying, you know what, maybe we should strike the earmark that the Budget Committee Chairman, Chairman Spratt, has for a neighborhood community center in York County, South Carolina. I have no doubt that good things can be done with that, Madam Speaker, but does the Chairman of the Budget Committee and does this body really believe it's worth borrowing 41 cents o n the dollar, mainly from the Chinese, and sending the bill to our children and grandchildren? I hope not. But this body will not be able to work its will. I would have introduced an amendment to strike the earmark from the Gentlelady from Ohio, Representative Kilroy, who thought it was worth borrowing 41 cents on the dollar, mainly from the Chinese, and to bill our children and grandchildren to put in the Columbus Bicentennial bikeways in Columbus, Ohio. Madam Speaker, at some point the American people want to know, does their President, does their Congress, what part of broke don't they understand? Earmark after earmark after earmark and I could go through the list that I tried to offer and couldn’t offer. And finally it gives the impression that the earmarks are being allowed to those in the leadership and those who have very challenging races come November. I have no a doubt but no amendments can be offered. And when the gentleman from New York says he's bringing a rule that will allow us to debate a fiscally responsible bill, he failed to note that it's 41% above the 2008 level. This is part of the spending spree that's bankrupting America. He looks on a one-term basis, yet the American people have to pay on a multiyear basis. You would think, Madam Speaker, that after this President and this Congress increased what we call nondefense discretionary spending, which is really garden variety government, not the entitlement programs, not the Pentagon, has increased 84% in just two years. At what point do you say enough is enough? And that's why Republicans every week are bringing forth another proposed spending cut under the YouCut program. Let's start saving some money. And so as you heard from the gentleman from Georgia, today it is the advanced earned income tax credit, frankly brought by a Democrat, who now apparently has decided to abandon his own child and make it an orphan – but this is a program that could save taxpayers $1.1 billion. We need to vote down the rule, vote down the previous question. Allow us today to make one small savings. Again, at least one small speed bump on the road to national bankruptcy brought courtesy of our friends on the other side of the aisle.
07.23.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) the second ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee and a member of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform issued the following statement regarding OMB’s Mid-Session Review: “In just two years the Obama Administration and the Democratically-controlled Congress have increased non-defense discretionary spending by 84 percent. They have cancelled this year’s budget, removing the last speed bump on the road to national bankruptcy.” “In June we had the third largest one-day increase of the national debt in our nation's history – larger than the entire deficit for fiscal year 2007. We also learned that in June we passed the $1 trillion deficit mark for this year, which will be our second year in a row, and the second time ever, to have $1 trillion + deficit, which may run to a $1.5 trillion deficit this year.” “OMB’s Mid-Session review merely confirms that our nation’s fiscal future continues getting bleaker, instead of better. It is further proof that we need to cut spending now and begin getting our fiscal house in order today, or else we are firmly on the road to becoming Greece, but without the Parthenon and the art.” ###
07.22.2010	To View Congressman Jeb Hensarling’s Statement on YouTubeClick the Link https://www.youtube.com/user/RepJebHensarling#p/a/u/0/bp7heKIaXww WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) is the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit. A former member of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) Hensarling now serves as a member of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. Today Congressman Hensarling had the following exchange with Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke: Congressman Hensarling: Mr. Chairman [Rep. Barney Frank] I would say for your benefit, in your comments when you said that no one on your side of the aisle was considering a VAT tax, The Hill reported in October 9th of last year, quote: “�?A new Value-Added Tax is on the table to help the US address its fiscal liabilities,’ House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Monday night.” End quote. So either the Speaker is nobody, or she has retracted her statement. I can’t find any retraction. If you have, I would encourage you to set the record straight, and submit that retraction to our committee. Chairman Bernanke, welcome to you. I have a few quotes I would like to read you and have you react to them. The first quote comes from the CEO of Verizon, the head of the Business Roundtable, which represents – as you know – big employers in our nation, Ivan Seidenberg, quote: “By reaching into every sector of economic life, government is injecting uncertainty into the marketplace and making it harder to raise capital, and create new business.” Bill Dunkelberg, Chief Economist at the NFIB that represents small employers in America, quote: “It’s not just expectations on the tax rates, per se, but just the costs of carrying labor under the health care bill, the promise and heavy discussion on a VAT, the deficits scare us to death. Everything that Congress seems to be thinking about is not helpful for small business. Tom Donohue, President of the Chamber of Commerce that represents both big and small employers, quote: “Look at the tax costs in the health care bill and the tax costs in the capital markets bill, and they add up to hundreds of billions of dollars. It is a fundamental uncertainty that is holding businesses back.” Next, one of the most oft-cited economists by my Democratic colleagues, Dr. Mark Zandi, Chief Economist at Moody’s, as reported in Bloomberg, said: “Companies have been holding back on hiring, banks are unsure how much capital regulators will require them to set aside, power companies are waiting to see if government caps carbon emissions, and human resource departments are still parsing the impact of the ten-year health care overhaul Congress passed in March.” My last quote and my first question, quote: “Uncertainty is seen to retard investment, independently of considerations of risk or expected return. Introduction of uncertainty can be associated with slack investment, resolution of uncertainty with an investment boom.” Do you know who wrote those words? And yes, it is a trick question. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke: I’m sure it was I who wrote those words, that was my…it should have been anyway. That was my 1979 PH.D thesis was on uncertainty and investment, so maybe it wasn’t me. I don’t know. Congressman Hensarling: My research said 1980, but that’s a very good memory, Chairman. Do you agree or disagree with yourself? Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke: I…well first of all, I think it was an excellent thesis. And the notion that firms making long-term commitments, whether it’s to employment, or capacity expansion, or new business lines obviously are concerned about the environment, and about uncertainty. Congressman Hensarling: Do you believe it is a significant impediment to job growth today? Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke: This is going to sound like a dodge, but I can’t really quantify it. I hear a lot from businesses that they’re… Congressman Hensarling: Yes, Mr. Chairman, it does sound like it. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke: But if you look at the facts, it’s mixed. What you see first of all, as noted, that firms are holding a lot of cash. That’s true. It’s also true they’re not hiring very much. On the other hand, their investment in equipment and software has been pretty robust. So there are some mixed signals there, and I just don’t know how…I’m sure there is some effect there, and I think it’s important. We don’t need to measure the effect to take the lesson that whatever we can do to reduce uncertainty would be constructive. Congressman Hensarling: Mr. Chairman, if I could, one member’s opinion. And certainly in speaking anywhere from Fortune 500 CEOs all the way down to small business people in the 5th District of Texas, when you speak that the Federal Reserve is prepared to perform other policy actions. Frankly, whether you quit paying interest on bank reserves, whether you go from tripling your balance sheet to quadrupling it, quintupling it, you can set up negative real interest rates at the discount window, you can print money, and you can throw it out of airplanes, but this is not a challenge of monetary policy, Mr. Chairman. The problem is here with the United States Congress and the United States President. Now I can’t go back and re-litigate legislation that I disagreed with, but I would hope that we could work together to try to render out some of the uncertainty that has been created, that I believe the Federal Reserve, itself, says that public companies are sitting on almost $2 trillion dollars of cash and cash equivalents sitting on the sidelines, sitting in the stands, and not being in the playing field to create jobs.
07.21.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), a former member of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit made the following remarks regarding the signing of the Dodd-Frank bill: “How ironic that the day the President is signing legislation into law that will make bailouts a permanent part of our economy, the Special Inspector General for TARP released another report slamming Treasury’s administration of the Troubled Asset Relief Program.” “With the federal government exposing the taxpayer to $3.7 trillion dollars in a failed attempt to “stabilize” the economy, it is deeply disappointing that Congress and the Obama administration are moving forward with legislation that will only make it easier for government bureaucrats to put the American taxpayer on the hook for the failures of Wall Street.” “At a time of record debt, deficit, and unemployment, the Administration has demonstrated a dogmatic commitment to wasting taxpayer dollars. After 18 months it should be obvious that you can not borrow, spend, tax and bailout your way to prosperity. Whether through its unwavering decision to continue pouring money into the failed Home Affordable Modification Program, or its decision to pretend to reform the financial sector while ignoring Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the Obama Administration has both failed to protect taxpayers or pursue the meaningful reform the American people desperately want.”
07.13.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) the second ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee and a member of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform issued the following statement in response President Obama’s announcement that he intends to nominate Jacob Lew to serve as Director of the Office of Management and Budget. “I welcome Mr. Lew back to the fight for fiscal accountability in Washington. Former Clinton White House Chief of Staff and current Co-Chairman of the President’s Fiscal Commission Erskine Bowles, has accurately likened our current fiscal predicament to a cancer that is destroying our country from within. Mr. Lew has a important and daunting task of restoring fiscal responsibility before him, given that President Obama’s budget submitted this year averages deficits of nearly $1 trillion over the next ten years and triples the debt held by the public in 10 years; firmly putting us on the path to become Greece without significant reforms. Despite the daunting task at hand, I am anxious to hear Mr. Lew’s ideas on how to solve our nation’s spending, deficit and debt crisis, and look forward to working with him.” Congressman Hensarling, one of the House GOP’s leading voices on controlling federal spending, is an author of the Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution to create a spending cap with teeth by limiting the federal government to 20% of the national economy every year.
07.08.2010	DALLAS, TEXAS — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) hosted a series of town hall meetings in Mineola, Jacksonville, Palestine, Athens, Canton and Terrell on July 8 as part of the America Speaking Out program. Congressman Hensarling, the second ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee, and sponsor of the Spending, Deficit, and Debt Control Act, is author of legislation often referred to as the “gold standard” of budget enforcement reform. Dubbed “Rep. Budget Reform” for his efforts to reign in the spending, deficits and debt with which the federal government is saddling future generations of Americans, Hensarling is one of the leading voices in Congress for fiscal sanity and a long-time advocate of ending the taxpayer bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. One of the authors of the proposed Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution, Hensarling is a member of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform; during the 111th Congress his work to control spending and taxes has been recognized by The National Taxpayers Union and The Club for Growth. “I think part of the frustration many people are feeling about their government is that they don’t feel they really have a practical way to plug in to the system and be heard. So House Republicans launched a new program called America Speaking Out,” said Hensarling. “Today is really part of the celebration of freedom. This is all about our form of democracy and making sure as your elected member in the House of Representatives that I am held accountable and that I listen to those who sent me to office in the first place.” Bill Baker from Terrell said what seemed to be on everyone’s mind at Congressman Hensarling’s America Speaking Out town hall meeting in Terrell when he said, "I'm concerned about the deficit, and the amount of spending in Washington, DC."Jane Donelson of Athens caught the mood of many when she reinforced Congressman Hensarling’s position on bailouts when she noted, "In our everyday life and in business if you do right you succeed and if you don't you fail. If you fail, you pick yourself up, dust yourself off and try again. When is Washington going to realize there is no such thing as ‘too big to fail’?” Jim Bateman of Athens lauded Hensarling for his commitment to listening and citizen input, "What you and the conference have done with "America Speaking Out" and "You Cut" is great. Never let it be said that what I think doesn't matter because this shows you are listening." Joe Sanchez of Palestine voiced opposition to the concept of “too big to fail” and DC’s bailout culture by saying, "If banks are going to fail, they should fail. If GM is going to fail, they should fail. There are lessons to be learned from that. If we want to help them, we should cut their taxes." Retired Lieutenant Colonel Jim Payne of Palestine seemed to sum-up the mood of the crowd toward the creeping intrusiveness of the federal government when he stated, "We need to get Washington, DC out of our local government and make them do the job they are supposed to be doing. Steve Looney of Jacksonville went straight to the heart of our economic challenge when he pointed out, "If we are going to be a pro-growth country, we've got to create jobs." Jacksonville business-owner Mark Ford offered this analysis of why job growth has all but stopped in the current environment, "There are so many rules and regulations on us as business owners. I spend all my time satisfying the requirements on us that I can't focus on the reason I got into business in the first place. If they want to help us then help us, but stop hurting us in the process." Gary Penny of Yantis captured much of the frustration with Washington citizens in East Texas are feeling today when he said, "We need a law that says Congress will pass no law applying only to Congress and no law only to the people. If it is good enough for us, it should be good enough for Congress." Perhaps Luke Miller of Mineloa best summed-up the feelings of the participants in Congressman Jeb Hensarling’s Mineola America Speaking Out town hall meeting when he said, "We are never going to fix the problems in this country until we get people back to work. We have an unhealthy business environment and unless we cut taxes on businesses, we aren't going to get people back to work and turn this nation around." Brad Vogt of Canton caught the mood of many at the Canton America Speaking Out town hall meetings when he concluded his comments by saying, “We need major tax reform…” “I’ve been around long enough to know that, by and large, the best ideas do not come from Washington, DC. They come from the people who do the work, who pay the taxes, who teach the children, who put out the fires, who make our streets safe, who start small businesses. That’s where the best ideas come from,” Hensarling concluded. Constituents who wish to participate in America Speaking Out may join the online community where they can submit ideas, rate those of others, and post their comments on other social media such as Facebook and Twitter. To learn more about America Speaking Out visit www.americaspeakingout.com.
06.28.2010	DALLAS, TEXAS – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) is pleased to announce that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has made changes aiming to expedite the claims process for veterans seeking compensation for service-connected disabilities.“I am pleased that the VA has tried to address long-standing concerns about its claims process,” said Hensarling. “Veterans have made tremendous sacrifices to protect our freedom, and I want to make sure they receive the best possible service from the VA. I am hopeful these changes will improve communications between the VA and veterans and decrease wait times for veterans with a claim in the appeal process.”The shortened forms, which are being made available on VA’s Web site at www.va.gov/vaforms, include VA Form 21-526 for veterans applying for the first time for disability compensation or pension benefits, and VA Form 21-526b for veterans seeking increased benefits for conditions already determined to be service-connected. Hensarling met with the Director of Waco’s VA Regional Office last April to press for improvements to the lengthy claim review process.If a veteran would like help with a claim or appeal, please contact Hensarling’s Dallas office at (214) 349-9996.
06.24.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Our dire fiscal and economic challenges -- coupled with Washington's insistence on making matters worse -- are no excuse for retreat or despair. They are cause for inspiration and determination. The stakes of the debt debate present not only a challenge -- but also a once-in-a-generation opportunity to reclaim the promise and prosperity of this great nation. By acting now, a debt crisis can be averted by reforming government on our own terms. Americans need not suffer from painful austerity plans imposed from lenders abroad. Instead, we can put in place a prosperity plan that recommits government to its proper role and rejuvenates the vibrant market economy that made America the envy of the world. For years, we've been heading down an unsustainable path -- as politicians in both parties insisted on making promises that simply could not be kept. To make good on our promises and set our nation on a sustainable path, we initially offered -- during the past administration -- "A Roadmap for America's Future." The road map is a comprehensive legislative proposal with reforms to fulfill the mission of health and retirement security, pay off our crushing burden of debt, and spur economic growth and job creation. The road map is a real plan, with real numbers to back it up, and real legislation to implement it. It secures the following key objectives: Providing health and retirement security: The road map preserves our entitlement programs as structured for Americans 55 and older, while making critical reforms for future beneficiaries so that we can sustain and strengthen the nation's health and retirement safety net. Our plan ensures universal access to health insurance, fulfills the missions of Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security, and makes these programs permanently solvent. Lifting the debt burden: The road map brings federal spending to sustainable levels and lifts the crushing burden of debt. Promoting job creation and economic growth: The road map spurs sustained economic and job growth by simplifying our tax code and putting the United States in a position to lead -- not merely survive -- in the international marketplace. The road map remains the only legislative proposal confirmed by the Congressional Budget Office and government actuaries as tackling the debt threat and restoring solvency to our entitlement programs. It was our hope that by offering a solution to our looming debt crisis, those who disagreed with our approach would offer ideas of their own. Regrettably Washington's partisans have countered with political attacks rather than viable alternatives. Continued inaction in the face of a debt crisis is dangerous. Yet our optimism persists. This is not a Democratic or Republican problem. It is an American problem and we're confident that the American people will not fall prey to the demagoguery that has for too long paralyzed progress on entitlement reform. Citizens of this country deserve to be spoken to like adults, not children. To those eager to attack our solutions: Come armed with your own. This is more than a battle of ideas. It is a battle for an idea: the American Idea. Do we want an opportunity society with limitless growth and a sturdy safety net for those that truly need it -- or -- do we want a stagnant cradle-to-grave European welfare state? The European model is not only mathematically unsustainable, but also an affront to our founding principles -- limited government, individual liberty, self-determination -- principles that have made us the freest, most prosperous nation in the history of mankind. We must reapply those founding principles to the challenges of the day. We must not back down from this fight if we are to reclaim the promise of our exceptional nation, and continue that great American tradition of giving the next generation greater opportunities and a brighter future.
06.23.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — With each passing week, fresh warning signs from the markets, government reports, or events overseas underscore the need to tackle our dire fiscal and economic picture. Yet Congress stubbornly refuses to acknowledge this reality, as each week results in a fight over how much further we should expand the deficit and how much deeper should we fall into debt. The starting point for tackling this challenge is the federal budget. For families, organizations, and businesses alike, a budget sets priorities and forces tough decisions. Governments are not exempt from the need to budget. Yet, in a stunning abdication of responsibility, leaders in the House of Representatives have failed to even propose a budget -- a feat never before "achieved" since the enactment of the 1974 Budget Act and unacceptable in the face of a looming debt crisis. The Democrats' budget collapse further erodes confidence in Washington's intent to get federal spending and debt under control -- and creates even greater concern about impending tax increases that will further hinder the private-sector job creation Americans desperately need. Washington's failure to control spending undermines sustainable economic growth and job creation. Democratic leaders have made the political calculation that it is a better to take a pass than to pass a budget. The president's "new era of responsibility" has hit a new low. This year's budget failure begs the question of how Congress is even allowed to continue to tax, spend and borrow without a budget. To address the breakdown in the budget process, House Republicans put forth the Spending, Deficit, and Debt Control Act, requiring Congress -- by law -- to control its dangerous spending appetite. Our proposal would create a legally binding federal budget, with enforceable limits on spending and deficits, force Congress to address our entitlement crisis and budget for our long-term liabilities, and allows for budgetary oversight by moving from the frenetic annual calendar to a biennial budget and appropriation process. Budget process reforms can help limit the excesses of spendthrift lawmakers -- but real restraint requires a commitment to get spending and deficits under control. Republicans broke the trust of the American people with respect to spending -- and paid a political price in recent elections. We must reclaim the mantle of fiscal sanity and change the culture of spending that grips Washington. At the House Budget Committee, we have identified $1.3 trillion in savings to help get our fiscal house in order and spur job creation. Among the proposals: Cancel unused bailout funds. The financial rescue package has morphed into a Washington slush fund for special interests. To prevent its continued abuses, we should terminate the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Cancel unspent "stimulus" funds. We need more jobs, not more debt.Reduce government employment and freeze government pay. We need to grow the economy, not government. Cut and cap discretionary spending. After an 84 percent increase in discretionary spending, Washington has added trillions of dollars to our debt, yet failed to produce the jobs promised. We should return spending to pre-Obama levels and establish discretionary spending caps. Reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We need to phase out the federal control of these mortgage giants, limit taxpayer exposure and combat crony capitalism. These specific proposals, offered as real legislation, would cut spending immediately. This is just a start. It is clear that much more needs to be done to rein in government spending, spur private-sector growth, and set our nation on a sustainable fiscal and economic future. In tomorrow's piece, we will examine our plan to do just that.
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) the second ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee and a member of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform issued the following statement in reaction to House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer’s speech to the liberal think tank Third Way: “The Majority Leader’s comment that ‘It isn’t possible to debate and pass a realistic, long-term budget until we’ve considered the bipartisan commission’s deficit-reduction plan, which is expected in December’ is extremely disappointing.” “The Democrats refuse to bring a budget to the Floor because they want no limit on what they can spend, not even a speed bump on the way to national bankruptcy.” “When the President announced his plan for a National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform during his State of the Union speech I said, ‘It largely looks like a proposal designed give political cover to the President and Congressional Democrats who are trying to heal self-inflicted wounds arising from their fiscal record,’ Majority Leader Hoyer’s comments would appear to confirm my intuition.” “When I accepted the appointment to the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform I said I had high hopes and low expectations for the Commission; Majority Leader Hoyer’s comments have lowered both my hopes and my expectations.”
06.21.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Over the course of the past few weeks Americans have been shocked to learn how dangerously mired in debt our nation has become. The U.S. debt rose past $13 trillion this month, about 89 percent of gross domestic product (GDP), and the International Monetary Fund now projects that the U.S. government's debt will surpass GDP in 2012, a mere 18 months from now -- with no plan in place to set our nation's finances on a sustainable course. As members of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, we recently heard testimony that when a nation's gross debt reaches 90 percent of GDP the needle is in the red zone and economic growth will begin to slow about one percent per year. One percent is about a third of our projected growth -- in practical terms this means millions of jobs will not be created and American families will forego billions of dollars in income, leading to a lower standard of living. In addition to the real pain inflicted on families, this creates a vicious cycle of lower government revenues and more borrowing at ever-increasing cost, which will result in what some have termed a "debt super-cycle." This is exactly what has been happening in Greece and other European countries where instead of economizing in the face of deficits, politicians have chosen to maintain spending on government payrolls and services, which has led to a cycle of rationalizing, hiding and obfuscating the true cost and growth of government and a scramble to borrow at ever-higher interest rates. Here at home, there has been a concerted effort by the Obama administration and Democrats in Congress to paint our current spending policies as a temporary aberration created by the economic crisis of 2008. Nothing could be further from the truth. This level of spending is a policy choice made in full knowledge of its damaging effects on the economy and the American way of life. President Obama made the choice to submit a budget that proposes increasing federal spending to a level approximately 56 percent over the 2010 level at the end of the decade. To accomplish this, the president proposes growing federal spending from its 2010 estimated level of $3.618 trillion -- or $30,875 per household -- to $5.670 trillion in 2020, which is $48,387 per household. This means the budget deficit will average nearly $1 trillion a year for the next 10 years and, by decade's end, each household's share of publicly held debt will equal $173,185. This tidal wave of debt set to hit in the years ahead -- set to eclipse 300 percent of GDP by 2050 -- will crush the next generation in red ink and likely crash our economy before then. These unsustainable debt and deficit burdens were not imposed upon us by some outside force. They are created by the choice to grow the federal government and spend at unprecedented levels. Reflecting on his own coming of age in a time of economic turmoil, President Reagan said, "To be young in my generation was to feel that your future had been mortgaged out from under you, and that's a tragic mistake we must never allow our leaders to make again." Today, our leaders are again making the tragic choice to mortgage our children's future. But there is an alternative, and in two future installments we will share with you how controlling spending, reforming our social safety net programs and lifting the crushing burden of debt will spur job creation and put us back on a sustainable fiscal and economic path. ###
06.17.2010	WASHINGTON — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, and the author of H.R. 4889, the GSE Bailout Elimination and Taxpayer Protection Act and H.R. 5391, the Federal Housing Finance Oversight Board Increased Transparency Act of 2010 offered the following comments during debate of language offered by Rep. Judy Biggert on which institutions may be unwound by the resolution authority proposed in the Democrat’s financial services regulation bill. Congressman Hensarling: “I have a number of concerns about the underlying House offer… In dealing with the term financial company, and I unfortunately don’t have the EESA statute [Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008] in front of me that produced the TARP program, I believe the exact same term was used. If not it was a quite similar term, and we all know that under that particular legislative regime, low and behold, General Motors and Chrysler were somehow deemed under that particular scheme to be financial companies. Thus, we now know they received $60 to 70 billion; with so many bailouts going on it’s hard to keep track of all of the amounts.” “I understand that the Senate language is certainly more precise in defining what would become essentially a company that is “too big to fail.” Now I certainly agree with the gentle lady from Illinois. I disagree with the whole proposition. And let’s remember also the whole government sponsored enterprises; no one formally deemed them “too big to fail,” but markets work. People knew what the game was, and if I recall properly, I believe their stock actually had a stamp that said something along the lines of “not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States.” But guess what, now we have the Secretary of the Treasury coming and saying for all intensive purposes its sovereign debt. They don’t call it sovereign debt, but he says the United States will back it fully, which is obviously a difference without a distinction.” “I’m just concerned again, Mr. Chairman, that if we don’t adopt the amendment of the gentle lady from Illinois, I just question one day as I read the language, and again there is 2,000 pages here so I haven’t had as much time to study it as I would like, but I’m still wondering if a GM and a Chrysler can be brought into a statutory regime and deemed financial companies, what’s to prevent Wal-Mart from becoming a financial company under the House offer? What’s to prevent General Electric, particularly when you look at GE capital, will they become a financial company? How about AT&T, which is headquartered in my hometown of Dallas, TX, and I just happen to be reading from the Fortune 50 list here. Hewlett-Packard, Valero Energy, another Texas concern, number 19 on the list CVS Caremart, number 20 Proctor and Gamble, number 22 Kroger; we’ll end it here, number 25 Home Depot.” “…knowing how creative minds can be in the nation’s capitol, I mean potentially almost any large concern that has any operations, I suppose, financing by either investing on their own account or financing customer sales, potentially could come within the ambit of this legislation, and once they do, again I know they don’t bear the title of “too big to fail,” but the market will understand which are the firms that are cordoned off for special regulatory oversight, and those are the ones that the market will deem “too big to fail.” And not unlike Fannie and Freddie that one day found themselves able to borrow at 50 basis points cheaper than everybody else, low and behold we have a housing duopoly that implicitly, whether we liked it or not, did end up bearing the full faith and credit of the United States of America.” “…we will effectively designate a number of firms to be “too big to fail,” not restricted to what many of us believe to be actual financial companies. They will have advantages, the big will get bigger, the small will get smaller, the taxpayer will get poorer, and the economy will become more politicized. That is certainly not an end that I am looking for, so I applaud the gentle lady from Illinois for her amendment, and I encourage the House side to adopt it.” ###
06.16.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, and the author of H.R. 4889, the GSE Bailout Elimination and Taxpayer Protection Act and H.R. 5391, the Federal Housing Finance Oversight Board Increased Transparency Act of 2010 offered the following comments during debate on his amendment to strike language providing for a further federal intrusion into private compensation practices. Congressman Hensarling: “I think the Chairman said that I objected to the fundamental principle [of this section of the bill]. Yes, I want to be on the public record saying that I object to the fundamental principle of bailouts. The answer to excessive compensation agreements at financial institutions is to let them go bankrupt. Do not bail them out.” “Yes, I object to the fundamental principle. When the chairman said that no one believes that this language will be used in such a fashion, well no one actually believed that somehow Chrysler and GM could somehow be found to be financial institutions under the TARP Act. But lo and behold, but roughly $80 billion later, they were found to be quote-unquote, ‘financial companies.’ So it happened.” “We have annual say on pay dealing with executive compensation. Shareholder vote on golden parachutes, executive independent compensation committee, executive additional executive pay disclosures, claw-back provisions…My point is, if we, there are plenty of provisions that deal with the question of executive compensation.” “I do not believe there has been a sufficient answer of why you would grant such incredible, powerful, discretionary authority to the regulators again, to regulate the compensation of a bank teller. Regulate the compensation, who knows, maybe GM and Chrysler retailers will be found to be financial companies. Now are we going to regulate the commissions for auto salesman? Again I don’t understand why the language doesn’t match the rhetoric.” “And when we look at the studies, what we see is that those firms that fail do not have significantly different compensation structures from those that didn’t and yet the true root cause of the whole crisis, inflating the real estate bubble, the GSE’s are totally unaddressed. So we’re addressing something that did not create the financial meltdown, and we’re not addressing something that did. I see my time is up. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.”
06.10.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling is the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, and the author of H.R. 4889, the GSE Bailout Elimination and Taxpayer Protection Act and H.R. 5391, the Federal Housing Finance Oversight Board Increased Transparency Act of 2010. Transcript of Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) Opening Statement at Financial Services Conference Committee: "Mr. Chairman, we all know too well the great suffering our nation has seen due to this financial recession and crisis, and that’s why it’s so disappointing that, unless the authors of the 2,000 page-based text that we were just given had a sudden epiphany, we have a bill before us that will thrash about the branches of the financial crisis while leaving the root cause undisturbed." "The bill will clearly enshrine us as a bailout nation, ensuring future AIG-like bailouts. It grants unparalleled discretionary powers to the federal government to pick winners and losers, ushering in a new era of crony capitalism. The bill unleashes a new and costly army of Washington bureaucrats to ban and ration credit products, harming jobs and eroding consumer rights." "Regrettably, the bill seems to embody the cynical statement of the President’s Chief of Staff, “never let a serious crisis go to waste. It allows you to do things that you could never do before.” Why else would we enact a bill that among other provisions regulates the pay of a community bank teller who makes $20,000, imposes price controls on business-to-business interchange fees, and restricts access to payday loans; none of which have anything to do with the crisis?" "The root cause of our financial crisis was not deregulation; it was dumb regulation. The federal government over many years put into place policies that incented, strong-armed, and mandated financial institutions to loan money to people to buy homes who ultimately couldn’t afford to pay the money. And too many of our fellow citizens regrettably chose, not unlike our government, to live beyond their means and they expected their neighbors who didn’t to bail them out. Of all the dumb regulation that caused our economic crisis, none was dumber than that which caused the government sponsored enterprise monopolies that sponsored them and gave them ever increasing affordable housing missions. In other words the government told them we will let you monopolize the housing market as long as you securitize and insure mortgages for people who cannot afford them. To make matters worse, the government separated the safety and soundness regulator from the product approval and affordable housing regulator. We know the results." "Ultimately, the story of the government sponsored enterprises is one of enriched executives, cooked books, political booing, a massively inflated housing bubble, millions of home foreclosures, a shattered economy, and the mother of all taxpayer bailouts. Regardless of the accuracy or inaccuracy of Chairman Frank’s earlier GSE history lesson, the text before us clearly protects this system by totally exempting the GSEs. This is a system that along with FHA now controls 95 percent of our mortgage market, and the bailout has cost taxpayers $147 billion and counting." "Unfortunately, such bailouts of companies deemed to be too big to fail by the government will continue. To paraphrase a line from the famous Kevin Costner movie Field of Dreams, “If you build it, they will come.” The only reason to create a Wall Street bailout mechanism as the bill clearly does is to bailout Wall Street, permanently." "Now many in this room claim the bailout mechanism will never be paid for by taxpayers, but these are the very same people who worked so many years to protect GSEs and then told us they would never receive one dime of taxpayer money. They’re the same people who told us the Social Security Trust Fund would be paid back, don’t worry. They’re the same people who tell us now don’t worry about the exploding national debt. They were wrong then, they are wrong now." "Next, this bill creates a huge new powerful bureaucracy funded with a half a billion dollar budget and gives it the power to unilaterally ban and ration credit products. Studies show this new bureaucracy could cause interest rates paid by consumers to rise one and a half percent. New jobs could be reduced by almost five percent in our economy. I’ve heard this from community bankers back home, like Cad Williams of East Texas National Bank, who told me, “Congressman, if I have more compliance costs, and the federal government is going to limit the types of customized credit products that I can offer, we will lose jobs in Anderson County, Texas.” That is probably true nationwide. Why would we enact any legislation that would harm small businesses to access credit in the midst of a credit contraction? How many more jobs have to be lost?" "Under this bill it is simply inevitable that the big will get bigger, the small will get smaller, the taxpayer will get poorer, and the economy will become more political. This is a bill that has much rhetoric aimed at Wall Street but has too many provisions aimed at Main Street. Why is what is common knowledge to our constituents seemingly a mystery to us? And that is the best way to end taxpayer bailouts of failed Wall Street firms is to simply end taxpayer bailouts of failed Wall Street firms. America deserves better." ###
06.09.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, released the following statement regarding his appointment to the Conference Committee on the financial markets regulation legislation: “I am honored by the trust that has been placed in me and look forward to working with Ranking Member Spencer Bachus and other members of the conference to move this legislation in a direction that will restore financial market discipline, protect taxpayers from bailouts and once-and-for-all put an end to the concept of Too Big to Fail.” “As a conferee, I will fight to oppose the proposed consumer credit rationing agency, which represents the greatest assault on consumer rights that I have seen in my lifetime. Rather than empowering consumers to make more informed choices about their credit, this new government bureaucracy will undoubtedly take choices away from consumers and choke desperately needed credit out of our economy.” “The most glaring omission in both the House and Senate legislation is the failure to address the Financial Frankensteins of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. It is ludicrous to call legislation ‘reform’ when it ignores the fact that they were proximate causes of the economic meltdown of 2008. Until the gavel falls on this conference, I will continue to demand meaningful GSE reform.” ###
06.08.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling today announced that his proposal to end the bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac has won the House GOP YouCut vote and would be up for a vote on the House Floor as early as Wednesday, June 9. “I am honored the American taxpayers have endorsed my proposal through their votes on YouCut. Since taking over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two government sponsored mortgage-backing companies, taxpayers have injected over $145 billion into the two government sponsored enterprises,” said Hensarling. “Despite the fact that they are hemorrhaging some $7 billion a month Democrats in Congress have still not considered proposals to reform these Financial Frankensteins.” “The YouCut vote clearly shows the American people want the bailouts to end and are demanding that Congress take action to reform these companies now, as opposed to delaying yet again as Secretary Geithner recently suggested,” concluded Hensarling. “Ending the GSE’s government conservatorship, shrinking their portfolios, establishing minimum capital standards, and bringing transparency to taxpayer exposure could generate an estimated savings of $30 billion.” “YouCut” www.republicanwhip.house.gov/youcut is an online mechanism established by House Republicans to give taxpayers a direct say in how their tax dollars are spent. To vote or learn more about YouCut go to www.republicanwhip.house.gov/youcut . ###
06.07.2010	MABANK, TEXAS — Congressman Jeb Hensarling’s Regional Representative, Phillip Smith, honored representatives of the Cedar Creek Veterans Foundation by presenting a copy of remarks made by Hensarling in the Congressional Record, the permanent record of the business of the U.S. Congress. Hensarling, a staunch advocate of our nation’s servicemen and women, honored organizers and contributors involved with the Cedar Creek Veterans Foundation. “It is a great honor to recognize individuals involved with the Cedar Creek Veterans Foundation and to say thank you for taking the time and resources to show our nation’s defenders we appreciate their service and sacrifice. It is truly a blessing to see folks honor our servicemen and women and their families,” said Hensarling. The full text of Hensarling remarks in the Congressional Record follows: Madam Speaker, today I would like to honor a special organization of officials and individuals in the Fifth District of Texas, the Cedar Creek Veterans Foundation. President Coolidge once said, “A nation which forgets its defenders, will itself soon be forgotten.” Individuals in East Texas and Northeast Texas continue to amaze me for their tireless work in honoring soldiers and their families. The Cedar Creek Veterans Foundation was established to raise funds to assist Northeast Texas veterans with physical and emotional recovery, as well as physical rehabilitation of our wounded and injured warriors. They also provide organizations such as The Wounded Warrior Project and Fisher House of Dallas with resources and support. On June 7th, the Cedar Creek Veterans Foundation will be hosting a golf tournament and will donate all proceeds to the Fisher House in Dallas and The Wounded Warrior Project. The Fisher House in Dallas, Texas, is just one of several facilities that fulfill a great need for our nation’s defenders and their families. As a private-public partnership, the foundation provides homes that are built at major military medical centers, as well as VA medical facilities. These homes give families the chance to be near loved ones during hospitalization. The Cedar Creek Veterans Foundation also sponsors “Thunder Over Cedar Creek Lake” annual air show during July 4th festivities that helps to raise funds to support our nation’s veterans. This year’s golf tournament will feature Jae Head, who most recently starred in the movie “The Blind Side.” The tournament’s list of guests will also include former military members. John Wesley Tucker, Jr., a veteran pilot and instructor during World War II, will be honored during the event. The event will also feature three war heroes, Jesse W. Naul, Jr., who received the Navy Cross for his service during World War II; Richard S. Agnew, who received the Distinguished Service Cross serving the U.S. Army during the Korean War; and Dean E. DeTar, who received the Air Force Cross for his service during Vietnam War. These gentlemen are members of the Legion of Valor, and three of the nine members of the Legion of Valor that represent over 450,000 veterans in North Texas. I would like to thank everyone at the Cedar Creek Veterans Foundation, including CCVF President, Mr. Bob O’Neil, the board members and countless volunteers, supporters and donors who help to ensure our nation will not forget its defenders. It is an honor to represent such an outstanding organization and group of people in the Fifth District of Texas.
06.02.2010	DALLAS, TEXAS — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) hosted a town hall in Mesquite on June 1 as part of the America Speaking Out program, drawing attendees from communities throughout the district, including Mesquite, Garland, Rowlett, Lake Highlands, Lakewood, Balch Springs, Seagoville, Forney and Terrell “I think part of the frustration many people are feeling about their government is that they don’t feel they really have a practical way to plug in to the system and be heard. So House Republicans launched a new program called America Speaking Out,” said Hensarling. “Today is really part of the celebration of freedom. This is all about our form of democracy and making sure as your elected member in the House of Representatives that I am held accountable and that I listen to those who sent me to office in the first place.” The town hall, hosted by Eastfield College, provided participants an opportunity to offer their ideas and solutions to the challenges facing America today. Representative of the participants’ comments was Jimmy Weaver of Seagoville who said, “With the direction we are headed, with the spending we are continuing to do, and the lack of self control in our national government, I can’t see that we are going to be coming out in any better situation than [Greece].” Karen Weaver of Mesquite observed that, “If the government were to operate more like businesses do in the private sector with some degree of efficiency, it would make a big difference. For example, we kept hearing during the health care debate that we were going to pay for it by reducing fraud and waste, but who here has ever worked for a company that identifies fraud and waste in their company and allows it to continue to happen?” Perhaps Don Neumeister of Lakewood best summed-up the mood of the participants when he said, “I think Congress should pass legislation that requires the Administration to submit a balanced budget every year, with no variation from that,” a comment that appeared to receive 100% approval from the meeting participants. “I’ve been around long enough to know that, by and large, the best ideas do not come from Washington, DC. They come from the people who do the work, who pay the taxes, who teach the children, who put out the fires, who make our streets safe, who start small businesses. That’s where the best ideas come from,” Hensarling concluded. Constituents who wish to participate in America Speaking Out may join the online community where they can submit ideas, rate those of others, and post their comments on other social media such as Facebook and Twitter. To learn more about America Speaking Out visit www.americaspeakingout.com.
06.02.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) today announced that his plan (HR 4849) to end the federal bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is leading the voting in the House Republicans’ YouCut program. “The American taxpayers understand all too well what the continued bailout of these two Financial Frankensteins means: $7 billion of their hard earned money down the drain each and every month. The American taxpayers want the bailouts to end,” said Hensarling in announcing that, with 45% of the vote, ending the bailout of the GSEs was leading this week’s YouCut voting. YouCut is a program created by House Republicans to allow direct citizen input into proposals to cut federal spending. To date over 650,000 votes have been cast and over 65,000 suggestions submitted to YouCut. https://republicanwhip.house.gov/YouCut Hensarling’s bill to end the taxpayer bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is HR 4849, the GSE Bailout Elimination and Taxpayer Protection Act. Among its provisions the GSE Bailout Elimination and Taxpayer Protection Act sets a deadline for the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) to terminate the conservatorship of either the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac) if the Director determines that it is financially viable. The bill also requires the Director to appoint the FHFA immediately as receiver of either enterprise if it is found not to be financially viable and prescribes a deadline and procedures for the wind down of operations and dissolution of an enterprise thereby ending the federal taxpayer bailout in a prompt and orderly fashion. “To date, the failures of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have directly cost taxpayers over $145 billion, with the potential to cost hundreds of billions more,” concluded Hensarling. “The American people are tired of paying for the failures of others, and real regulatory reform means that there should no more government get out of jail free cards for bad corporate financial bets. Given that the Democrats have left GSE reform out of their financial regulation bill I am not surprised in the least that my plan to end the GSE bailout is garnering 45% of the vote on YouCut.”
05.27.2010	Click here for audio: https://gopleader.gov/UploadedFiles/JAB_Budget_Presser.mp3Note: News Conference Begins At Approximately 6:07 WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), the 2nd ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee and one of three House Republicans appointed to the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, today made the following statement at a press conference hosted by House GOP Leader John Boehner: “Never have so few voted so fast to indebt so many. As Leader Boehner just pointed out, it was reported that national debt has now hit $13 trillion. That is an increase of 50 %, almost 50%, since the Democrats took control of Congress. And we all know it is on its way to tripling in this decade. Such a national debt is unprecedented, unfathomable, unworkable, and unconscionable.” “As a member of the President’s Fiscal Responsibility Commission, which many consider to be an oxymoron, we heard testimony yesterday that when your gross national debt equals 90% of GDP the needle is reaching the danger zone on economic growth. Under Democrat leadership in America today the gross national debt has hit the dreaded 90% level. The Democrat response, “Yes, we have no budget”, yet again no budget. If you don’t mind borrowing 43 cents on the dollar from the Chinese, sending the bill to our children and grandchildren I suppose you don’t need a budget. If you don’t even want a speed bump on the way to national bankruptcy I suppose you don’t need a budget. If you don’t want to limit your spending, I suppose you don’t need a budget.” “We must cut spending now, under the leadership of the ranking budget member, Paul Ryan, who unfortunately cannot be here today, Republicans are proposing to do just that. Specifically, and you can find this on our website, along with Ranking Member Ryan, we have laid out a series of cuts offered as specific legislation, specific legislation to cut spending now and spur job creation in our economy.” “Number one, we would be putting an end to crony capitalism that is represented by the revolving TARP slush fund which could save $16 billion. Cutting and capping spending, the unspent stimulus spending, bringing our spending levels back down from their recent explosion. Under President Obama, non-defense discretionary spending has ballooned 23% and that is excluding the stimulus funds that could save almost a trillion dollars. Reversing the growth of the government bureaucracy, freezing government pay, we know that under President Obama as we continue to be mired in almost double digit unemployment, the highest in a generation, somehow the federal payrolls have increased 15%. That idea right there could save $35 billion. Cancel the remaining stimulus funds $266 million, Republicans are leading putting forth legislation because we believe in saving the next generation from bankruptcy and that is why we are supporting this program of ‘Cut Spending Now’.” ###
05.26.2010	DALLAS, TEXAS — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) will host an America Speaking Out town hall meeting on Tuesday, June 1st in Mesquite. America Speaking Out is a new effort to engage in a conversation with the American people about the direction of our nation. Texans who want to join the conversation that will eventually lead to a new governing agenda can attend the town hall or visit www.americaspeakingout.com. “I want to engage in a discussion with the American people about a new direction for our country,” Hensarling said. He added, “What I hear every day is that the American people want a new governing agenda that fits within a principled, conservative framework based on limited, more accountable government; economic freedom; lower taxes; fiscal responsibility; protecting life, American values, and the Constitution; and providing for strong national security.”“Clearly our nation is on an unsustainable path of too much spending, too much taxation and too much Washington in our everyday lives. So many of us are frustrated that we are living in an America that looks much different than the America that promised unlimited opportunity as a birthright. Now is your chance to be part of the discussion about how we should go about solving these problems,” Hensarling concluded. “I encourage you to attend our Mesquite town hall meeting or join www.americaspeakingout.com. It’s time to give power back to the American people and restore the bonds of trust those in power in Washington have broken.”The discussion will be held at 2:00 PM at Eastfield College’s Learning Center. WHAT: America Speaking Out Town HallWHEN: Tuesday, June 1st , 2:00 PMWHO: Congressman Jeb Hensarling WHERE: Eastfield College Learning Center (Building G) Room G-101ADDRESS: 3737 Motley Drive, Mesquite, TX 75150 To RSVP to this town hall, please send an email with your name, telephone number and address to tx05forums@mail.house.gov. ###
05.25.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) today announced the creation of America Speaking Out, a new effort to engage in a conversation with the American people about the direction of our nation. Texans who want to join the conversation that will eventually lead to a new governing agenda can visit www.americaspeakingout.com. “The reality of politics today is that Washington refuses to have a real conversation with the American people about the direction of our nation. Many Americans believe that leaders in Washington have lost touch with those who sent them there – the people. That is why I have chosen to participate in America Speaking Out, a state-of-the-art web platform that will allow users to share their priorities and ideas for a national policy agenda.” Hensarling noted, “America Speaking Out uses the same online community concept that many popular Web sites do. People can go to https://www.americaspeakingout.com, submit ideas, rate those of others, and post their comments on Facebook and Twitter through the site. Through www.americaspeakingout.com anyone can post a comment or submit an idea and be heard.” “I want to engage in a discussion with the American people about a new direction for our country. Hensarling, added, “The new governing agenda that emerges from this discussion will fit within a principled, conservative framework based on limited, more accountable government; economic freedom; lower taxes; fiscal responsibility; protecting life, American values, and the Constitution; and providing for strong national security.”“Clearly our nation is on an unsustainable path of too much spending, too much taxation and too much Washington in our everyday lives. So many of us are frustrated that we are living in an America that looks much different than the America that promised unlimited opportunity as a birthright. Now is your chance to be part of the discussion about how we should go about solving these problems,” Hensarling concluded. “I encourage you to join www.americaspeakingout.com. It’s time to give power back to the American people and restore the bonds of trust those in power in Washington have broken.”
05.24.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — House Budget Committee Republicans, led by Ranking Member Paul Ryan (WI) and Vice Ranking Member Jeb Hensarling (TX), today unveiled a series of specific spending cuts to help spur job creation and get Washington’s fiscal house in order. With a record $1.5 trillion budget deficit, House Democrats intend to break for the Memorial Day Recess by adding hundreds of billions of dollars more to the deficit with no attempt to budget for the upcoming fiscal year. After introducing the “Cut Spending Now” package of specific cuts that would save taxpayers $1.3 trillion, Ranking Member Ryan issued the following statement: “House Republicans’ continued effort to rein in runaway spending stands in stark contrast to the fiscal recklessness of this Congress and this Administration. The Majority’s unprecedented failure to budget provides no priorities for American’s hard-earned tax-dollars, exacerbates our looming debt crisis, and undermines the need for job creation and economic growth. To combat the explosion in Federal spending, Republicans have identified over $1.3 trillion in spending we can cut now.” Vice Ranking Member Hensarling added the following statement: “At a time when private sector employment is stagnant, so many of us are frustrated that we are living in an America that looks much different than the America that promised unlimited opportunity as a birthright. The Obama Administration and Congressional Democrats have put us on an unsustainable path of too much spending, too much taxation, ballooning the federal budget and government hiring, resulting in record deficits and debt. This is the same path Greece once took. Despite repeated calls from the American people for fiscal responsibility, House Democrats will not even attempt to pass a budget. House Republicans are standing on principle and offering the ‘Cut Spending Now’ package, which could save American taxpayers $1.3 trillion.” To learn more about the Congressional Democrats’ unprecedented budget failure, and specific spending reduction proposals from House Budget Republicans: “Cut Spending Now” https://www.house.gov/budget_republicans/press/cutspendingnow.pdf Cut Spending NowDemocrats’ Budget Failure; Republican Solutions Having shoveled out trillions of dollars in new spending and debt, House Democratic leaders now admit they cannot budget for all of it – and won’t even try. For the first time, the House will fail even to propose a budget. Instead the Democratic Majority will resort to an ad hoc, spend-as-you-go process that abandons any pretense of governing. Here are some key points about this budget collapse: FAILURE TO BUDGET, FAILURE TO GOVERN Threatens Job Creation. The Democrats’ budget failure further erodes confidence in Washington’s intent to get Federal spending and debt under control – and creates even greater concern about impending tax hikes that will further hinder the private-sector job creation Americans desperately need. Washington’s failure to control spending undermines sustainable economic growth and job creation. Explodes Spending and Deficits. With no budget, no priorities, and no restraints, the Democratic Majority will push spending to a record $3.8 trillion in fiscal year 2011, and widen the deficit to a record $1.5 trillion this year. Since the President took office, spending has exploded by $1.8 trillion, including the failed “stimulus” bill, appropriations increases far above inflation, and the government takeover of health care, among others. Exacerbates Debt Crisis. By failing to address our Nation’s greatest fiscal challenge, unsustainable entitlement spending, the President’s budget – now the de-facto Federal budget – doubles debt held by the public in 5 years and triples it in 10 years – to an alarming 90 percent of gross domestic product. REPUBLICAN PROPOSALS While Democrats refuse to budget, Republicans have proposed several bills that could begin saving taxpayers’ funds right now. Along with previous calls for specific cuts from Republican Leader John Boehner and Republican Whip Eric Cantor, these proposals – offered as real legislation – would cut spending now to spur job creation and help get our fiscal house in order. Much more needs to be done to rein in runaway spending, but the following proposals are a start towards reassuring the public, and the financial markets, that Congress is serious about getting spending, deficits, and debt under control. Cancel Unused TARP Funds. Prohibit the Treasury Secretary from entering into new commitments under the Troubled Asset Relief Program [TARP]. Ending TARP would prevent up to $396 billion in additional disbursements; CBO estimates savings of $16 billion. H.R. 3140 introduced by Rep. Tom Price of Georgia. Cancel Unspent ‘Stimulus’ Funds. Rescind all unobligated budget authority authorized under the “stimulus” bill and dedicate to deficit reduction. Saves up to $266 billion. H.R. 3140 introduced by Rep. Tom Price of Georgia. Cut and Cap Discretionary Spending. Return non-defense discretionary spending to pre-Obama (fiscal year 2008) baseline levels. Saves up to $925 billion. Legislation introduced by Reps. Ryan and Hensarling (H.R. 3964) and Rep. Jim Jordan of Ohio (H.R 3298) include caps on discretionary spending. Reduce Government Employment. Hire one person for every two who leaves civilian government service until the workforce is reduced to pre-Obama levels (exempting the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, and Veterans Affairs). Saves an estimated $35 billion. H.R. 5348 introduced by Rep. Cynthia Lummis of Wyoming. Freeze Government Pay. Freeze Federal civilian pay for 1 year. Saves an estimated $30 billion. Adopt the Legislative Line-Item Veto. Enact a constitutional line-item veto law. The President’s FY 2011 budget included terminations, reductions, and savings that would achieve $23 billion in one year. While Congress may not accept all these savings, the Line Item Veto can help reduce spending. H.R. 1294 introduced by Rep. Paul Ryan of Wisconsin. Reform and Bring Transparency to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Reform these companies by ending conservatorship, shrinking their portfolios, establishing minimum capital standards, reducing conforming loan limits, and bringing transparency to taxpayer exposure. According to CBO, the cost to taxpayers of putting government in control of Fannie and Freddie is $373 billion through 2020. Saves an estimated $30 billion. H.R. 4889 introduced by Rep. Jeb Hensarling of Texas. H.R. 4653 introduced by Rep. Scott Garrett of New Jersey. Create a Sunset Commission. Establish a commission to conduct systematic reviews of Federal programs and agencies, and make recommendations for those that should be terminated; and provide for automatic sunset of programs unless expressly reauthorized by the Congress. H.R. 393 introduced by Rep. Kevin Brady of Texas. Table 1: Estimated Savings From Republican Spending Reduction Proposals (in billions of dollars) Proposal Estimated 10-Year Savings Cancel Unused TARP Funds 16 Cancel Unspent ‘Stimulus’ Funds 266 Cut and Cap Discretionary Spending 925a Reduce Government Employment 35 Freeze Government Pay 30 Reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 30 Total 1,302 a This estimate is based on returning non-defense discretionary spending to fiscal year 2008 baseline levels. Note: The Legislative Line-Item Veto and the Sunset Commission would achieve savings subject to Presidential and congressional action. Therefore these bills are not displayed here. Source: House Budget Committee Republican staff. ###
05.20.2010	To See Hensarling’s Floor Speech On YouTube Go Tohttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oohb-zNF_L8 WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), the 2nd ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee and one of three House Republicans appointed to the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, today spoke in favor of the first spending cut proposed by the American people through “YouCut” www.republicanwhip.house.gov/youcut an online mechanism set-up by House Republicans to give taxpayers a direct say in how their tax dollars are spent. The spending cut was defeated on a largely party line vote of 240 to 177. “Last week over 280,000 votes were cast at www.republicanwhip.house.gov/youcut. With over 81,000 votes, the first winning spending cut was a proposal to eliminate a recently created, but unnecessary $2.5 billion annual welfare program,” announced Congressman Jeb Hensarling. “Unfortunately, Democrats chose to continue to spend our hard-earned tax dollars on this unaffordable and duplicative welfare program.” This week citizens can go to www.republicanwhip.house.gov/youcut to choose among the following proposed cuts: Byrd Honors Scholarships ($42 million in savings in the first year -$420 million over ten years) Even the Obama Administration proposed terminating this program in their annual budget. Surely Congress can too. Eliminate the Proposed Federal Employee Pay Raise (saves approximately $2 billion in the first year, $30 billion over ten years). President Obama proposed providing federal civilian employees with a 1.4% pay raise next year. This year Federal employees received a 2% raise and since the year 2000 have received raises averaging 3.6% a year. USA Today recently reported that the typical federal worker is paid 20% more than a private-sector worker in the same occupation. This proposal would expand upon the just enacted legislation to prevent Members of Congress from receiving a pay raise and would not impact the scheduled pay raise for those serving in the military. Suspend Federal Land Purchases ($266 million in savings in the first year, $2.66 billion over ten years). Last year Congress spent $266 million acquiring additional federal lands at the Departments of Interior and Agriculture, a 138% increase over the comparable amount of funding just four years ago. Given that the federal government already owns 29% of the land in America and has a multi-billion dollar maintenance backlog to maintain current land holdings, suspending new federal land would permit the government to focus on maintaining existing property while also saving taxpayers millions of dollars a year. Terminate Funding for UNESCO ($81 million in savings in the first year, $810 million over ten years). Last year the administration proposed deleting the Department of Education’s attaché to UNESCO saving approximately $632,000 a year. Terminating U.S. support for UNESCO entirely would save taxpayers $81 million annually. The U.S. had not supported UNESCO for 19 years prior to the decision by the Bush Administration to rejoin in 2003. UNESCO routinely undertakes activities that are properly the responsibility of individual countries and their governments, including reviewing and making recommendations in areas related to education, arts, culture, ethics, science and technology, and historic preservation. UNESCO recently came under fire for their proposed International Guidelines for Sexuality Education. Membership provides little benefit to American taxpayers in light of the overall cost. Eliminate Mohair Subsidies (approximately $1 million in savings in the first year, $10 million over ten years). Federal price support for mohair was first enacted in 1947, and the National Wool Act of 1954 established direct payments for wool and mohair producers. The purpose was to encourage production of wool because it was considered an essential and strategic commodity. According to the Congressional Research Service, no similar purpose was stated for the mohair program. While this program was phased out in 1995, ad hoc payments were provided in 1999 and 2000 and the program was reinstituted in 2002. Eliminating this program once again would save taxpayers approximately $1 million a year. (Also proposed as part of the RSC Sunset Caucus.) “It should be an easy choice – either YouCut or your children and grandchildren drown in a sea of red ink,” said Hensarling. “Of course nothing is ever easy in Washington, but I firmly believe that if you begin to take care of the pennies and nickels then the dollars begin to take care of themselves.” Hensarling concluded, “Please take just a few seconds to vote on YouCut. The American people are engaged as never before in the debate over how to reign in Washington’s culture of spending. Over 280,000 YouCut votes were cast for the first round of cuts. But to bring real change to Washington’s culture of spending and borrowing we need many more people to stand up and participate. The louder our voice, the harder it becomes for Speaker Pelosi to ignore. Visit www.republicanwhip.house.gov/youcut to cast your vote now.” ###
05.19.2010	WASHINGTON — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and a former member of the Congressional Oversight Panel for TARP made the following statement at today’s House Financial Services Committee hearing on small business lending: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It’s another day and another opportunity to borrow $30 billion dollars we do not have, to borrow it from the Chinese and send the bill to our children and our grand-children. The American people are increasingly asking, ‘What part of broke doesn’t this Congress understand?’ In just the last two years, the deficit has exploded, increased ten-fold, the national debt is tripling before our very eyes. By the end of the decade, under CBO score, we will be paying almost a trillion dollars a year in interest alone, on the national debt. We have to go back to World War II to find such debt-to-GDP ratios as what we are soon to see in the United States of America. By the end of the decade, they will be rivaling those of Greece, and we know what is occurring in Greece.” “Moody’s, not generally known for their pessimism, has stated that the US could soon lose its triple-A bond rating. And in a first, recently, the bond markets during a debt offering seemingly showed that they had greater confidence in Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway repaying their debt than in the United States government repaying theirs. So after a $700 billion TARP program, which has now morphed into little more than a revolving bailout fund for the administration, after a $1.2 trillion stimulus plan, which has stimulated our national debt, but otherwise leaves us mired in double-digit unemployment, highest in a generation, we have the next idea of the same philosophy, that seemingly, you can borrow, spend, and bailout your way into economic prosperity. Although the $30 billion proposal is called SBLF, it reads like T-A-R-P to me. This is TARP’s capital purchase program without the accountability, and with an incentive to lend.” “But we have to look carefully at the incentive. Will taxpayers end up subsidizing banks to lend to businesses that they are soon to lend to anyway? Or, perhaps more ominously, reminiscent of the Government Sponsored Enterprises, is this an incentive to lend taxpayer money to marginal borrowers who may not be credit-worthy? The preponderance of the evidence points to a lack of credit-worthy small business demand, not a lack of community bank capital supply, as the primary challenge that we face in our nation. And until this Congress ceases its spending spree, its bailouts, its threatened higher health-care costs, its threatened higher energy costs, more small business taxes, regulatory uncertainty, and the list goes on, that is unlikely to change. I yield back, Mr. Chairman.” ###
05.10.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling made the following statement in response to media reports that Fannie Mae is seeking further taxpayer funds after another losing quarter. “Today’s announcement that Fannie Mae has again asked taxpayers for more money after reporting a first-quarter loss of more than $13 billion demonstrates that Congress must act to end this taxpayer-funded bailout, which together with the bailout of Freddie Mac, has now cost taxpayers an average of $7 billion per month since it began. I urge the Senate to take-up the provisions of my bill, The GSE Bailout Elimination and Taxpayer Protection Act (H.R.4889 ) now included in Senator McCain’s amendment to the Dodd financial regulation bill.” To download a copy of H.R. 4889 please go to https://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc.cgi?dbname=111_cong_bills&docid=f:h4889ih.txt.pdf
05.06.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Ranking Member on the Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and former member of the Congressional Oversight Panel for TARP, and Full Committee Ranking Member Spencer Bachus (AL-06) sent the following letter to House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank. May 5, 2010 The Honorable Barney Frank, ChairmanHouse Financial Services Committee2129 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Frank: We respectfully request that the House Financial Services Committee convene a full Committee hearing to examine the status of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and outstanding taxpayer investments under TARP. While the Committee has recently examined specific issues related to TARP, it has been well over a year since the full Committee had a hearing related to comprehensive TARP oversight, and there have been a number of developments within the program that warrant the Committee’s immediate attention. For example: On December 9 of last year, Secretary Geithner informed Congress of his decision to extend TARP despite multiple concerns about the lack of a credible exit strategy and the ultimate cost to taxpayers. The full Committee has not convened a hearing to examine these specific topics. On April 1, Treasury appointed two directors to the American International Group, Inc. (AIG) board of directors because AIG failed to pay dividends for four quarters on the AIG preferred stock held by Treasury. In addition, on April 20th Treasury announced that it had, for the first time, voted its approximately 7.7 billion shares of Citigroup. On April 21, Treasury announced that General Motors (GM) had repaid its TARP loan “in full,” while GM CEO Ed Whitacre claimed taxpayers were repaid, “ in full, with interest, ahead of schedule” despite the fact taxpayers still have over $40 billion sunk in the company. The taxpayer has involuntarily invested billions of dollars in the TARP and deserves a full investigation into the current status of TARP investments. Given these recent developments, there are a number of noteworthy questions deserving consideration including: Have the Administration’s plans to exit TARP changed? How will Secretary Geithner administer the program after its expiration on October 3, 2010? Which TARP programs are expected to inflict the greatest losses on taxpayers? How does the Administration plan to recover the taxpayer losses under the program? As a significant shareholder in Citigroup and AIG, how has Treasury managed potential conflicts of interest? Has Treasury’s involvement in companies that received a TARP bailout contributed to a politicization of the economy? To date, the Administration’s Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) has resulted in approximately 230,000 homeowners receiving permanent modifications to their mortgages, far short of the 3 to 4 million the Administration claimed it would help. Why does the Administration believe that the program has fallen short of its anticipated goals? What have been the most significant barriers to participation in the program? Are there safeguards in place to prevent irresponsible lenders and borrowers from participating in HAMP? Have the recently proposed revisions to the program (encouraging principal write downs) precipitated an increase in participation? Has the Administration studied how unemployment has impacted its mortgage modification efforts? Have Treasury and GM provided accurate information to the taxpayer in publicizing GM’s loan repayment and the status of outstanding the taxpayer investment in GM? Have Treasury and GM made statements portraying GM as a profitable company? Did GM use TARP funds to repay their government loan? Does the Administration plan to include GM under its TARP recoupment plan to recover losses incurred by the program? Have the Congressional Oversight Panel for TARP and the Special Inspector General for TARP provided meaningful oversight of the program? Congress must not abdicate its responsibility to continually monitor and examine the status of TARP. Thank you in advance for your consideration of this request. We look forward to your response. Yours respectfully, Jeb Hensarling Spencer BachusMember of Congress Member of Congress
05.04.2010	GARLAND, TEXAS — Staff from U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling’s office will be in Garland on Tuesday, May 11, 2010, to meet with constituents needing assistance with federal agencies. Hensarling’s staff will be available at the South Garland Branch Library on May 11th from 3:00 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. “Dealing with the federal government can be an intimidating experience. I want my constituents to know that my staff and I stand ready to help. I hope that you will let my staff and me assist you in your dealings with federal agencies or bureaucracies,” Hensarling said. “The size and scope of the federal government can sometimes be overwhelming, but we are here to make sure that the system is accountable to you.” Providing outstanding constituent service is a priority of Congressman Hensarling, and this meeting on May 11th in Garland is an additional opportunity for constituents with questions or concerns to bring those to his attention. District offices located in Dallas and Athens are always open for constituents to visit, as well as mail, fax, email or call for assistance. “This is an opportunity that allows 5th District Constituents to have a face-to-face discussion with my staff and to make it more convenient for Garland residents to get help.” Hensarling added. All constituents with questions or concerns regarding immigration, passports, IRS, Medicare, the military, Social Security, USDA, Veterans Affairs, federal grants, or other federal issues are welcome to attend and will be assisted on a first-come, first-serve basis. Please call Congressman Hensarling’s office at (214) 349-9996 for more information, or visit his website at www.hensarling.house.gov. WHAT: Congressman Hensarling’s Constituent Service Program WHEN: Tuesday, May 11, 20103:00 p.m-4:30 p.m. WHO: Congressman Hensarling’s Staff WHERE: South Garland Branch Library4845 Broadway Blvd.Garland, Texas 75043 ***Under federal law, constituent consultations with Congressional staff are strictly confidential. No information about constituents or their conversations will be disclosed without their consent. ***
05.04.2010	MESQUITE, TEXAS — Staff from U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling’s office will be in Mesquite on Tuesday, May 11, 2010, and Thursday, May 13, 2010, and in Seagoville on Thursday, May 13, 2010, to meet with constituents needing assistance with federal agencies. Hensarling’s staff will be available at the Mesquite Library (North Branch) on Tuesday, May 11, from 12:30 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. and the Mesquite Fire Department on Galloway on Thursday, May 13, from 1:00 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. They will also be at Seagoville City Hall on Thursday, May 13, from 3:00 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. “Dealing with the federal government can be an intimidating experience. I want my constituents to know that my staff and I stand ready to help. I hope that you will let my staff and me assist you in your dealings with federal agencies or bureaucracies,” Hensarling said. “The size and scope of the federal government can sometimes be overwhelming, but we are here to make sure that the system is accountable to you.” Providing outstanding constituent service is a priority of Congressman Hensarling, and these meetings in Mesquite and Seagoville are an additional opportunity for constituents with questions or concerns to bring those to his attention. District offices located in Dallas and Athens are always open for constituents to visit, as well as mail, fax, email or call for assistance. “This is an opportunity that allows 5th District Constituents to have a face-to-face discussion with my staff and to make it more convenient for Mesquite and Seagoville residents to get help,” Hensarling added. All constituents with questions or concerns regarding immigration, passports, IRS, Medicare, the military, Social Security, USDA, Veterans Affairs, federal grants, or other federal issues are welcome to attend and will be assisted on a first-come, first-serve basis. Please call Congressman Hensarling’s office at (214) 349-9996 for more information, or visit his website at www.hensarling.house.gov. WHAT: Congressman Hensarling’s Constituent Service ProgramWHO: Congressman Hensarling’s StaffWHEN & WHERE: Tuesday, May 11, 201012:30 p.m.-2:00 p.m. at the Mesquite Library-North Branch (2600 Oates Drive, Mesquite) Thursday, May 13, 20101:00 p.m.-2:30 p.m. at the Mesquite Fire Department (1515 N Galloway, Mesquite)3:00 p.m.-4:30 p.m. at Seagoville City Hall (702 North Highway 175, Seagoville) ***Under federal law, constituent consultations with Congressional staff are strictly confidential. No information about constituents or their conversations will be disclosed without their consent. ***
04.29.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — At today’s House Financial Services Committee, Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance, and Government Sponsored Enterprises Hearing Congressman Jeb Hensarling made the following remarks: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and certainly thank you for calling this hearing. When I look at the title of the hearing: credit default swaps at the first part and Greek debt crisis at the end, I think it would behoove Congress to spend a lot more time focusing on the debt crisis and credit default swaps. I’ve somehow felt to some extent, as I listened to some of the opening statements that there is an element of let’s shoot the messenger, the credit default swap market. Let’s to some extent, say that they have exacerbated the Greek debt crisis. The lesson here for us, and I might add to amplify a comment of our ranking member, the market acted more efficiently than the rating agencies.” “And theoretically, Greece had a deficit to GDP and a debt to GDP ratio that didn’t qualify under EU standards, and yet they were still allowed to remain as a member of the EU. And so the early warning signals in many cases actually came from the credit default swap market, so I think we would need to be very cautious on how we approach any type of new regulatory scheme that might harm the ability of essentially this early-warning system.” “And it’s certainly an early warning system to the United States of America. As we know, I believe Greece now has to restate their deficit to GDP ratio of, up to about 12%. Well right we have a deficit to GDP ration of 10%. We know also at the end of the President’s ten-year budget window, according to estimates by the Congressional Budget Office, the General Accountability Office, we’re looking at a debt to GDP ratio of 90%. All economists will tell you, that is when the needle enters the red zone. Press reports indicated that members of Chancellor Merkel’s party in Germany have called upon Greece to sell its sovereign territory, in order to deal with its debt crisis. Sell sovereign territory. I hope and pray that the United States is not on the path to becoming Greece without the Aegean Sea and the Parthenon, but there are lessons to be learned here for us. There are also press reports that indicated, when Argentina defaulted on its debt, and I’m not, I don’t believe the United States would ever default on our debt. But when Argentina defaulted on its debt, early, seven, eight years ago, creditors actually tried to put a lien on their navy, their naval vessels.” “And here we are, probably facing the most predictable crisis in the history of America, and yet each and every day, this Congress makes it worse. And we talk about accounting being opaque, again to amplify comments of the ranking member, how can we have our Secretary of Treasury come here and say that the debt of the GSEs are not sovereign debt, but we’re going to back each and every dollar? And somehow, again, we know that one of the causes of the financial crisis was essentially these off balance-sheet vehicles, and yet we have Uncle Sam engaged in the worst kind of Bernie Madoff-style accounting. There’s a 127 billion reasons why the GSEs ought to be reformed, and yet the bill that is going through Congress right now is stone-cold silent on the root cause of the problem. These are the true lessons we ought to be learning from Greece. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back the balance of my time.”
04.23.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Dear Senate Republicans, On April 26, you will be called upon to cast one of the most consequential votes of the 111th Congress. I respectfully request that you oppose voting to proceed on S. 3217 in its current form, which is largely similar to the Wall Street bailout bill, H.R. 4173, which House Republicans unanimously opposed last December.There are many reasons to oppose this legislation’s consideration in the Senate without significant changes to protect taxpayers. As many Republicans have noted, the bill institutionalizes too big to fail and contains a $50 billion fund that will enshrine us as a bailout nation. It also would create a new agency that will increase the cost of credit by empowering a single presidential appointee to make subjective decisions about credit products while supplanting safety and soundness concerns.Notwithstanding those concerns, perhaps the most glaring shortcoming in this legislation is what is not included in S. 3217: fundamental reform of the two largest recipients of taxpayer bailouts, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Together they represent the two largest, most influence-exerting, regulation-avoiding, bailed-out institutions in America. They weren’t located on Wall Street, but in Washington, DC, just miles from the government lab in which they were created. To date, their failures have directly cost taxpayers over $125 billion, with the potential to cost hundreds of billions more.Instead of developing a true plan to reform Fannie and Freddie, the House-passed bill specifically exempts them from the very regime it claims will end too big to fail, and the White House has labeled calls to include Fannie and Freddie reform in the Senate bill a “campaign of distraction.” Nothing could be further from the truth. The American people are tired of paying for the failures of others, and real regulatory reform means that there should no more government get out of jail free cards for bad corporate financial bets.That’s why I have introduced legislation to reform Fannie and Freddie, the GSE Bailout Elimination and Taxpayer Protection Act, a version of which was included in the regulatory reform alternative bill offered last year by House Republicans. My bill would end the conservatorship for both GSEs within two years and, if they are financially viable, allow them to resume operations for a transition period of three years where they would be subject to phased-in new limitations, including smaller portfolio holdings, increased minimum capital requirements, minimum loan down payment requirements, and tighter limits on the size of mortgages that can be securitized. It would also permanently repeal the GSEs’ misguided affordable housing goals mandate, which pushed the GSEs to purchase poorly underwritten loans for which taxpayers are now footing the bill. At the end of the transition, the GSEs’ government-granted charters would expire, and they would be required to operate on a level playing field with their private sector competitors without government subsidies.Ending the taxpayer subsidies may not be the only way to reform the GSEs, but, given the current options, it is clearly the best way. Other options like nationalizing them or concocting a public utility model simply do not solve the anti-competitive market distortions the GSEs have caused, nor do they protect taxpayers from the hundreds of billions of dollars in possible bailout costs they now face.Protecting taxpayers is not a distraction; it is a paramount goal of any true regulatory reform effort. Unfortunately S. 3217, like the House bill before it, ignores the inherent and continuing dangers posed by these financial Frankensteins. I urge you to reject the flawed Senate bill and oppose the motion to proceed on S. 3217.Yours respectfully,Jeb HensarlingMember of Congress Follow Congressman Jeb Hensarling on Twitter: https://twitter.com/RepHensarling
04.15.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Text of Congressman Jeb Hensarling’s Remarks on CRA: I believe that the community reinvestment act has had a proud genesis 33 years ago. In 1977, red lining was clearly not insignificant; too many low income and minority individuals’ credit opportunities were limited to a handful of banks that might have been reachable on a city bus route. Thirty three years later, much has changed. Interstate banking, branch banking, internet banking, risk based pricing; all have helped revolutionize and democratize credit in our society as never before. If you can gain access to the internet at a public library, if you can have access to a telephone to call a toll free number, you can unlock countless credit opportunities that, again, for credit cards and home loans, were simply unavailable 33 years ago. Market competition from companies like lendingtree.com, bankrate.com, cardcom.com, and many, many others, now provide low-income Americans with a platform to access competitive bids and financial products all across the U.S., not just in localized geographic communities. In fact, the concept of a localized geographic community for banks is simply antiquated. Now, unfortunately, the recession, not to mention the anti-consumer legislation, which has been passed by this Congress, continues to erode credit opportunities for many low-income Americans. That is regrettable, but it brings us to the great irony of this hearing. Thirty three years ago, if you examine the Congressional Record, what you see is the debate surrounding CRA was all about discriminating financial institutions denying credit opportunities to low-income and minority individuals. Now today, much of the debate is about greedy financial institutions exploiting low-income and minority individuals by making too much credit available to these communities. So, it begs the question: is it too much? Or is it not enough? Regardless of what CRA was, today it is a costly and redundant anachronism that has contributed to our economic crisis and still enables certain activist groups to essentially shake down financial institutions, harming credit and job opportunities for all Americans. Federal Reserve data has shown that well over 99% of all banks are already in full compliance of CRA, yet we know that community banks can spend up to $90,000 a year, just to prove compliance. Again, it begs the question, are we simply having these banks pay all these great sums of money to prove that they are doing something that they would be doing anyway? Do you really have to force a bank to make a profitable, credit worthy loan? And if not, are we forcing them to make loans to a universe of people that they may not otherwise make? And these loans may not be financially sound loans. And indeed, they may be loans that helped contribute to our financial crisis. And when we talk about CRA loans contributing to the economic crisis, I have long contended that it wasn’t the size of the loans, it wasn’t the number of loans, but it was more the precedent where the United States government put its imprimatur on a system that did not raise up the economic opportunities of the borrower, but instead lessened the credit standards of the lender. Thus, it played a role. Also, every community banker I speak to tells me that equal, or second only to BSA, CRA is the most costly compliance matter. If they simply had the money that they are spending on compliance cost, they would instead be able to capitalize several small businesses in their community, and create hundreds of jobs. Shouldn’t jobs be the number one priority of this Congress? Clearly it is not though. Under the policies of Speaker Pelosi and President Obama, almost 4 million of our countrymen have lost their jobs, since the President has been inaugurated. We have the highest unemployment rate we’ve had in a quarter of a century, not to mention a tripling of the national debt. One thing that our Committee could do, that would take a positive step towards creating more jobs in America, is simply to repeal CRA. Today, I’ll be introducing legislation to do just that, and I urge its consideration.
04.14.2010	WASHINGTON DC — Transcript of Congressman Jeb Hensarling's comments at the weekly GOP Leadership Stakeout Hensarling Opening Remarks: Well, our conference Chairman has it right. There continues to be a lot of pain and hurt in America, but unfortunately, if you get the wrong diagnosis, you get the wrong remedy, and the Democrats have the wrong diagnosis, and that is more bailouts and more takeovers. If there was any question about their intentions, you should have been at a Financial Services Committee Hearing we had yesterday. To try to take $50 billion of TARP money to bail out large financial institutions that made bad loans. This is a bailout Congress. So, in many respects, this is the seminal question to the next big debate in Congress: to bail out or not to bail out, with apologies to William Shakespeare. The Democrats want to provide us with the perpetual bailout act of 2010, let there be no doubt about it, they create a permanent bailout fund, they enshrine the policy of too big to fail, where the big will get bigger, the small will get smaller, and the taxpayer will get poorer. I assure you, if you build it, they will come, if you build a bailout fund, it will be used for bailouts. In America, if you lose your ability to fail, eventually you will lose your ability to succeed, and that is what this debate is all about. The American people know that we need to enforce the regulations we have on the books, not create a huge new regulatory authority that is going to tax businesses, to pass onto us in the form of less credit, fewer credit opportunities, at a time where we still have one of the highest unemployment rates in a generation. I spoke to one businessman in my district: Roger Moore, Jacksonville, Texas, and he said: “as a small businessman, the restriction on credit in this bill may very well mean the end of my company” and, unfortunately, many other small businesses throughout America. Now, the Republicans have a better plan: a bankruptcy-specialized course to allow the resolution of the large financial institutions, not more bailouts, more taxpayer money. Now, returning the Federal Reserve to its core functions, actually ending the taxpayer hemorrhage on the government sponsored enterprises that were at the epicenter of the financial crisis in the first place, and under the leadership of our ranking member, Spencer Bachus, our legislation, comprehensive legislation, was out there before the President’s plan, before Chairman Frank’s plan, before Senator Dodd’s plan, and I would commend it to your study. This will assure that we don’t repeat the debacle that we have now, and will certainly end us as a bailout nation. Response to a question regarding Democrat allegations that if you don’t support their bill you are supporting Wall Street over Main Street: Let me just add one thing to this, I would ask this question, why did the Democrats, why did the administration and Chairman Frank bring us a proposal yesterday to bail out some of the largest banks on Wall Street out of their bad mortgages? Why did they do that? Why is it that the administration kept TARP alive, again a bailout fund that is still being used to bail out large financial institutions? Why is it that this administration refuses to do anything with the largest bailout in the nation, the government sponsored enterprises [Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac] that continue to hemorrhage taxpayer money, monopolize our markets? I mean, the facts are that they are the ones that are propping up Wall Street. We’re saying, again, that if financial institutions fail, they fail. They should not be propped up.
04.06.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), a leading fiscal conservative who is the 2nd ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee conducted a series of town hall meetings on the recent passage of the government takeover of health care. Hensarling spoke about his opposition to the legislation and explained how it could be repealed and replaced with reforms that protect the doctor-patient relationship and do not bankrupt future generations. Hensarling is the cosponsor of two bills to repeal the government takeover of health care; H.R. 4903 and H.R. 4972. “The health care legislation recently passed by Washington Democrats and signed into law by President Obama will unalterably change the role of government in a society whose most cherished birthright is that of personal freedom,” said Hensarling. “No matter what Washington Democrats claim, the recently enacted health care legislation is nothing more than a government takeover that takes control of your health care decisions away from you and your doctor and gives it to the federal government. If you love the way the federal government is running AIG, our banks, and our auto companies, you’ll love the way they will run your health care.” Dubbed “Rep. Budget Reform” for his efforts to return accountability to Washington spending by reigning in the wasteful spending, deficits, and debt with which the federal government is saddling future generations of Americans, Hensarling vocally opposed the federal government takeover of our health care. Hensarling discussed impacts that Texas District 05 residents could expect to see as a result of passage of the government takeover. “The government takeover legislation is going to be felt by practically every man, woman, and child in our community,” said Hensarling. “For instance, seniors currently enjoy health benefits through a Medicare Advantage plan. Under the government takeover, Medicare Advantage plans are estimated to be cut by over $200 billion, which the Administration’s own Chief Actuary at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has estimated will result in lower Medicare Advantage enrollment. So, despite President Obama’s assurances otherwise, Texas District 05 seniors may not be able to keep their current coverage.” Hensarling also discussed the impact the government takeover will have on small businesses in Texas. “If you are a small business, you are going to see higher costs and taxes as a result of this legislation. The government takeover requires small business owners to provide federally-approved health insurance for your employees, or else you get slapped with a fine of up to $2,000 per full-time employee. Even though creating jobs is the stated top priority of President Obama and Washington Democrats, at a time when our economy is struggling and millions of Americans are out of work, I fail to see how passing a government takeover of health care that will increase the costs and taxes of small businesses already struggling to make ends meet as is will somehow create jobs.” Hensarling explained the impact this legislation will have on the federal budget. “Our government can't even pay for the promises it has made current generations, much less future generations,” said Hensarling. “After giving us the largest deficits in American history, after proposing to triple the national debt in the next 10 years, Democrats have now added $2.6 trillion of health care takeover spending to the federal budget at a $22,000 cost to every household.” Hensarling then explained what this means for the family budget, which has to pay for the federal budget. “Texas District 05 families already bear a burden of over $30,000 per household just to pay for the federal government we have today. Adding on the costs of the government takeover of health care will only add to these costs, leaving future generations with an even greater debt burden than the one we were going to leave them with in the first place.” Hensarling warned, “You cannot improve the health care of the nation by bankrupting its children.” Hensarling then outlined what he sees as the problem with health care today. “There is no doubt that we must reform health care in America,” said Hensarling. “Health care is expensive in America because there is so much, waste, fraud, and abuse associated with it. That’s what happens when the government and insurance companies make too many decisions about your health care.” Click here for Congressman Hensarling's Town Hall Meeting Slides Hensarling then discussed several solutions that he believes will lower health care costs and not result a government takeover of health care. “Any meaningful health care reform aimed at lowering the cost of health care must begin with medical liability reform,” said Hensarling. “Precious health care resources are wasted because physicians have to over-utilize health care and practice defensive medicine when treating patients in order to protect themselves from junk lawsuits pursued by personal injury lawyers. Enacting medical liability reforms would lower health care costs by cutting down on the practice of defensive medicine. That is why I’ve cosponsored the Help Efficient, Accessible, Low-cost, Timely Health Care Act (H.R. 1086), which will reduce the wasteful health care spending arising from junk lawsuits.” Hensarling also spoke in favor of allowing Americans to purchase health care coverage across state lines. “Americans can currently purchase their car insurance from a company in Virginia with the little green lizard with a British accent. Health care insurance should be no different. That is why I’ve cosponsored the Health Care Choice Act (H.R. 3217), which will allow Americans to purchase the coverage that is right for them, regardless of where the policy is sold in the United States.” Hensarling also discussed his support for eliminating the unequal tax treatment of health care purchased by businesses and individuals. “People should be given the same tax incentive to go out into the marketplace to purchase their own health insurance that businesses are to provide health care for their employees,” said Hensarling, a co-sponsor of legislation (H.R. 4529) that would make the health insurance tax benefit personal. “By empowering individuals to purchase personal health coverage and have the same tax-advantaged basis as employer-provided coverage, we can free people to shop for coverage that best suits them.” Hensarling concluded, “But even more than cost, this is really a debate about who will control the health care resources of this nation and who will control the health care decisions of our families. In America we must never confuse the social safety net with the slippery slope to socialism. When it comes to the health care of my family, when it comes to the health care of my country, I reject the arrogance of government social engineering and I embrace the affordability and portability that comes with preserving the liberties of the American people.” ###
03.25.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Comments of Congressman Jeb Hensarling at House Financial Services Committee meeting with Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke: "Mr. Chairman, on Sunday night the nation’s fiscal future went from grim to grimmer if one takes out the Bernie Madoff accounting gimmicks, like the timing shift, the unpaid for “Doc fix,” the raid on Social Security, the double accounting for the half a trillion dollars of Medicare cuts. The true cost of the government healthcare takeover bill is $2.3 trillion or another $20,000 per American family." "This is on top of the fact that the deficit has increased ten fold in the last two years. Now, the President has submitted a budget that will triple the national debt over the next ten years. A budget that even his OMB director says is unsustainable. Spending as a percentage of the economy is 24.7% of GDP, the highest since World War II. This has caused CBO director Doug Elmendorf to say quote, “the outlook for the federal budget is bleak; U.S. fiscal policy is on an unsustainable path.” Economist Robert Samuelson has said about our spending patterns quote, “it could trigger an economic and political death spiral.” "Unless the Congress and the President have a sudden epiphany of fiscal sanity, this story does not have a happy ending. It ends in either job crushing, family budget crushing tax increases, sky rocketing interest rates as we beg the Chinese to buy more of our debt, or a level of inflation that will make us look longingly and nostalgically upon the Carter era. Clearly, the actions of the President, the Congress, and the blurring of the lines with the Federal Reserve between fiscal and monetary policy will have much to do with the future, and I look forward to the Chairman’s testimony." ###
03.24.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) issued the following statement in response to reports that the Administration’s pay czar would review compensation practices at bailed out firms:“What people do with their money is their business. As a lawmaker, what they do with the taxpayers’ money is my business. Do outrageous compensation practices exist in America? Absolutely. None are more egregious than the multi-million, taxpayer-funded compensation packages for Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s executive management teams.”“The Federal Housing Finance Agency, Treasury, and Mr. Feinberg did taxpayers a tremendous disservice by choosing to award the executives at Fannie and Freddie multi-million dollar taxpayer funded compensation packages. These packages are especially troubling in light of Treasury’s Christmas Eve decision to remove any limit to the amount of taxpayer dollars that could be put at risk in the enterprises and by the Administration’s lack of reform proposal for the GSEs. None of the 417 firms to be examined by Mr. Feinberg hold a candle to the $5.4 trillion dollar taxpayer exposure to Fannie and Freddie, or the over $125 billion in losses the taxpayer has already suffered through these entities.”“Mr. Feinberg unofficially approved compensation packages for executives at Fannie and Freddie that are surprisingly generous considering the losses they are causing the taxpayer. These institutions will receive the mother of all bailouts, likely more expensive than AIG and GM and all the banks combined. This is one more example of how infusions of federal aid have led to an increasingly political economy – one in which the politically significant are rewarded, while others are left to pick up the tab.”“If the Obama Administration and Congressional Democrats were truly offended by lavish compensation at firms that had unsustainable business models, they should have allowed those firms to fail. If they are serious about protecting taxpayers, then they should recall the bonuses awarded to Fannie and Freddie CEOs.”
03.23.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) issued the following statement in response to the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relieve Program’s (SIGTARP) report on the Home Affordable Modification Program: “SIGTARP’s recent report on Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) repeats what I have been saying for months – it isn’t working. No matter how you slice the numbers, when you take into account the billions of taxpayer dollars that have been spent, HAMP is nothing short of an abject failure.” “People won’t be able to stay in their homes if this Administration doesn’t start focusing on jobs as priority number one. It’s impossible to make a mortgage payment, even if it has been reduced, if you don’t have a paycheck. After the Administration has proposed a budget that will triple the national debt in 10 years, taxpayers cannot afford to continue pouring money into a program that doesn’t work. It’s time to shut HAMP down and start focusing on effective ways to encourage job creation and economic growth.”
03.22.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Throughout this credit crisis, President Obama has repeatedly faulted Wall Street banks for using their size, wealth, and political influence to circumvent their regulators and enrich their executives, leaving taxpayers holding the bag. The president has proposed legislative remedies to deal with the banks he considers “too big to fail,” including assigning them new regulations and regulators, restricting their business activities, and even breaking them up. Yet the two largest, most influence-exerting, regulation-avoiding, bailed-out institutions weren’t banks and weren’t located on Wall Street. They were Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage market financial Frankensteins that were created not in a competitive marketplace, but in a government lab in Washington. To date, their failures have directly cost taxpayers over $125 billion, with the potential to cost hundreds of billions more. Chances are that these government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) will prove to be the nation’s most expensive bailout, more than AIG and GM and all the banks combined. The Congressional Budget Office estimated the 10 year cost to be $389 billion. Yet, shockingly, neither Obama, Senate Banking Chairman Chris Dodd, D-CN, or House Financial Services Chairman Barney Frank, D-MA, has proposed to apply any of their suggested punitive remedies to the GSEs, nor have they offered a single suggestion for how to reform them. Because of their specially granted government privileges and backing, the GSEs currently own or guarantee more than $5.4 trillion (46 percent) of the residential mortgage debt in the United States. They also issue nearly 75 percent of all the new mortgage backed securities that are critical in the short run to keeping our housing finance system operational, an 84 percent increase over four years ago. Fannie’s and Freddie’s huge market share increase is directly attributable to the federal government’s unprecedented financial commitment to keep them afloat. Since the two companies were placed in conservatorship, Treasury and the Fed have publically committed more than $2 trillion of taxpayer resources to support their survival. This assistance, in addition to the government guarantees that stem from their charters, gives the GSEs a tremendous market advantage over their competitors. Instead of confronting these problems, Obama’s policies have exacerbated them, allowing the GSEs to get bigger, while exposing taxpayers to more risk. First, he authorized the GSEs to accept riskier ‘underwater’ mortgages in their loan refinancing programs. Then, on Christmas Eve, the president lifted the $400 billion cap on direct GSE losses, literally exposing taxpayers to an unlimited amount risk. While the GSEs grow larger, so, too, does the need for reform. Frank, a long-time GSE defender once famously advocated that Congress “roll the dice” on their safety and soundness. Now Frank allegedly favors “abolishing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in their current form,” but he has yet to propose an exit strategy. I wholeheartedly concur with “abolishing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in their current form.” That is why I have authored the GSE Bailout Elimination and Taxpayer Protection Act to stop more taxpayer bailouts of Fannie and Freddie and put these two companies on a path towards becoming true market participants. My bill would end the conservatorship for both GSEs within two years and, if they are financially viable, allow them to resume operations for a transition period of three years. It would also permanently repeal the GSEs’ misguided affordable housing goals mandate, which pushed the GSEs to purchase poorly underwritten loans for which taxpayers are now footing the bill. During the transition period, the GSEs would face phased-in new limitations, including smaller portfolio holdings, increased minimum capital requirements, minimum loan down payment requirements, and tighter limits on the size of mortgages that can be securitized. At the end of the transition, the GSEs’ government-granted charters would expire, and they would be required to operate on a level playing field with their private sector competitors without government subsidies. Ending the taxpayer subsidies may not be the only way to reform the GSEs, but, given the current options, it is clearly the best way. Other options like nationalizing them or concocting a public utility model simply do not solve the anti-competitive market distortions the GSEs have caused, nor do they protect taxpayers from the hundreds of billions of dollars in possible bailout costs they now face. Some will argue that we should preserve the GSEs. Such arguments, however, ignore the plain facts that in an economy as diverse as ours, there is no legitimate economic rationale for why we need GSEs. The U.S. is the only country that has GSEs, and before this crisis, we had functioning and competitive markets for jumbo loans and subprime loans that offered consumers both rate and product choice. We cannot delay reform and sink untold billions of dollars into these failed companies. Obama should acknowledge that fact and enter the conversation on enacting fundamental reform of Fannie and Freddie before these companies go from “too big to fail” to “too late to fix.”
03.21.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — "Mr. Speaker, the vote we take tonight may ultimately change the role of government in a society whose most cherished birthright is freedom. There are so many reasons to oppose this legislation. Taxpayer-funded abortions, the sleazy back room deals that gave us the Cornhusker Kickback, the Louisiana Purchase, the pharmaceutical payoffs. An increase in taxes in an economy where millions have lost their jobs and can still find no gainful employment. As a member of the House Budget Committee I can give you one more: We can't afford it." "Our government can't even pay for the promises it has made current generations, much less future generations. After giving us the largest deficits in American history, after proposing to triple the national debt in the next 10 years, Democrats today want to add $2.6 trillion of new spending to the federal budget costing every household $22,000. That's more money to borrow from the Chinese, more bills to send to our children and grandchildren." "Mr. Speaker, you cannot improve the health care of the nation by bankrupting its children. Now, I've seen the Democrats' Congressional Budget Office letter about cost. Garbage in, garbage out -- garbage in, garbage out. When you put facts in you get facts out. My Congressional Budget Office letter says the program will add to the deficit." "But even more than cost, this is really a debate about who will control the health care resources of this nation and who will control the health care decisions of our families. If we pass this bill, we will wake up one day only to find that when our loved ones become ill they will wait weeks, perhaps months to see a mediocre doctor of the government's choosing, only to be told by that same doctor that he cannot help because his treatment must be limited by the government protocol." "In America we must never confuse the social safety net with the slippery slope to socialism. When it comes to the health care of my family, when it comes to the health care of my country, I reject the arrogance of government social engineering and I embrace the affordability and portability that comes with preserving the liberties of the American people."
03.20.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — “I listened carefully to the gentleman from New Jersey and I'm glad he is concerned about the nation going bankrupt which makes me question why would you want to enact a policy that simply stamps on the accelerator towards bankruptcy. I know that earlier today many people on your side of the aisle were waving around a Congressional Budget Office letter talking about we're going to save money. We are somehow going to reduce the deficit through these policies. CBO is made up of great professionals, but they only estimate or as we call it score what’s before them and guess what if you don't put before them the Doc Fix they don't score it.” “Now already the Speaker of the House has said there will be a Doc Fix -- physicians will not receive a 21% pay cut on Medicare reimbursements. The speaker said the that on the record. So the ranking member of the budget committee Mr. Ryan of Wisconsin asked the CBO, “okay the Speaker said we are not going to have 21% pay cut” and I will read from this letter I trust that it's already been entered into the record but it's a letter dated March 19th from the Congressional Budget Office to the Honorable Paul Ryan, and I will read the operative language. Quote, you ask the total budgetary impact of enacting the reconciliation proposal. The senate passed a health bill and the Medicare physician payment reform act CBO estimates that an enacting all three pieces of legislation would add, I emphasize the word ADD $59 billion to the budget deficits over the 2010, 2019 period. So I have my own a letter from the Congressional Budget Office and frankly this is, as the gentleman from Texas knows, is just one of the many budgetary gimmicks that are being used, and I’m sure people's hearts and minds are pure and clear, but their accounting would make Bernie Madoff blush.” “We are talking ten years of revenues matched against six years of program. Every single decade is the Democratic majority intent on turning off this program? For four years after this year, then are you going to have a 21%, 22%, 23% pay cut for doctors under the Medicare system? For claiming Medicare savings twice on your revenue side. You're claiming $520 billion in Medicare cuts, $210 billion in Medicare taxes, but this is double the counting. You can't have it both ways. Either the money is used for the solvency of the Medicare system or it is being used for your new entitlement.” “That brings us to the ‘Class Act,’ the new entitlement that you are putting into this program. Five years of premiums, $70 billion that were taken out of your brand new entitlement to do is to reduce the cost of this. So are you going to pay it back? Even the Democratic head of the Senate Budget Committee said, quote, this is a Ponzi scheme. This is the Democratic Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee describing this scheme as a Ponzi scheme.” “Raiding $53 Billion in new Social Security revenue to achieve the appearance of deficit cuts, but they are not really there. Are you saying that you're going to permanently take this money out of the Social Security Trust Fund and not replace it? I mean, what's going to reduce the deficit the most is to own up to the fact 21% of the Medicare system to create a new entitlement that you're not going to fund, yet again raid the Social Security fund a and not replace that revenue. Again, it's just not realistic. And the doughnut hole. Scored until the next decade. It is totally unrealistic. Again, casting no aspersions on the Congressional Budget Office, but they score what’s in front of them.” “I could go to the Congressional Budget Office and say, ‘I want you to score the Hensarling family health care plan and I want to assume I don't get sick the next ten years and we're putting our children up for adoption. Can you give me a number?’ One assumption is false and the other assumption is totally unrealistic. So CBO will score what’s before them. Now that the Speaker said on the record there will be a doctor fix, you can't count on a 21% pay cut, thus the Congressional Budget Office says that you are making the deficit worse and you are hastening us on the road to bankruptcy.”
03.19.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — From The Wall Street Journal, March 16, 2010: "We're not sure American schools teach civics any more, but once upon a time they taught that under the U.S. Constitution a bill had to pass both the House and Senate to become law. Until this week, that is, when Speaker Nancy Pelosi is moving to merely "deem" that the House has passed the Senate health-care bill and then send it to President Obama to sign anyway. Under the "reconciliation" process that began yesterday afternoon, the House is supposed to approve the Senate's Christmas Eve bill and then use "sidecar" amendments to fix the things it doesn't like. Those amendments would then go to the Senate under rules that would let Democrats pass them while avoiding the ordinary 60-vote threshold for passing major legislation. This alone is an abuse of traditional Senate process. But Mrs. Pelosi & Co. fear they lack the votes in the House to pass an identical Senate bill, even with the promise of these reconciliation fixes. House Members hate the thought of going on record voting for the Cornhusker kickback and other special-interest bribes that were added to get this mess through the Senate, as well as the new tax on high-cost insurance plans that Big Labor hates. So at the Speaker's command, New York Democrat Louise Slaughter, who chairs the House Rules Committee, may insert what's known as a "self-executing rule," also known as a "hereby rule." Under this amazing procedural ruse, the House would then vote only once on the reconciliation corrections, but not on the underlying Senate bill. If those reconciliation corrections pass, the self-executing rule would say that the Senate bill is presumptively approved by the House—even without a formal up-or-down vote on the actual words of the Senate bill. Democrats would thus send the Senate bill to President Obama for his signature even as they claimed to oppose the same Senate bill. They would be declaring themselves to be for and against the Senate bill in the same vote. Even John Kerry never went that far with his Iraq war machinations. As we went to press, the precise mechanics that Democrats will use remained unclear, though yesterday Mrs. Pelosi endorsed this "deem and pass" strategy in a meeting with left-wing bloggers. This two-votes-in-one gambit is a brazen affront to the plain language of the Constitution, which is intended to require democratic accountability. Article 1, Section 7 of the Constitution says that in order for a "Bill" to "become a Law," it "shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate." This is why the House and Senate typically have a conference committee to work out differences in what each body passes. While sometimes one house cedes entirely to another, the expectation is that its Members must re-vote on the exact language of the other body's bill. As Stanford law professor Michael McConnell pointed out in these pages yesterday, "The Slaughter solution attempts to allow the House to pass the Senate bill, plus a bill amending it, with a single vote. The senators would then vote only on the amendatory bill. But this means that no single bill will have passed both houses in the same form." If Congress can now decide that the House can vote for one bill and the Senate can vote for another, and the final result can be some arbitrary hybrid, then we have abandoned one of Madison's core checks and balances. Yes, self-executing rules have been used in the past, but as the Congressional Research Service put it in a 2006 paper, "Originally, this type of rule was used to expedite House action in disposing of Senate amendments to House-passed bills." They've also been used for amendments such as to a 1998 bill that "would have permitted the CIA to offer employees an early-out retirement program"—but never before to elide a vote on the entire fundamental legislation. We have entered a political wonderland, where the rules are whatever Democrats say they are. Mrs. Pelosi and the White House are resorting to these abuses because their bill is so unpopular that a majority even of their own party doesn't want to vote for it. Fence-sitting Members are being threatened with primary challengers, a withdrawal of union support and of course ostracism. Michigan's Bart Stupak is being pounded nightly by MSNBC for the high crime of refusing to vote for a bill that he believes will subsidize insurance for abortions. Democrats are, literally, consuming their own majority for the sake of imposing new taxes, regulations and entitlements that the public has roundly rejected but that they believe will be the crowning achievement of the welfare state. They are also leaving behind a procedural bloody trail that will fuel public fury and make such a vast change of law seem illegitimate to millions of Americans. The concoction has become so toxic that even Mrs. Pelosi isn't bothering to defend the merits anymore, saying instead last week that "we have to pass the bill so that you can find out what is in it." Or rather, "deeming" to have passed it."
03.16.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and formerly the lone Member of Congress on the Congressional Oversight Panel (COP) for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) issued the following statement about Senator Dodd’s financial reform proposal. “I haven’t read Senator Dodd’s entire 1336 page bill, but I have read enough to know it is not in America’s best interest because of what’s in it and what’s not in it.” “The Dodd bill gives the Federal Reserve breathtaking new authority. Not only does it establish a new bureaucracy within the Fed with the power to ban products, it also makes the Fed the systemic risk regulator – giving it the authority to break up U.S. companies. The Fed should be focused on monetary policy. We ought to be considering what extraneous responsibilities to take away from the Fed – not awarding it with more regulatory authority.” “The Dodd bill creates a new bureau within the Fed that has the authority to restrict consumer credit by essentially banning products that it deems abusive. This new government bureaucracy will create an additional, burdensome layer of regulation that will only serve to restrict choices and increase costs for consumers in the midst of an economic downturn.” “The Dodd bill has a bailout fund that will soften the blow for companies that take on too much risk. While proponents claim that this fund will never cost the taxpayer a dime, these are the same people that said Fannie and Freddie would never need a taxpayer bailout. Until we see regulatory policies that preserve market discipline and allow market participants to fail without taxpayer dollars put on the line, we will have a permanent government occupation of our economy. The American people are tired of bailouts and want to see a return to market discipline – a return to fairness. Unfortunately, Senator Dodd’s bill misses the mark.” “The most astounding absence in the Dodd bill is ending the bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. No entities played a larger role in causing the crisis than Fannie and Freddie, and yet they were essentially ignored in the Administration’s White Paper, Chairman Frank’s regulatory reform bill and now Chairman Dodd’s draft bill. The Dodd draft marks the third opportunity Democrats have had to protect taxpayers from tens if not hundreds of billions of dollars of more direct losses at Fannie and Freddie on top of the $5.4 trillion in risk taxpayers now face, and the third time they have chosen to ignore them. While Democrats are moving the ball backward, Republicans are fighting to protect taxpayers by reforming these entities.” “House Republicans proposed a comprehensive plan to refocus the Fed on its dual mandate, end bailouts by forcing companies to face the consequences of their mistakes, and reform Fannie and Freddie. That plan eliminates “too big to fail” by creating a new chapter of the bankruptcy code for large non-bank financial firms, placing impartial bankruptcy judges, not politicians, in charge of resolving failed companies.”
03.12.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the Vice Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee issued the following statement upon his appointment to the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. “I am honored that Republican Leader John Boehner has appointed me to this commission. I want to thank him for his confidence in my ability to help find a long-term solution to the spending crisis that threatens our economy, our national security and the ability of our children and grandchildren to dream the American Dream.” “I am committed to making the panel as successful as possible and have some hope that some good may come of it. The American people know their government is on an unsustainable spending path. The President’s own budget increases spending precipitously and triples the national debt in 10 years. Thus the Commission has important work to do. However, I have concerns that the Commission’s design will limit its effectiveness.” “First, the nation would be better served by a spending commission than a deficit commission. Deficits are the symptom, spending is the disease. I wish it weren’t so, but under current law and the President’s budget, tax increases are already due to occur, and spending is due to explode. Again, spending is the problem. As a percentage of the economy spending will double from its historic 20% level up to 40%. At that point, the American people will see less freedom, fewer opportunities and a lower standard of living.” “Secondly, this commission appears to be charged with achieving a short-term goal that fails to solve a critical long-term problem. I hope the reality proves different. Next, I believe any successful attempt to solve our fiscal crisis will require a truly bipartisan effort. Therefore, I am disappointed that two-thirds of the appointees are chosen by the President and congressional Democrats. Also disappointing is the fact that the commission’s recommendations are not due until after November’s election. Still, I remain hopeful that the Commission’s work proves helpful and becomes a catalyst for changing Washington’s culture of spending.” “Meanwhile, I continue working to rein-in Washington’s spending habits. It’s why I have co-authored, H.R. 3964, the Spending, Deficit, and Debt Control Act to reform Washington’s broken spending process. It’s why I am an original co-sponsor of H.R. 4529, Rep. Paul Ryan’s Roadmap for America’s Future, to put our nation’s finances on a sustainable path. It’s why I have co-authored, H.J. Res 79, the Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution, to ensure that the federal budget does not grow beyond the ability of the family budget to pay for it.” In making the House Republican appointments to the Presidential Fiscal Commission House Republican Leader John Boehner said, “Since Jeb Hensarling came to Congress he has made it one of his top priorities to become an expert on the Budget and what those numbers mean to the hard working American taxpayer. Jeb has been one of the House GOP’s most relentless foes of Washington’s culture of spending, and most importantly, he has been one of our most creative thinkers when it comes to solving the problem.”
03.03.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Fiscal storm clouds are upon us. In five years, federal spending has skyrocketed to 24.7% from 19.9% of our economy. That's the highest level since World War II. Borrowing has ballooned the national debt to $11.9 trillion from $7.3 trillion, a five-year increase equal to the accumulation of debt between President George Washington and President Bill Clinton. Unfortunately, the long-term fiscal picture is worse. As the Baby Boom generation retires and the cost of health care continues to escalate, entitlement programs will cause federal spending to rise to 40% of our economy, double its post-World War II average. This is assuming that spending does not increase even further, an assumption that the trillion-dollar "stimulus" bill and the 84% increase in nondefense discretionary spending President Obama signed into law argues against. The situation is dire, but don't take our word for it. "U.S. fiscal policy is on an unsustainable path to an extent that cannot be solved by minor tinkering," Congressional Budget Office Director Doug Elmendorf said recently. Former Comptroller General David Walker called the rising costs of government entitlements a "fiscal cancer" that threaten "catastrophic consequences for our country." Can we tax our way out of this problem? No. In order to pay for what we are on track to spend under current law, taxes would have to double. This would crush our economy and condemn future generations to a far lower standard of living. That is not an option. Can we grow our way out? Unfortunately, no. Although pro-growth policies like simplifying the tax code and lowering rates are critical components of any solution, they alone are insufficient. Mr. Walker estimated it would take double-digit economic growth every year for the next 75 years in order to close the fiscal gap. Can we continue to borrow our way out of the problem? Borrowing of that magnitude would drive up interest rates to unimaginable levels, crowding out borrowing opportunities for families and businesses. As Greece and other European countries like Spain and Portugal face default for their excess spending, and China lectures us on our fiscal irresponsibility, the idea of borrowing at still higher levels seems inconceivable. Without spending discipline only one option remains: monetizing the debt, also known as inflation. Although Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke has repeatedly said that this will not happen on his watch, many think it's inevitable. If we do monetize the debt, inflation could be so high we may look back upon the Carter era with nostalgia. Winston Churchill once said that "Americans can always be trusted to do the right thing, once all other possibilities have been exhausted." We've exhausted the possibilities. Now it's time to do the right thing. That is why we are proposing a Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution. This amendment would limit spending to one-fifth of the economy (our historical spending average since World War II). The limit could only be waived by a declaration of war or by a two-thirds congressional vote. As with other constitutional amendments, Congress would be given the authority to enforce and implement it. But for the first time, the federal government would have a limit on its size and scope. The Spending Limit Amendment does not promise a particular spending plan about what programs to restrain and by how much. Rather, it puts a legal constraint on lawmakers present and future. Some will say it should not be done now. But if not now, when? Our spending problems are tantamount to generational theft and fundamentally alter the American ethic. We cannot have both unlimited government and unlimited opportunity. This amendment is an effort to allow "We the People" the opportunity to fundamentally define the size of our government. Passing it would save future generations from lives of fewer opportunities and less freedom. Mr. Pence, a Republican, is a congressman from Indiana. Mr. Hensarling, a Republican, is a congressman from Texas. For text of amendment go to: https://hensarling.house.gov/pdf/HENSAR_156_xml.pdf To view the op-ed online go to: https://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704231304575091622911663494.html?mod=googlenews_wsj
02.17.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, a leading voice among fiscal conservatives who recently challenged President Obama on the national debt racked up in his first two budgets, was in Terrell today to discuss the economy and the federal budget. With unemployment rates in East Texas ranging from 9.70% in Cherokee County and 9.4% in Anderson County, to 8.9% in Kaufman County, 8.5% in Henderson County, 8.2% in Wood County and 7.1% in Van Zandt County Hensarling detailed the impact of President Obama’s 2011 budget and policies on job creation, small businesses, and East Texas families.“Just a year ago, on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the so-called “stimulus” bill into law. President Obama and his team promised that if we passed a trillion-dollar “stimulus” bill – and grew big government even more – jobs would be created “immediately” and unemployment would remain below 8%. What did taxpayers get? A bill for $1.2 trillion and 3 million more jobs lost. East Texans are still asking, ‘where are the jobs?’ But all they are getting from Washington is more spending, more taxes, more debt and more bailouts.” “One of the most important things Washington should do right now is work together to enact proven, pro-growth economic policies that will put East Texans back to work,” Hensarling said. “This is an economy that by any historical standard should be recovering; it is an economy that wants to recover; but given the looming storm clouds of Obamanomics it is an economy that is struggling to recover. Unfortunately, instead of signaling a change in the weather, I’m afraid the President’s new $3.8 trillion budget coupled with the threatened takeover of our health care system, a threatened energy tax and the threatened makeover of our financial system signals that the storm clouds of Obamanomics are here to stay. Is it any wonder that job growth is lagging and that private capital and East Texas entrepreneurs are sitting on the sidelines – who would take the risk to start or expand a business in this climate?”Hensarling detailed his solution to the nation’s unemployment rate, which is hovering just under 10%. He said, “In order to achieve the goals of job growth and economic recovery, I co-authored H.R.470 the Economic Growth Act. This legislation would provide growth oriented incentives for economic activity across all sectors and industries, with immediate application and sustained, long-term implications. This will ensure that Washington takes a back seat to Main Street and job creators are empowered to do what they do best—create jobs. The less money East Texas businesses are forced to send to Washington, the more capital they will have to maintain or create jobs here at home.” The four main provisions of the Economic Growth Act are: (1) full, immediate expensing for all small businesses; (2) a cut in the top tax rate on businesses from 35% to 25%; (3) an end to the capital gains tax on inflation; and (4) a simpler capital gains rate structure which would allow businesses to benefit from the individual rate of 15%. “While Texas has weathered this economic storm in better shape than most states, that is not a consolation for those individuals and families that are suffering as a result of a lost job. With unemployment rates in East Texas ranging from 9.70% in Cherokee County and 9.4% in Anderson County, to 8.9% in Kaufman County, 8.5% in Henderson County, 8.2% in Wood County and 7.1% in Van Zandt County for December of 2009. We can do better, and legislation like the Economic Growth Act will allow us to do so for families in East Texas,” said Hensarling.Hensarling, the second ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee, discussed his exchange with President Obama during a nationally-televised question and answer session with House Republicans. He said, “During the House Republican Conference retreat on January 29, I simply asked, Mr. President, will that new budget, like your old budget, triple the national debt and continue to take us down the path of increasing the cost of government to almost 25 percent of our economy? The President declined to answer my question, but 72 hours later he released a 10-year budget that will triple the national debt and keep government spending on a path that equals as much as 25% of the entire U.S. economy. The taxpayers of East Texas and I finally have an answer to that simple question. The answer is YES.”Hensarling added, “While the President released a budget that includes a record $3.8 trillion in spending, more than $2 trillion in new job crushing taxes, and a tripling of the national debt – on top of the largest deficit in our nation’s history – Republicans believe that the federal budget must never be allowed to grow faster than the family’s budget’s ability to pay for it.”Regarding the Texas family budget, Hensarling said, “Over the next 10 years, President Obama’s budget proposes increases federal spending to a level approximately 53% over the 2010 level. To accomplish this, the President proposes growing federal spending from its 2010 estimated level of $3.721 trillion – or $31,863 per household – to $5.713 trillion in 2020, which is $48,920 per household. Unless we change course and reject this budget, Washington’s spending addiction will cause the federal budget to overwhelm the family budget, leaving future generations in Texas with less freedom and less opportunity – making us the first generation to do so.”Hensarling went on to say, “You’re probably like me and believe you ought to work hard today, so your children can have a better, more prosperous tomorrow. But with this budget, it is like Washington has said, ‘let’s let government live easier today, so our children have to work harder tomorrow.’”Representative Hensarling, dubbed “Rep. Budget Reform” also pointed out that for three years in a row, he authored the most conservative budgets in Congress. “Serious fiscal responsibility requires more than tinkering around at the margins. I have proposed adopting strict budget caps that limit federal spending on an annual basis and are enforceable by the President. These caps were a critical plank in the fiscally-responsible budget alternative Republicans proposed last year and they are notably absent from the President’s budget.”Hensarling has authored budget enforcement legislation that was dubbed the “Gold Standard” by taxpayer watchdog groups. Several months ago, he introduced the Spending, Deficit, and Debt Control Act (H.R. 3964), which will give the budget the force of law and make it legally binding on Congress and the President, will put a lid on federal spending by placing hard caps on spending, will get deficits and debt under control by capping the deficit as a share of the economy, will force Congress to begin addressing today the long-term fiscal challenges our nation faces, and will give Congress and the President new and enhanced tools to identify and root out waste, fraud, and abuse in federal spending.Congressman Hensarling concluded, “We cannot continue on this reckless path, and the American people know it. Over the next few weeks the House Budget Committee will hold hearings on the budget, and I look forward to a serious debate about the trajectory of this administration’s spending and the damage it is doing to our national well-being.” Click Here For Charts
02.11.2010	ATHENS, TX — U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling, “a leading voice among fiscal conservatives” will discuss the economy and federal budget issues on Wednesday, February 17, in several meetings throughout the district. Hensarling will detail what President Obama’s 2011 budget means to 5th District residents by highlighting how it will affect families, small businesses, job creation, and the nation's economic recovery. Hensarling currently serves as the Vice Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee. For more information, please call Congressman Hensarling’s Athens Office at (903) 675-8288. Terrell: Wednesday, February 17, 8:30 AMTerrell City Hall Council Chambers201 E. Nash St., Terrell, TX Wills Point: Wednesday, February 17, 9:45 AMChamber Community Room307 N. 4th St., Wills Point, TX Mineola:Wednesday, February 17, 11:00 AMMineola City Hall Council Chambers300 Greenville Ave., Mineola, TX Jacksonville:Wednesday, February 17, 1:30 PMNorman Activity Center526 E. Commerce St., Jacksonville, TX Palestine:Wednesday, February 17, 3:00 PMBen E. Keith Community Room2019 W. Oak St., Palestine, TX Athens:Wednesday, February 17, 4:30 PMTVCC Cafeteria Meeting Room500 S. Prairieville St., Athens, TX
02.06.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) delivered this week’s official Republican response to the President’s Weekly Address. Each week, one Republican is chosen to discuss solutions to our nation’s most challenging issues. Dubbed “Rep. Budget Reform” for his efforts to reign in the spending, deficits and debt with which the federal government is saddling future generations of Americans, Hensarling was a natural choice to deliver the first weekly address following the release of President Obama’s 2011 budget. Hensarling, who authored the Spending, Debt and Deficit Control Act (H.R. 3964), has introduced legislation referred to as the “gold standard” of budget enforcement reform. “I am honored to be chosen to offer the official Republican response after the President proposed a budget that will triple the national debt and place government spending on a path to surpass 25% of the entire U.S. economy,” said Congressman Hensarling. “While the President released a budget that includes a record $3.8 trillion in spending, more than $2 trillion in new job crushing taxes, and a tripling of the national debt – on top of the largest deficit in our nation’s history – Republicans believe that the federal budget must never be allowed to grow faster than the family’s budget’s ability to pay for it.” Video of the address is online at https://www.gop.gov/ Following is the text of Rep. Hensarling’s address: Hi, I’m Congressman Jeb Hensarling of Texas; I serve as the number two Republican on the House Budget Committee. Some of you may have seen me on television last week when I asked the President if his new budget would once again triple the national debt and dramatically increase the cost of government to 25% of the economy – up from its traditional 20%. You may recall that the President declined to answer the question last week. But he has certainly answered it this week by submitting a new budget that does just what I feared. The numbers in his budget are simply breathtaking: a record $3.8 trillion in spending, more than $2 trillion in new job crushing taxes, not to mention a tripling of the national debt – on top of the largest deficit in our nation’s history. Interest payments alone on this debt will set us back roughly $6 trillion over the next decade – that’s over $50,000 per household. You’re probably like me and believe you ought to work hard today, so your children can have a better, more prosperous tomorrow. But with this budget, it is like Washington has said, ‘let’s let government live easier today, so our children have to work harder tomorrow.’ At about this time last year, President Obama and Democrats in Congress promised that if we passed a trillion-dollar “stimulus” bill – and grew big government even more – jobs would be created “immediately” and unemployment would remain below eight percent. Republicans stood on principle and offered a better alternative that, according to an analysis developed by the President’s own economic advisors, would have created twice the jobs at half the cost. Democrats chose to go it alone and jam through their ‘stimulus.’ What did the American people get? A bill for $1.2 trillion and 3 million more jobs lost. Americans are still asking, ‘where are the jobs?’ Where ARE the jobs? But all they are getting from Washington is more spending, more taxes, more debt and more bailouts. Now, when it comes to budget matters, I usually find myself agreeing with 80% of what the President says, but DISAGREEING with 80% of what he does. While the President’s budget rhetoric gives a nod to reducing the deficit, he punts the problem to a ‘commission’ that does not yet exist, and whose recommendations may never see the light of day. We have got to do better. Additionally, President Obama’s proposed spending freeze unfortunately is not really a freeze at all. It exempts 86% of the federal budget from the freezer, does not turn on the freezer until next year and then turns it off shortly thereafter. In fact, when you run the numbers, the President’s idea of fiscal responsibility unfortunately amounts to growing government by 49.01 percent over 10 years instead of 49.27 percent. We have got to do better. Serious fiscal responsibility requires more than tinkering around at the margins. Republicans have proposed adopting strict budget caps that limit federal spending on an annual basis and are enforceable by the President. These caps were a critical plank in the fiscally-responsible budget alternative Republicans proposed last year and they are notably absent from the President’s budget. The federal budget must never be allowed to grow faster than the family’s budget, which has to pay for it. You can learn more about our better Republican budget solutions on the web at “solutions.GOP.gov”. So, pile up all this Democratic spending, borrowing and debt, add it to their government takeover of health care, their ‘cap-and-trade’ national energy tax and their continued bailouts – is it little wonder that job growth is lagging? Small business owners and investors tell me every week, “We’re not taking the risk to start or expand our business in this climate.” We cannot continue on this reckless path, and the American people know it. But now it’s up to Democrats in Washington to listen and change course. We’re willing to work with them, but Republicans will continue to stand on principle, oppose more reckless Washington spending, and fight for better solutions that make government live within its means. Our budget plan will help create jobs, prevent a fiscal calamity and give our children a brighter economic future. “Thank you for listening.”
02.05.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Vice Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee and the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit issued the following statement after the Department of Labor released January’s unemployment data. Some 20,000 Americans lost their jobs in January; our unemployment rate remains near double digits and 14.8 million of our fellow citizens remain without jobs. Nearly 3.3 million jobs have been lost since the trillion-dollar so-called stimulus bill was signed last February and the Administration promised that it would hold unemployment to 8%. This is an economy that by any historical standard should be recovering; it is an economy that wants to recover; but given the looming storm clouds of Obamanomics it is an economy that is struggling to recover. Unfortunately, instead of signaling a change in the weather I’m afraid the President’s budget signals that the storm clouds of Obamanomics are here to stay. For the duration of the Administration’s 10-year budget, the deficit never falls below $700 billion, and never falls below 3.6 percent of GDP – a level the Administration’s own budget director has called ‘unsustainable.’ Debt held by the public triples over 10 years, and exceeds 60 percent of GDP as a share of the economy this year – surpassing last year’s 50-year high. Debt continues to rise to consume 77.2 percent of our economy by the end of the budget window. Couple this budget with the threatened takeover of our health care system, a threatened energy tax and the threatened makeover of our financial system and it is little wonder that job growth is lagging and that private capital and entrepreneurs are sitting on the sidelines – who would take the risk to start or expand a business in this climate?”
02.01.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Upon the release today of his record breaking $3.8 trillion fiscal year 2011 budget, President Barack Obama finally answered the question posed to him by Congressman Jeb Hensarling, a question the President declined to answer during the Friday, January 29 House Republican retreat: “Mr. President, will that new budget, like your old budget, triple the national debt and continue to take us down the path of increasing the cost of government to almost 25 percent of our economy?” To view budget documents go to https://www.house.gov/budget_republicans/ Hensarling said, “Although it came 72 hours after I posed this very important question to the President, the American taxpayers and I finally have an answer to the simple question I asked him on Friday. The answer is YES. The president released a 10-year budget today that will triple the national debt, and keep government spending on a path that equals as much as 25% of the entire U.S. economy. This budget sends a clear signal to American taxpayers who are tired of the spending, deficits and bailouts – and who recognize that they are not working – that the President is taking the policies they have rejected to a new high. This is clear evidence that the President is ignoring the will of the American taxpayers who want Washington to go on a diet.” “As is often the case, particularly in budget matters, I find myself agreeing with 80% of what the President says and disagreeing with 80% of what he does. While the President’s budget rhetoric gives a nod to reducing the deficit, and his budget document recognizes the unsustainable trajectory of the deficits, it assumes this problem will be solved by an as yet unknown “fiscal commission,” (page 146 summary tables) a proposal already defeated by Senate Democrats.” “Likewise, his purported spending freeze is not really a freeze because it exempts 83% of the federal budget from the freezer, does not turn on the freezer until next year and then turns off the freezer shortly thereafter. In the same document that President Obama tells the nation he’s committed to fiscal responsibility, he unveils trillions in NEW taxes and entitlements. This makes it very hard to take President Obama’s newfound commitment to fiscal responsibility seriously.” “Unfortunately, instead of signaling a change in the weather I’m afraid the President’s budget signals that the looming storm clouds of Obamanomics are here to stay. For the duration of the Administration’s 10-year budget, the deficit never falls below $700 billion, and never falls below 3.6 percent of GDP – a level the Administration’s own budget director has called ‘unsustainable.’ Debt held by the public triples over 10 years, and exceeds 60 percent of GDP as a share of the economy this year – surpassing last year’s 50-year high. Debt continues to rise to consume 77.2 percent of our economy by the end of the budget window. Couple this budget with the threatened takeover of our health care system, a threatened energy tax and the threatened makeover of our financial system and it is little wonder that job growth is lagging and that private capital and entrepreneurs are sitting on the sidelines – who would take the risk to start or expand a business in this climate?” “Democrats in Congress have had the Constitutional power of the purse for three years. In the 12 years that Republicans controlled the House, the average deficit was $104 billion. In just three years under Democratic control, the average deficit is now almost $1.1 trillion. I suspect that as the Democratic majority in Congress works its will on the President’s budget it will only get worse.” “I have great respect for President Obama, and I appreciate his willingness to come to our retreat, but last Friday he missed an opportunity to show real leadership and join Republican efforts to reign-in the spending. Instead of being straight with the American people about his plans to take nearly one out of every four dollars they earn, he chose to change the subject. He could have told the American people he planned to continue on a path to tripling the national debt and increasing government spending to 25.1% of the economy and he could have explained why he thought that was good policy. He chose not to take that opportunity. Over the next few weeks the House Budget Committee will hold hearings on the budget, I look forward to a serious and honest debate about the trajectory of this administration’s spending and the damage it is doing to our national well-being.” For more detail on the President’s budget go to https://www.house.gov/budget_republicans/ .
01.29.2010	UPDATE: “How did you arrive at the conclusion that what were the old annual deficits under Republicans have now become the monthly deficits under Democrats? And what is the back-up?” In the 12 years that Republicans controlled the House, the average deficit was $104 billion (average of final deficit/surplus FY1996-FY2007 data taken from Table F-1 below). In just 3 years under Democrats, the average deficit is now almost $1.1 trillion (average of final deficit/surplus FY2008 and 2009 data taken from Table F-1; FY2010 data taken from Table 1-3). Source: CBO January 2010 Budget and Economic Outlook https://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/108xx/doc10871/Chapter1.shtml Hensarling Statement On The President’s Appearance At GOP RetreatAs of January 29, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Vice Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement and fact summary sheet after President Obama challenged his facts on House Republican budget priorities verses Democrat budget priorities: “I asked the President today if he intended to propose the type of spending that has put our nation on the path to bankruptcy. Unfortunately, he didn’t assure taxpayers that he was committed to stopping the spending. “The President also challenged the facts I presented to him about House Republican budget priorities and Democrat budget priorities. I am happy to provide him with the following facts to back-up my statements. I stand by what I said. “I have great respect for President Obama. I am grateful he chose to address the House Republicans – and I give him credit for accepting our invitation. But, again, he didn't answer my specific question on whether he would continue us on a path to tripling the national debt and increasing government spending to 24.5% of the economy. Assertion: “The Republicans proposed a (Fiscal Year 2010) budget that ensured that government did not grow beyond the historical standard of 20% of GDP.” FACT: Under the budget proposal put forward by House Republicans, spending as a percent of GDP is 20.7% of GDP in 2015, and in 10 years is at 20.7% of GDP. Source: House Budget Committee Republicans "The Path to American Prosperity" Budget Alternative, Table S-1 https://www.house.gov/budget_republicans/press/2007/pr20090401_gopbudget.pdf. Historical standard is 20.7% of GDP. Source: Heritage Foundation https://s3.amazonaws.com/thf_media/2010/pdf/wm_2780.pdf Assertion: “It was a budget that actually froze immediately nondefense, discretionary spending.” FACT: The House Republican budget froze non-defense/non-veteran spending for 5 years (FY2010-14). Source: House Budget Committee Republicans “The Path to American Prosperity” Budget Alternative, Page 39 https://www.house.gov/budget_republicans/press/2007/pr20090401_gopbudget.pdf Assertion: “It spent $5 trillion less than what was ultimately enacted into law.” FACT: The House Republican budget called for $36.913 trillion in spending over 10 years, whereas CBO estimated in March that the President’s budget would spend $41.726 trillion over 10 years. This is a difference of $4.813 trillion over a 10 year period. Source: House Budget Committee Republicans "The Path to American Prosperity" Budget Alternative, Table S-1 https://www.house.gov/budget_republicans/press/2007/pr20090401_gopbudget.pdf and CBO’s Baseline and Estimate of the President’s Budget, June 2009 https://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/102xx/doc10296/06-16-AnalysisPresBudget_forWeb.pdf Assertion: “What were the old annual deficits under Republicans have now become the monthly deficits under Democrats.” FACT: According to CBO's September 2009 Monthly Budget Review https://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/105xx/doc10552/09-08-mbr.htm, July 2009’s deficit was $181 billion. According to CBO’s December 2009 Monthly Budget Review https://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/108xx/doc10825/12-4-09MBR.htm, October 2009’s deficit was $176 billion. Comparatively, according to OMB’s Historical Tables (Table 1.1) https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/budget/Historicals/, Republicans’ last annual deficit was $160.7 billion in FY2007. Even Republicans worst annual deficit - $412.7 billion in FY2004 according to OMB’s Historical Tables (Table 1.1) https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/budget/Historicals/ – pales in comparison to Democratic deficits. According to CBO’s January Monthly Budget Review https://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/108xx/doc10869/December2009MBR.pdf, in the first 3 months of FY2010 (October-December 2009) alone, Democrats have run up a deficit of about $390 billion - $22.7 billion shy of the GOP’s worst annual deficit. Assertion: “The national debt has increased 30%.” FACT: According to CBO’s January 2010 Budget and Economic Update (Table F-1) https://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/108xx/doc10871/AppendixF.shtml#1096834, the debt held by the public at the end of FY2008 was $5.803 trillion, and at the end of FY2009 was $7.544 trillion. This is an increase of 30%. Assertion: “Your administration proposed a budget that would triple the national debt over the next 10 years.” FACT: According to CBO’s June 2009 estimate of the President’s Budget https://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/102xx/doc10296/06-16-AnalysisPresBudget_forWeb.pdf, debt held by the public would rise from its 2008 level of $5.803 trillion to $17.126 trillion in 2019, which is 2.95 times larger than the 2008 level. Assertion: “Will that new budget, like your old budget, triple the national debt and continue to take us down a path of increasing the cost of government to almost 25% of our economy?” FACT: According to the President’s FY2010 budget (Table S-1) https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/budget/fy2010/assets/summary.pdf, debt held by the public is set to rise from $5.803 trillion in FY2008 to $16.027 trillion in FY2019, which is 2.76% times larger. Also, the President’s budget shows spending as a percentage of GDP at 24.4% for FY2010. CBO’s June 2009 estimate https://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/102xx/doc10296/06-16-AnalysisPresBudget_forWeb.pdf of the President’s budget also shows federal outlays at 24.5% of GDP in 2019.
01.29.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Initially, I was pleased to hear that President Obama was proposing to freeze non-security discretionary spending for 3 years. However, after reading the fine print, it seems this proposal is more about changing news headlines rather than spending lines. And if it is about headlines, the headline ought to be “President To The Nation: Stop Me Before I Spend Again.” Since coming into office a little more than one year ago, President Obama and his Congressional Democratic majorities have passed a $1.1 trillion “stimulus” bill that has not worked and has left Americans mired in an economy with 10% unemployment, a $410 billion pork-laden omnibus bill that increased non-defense spending by 10%, a $447 billion omnibus bill that increased non-defense spending by 12%, and a $3.6 trillion budget costing $30,826 per household. In fact, President Obama and his Congressional Democratic majorities have increased non-defense spending by 84% over 2 years. After this flood of spending, it appears on the surface that perhaps President Obama has finally decided to heed the call of the American people and attempt to bring some semblance of fiscal responsibility back to Washington. However, his purported freeze is not really a freeze because it exempts 83% of the federal budget from the freezer, does not turn on the freezer until next year and then turns off the freezer shortly thereafter. Even with the freeze in place, it will not have much of an effect. If you apply the $250 billion in savings over ten years – based on the President’s ten year spending plan submitted last year – government spending will still grow by 38.98% over those 10 years, as opposed to the 39.01% spending increase he proposed last year. If this is the President’s idea of saving the nation from fiscal calamity, we are in deeper trouble than I thought. If President Obama is serious about fiscal responsibility, he can find savings immediately by terminating TARP, by ending bailout mania, and by returning unused stimulus funds to the Treasury for deficit reduction. In the same speech that President Obama tells the nation he’s committed to fiscal responsibility, he unveils several proposals estimated to cost the American taxpayer billions. This makes it very hard to take President Obama’s newfound commitment to fiscal responsibility seriously. On the Deficit Commission: It’s certainly time as nation that we restore our nation’s fiscal health, but, the idea of a deficit commission assumes that the deficit itself is the problem. This is simply not the case, because when it comes to our nation’s fiscal health, spending is the disease and the deficit is simply a symptom of that disease. Unless you’re planning to increase taxes, the only way to get the deficit under control is to address the spending problem that creates it. Because this is not a spending commission, I fear it is simply a tool designed to give the President and Congressional Democrats an excuse to raise taxes. The deficit commission simply has no credibility. It largely looks like a proposal designed give political cover to the President and Congressional Democrats who are trying to heal self-inflicted wounds arising from their fiscal record. Even if you don’t believe that, the commission has several fatal flaws. First, you simply cannot call a commission that is stacked in favor of Democrats and the President – through his ability to not only nominate Democrats, but also some of the Republican members – bipartisan. Secondly, even if it were truly bipartisan, without a supermajority required to report out recommendations, a Democratic-led commission could recommend tax increases and only involve the Republican members insomuch that they use them as cover by attempting to portray the commission as bipartisan. Lastly, if we’re going to be fiscally responsible, let’s have its results sooner rather than later – especially not after an election. Economic Growth: I’m pleased that the President might be recognizing the role small businesses play in our economy and job creation. I agree with the President that we need to provide small businesses with tax relief in order to create jobs and get our economy moving again. While tax relief for small business is a start to getting our economy back on track, it’s simply not enough. If the President really wants to help the private sector get back in the business of job creation and economic growth, he could take off the table the uncertainty that is currently plaguing our economy caused by job-killing policy proposals such as a nearly $2 trillion government take-over of health care, a national energy tax plan that will raise taxes by over $800 billion, and a government take-over of our nation’s mortgage and financial institutions. To get our economy back on track, House Republicans have proposed several alternatives to the big-government, big spending policies pursued by President Obama and Congressional Democrats. Economic Stimulus: As an alternative to the Democrats’ $1.1 trillion stimulus plan, Republicans proposed a plan that would create twice as many jobs at half the cost. Specifically, our plan would have reduced individual tax rates, allowed small business to take a tax deduction equal to 20% of their income, made unemployment benefits tax free so that those individuals between jobs can focus on providing for their families and provided a home-buyers credit of $7,500 for those buyers who can make a minimum down-payment of 5%. As an alternative to the Democrats’ $3.6 trillion budget, Republicans proposed an alternative budget that would have spent $4.8 trillion less than the Democratic budget over 10 years, brought debt under control, borrowing $3.6 trillion less than the Democratic budget over 10 years, did not raise taxes and would have created 2.1 million more jobs than the Democratic budget.
01.22.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — After upset defeats in the state of New Jersey, Virginia and a stunning upset defeat in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, I would have hoped that this Administration and this Congress would have got down to job number one and that is create jobs. Help create jobs for the American people. Instead it really appears that the Administration is set upon an adventure in “scapegoat-ism.” Let’s see if we can find an entity that perhaps is more unpopular than our Administration in the United States Congress. Thus, we have this launching of the assault upon the investment community. Now are there outrageous compensation systems out there? Yes. I’m outraged by late night comedians who make tens of millions of dollars to be mean to each other. I’m outraged by professional athletes, who make tens of millions of dollars and abuse their spouses and girlfriends, and yes I’m outraged by compensation packages on Wall Street as well, but none are more outrageous than those that use taxpayer funds to reward the executives at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. So, on Christmas Eve this administration decided to take out all the goodies from the stockings of the American taxpayer and hand it over to the executives of Fannie and Freddie, which are functionally owned by the United States government and hand them out to the two CEO’s. $6 million pay packages, $42 million for the rest of their executives. So, we are paying these people bonuses to lose tens of billions of dollars of the United States taxpayer. What people do with their money is their business. What they do with the taxpayer money is our business. So I echo the comments of our ranking member. I have said privately and publicly that this is a committee that has a reputation for fairness under Chairman Frank. Now, I am unaware under his leadership or his Republican predecessor. In the seven years that I have been here that the minority has ever been denied to have a witness. So we requested a witness, Ed Dimarco, the acting head of FHFA to ask a simple question. Why? I’ll yield back the balance of my time. Click Link For Videohttps://www.youtube.com/user/RepJebHensarling#p/a/u/0/8FDhJDgQANc
01.22.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) the Vice Ranking Member on the House Committee on Budget, and author of the "Family Budget Protection Act," issued the following statement on a high-ranking Treasury official’s comment in the Wall Street Journal that the Obama Administration has no intention of changing the budget treatment of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. “If I were the architect of a plan that exposed taxpayers to unlimited exposure of losses at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, I would not want their liabilities to be reflected in the budget, either. It’s no wonder that an administration that promised change and transparency, but now has plans to load more debt on the shoulders of our children than all previous administrations from George Washington to George W. Bush combined, has fallen so quickly in public opinion polls. “Not only does the Obama Administration have no exit plan to end the GSE’s bailouts, they approved an approximately $42 million pay package for their top executives on Christmas Eve – the same day they exposed taxpayers to even more deficits and debt by removing the GSE’s $400 billion cap on losses guaranteed by the taxpayer. “Even the Director of the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has stated that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should now be considered federal operations and incorporated in the federal budget. I once again call on Chairman Frank to hold hearings on this very important matter. Losses from Fannie and Freddie will surely increase now that Treasury has removed the only meager protection taxpayers had, a $400 billion total cap, and given the companies a blank check to subsidize their failures – particularly given the recent research on the causal role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the economic meltdown of 2008.”
01.21.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and a former member of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) issued the following statement in reaction to media reports that the Obama administration intends to propose a plan to limit the size of American financial institutions. “Clearly Tuesday night’s election results reaffirm that the American people reject the Obama administration’s policies of trying to spend, borrow, tax, takeover and bailout our way to prosperity. With unemployment still in double digits I can understand why the Administration would want to try to change the subject.” “The pressing need in this economy is to limit the Administration’s ability to expose taxpayers to further bailouts of politically favored industries and institutions, such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and GMAC.” “If one wishes to find the true source of the economic debacle of 2008, one need only look to the government policies that cajoled, encouraged and then demanded that banks loan money to people to buy houses they couldn’t afford – and then put the American taxpayers on the hook for the loans that will never be paid back. This proposal is not going to put one American back to work, which is where the Administration should be focused.”
01.21.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) is the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and a former member of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Transcript of Statement of Subcommittee Ranking Member Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) Thank you Mr. Chairman on what is really a very, very important hearing. I think although many would agree that the financial stability crisis appears to have passed, clearly economic recovery has yet to take hold. Unfortunately, since this Administration has taken office we continue to be mired in double digit unemployment and 3.5 million more of our fellow citizens have been put on the unemployment rolls. We know that we have the highest level of bank failures that we’ve had, I believe, since the early 90’s, 140 last year, costing the deposit insurance fund $36.5 billion. We know that for only the second time in history the [FDIC] deposit insurance fund in September went into the red. The taxpayers of this nation are being oppressed. We have now seen in just the last two years the federal deficit increase ten fold, ten fold. We know that we are on a pathway now under this Administration and this Congress to triple the national debt in the next ten years and it is just a matter of time before they are knocking on the door of the taxpayers yet again to bailout the deposit insurance fund. So we can afford no more bank failures. So I think it is important that we examine what is the cause and also examine and try to understand why does there still appear to be a relative dampening of lending activity that is out there. It is interesting as we look at the case that is before us, and I read, I guess I believe it was from yesterdays Chicago Tribune. I look forward to Mr. Kelly’s testimony. [Michael E. Kelly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, FBOP Corporation] I assume that they got it right, but reading from the January 20th edition of the Chicago Tribune, I quote, “He (referring to Mr. Kelly) had stashed $896 million in the preferred stock of government sponsored mortgage lenders Fannie May and Freddie Mac partly to fund acquisitions. This would be the biggest mistake of Kelly’s career. At the time regulators had created numerous incentives encouraging banks to invest in the so called GSE’s. They were deemed about as risky as government bonds and were treated favorably when it came to evaluating a bank’s capital.” Again, another data point on how the GSE’s have simply wreaked havoc with this economy and how the regulators were actually pushing, pushing their paper…. Creating exemptions for them… And speaking of exemptions, as we continue to look at how shocking a number of bonuses are, how about the bonuses for those who run the GSEs? We are paying more money for them to lose more money. Why was it that the Administration waited until Christmas Eve to simultaneously announce [the bonus payments] and that they are lifting the cap on taxpayer exposure to Fannie and Freddie? Apparently $400 billion wasn’t enough; apparently they hadn’t wrecked enough banks already. Lifting taxpayer exposure at the same time they were announcing $6 million bonus packages for their chief executive officers, $42 million for other executives. Those are the bonus structures that I want to be taking a look at. So, I’m glad that we’re having this hearing. Another thing that we need to look at is why is there a dampening of lending activity? Well, I talked to bankers in the Fifth Congressional District of Texas that I have the honor and pleasure of representing in Congress. I talk to them all over East Texas. For example, I spoke to Milton McGee, President and CEO of Henderson Citizens Banc Shares in Henderson, Texas. “I think the primary reason we are not seeing much commercial lending is the uncertainty with what is coming out of Washington. The small business owner doesn’t know what Health Care costs are going to do to him, plus any new taxes as a result of the ever increasing deficit. Business owners are not going to borrow and invest until they feel comfortable with the economic and political conditions. Way too many mixed signals are coming out of the Administration.” I hear that all over my congressional district. I hear it all over East Texas. I hear it all over America. If you want there to be greater lending activity there’s going to have to be less of a tax burden and more certainty about the regulatory burden on these businesses. I thank you Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time. For video got to: https://www.youtube.com/user/RepJebHensarling#p/a/u/0/VmnzoMLsm24
01.13.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) today issued the following statement regarding the earthquake in Haiti: “I was saddened to hear about the tragic earthquake that struck Haiti Tuesday and my heart goes out to the people affected by it. Our nation’s people through their government, churches, and civic organizations have already begun to respond with the generosity that the world community has come to expect from Americans. “I want to make people in the 5th District of Texas aware of some of the resources available if you have family affected by the disaster or if you wish to help those in need. “For those who are seeking information about friends and family members in Haiti, you may call the State Department’s hotline at 1-888-407-4747. Please note that due to heavy call volume, some callers may receive a recording. “Anyone wishing to donate or provide assistance to those in Haiti may contact the Center for International Disaster Information by visiting their website at https://www.cidi.org/incident/haiti-10a/ . The American Red Cross has also committed to help and information about their programs and donation opportunities may be found online at https://www.redcross.org/. “As Congress works to assist the Haitian people, we must not forget that Americans are tightening their belts to assist those in need. Congress must do so in the same spirit.” To obtain information about a U.S. citizen: Phone: 1-888-407-4747 (DOS Haiti Task Force) E-mail: Haiti-Earthquake@State.Gov Website: www.state.gov/haitiquakeclick on "person finder" to search for or share information about someone To obtain information about a Haitian citizen: Phone: 202-332-4090 (Embassy of Haiti in DC) E-mail: acspap@state.gov ###
01.13.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) was joined by some 70 House Republicans, including Minority Leader John Boehner, House Republican Conference Chairman Mike Pence and House Financial Services Committee Ranking Member Spencer Bachus in the following letter to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner: January 13, 2010 The Honorable Timothy GeithnerSecretary, Department of the Treasury1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, D.C. 20220 Dear Secretary Geithner: On Christmas Eve, we were deeply troubled to learn that the Treasury Department decided to remove all limits on the amount of taxpayer funding that could be put at risk in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Before this decision, the two failed government sponsored enterprises had already cost the American people more than $110 billion and put taxpayers explicitly on-the-hook for over $2 trillion in potential losses through various federal programs. Now, the Treasury Department has given them a blank check, without presenting any proposals for their reform. Considering these facts, we were also shocked to learn that the Treasury Department and the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) approved compensation packages that permit the chief executive officers at these companies to receive as much as $6 million each, with millions more to be distributed to other senior executives. Awarding lavish pay packages with hefty bonuses to government owned entities while still lacking a comprehensive plan for reform demonstrates a disconcerting lack of judgment on the part of the Treasury Department and the FHFA. We share Chairman Frank’s sentiment expressed March 19, 2009 in a letter to former FHFA Director James B. Lockhart asking him to cancel retention bonuses for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac executives. Chairman Frank stated, “The public, having provided significant support for the purpose of restoring trust and confidence in our country's financial system, rightfully insists that large bonuses such as these awarded by institutions receiving public funds at a time of a serious economic downturn cannot continue.” As conservator, the federal government – and the taxpayers – have unlimited exposure to the GSEs’ books of business and the losses they continue to incur. Awarding millions of dollars in bonuses on the taxpayers’ dime is unconscionable. These two institutions, explicitly backed by the government, have even been shielded from the executive compensation restrictions that apply to Troubled Asset Relief Program recipients. Unfortunately, the pattern of preferential treatment that got us into this Fannie and Freddie mess seems to have been perpetuated in their conservatorship. We are writing to request your justification for approving these packages, and your plan to reform these entities that now pose unlimited risk to the American taxpayer. Nothing is more urgent than restructuring Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and putting a stop to the taxpayer funded bonuses and bailouts. Yours respectfully, Jeb Hensarling
01.11.2010	MESQUITE, TEXAS— U. S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) today announced the nomination of Braden Keith Anderson of Mesquite to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Anderson attends Bishop Lynch High School in Dallas. “Each year, I am honored to have the privilege of nominating some of the Fifth District's finest candidates to our country's service academies, and this year we have an exceptional group of young students,” said Congressman Hensarling. “Our armed forces are defending our freedoms all over the world, and the young men and women attending the academies today will be leaders on the frontlines of freedom tomorrow.” “Our military service academies offer our nation’s young leaders the opportunity to serve their country and receive an education of the highest caliber. America's service academies provide perhaps the best leadership and management training of any institute of higher education in the country, and because of this, the competition for entrance is intense,” said Congressman Hensarling. Candidates interested in attending a military service academy must undergo a rigorous selection process and receive a nomination from a Member of Congress, the Vice President, or from the Department of Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps. These nominations are determined based on academic performance, college entrance test scores, physical aptitude, medical certification, extracurricular activities and demonstrated leadership potential. Graduates of the Service Academies are appointed upon active duty as commissioned officers and serve in the appropriate branch of military for a minimum of five years.
01.06.2010	ATHENS, TEXAS— Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) today requested that CSPAN be allowed to televise the Democratic leadership’s negotiations on a national health care bill. “Democracy without openness is an oxymoron,” said Hensarling. “The people in Dallas and East Texas have just as much right to know what’s going on as the Washington insiders who are running this process; after all we will be paying for it in the end.” Hensarling made his request after it became public that the Democratic Party leadership would by-pass the traditional bipartisan conference committee process to merge the different national health care bills passed by the House and Senate Democratic majorities in Congress. “I agree with Leader Boehner, too much is at stake to have a final bill built on payoffs and pork-barrel spending,” concluded Congressman Hensarling. “The President and the Speaker have both gone back on their promises of an open debate on national health care legislation. I say, let’s put it on CSPAN so the people of Texas can see what’s going on and decide for themselves whether special insider deals for individual states and health care-related industries is the right way to reform the way we pay for health care.”
01.05.2010	ATHENS, TEXAS— Congressman Jeb Hensarling announced today that Cherokee County residents may be eligible for Small Business Administration (SBA) disaster assistance. Small business owners affected by the severe storms and tornado that struck East Texas in December may be eligible for assistance that includes Small Business Administration emergency loans. This SBA assistance is available as a result of a disaster declaration request submitted by the State of Texas on December 29, 2009. An SBA disaster outreach office has been established in Lufkin and will be open from January 5, 2010 through January 21, 2010. SBA Disaster Loan Outreach CenterLufkin City Hall300 East Sheppard AvenueRoom 202Lufkin, Texas For more information on SBA disaster assistance, including forms and instructions go to www.sba.gov/services/disasterassistance or telephone (800) 659-2955. To apply online for SBA disaster assistance, go to https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela. The filing deadline to return applications for property damage is March 5, 2010. The filing deadline to return applications for economic injury is October 4, 2010.
12.31.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and a former member of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) issued the following statement in reaction to media reports that the federal government has now taken a majority interest in troubled financial services company General Motors Acceptance Corporation (GMAC). “As I predicted when we started down this path, the bailouts will continue as long as the taxpayers can be forced to foot the bill. Since President Obama took office, taxpayers have sunk over $61.5 billion into the auto industry; GMAC alone has received three bailouts, now totally over $16.3 billion taxpayer dollars and received another $14 billion in loans. When is enough, enough?” “This marks yet another step down the road of politicizing our economy, picking winners and losers in our economy and enshrining America as a bailout nation. With the federal government now appointing four of GMAC’s directors it is clear that taxpayers are in for a long and expensive haul in a failed company.”
12.30.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R – Athens, Dallas) criticized Taiwan’s Legislative Yuan for taking steps to impose import bans on American beef in 2010. Hensarling, who grew working on a family farm and is a strong supporter of exporting American agriculture products all over the world, issued a strong rebuke of Taiwan’s plans to break a two-month-old bilateral trade agreement and bar certain U.S. beef and beef products. Taiwan cites concerns over Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy, commonly known as BSE, for the policy shift. According to reports, an agreement by Taiwanese political leaders paved the way for final vote by Taiwan’s legislature early next year. Hensarling said, “I believe that American and East Texas beef cattle are not only the best in the world, but the safest in the world, too. We adhere to strict guidelines issued by the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) that provide consumers with confidence that the beef we produce here is safe for consumption. Taiwan should scuttle this effort and abide by our science-based agreement.” Representatives from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) issued a statement this week stating that this is a “very serious matter” and the two agencies are “monitoring the legislative process very closely.” According to those officials, “After over two years of extensive negotiations and scientific and technical exchanges, we concluded an agreement, the ‘Protocol of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE)-Related Measures for the Importation of Beef and Beef Products for Human Consumption from the Territory of the Authorities Represented by the American Institute in Taiwan (AIT),’ on expanded market access for U.S. beef and beef products. The Protocol is science-based, consistent with the OIE guidelines, the domestic legal obligations of both sides, as well as the findings of Taiwan's own risk assessment. The Protocol thus provides further assurances that U.S. beef and beef products to be exported to Taiwan - which are the same products that are consumed by Americans at home - are safe.” Hensarling said, “It is extremely important that Taiwan’s government live up to their end of this agreement. Our government must press the Taiwanese to accept science-based proof that our beef is safe.” Congressman Hensarling is a fierce supporter of opening foreign markets to Texas agriculture products. Throughout his career, Hensarling has fought to open trade markets to U.S. agriculture products and against the imposition of bans on U.S. and East Texas beef. He’s met with leaders from Central America and Asia, advocating for U.S. been and encouraging their countries to open their markets. For example, Congressman Hensarling pressed South Korean Ambassador Lee on behalf of East Texas beef producers for South Korea to normalize the beef trade with the U.S. and begin accepting U.S. beef exports according to widely-accepted, scientific standards. Congressman Hensarling also pressured the Bush Administration to do everything in their power to end the Japanese ban on American and East Texas beef. Japan later lifted its ban and reopened its markets to cattle less than 20 months of age.
12.20.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, today issued the following statement demanding Chairman Barney Frank to hold hearings on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. “In light of the Administration's recent extraordinary actions, it is imperative that the House Financial Services Committee hold oversight hearings on the growing financial scandal regarding new bailouts and corporate bonuses at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Such hearings are long overdue, and I strongly urge Chairman Frank to schedule them immediately.” “For the Obama Administration to hand out $6 million pay and bonus packages to GSE executives without having an exit plan in place to end the bailouts of Fannie and Freddie is unconscionable. These two failed companies that have already cost the American people more than $110 billion in non-recoverable losses and put taxpayers explicitly on-the-hook for over $2 trillion in potential losses.” "Such losses from Fannie and Freddie will surely increase now that Treasury has removed the only meager protection taxpayers had, a $400 billion total cap, and given the companies a blank check to subsidize their failures – particularly given the recent research on the causal role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the economic meltdown of 2008.” “While Christmas might have come early for the executives at Fannie and Freddie, there can be no joy for hardworking American people who have been left to foot the bills for these continued bailouts.” Hensarling cited new research by Edward Pinto, a former chief credit officer for Fannie Mae and a housing expert, which found that from the time Fannie and Freddie began buying risky loans as early as 1993, the GSEs routinely misrepresented the mortgages they were acquiring, reporting them as prime when they had characteristics that made them clearly subprime or Alt-A. By the end of 2008, Fannie and Freddie held or guaranteed approximately 10 million subprime and Alt-A mortgages and mortgage-backed securities (MBS)—risky loans with a total principal balance of $1.6 trillion. “Since 2008, even while they have been under government control, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have continued to buy suspect mortgages in a failed attempt to stabilize housing prices and maintain politically motivated affordable housing goals,” said Hensarling. “Sunlight is the best disinfectant; Congressional hearings are the only way to shine some light into this black hole and to force an end to these bailouts.”
12.16.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — “The House is due to adjourn for the year today, but before it does, the Democrats will present the American people with a number of Christmas gifts wrapped up in one nice, neat little package.” The first gift, a debt limit increase: “Democrats will raise the debt ceiling by an additional $290 billion that piles more debt upon the backs of our children and grandchildren. They will raise the amount of debt that our government can borrow, not because the American people are taxed too little, but because Congress is spending too much. This will mark the 5th time since Democrats took control of Congress that we have been forced to raise the debt limit, with no plans to deal with the exploding spending and deficits that are driving it. Democrats have raised the debt from $8.965 trillion to $12.104 trillion from 2007 to the present. When Democrats raise the debt limit today by an additional $290 billion, they will have raised the debt burden by almost $30,000 per American household. “The hallmark of the Obama Administration and Democrat-controlled Congress has been to attempt to spend, borrow, and bailout our way to prosperity. Never have so few worked so hard to indebt so many so deeply. If we continue down this path of saying ‘yes’ to everyone today, we will be saying ‘no’ to our children’s future tomorrow.” The second gift, another stimulus spending bill: “No matter what you call it, this is yet another stimulus bill – one that weighs-in at $150 billion. I don't know if this is stimulus four, stimulus five, but it's a little bit like those Friday the 13th movies – it never dies. This bill does nothing more than extend the failed policies pursued by the Obama Administration and Democrat-controlled Congress who have tried to spend, borrow, and bailout our way to prosperity. “The President’s recent jobs summit and Democrat calls for further government ‘stimulus’ spending funded by TARP money show the first stimulus didn't work and that TARP has morphed from a temporary emergency measure for financial stability into a $700 billion revolving bailout fund to promote the Administration’s political, economic and social agenda.” The third gift, double digit unemployment: “If one were to simply pay the $150 billion stimulus directly to the unemployed, at today’s average wage,* it would replace the wages of over 3.6 million unemployed American workers, approximately the number who have lost their jobs since President Obama took office, and far more than have been employed through the over $1 trillion in stimulus spending approved already.” “I would hope that one day for the sake of the country my friends on the other side of the aisle will realize that you cannot spend your way into more jobs. You cannot borrow your way into more jobs. You cannot bail out your way into more jobs. That is not the recipe for job creation. We suffer from double-digit unemployment not through a lack of bailouts, spending and debt, which is the hallmark of this Congress. If we truly want to create jobs the first thing we have to do is show the American people that we are serious about this sea of red ink.” * $150 billion divided by $41,334.97, average wage for 2008 as calculated by the Social Security Administration https://www.ssa.gov/OACT/COLA/AWI.html
12.09.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the lone member of Congress on the TARP Congressional Oversight Panel today offered the following dissenting views to the Panel’s December Report on whether Treasury has properly discharged its Congressional mandate under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008--the enabling statute for the Troubled Asset Relief Program. “If one acknowledges and thoughtfully analyzes the intended and unintended consequences of the program and the manner in which it was implemented by Treasury one can not help but conclude that TARP is failing its mandate,” said Congressman Hensarling. “In offering the following summary of my findings on Treasury’s implementation of TARP I must also strongly oppose the use of TARP as a $700 billion revolving bailout fund to promote the Democrat’s political, social and economic agenda.” “TARP was originally sold as an emergency injection of liquidity to thaw frozen credit markets and that, when repaid, the funds would be used to reduce the deficit. According to press reports, President Obama and Speaker Pelosi both advocate tapping TARP funds to pay for programs unrelated to the financial emergency that our economy faced in 2008,” said Hensarling. “That is why I have rallied my fellow Republicans to oppose this ploy in the strongest possible terms.” “The irresponsible and potentially unlawful proposal to use the money taxpayers were forced to put on the line to bailout Wall Street during last year’s credit crisis is of a piece with many of the concerns I have about how TARP has been implemented by Treasury,” concluded Congressman Hensarling. “If TARP is not wound-up on December 31, 2009 and the money repaid to the Treasury, the abuses of the TARP program as evidenced by the Chrysler, GM and GMAC bailouts, misguided foreclosure mitigation programs and the re-animation of reckless behavior and moral hazard risks created by the Administration’s lending-for-the-sake-of-lending programs will only grow.”
12.08.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the lone member of Congress on the TARP Congressional Oversight Panel and the Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit issued the following statement in response to media reports that the Obama Administration is extending the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). “The Obama Administration just can’t seem to let go of the $700 billion in ‘walking around money’ taxpayers were forced to put on the line to bailout Wall Street last year. What was supposed to be an emergency capital injection to thaw frozen credit markets has morphed into a revolving bailout fund to advance the Democrat’s political, social and economic agenda.” “This announcement was one of the worst kept secrets in Washington. Extending TARP will provide the ‘bailout bridge’ necessary for the implementation of the permanent $200 billion bailout fund that Democrats will force through the House this week as part of their financial regulatory expansion bill.” “The Obama Administration will not create jobs by forcibly transferring $700 billion in wealth away from private sector job creators. Democrats just don’t seem to understand that the looming storm clouds of Obamanomics; the trillions in deficits, the trillion-dollar takeover of our health care system, the $600+ billion in cap-and-trade taxes and the political uncertainty of a financial regulatory expansion that affects the 21% of the economy the financial services sector represents is what is hobbling job creation. Ending TARP, following the law and putting those funds toward deficit reduction would have been a strong signal that the Administration does not plan to raise taxes or cause the debt to be monetized through inflation.” “If Democrats want to create jobs they will join Republicans in extending the 2001-2003 tax relief set to expire on December 31, 2010. They will join us in defeating an expansion of financial services regulation that injects more political risk into the economy, and they will shut down TARP.”
12.04.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Vice Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee and the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit issued the following statement after the Department of Labor released November’s unemployment data. “The United States’ unemployment rate remains in double digits and more than 15.4 million of our fellow citizens are without jobs. As Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke noted in a speech before the Economic Club of New York, “Both the decline in jobs and the increase in the unemployment rate have been more severe than in any other recession since World War II.’ “In the face of these facts the Democrats’ answer is to begin consideration of another job killing bill; the Wall Street Reform And Consumer Protection Act, a massive restructuring of the American financial system. Only in today’s Washington could a bill that costs taxpayers billions, impedes capital formation and reduces the incentives to invest be considered in the face of these unemployment numbers.” “Today’s jobs number is further confirmation that our economy remains in dire straits -- in large measure because Democrats misunderstand how jobs are created. Democrats believe that job creation will occur as a result of a government program that redistributes hard-earned taxpayer dollars through a Washington-directed, one-size-fits-all plan, fueled by higher taxes on American families and small businesses. Republicans believe jobs are created when taxes are low and hard-working American families and small businesses keep more of what they earn to invest or spend.” “As the private sector reels under the burdens of regulatory uncertainty and massive government spending on cap-and-trade legislation, the nationalization of our health care system and the Obama administration’s ineffectively targeted stimulus programs it is little wonder job growth has been so slow to recover.”
12.03.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Vice Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement regarding the passage today of the Permanent Estate Tax Relief for Families, Farmers, and Small Businesses Act of 2009:“Instead of permanently establishing a 45% death tax rate and calling it reform we should be eliminating it entirely.“The federal death tax affects all Americans by providing a disincentive to create jobs and grow a business. I recently heard from Gabriel and Jane Ojeda, who are the owners of a small manufacturing company in Mesquite, Texas. They eventually want to pass the business on to their son. “At a time when unemployment is above 10% -- the highest rate in a generation -- job creators are being told they can only avoid the death tax if they do not grow and hire more workers; so as long as the death tax is part of the tax code, Uncle Sam is saying to job creators, such as the Ojedas, ‘Don’t compete, don’t grow, don’t prosper because we will take 45% of your success if you do.’ “The death tax undermines one of the most central ideals of American life, the idea that if you work hard, save, and are financially prudent, you and your children will be able to enjoy the fruits of your hard work. “As the father of two young children, my number one goal in life is to make sure their futures are secure. I, like every American, want to be sure that the things I leave for my children end up with my children, not the IRS. The death tax should not be altered; it should be put to death.” The Permanent Estate Tax Relief for Families, Farmers, and Small Businesses Act of 2009 passed the House on December 3, 2009 by a vote of 225 to 200.
11.18.2009	WASHINGTON — “After the passage of the Obama Administration’s $1.2 trillion stimulus bill, over 3 million of our fellow countrymen lost their jobs and our nation suffers from the highest unemployment rate in a quarter of a century. “This orgy of spending brought our nation its first trillion dollar deficit and our national debt will triple in the next 10 years. According to the Special Inspector General for the TARP program the taxpayer is now on the hook for up to $23.7 trillion dollars, or $202,940 per household. “Proponents of government stimulus spending seem to forget that every dollar spent by the government has to be taken out of the private sector through taxes or borrowed to be paid back with the taxes of our children and grandchildren. “Instead of providing significant tax relief for individuals, entrepreneurs, and small business owners in the 5th District of Texas, the stimulus bill spent $50 million for the National Endowment for the Arts, $300 million to buy government bureaucrats new cars, and $10 million for urban canals. “Now we discover that much of the money cannot be properly accounted for and that, according to ABC News and other sources, the job creation claims are at best miscalculated and in many cases complete fabrications. “We would not be having this discussion had the Administration and Majority Party chosen to stimulate the economy by providing tax relief and incentives to all families by reducing the lowest individual tax rates from 15% to 10% and from 10% to 5%. By allowing small businesses to take a tax deduction equal to 20% of their income, they could invest their earnings to provide sustainable, well paying new private sector jobs. “There is no such thing as a jobless recovery. No jobs, no recovery. People in this economy are hurting. Hard working individuals have been laid off from their jobs and are running out of money as they dig deep into their savings, and they expect Washington to provide real job creation incentives, not spurious claims of success.” To see the phantom congressional districts in Texas go to https://www.recovery.gov/Pages/TextView.aspx?data=stateSummaryAllCD&statecode=TX For more information on the errors and fabrications on recovery.gov go to:https://watchdog.org/2009/11/17/your-guide-to-the-stimulus-district-by-phantom-district/
11.18.2009	MESQUITE— On Tuesday, November 17, 2009, U. S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling’s (TX-05) staff hosted a Medicare Prescription Drug Program open season forum at the Christian Care Center. The Medicare Prescription Drug Program’s open season runs November 15-December 31. During that time, people are eligible to change their Medicare Prescription Drug plans. “Medicare’s Part D program is helping to lower the cost of prescription drugs for millions of Americans. I encourage enrollees to take advantage of this time to review their current plan, compare it with a list of their medications, and see if it still fits their needs,” said Congressman Hensarling. Since coming to Congress, Congressman Hensarling has fought to lower drug prices and provide more choices in health care for our nation’s seniors. “This is a very complicated issue and this forum really helped me understand it better,” said Paul Martin, a Mesquite resident who attended the forum. Seniors who would like additional information on changing their prescription drug plans can contact Congressman Hensarling’s Dallas office at 214-249-9996 or Medicare at 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227) or visit www.medicare.gov.
11.09.2009	ATHENS — On November 16 and 17th, 2009, U. S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling’s (TX-05) staff will host a Medicare Prescription Drug Program open season forum. The Medicare Prescription Drug Program’s open season runs November 15-December 31. During that time, people are eligible to change their Medicare Prescription Drug plans. Hensarling’s staff and a representative from Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) will be available to discuss general program information, new plan benefits, program updates and answer any questions. For more information, please call Congressman Hensarling’s Athens office at (903) 675-8288 or visit his website at https://hensarling.house.gov. Monday November 16th Athens10:00amOakwood Place Assisted Living Center603 Wood StreetAthens, TX 75751 Terrell2:00pmTerrell City Hall201 East NashTerrell, TX 75160 Tuesday, November 17th Dallas9:30amThe Point at C.C. Young4847 West Lawther DriveDallas, TX 75214 Garland1:00pmChambrell at Club Hill1245 Colonel DriveGarland, TX 75043 Mesquite4:00pmChristian Care Center Greenway Village Dining Rm1000 Wiggins ParkwayMesquite, TX 75150
11.07.2009	ATHENS – U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) recently presented representatives of Kaufman County veterans, officials and citizens with remarks that he included in the Congressional Record. The Congressional Record is the constitutionally mandated permanent record of the business of the United States Congress. Phillip Smith, Regional Representative for Congressman Hensarling, presented a copy of the remarks at the Kaufman County Vietnam Memorial Wall dedication ceremony on November 7, 2009, held at the Kaufman County Veterans Memorial Park. *************************** Extension of RemarksHonoring the Dedication of the Vietnam Memorial Wall of TexasBy Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) Madam Speaker, today I recognize Kaufman County Veterans for their tremendous work in procuring a replica of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Wall. The memorial wall will be permanently located at the Kaufman County Veterans Memorial Park. The wall will be a lasting tribute to those who not only served in Vietnam, but to all the veterans of Kaufman County. As we prepare for Veterans Day on November 11th, let us remember those throughout our nation’s history who have sacrificed so much so that we may be free. Freedom is not free; it comes at an incredible cost. Veterans and their families, more than any other group of Americans, understand that cost. President Coolidge once said, “A nation which forgets its defenders, will itself soon be forgotten.” This park and wall in Kaufman, Texas, will forever be a reminder of the sacrifices our fellow Americans and their families endured so that we may enjoy the freedoms that have made our country so great. As the Congressman of the Fifth District, I would like to thank everyone who played a role in building the Kaufman County Veterans Memorial Park and bringing the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Wall to Kaufman County.
11.06.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Vice Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee and the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit issued the following statement after the Department of Labor released January’s unemployment data. Some 20,000 Americans lost their jobs in January; our unemployment rate remains near double digits and 14.8 million of our fellow citizens remain without jobs. Nearly 3.3 million jobs have been lost since the trillion-dollar so-called stimulus bill was signed last February and the Administration promised that it would hold unemployment to 8%. This is an economy that by any historical standard should be recovering; it is an economy that wants to recover; but given the looming storm clouds of Obamanomics it is an economy that is struggling to recover. Unfortunately, instead of signaling a change in the weather I’m afraid the President’s budget signals that the storm clouds of Obamanomics are here to stay. For the duration of the Administration’s 10-year budget, the deficit never falls below $700 billion, and never falls below 3.6 percent of GDP – a level the Administration’s own budget director has called ‘unsustainable.’ Debt held by the public triples over 10 years, and exceeds 60 percent of GDP as a share of the economy this year – surpassing last year’s 50-year high. Debt continues to rise to consume 77.2 percent of our economy by the end of the budget window. Couple this budget with the threatened takeover of our health care system, a threatened energy tax and the threatened makeover of our financial system and it is little wonder that job growth is lagging and that private capital and entrepreneurs are sitting on the sidelines – who would take the risk to start or expand a business in this climate?”
11.06.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, today filed additional views to the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) Congressional Oversight Panel’s (COP) November report. “Simply because the guarantee programs do not require an immediate outlay of taxpayer sourced funds, they are by no means free from risk,” said Congressman Hensarling. “Such programs in fact burden the taxpayers with hundreds of billions of dollars of contingent obligations that must be funded in accordance with the terms of each governmental undertaking.” “This type of credit support cannot become a permanent part of an overall expectation that the taxpayers will again respond and assume risky bets should they sour,” noted Hensarling. “The guarantee programs analyzed in the report should not serve as a template for future bailouts and the report should not be interpreted as advocating any particular legislative or regulatory response to future corporate failures.” Hensarling also renewed his objections to the failure of the COP’s majority members to adopt and make publicly available an oversight plan and a budget. He also noted that the COP has yet to hold a hearing with AIG, Citigroup, Bank of America (other than with respect to foreclosure mitigation) and many other significant recipients of TARP funds. “In voting to approve the report, it is with the caveat that I do not endorse further extensions of TARP, either through asset or debt guarantees or other means. I am also by no means convinced that Treasury had the authority under EESA to implement the guarantee programs as structured,” concluded Congressman Hensarling. “I submit that it is too early to properly determine if the guarantee programs analyzed in the report achieved their intended purposes or whether the fees charged by Treasury were properly structured or adequate in amount relative to the contingent liabilities undertaken by the taxpayers.”
11.05.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling has offered an amendment to help lower interest rates and fees for credit card users. The amendment clarifies that changes to a credit card agreement that reduce a customer's interest rate or other fees can be implemented immediately, instead of being subject to the 45-day waiting period required under the CARD Act of 2009. The amendment passed the House on a bipartisan vote. “Earlier this year the House passed legislation instituting a 45-day notice period for changes in the terms of credit cards. I was contacted by one of my constituents who was told by his credit card company that the company could not lower his interest rate or fees for 45 days due to a law passed by Congress,” said Congressman Hensarling. “This amendment eliminates that unintended consequence of the earlier bill to clarify that a credit card company may lower fees or interest rates, or take any other action that benefits the consumer, without waiting 45 days.” Congressman Hensarling said, “It’s a classic case of unintended consequences.” Hensarling noted that while the CARD Act of 2009 was intended to help consumers, he opposed it because it would force the 95% of card holders who pay their bills on time to bailout the 5% of those who don’t by forcing companies to charge higher interest rates, new annual fees and reduce access to credit. The Congressman also observed that there could be other unintended consequences of the CARD Act, given that in their haste to pass the legislation, the authors of the CARD Act prohibited credit card issuers from reducing interest rates for 45 days.
11.03.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — “It is indeed ironic that on the same day Speaker Pelosi rolled-out her 1,990 page, $1.2 trillion federal takeover of America’s health care system Representative Paul Ryan and I introduced H.R.3964, The Spending, Deficit, and Debt Control Act of 2009,” said Congressman Jeb Hensarling. “Our bill would put an end to the budget gimmicks, smoke and mirrors that Democrats are using to hide the real cost of their government takeover of your health care.” Hensarling noted that Speaker Pelosi’s bill is full of budget and savings gimmicks, such as: • The legislation’s $104 billion in deficit reduction projected over the next 10 years is achieved mainly through timing gimmicks and $72 billion in savings from extraneous provisions.• The bill dropped a Medicare physician payment increase (the “doc fix”) that was included in its earlier bill (H.R. 3200), with a plan to hide the $229-billion deficit increase in a separate bill.• The government-run plan does not start until 2013, leaving much of its Federal spending hidden from the 10-year budget window.• Less than 1 percent of the bill’s $1.05 trillion is spent in the first 3 years after the program starts, further masking the deficit impact. “In the last year of the previous Administration, when the deficit was $300 billion and falling, Majority Leader Steny Hoyer called that deficit ‘fiscal child abuse.’ At the beginning of this Congress Democrats talked a lot about fiscal responsibility, but unfortunately, that’s about as far as it’s gone under their control of Congress,” observed Congressman Hensarling. “After winning a ‘Trifecta of Trillions’ earlier this year the federal takeover of America’s health care system makes the fourth trillion-dollar-plus bill the Democrats intend to ram through this Congress,” said Congressman Hensarling. “Republicans have offered 40 different pieces of legislation in an attempt to get bipartisan compromise, to make sure that the uninsured get insured, that people with preexisting conditions get health care, and that we do this without breaking the bank, without raising taxes, creating new debt, new deficits, and new entitlements.” Hensarling noted that, “We have a debt that is headed above $12 trillion, or more than $100,000 per American household, and rising; a deficit of $1.4 trillion, or $11,988 per American household, that will never dip below $500 billion for the foreseeable future; and unfunded liabilities of $62 trillion, or $530,899 per American household, that are only getting worse with every passing year.” “In 2017 the Medicare Hospital Insurance Trust Fund (Part A) will be exhausted, an entitlement crisis exacerbated by Speaker Pelosi’s bill, which -- according to the Congressional Budget Office -- will increase the federal budgetary commitment to health care by $598 billion in its first ten years alone.” “Putting this level of debt on our children is not merely bad policy, it is immoral,” concluded Congressman Hensarling. “For the sake of our children’s future and the future of generations yet to come, at some point you have to stand up and say ‘Enough is Enough’ and begin to rein in the reckless and irresponsible fiscal policies of Washington politicians.”
10.29.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Vice Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement regarding Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s latest draft of health care legislation: “There is a fundamental decision that will be made in this debate: Who will control health care in America? Will it be parents, families, and doctors? Or will it be Washington bureaucrats or insurance company accountants?” “After getting the tab for a $1 trillion stimulus bill, a $1 trillion in regular appropriations, and a multi-trillion dollar budget -- and now being presented with a trillion-dollar government take-over of health care -- the American people recognize that the Administration has taken on more than it can handle and taxpayers can afford.” “There is no doubt that our present system for paying for health care is unsustainable, and I want to ensure that every American has access to health care when they need it, and at a price they can afford. Every American—no matter how sick they are and regardless of their financial status should have access to health care.” “But it is unconceivable to me how any Member of Congress, after hearing from the American people could continue to support legislation that will result in a government take-over of health care. The American people clearly understand the consequences of such a take-over: little or no health care choice, decreased quality, and longer wait times.” “I am disappointed that today’s announcement was not bipartisan. Had The Speaker chosen to engage Republicans we could be unveiling real, bipartisan health care reform. Instead of working with Republicans to try and find common-sense solutions to our health care problems, Speaker Pelosi and her fellow Democrat leaders hunkered-down with special interests in the back rooms of the Capitol to bring you version 2.0 of the government take-over of health care -- Americans rejected that last summer.” “Republicans have come forward with a number of ideas – all rejected by Speaker Pelosi – such as allowing individuals to purchase health care across state lines, enacting meaningful medical liability reform to reduce the number of frivolous lawsuits that result in more defensive medicine and greater costs, allowing individuals to receive the same tax benefit that businesses do for purchasing health care, and increasing efforts to root out the rampant waste, fraud, and abuse that permeates our health care today. Just because Speaker Pelosi doesn’t want to hear Republican ideas, it doesn’t mean they don’t exist.” “As for the cost of this legislation, if you talk to the American people few are prepared to suspend their disbelief and accept the claim that this legislation will not add to our debt and deficit crisis. At a bare minimum, strictly from a fiscal standpoint, any health care legislation must not add to the deficit. We need to bend the health care cost curve downward – and no honest observer believes a government take-over will do that.” “I will continue supporting health care reform efforts that will protect the rights of those who currently have health care while using innovative solutions to provide those without health care the opportunity to access quality, affordable, and timely health care. I am ready to work together with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to deliver health care legislation that works. But I cannot support a system that emphasizes cost-control over quality, adds another trillion dollars to the deficit, and defers to the opinion of the government over that of the physician.” To read the 1,900 page health care bill and related information go to: H.R. 3962 - Affordable Health Care for America Act as Introduced https://docs.house.gov/rules/health/111_ahcaa.pdf H.R. 3961 - Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act of 2009 https://docs.house.gov/rules/health/111_sgr1.pdf
10.29.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Vice Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee and the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit issued the following statement after the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) at the Department of Commerce, released its Third Quarter 2009, Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Advance Estimate. “The 3.5% estimated increase in GDP is good news. But we still don’t see new jobs. You can’t have a jobless recovery. No jobs, no recovery.” “Since being sworn into office on January 20, 2009, the Obama Administration, with its robust Democratic majorities in Congress, has passed a $1.138 trillion big-government stimulus bill costing $9,745 per household, a $410 billion pork-filled omnibus spending bill costing $3,511 per household, and a $3.6 trillion budget costing every household $30,826. On top of these policies, the Obama Administration has proposed several jobs-killing taxes, such as a new national energy tax costing anywhere from $1,600 to $3,000 per American household, and $534 billion in new taxes on businesses to pay for the Democrats’ so-called health care reform. “Instead of the big government stimulus bill, we should have passed legislation like the Republican alternative that used a proven approach to stimulate the economy and increase GDP by providing tax relief and incentives to all families and small businesses. “Unfortunately for future generations of Americans, while the number of jobs the “stimulus” bill was projected to create goes down, the price paid by the American people for its failure will continue to go up.”
10.29.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — “I find it somewhat curious that we are having a hearing on systemic regulation and nowhere do I see the Director of FHFA, the regulator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The same Fannie and Freddie that were compelled to buy the lion’s share of poorly underwritten loans in this nation. The same Fannie and Freddie that have now cost the taxpayer over $1 trillion.” “The Administration has now submitted to us legislation to regulate pawn shops and grocery stores, but NO legislation dealing with the greatest systemic risk within the system, Fannie and Freddie.” “The bill we are considering today will simply institutionalize too big to fail, paving the way for more Fannies and Freddies, and perpetual taxpayer bailouts.” “According to the Wall Street Journal, the Administration is not done with taxpayer-funded bailouts, as apparently GMAC is now in for their third multi-billion dollar bailout. To borrow from the title of a song from The Commodores, ‘Once, twice, three times a bailout.' Enough is enough.”
10.21.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and the lone Member of Congress on the Congressional Oversight Panel for the government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) issued the following statement in reaction to media reports that U.S. pay czar, Kenneth Feinberg, plans to order that the top earners at firms which received billions of dollars in government bailouts cut their cash payouts by an average of about 90% from last year: “As I have said from Day One, what private companies do with their own money is their business. What they do with the taxpayers’ money is our business. “I hope taxpayers realize that the only way they ever end up subsidizing offensive executive salaries is when the government bails out the executives and the companies they run in the first place. This should be yet another example of why we should terminate TARP at the end of this year.”
10.09.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the lone Member of Congress on the Congressional Oversight Panel (COP) for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit voted “no” on the panel’s October Oversight Report: “An Assessment of Foreclosure Mitigation Efforts After Six Months.” Excerpts of Hensarling’s dissenting views are included below: “A fair reading of the Panel’s majority report and my dissent leads to one conclusion -- HAMP and the Administration’s other foreclosure mitigation efforts to date have been a failure. The Administration’s opaque foreclosure mitigation effort has assisted only a small number of homeowners while drawing billions of involuntary taxpayer dollars into a black hole.” “While the Congressional Budget Office estimates that taxpayers will lose 100 percent of the $50 billion in TARP funds committed to the Administration’s foreclosure relief programs, instead of focusing its attention on taxpayer protection and oversight, the Panel’s majority report implies that the Administration should commit additional taxpayer funds in hopes of helping distressed homeowners – both deserving and undeserving – with a taxpayer subsidized rescue.” “[T]he best foreclosure mitigation program is a job, and the best assurance of job security is economic growth and the adoption of public policy that encourages and rewards capital formation and entrepreneurial success. Without a robust macroeconomic recovery the housing market will continue to languish and any policy that forestalls such recovery will by necessity lead to more foreclosures.” “Regardless of whether one believes foreclosure mitigation can truly work, taxpayers who are struggling to pay their own mortgage should not be forced to bail out their neighbors through such an inefficient and transparency-deficient program. Both the Administration and the Panel’s majority appear to prioritize good intentions and wishful thinking over taxpayer protection.” “Taxpayers deserve a better return on their investment than what they are set to receive from AIG, Chrysler, GM and the Administration’s flawed foreclosure mitigation efforts.”
10.05.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) announced an educational program conducted by the Library of Congress and the Veterans History Project to educate students on the important contributions made by our nation’s veterans. OPPORTUNITY FOR EDUCATORSNATIONAL TEACH-IN IS OCTOBER 21st HISTORY™, together with the Veterans History Project, will host a National Teach-In on Veterans History on Wednesday, October 21st, 2009, at 12pm EST. Educators and students nationwide can tune-in and view this LIVE webcast online at www.veterans.com. The webcast will be broadcast live from the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. Each school or teacher that signs up for the October 21st webcast will receive a colorful WWII in HD poster and a field kit developed by the Veterans History Project of the Library of Congress. (These will mail in early October and are available while supplies last, so sign up now!) To register for this webcast and the Take a Veteran to School program, visit www.veterans.com. If you have any additional questions or feedback, contact us at veterans@aetn.com . There is no registration fee -- HISTORY has fully funded this event.
10.02.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Congressman Jeb Hensarling began distributing copies of the 1,990 page health care bill (H.R. 3962) to several libraries in the 5th Congressional District. The House of Representatives will likely vote on H.R. 3962 later this week. “Last week, Speaker Pelosi introduced a 1,990 page government takeover of your health care that will cost taxpayers $1.3 trillion,” said Congressman Hensarling. “I think it is important that East Texans clearly understand the consequences of such a take-over: little or no health care choice, decreased quality, longer wait times, higher taxes and 111 new federal programs. That is why I am providing the legislation to libraries and making it available on my website for you to read should you choose to do so.” Hensarling opposes the bill in its current form. He noted, “As currently drafted, the legislation is full of provisions which I believe that families and small business owners throughout the 5th District should know about before making-up their minds about this legislation.” Specifically, this bill: Will cost taxpayers $1.3 trillion over 10 years. Imposes $729.5 billion in total tax increases on the American people. Creates 111 new federal programs. Cuts the Medicare Advantage program by at least $150 billion. Hits small businesses especially hard by imposing an 8% tax on the payroll of employers who do not purchase federal bureaucrat-approved health care for their employees. Raises serious constitutional questions by imposing a 2.5% tax on individuals who do not purchase federal bureaucrat-approved health insurance. Bans the sale of private individual health insurance policies after 2013, requiring individual health insurance to be purchased through the federal government. Hensarling concluded, “I want to ensure that you and your doctor make the decisions about your health care, not a government or insurance company bureaucrat. You and your family should be able to get the health care you need, when you need it, and at a price you can afford. H.R. 3962 does not meet that test.” You can visit www.hensarling.house.gov and click on the October 29 press release titled “Hensarling Comments on Pelosi Health Care Plan” to access the legislation online.
10.02.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Vice Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee and the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit issued the following statement after the Department of Labor released January’s unemployment data. Some 20,000 Americans lost their jobs in January; our unemployment rate remains near double digits and 14.8 million of our fellow citizens remain without jobs. Nearly 3.3 million jobs have been lost since the trillion-dollar so-called stimulus bill was signed last February and the Administration promised that it would hold unemployment to 8%. This is an economy that by any historical standard should be recovering; it is an economy that wants to recover; but given the looming storm clouds of Obamanomics it is an economy that is struggling to recover. Unfortunately, instead of signaling a change in the weather I’m afraid the President’s budget signals that the storm clouds of Obamanomics are here to stay. For the duration of the Administration’s 10-year budget, the deficit never falls below $700 billion, and never falls below 3.6 percent of GDP – a level the Administration’s own budget director has called ‘unsustainable.’ Debt held by the public triples over 10 years, and exceeds 60 percent of GDP as a share of the economy this year – surpassing last year’s 50-year high. Debt continues to rise to consume 77.2 percent of our economy by the end of the budget window. Couple this budget with the threatened takeover of our health care system, a threatened energy tax and the threatened makeover of our financial system and it is little wonder that job growth is lagging and that private capital and entrepreneurs are sitting on the sidelines – who would take the risk to start or expand a business in this climate?”
10.01.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and the lone Member of Congress on the Congressional Oversight Panel (COP) for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) delivered the following opening statement at today’s hearing of the House Financial Services Committee: “Over the past couple of weeks, the media has been replete with one year anniversary stories of the historic bailouts or economic recovery actions by our federal government. Before deciding on how we best proceed with financial market reform, we would do well to learn the lessons of the good, the bad, and the ugly results of these actions.” “First the good, within months of intervention there is no doubt that credit spreads returned to more normal levels. Equity markets have clearly risen appreciably and the panic we felt last September has subsided.” “The bad, our economy continues to contract. In the face of massive government intervention, too much private capital remains on the side lines. After the passage of the Obama Administration’s $1.2 trillion stimulus bill, 3 million of our fellow country men lost their jobs and our nation suffers from the highest unemployment rate in a quarter of a century. And I remind all, there is no such thing as a jobless recovery. No jobs, no recovery.” “Now the ugly, this orgy of spending has brought our nation its first trillion dollar deficit and our national debt will triple in the next 10 years. According to the Special Inspector General for the TARP program the tax payer is now on the hook for up to $23.7 trillion dollars, or $202, 940 per household.” “The government’s continued bailouts of Fannie, Freddie, AIG, Chrysler, GM, the list goes on now hamper our economic recovery and threaten to institutionalize us as a bailout nation, with no visible exit strategy in sight.” “There remains a huge difference between adding emergency liquidity to a panicked financial system and bailing out individual non-bank firms fortunate enough to be designated too big to fail. Under the latter policy the big get bigger, the small get smaller, the taxpayer gets poorer and our children get saddled with the mother of all debts. Clearly there is a better way, reforms are needed. The best way to end taxpayer bailouts is to end taxpayer bailouts.”
09.30.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and the lone Member of Congress on the Congressional Oversight Panel (COP) for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) delivered the following opening statement at today’s hearing of the House Financial Services Committee: “We know there are a number of causes to our nation’s economic turmoil. Most have their genesis in flawed public policy – particularly with the affordable housing goals of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. “To state the obvious, the rating agencies, like many others, got it wrong going into last year’s credit freeze. That does not necessarily make them duplicitous; it doesn’t necessarily make them incompetent. It just makes the wrong - very, very wrong. “It is also a painful and expensive reminder that there is no substitute for some modicum of investor due diligence and personal responsibility. “Now, there is a sincere bipartisan desire for credit rating agency reform in this committee. Unfortunately, I believe the draft that is before us now falls short. There are a number of good provisions in Chairman Kanjorski draft, including essentially removing the NRSRO designation from current statute and regulation. “Unfortunately, the bill also includes provisions that will create new liability exposure, including joint liability for the rating agencies. I feel that these sections will actually increase barriers to the rating market and make it more difficult to have competition. The increase in lawsuits will become, I believe, an insurmountable barrier to competition. “The joint liability provision especially troubles me. To make every rating agency potentially liable for the ratings of other agencies, I don’t see the parallel anywhere else in the private sector. I heard someone say, “That’s a little like making Ford liable for a defective car manufactured by GM and not giving Ford a chance to defend itself. “No nation, can sue its way into economic recovery and financial stability. Increasing liability does not get at the root of the problem, which is the de facto government stamp of approval behind the rating agencies work product. “People assume wrongly that the government stamp of approval meant accurate ratings. Congress took a good step with the Credit Rating Agency Reform Act, but it was too little, too late. Again, there is a vitally important lesson we have all learned about implied government backing. I want to compliment the Chairman and the Ranking Member for having a bill before us that would essentially terminate the NRSRO designation, but unless we eliminate all barriers to entry I’m fearful it is all for naught.”
09.30.2009	WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and the lone Member of Congress on the Congressional Oversight Panel (COP) for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) delivered the following opening statement at today’s hearing of the House Financial Services Committee: “As I read the bill summary of the new CFPA it reminds me of the title of one of my favorite Led Zeppelin works, ‘The Song Remains the Same.’ “If in doubt, read the bill. Section 131 B1 and 136 A1 shows that we still have an agency that can outlaw products and practices that are ‘unfair,’ ‘abusive,’ or do not constitute ‘fair dealing’ -- totally in [it’s] subjective opinion. “Are subprime loans inherently abusive? Tell that to the millions of Americans who have home ownership only because of these subprime loans. Are payday loans inherently unfair? Tell that to the millions of Americans who use them to avoid an eviction notice or prevent the utilities from being shut off. “What is different? Now, a single unelected bureaucrat, as opposed to five unelected bureaucrats, will have the power to decide whether the Rodriguez family of Mesquite, Texas, can obtain a mortgage. Whether the King family of Athens, Texas, can get a car loan. Or the Shane family of Kaufman, Texas, can even get a credit card in order to buy their groceries. “For those who persist in wanting to, by government fiat, restrict credit opportunities in the midst of a national credit crunch and when that particularly impacts low and middle income families, this bill is well designed to achieve those goals. “What else remains the same? Product approval can still trump safety and soundness. Clearly taxpayers are left out of the equation. Pre-emption remains; multiple standards that cost in uncertainty. Taxing; the agency still retains the power to essentially tax the industry, taxes that are passed on to the consumers in the form of higher fees and less credit. Plain vanilla goes from mandatory to highly, highly suggestible. “The bill supposedly is about consumer protection. The best way we can protect consumers is with competitive markets that encourage product innovation, give customers choices, and by preventing fraud and deception.”
08.24.2009	DALLAS— Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) recently met with a group of 5th District and Dallas-area veterans to hear their concerns and input on federal issues and legislation that affects them, including access to VA health care, TRICARE benefits and the proposed government takeover of the health care system. “As a Congressman, one of my top priorities is to ensure that our nation's military service veterans receive the help and care that they need and deserve,” Congressman Hensarling said. “There is no group of people to whom our nation owes more than our veterans. That is why it is so important for me to stay in touch with them about issues that affect them.” This meeting came on the heels of a forum where the Congressman Hensarling invited thousands of 5th district Veterans to meet with VA officials and other key Veterans organizations at the Congressman’s 2009 Veterans Resource Fair. Since he became a Member of Congress, Congressman Hensarling has consistently and strongly supported increased funding for the men and women who have served in the Armed Forces. In July 2009, Congressman Hensarling supported the House-passed 2010 Military Construction-Veterans Affairs appropriations bill, which provides $53 billion for veterans, $5.3 billion over last year’s amount. In March 2009, during debate on the Fiscal Year 2010 Budget, Congressman Hensarling cosponsored an amendment that would have redirected $50 million in funding toward community-based outpatient clinics. Congressman Hensarling has supported an enhanced concurrent receipt so that veterans can receive the benefits they earned in service to a grateful nation. Most recently, Congressman Hensarling supported the FY 2008 National Defense Authorization Act, which allows concurrent receipt for military retirees with a 100 percent service-connected disability. Congressman Hensarling has also supported enhanced survivor benefits for spouses and dependants of service members and veterans. Congressman Hensarling supported the FY 2008 National Defense Authorization Act, which included a provision to change the survivor indemnity allowance from a dollar-for-dollar reduction of benefits to a $40 per month allowance for military survivors who qualify to receive both the Survivor Benefit Plan (SBP) and Dependency and Indemnity Compensation (DIC). Congressman Hensarling has worked to ensure that veterans have access to quality health care that is delivered in a timely fashion. Congressman Hensarling offered an amendment to the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act (H.R. 1538), which was agreed to by the House of Representatives. This amendment would have required the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct a study on how to reduce the average length of time between the desired date on which a veteran seeks an appointment and the date the appointment actually occurs. This amendment was also included in the House-passed version of the Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 1585), but unfortunately it was not included in the final version of the bill. “Throughout our nation’s history, whenever our country has been attached or when the enemies of freedom threaten peace in our world, American men and women in uniform, from all backgrounds and all walks of life answered the call to defend us. We owe these brave Americans a debt of gratitude that we can never fully express, but we can make sure they are well taken care of for their service,” Hensarling said. “President Calvin Coolidge once said, ‘The nation which forgets its defenders will itself be forgotten.’ I for one am committed to ensuring this nation never forgets.”
08.19.2009	MESQUITE – On Tuesday, August 18, the office of U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) hosted a Veterans Resource Fair to provide 5th District veterans with resources and information on topics such as access to VA benefits, obtaining post-service employment and small business opportunities for veterans. “Today, there are 25 million veterans in the United States and there is no group of Americans to whom we owe more thanks. You have made America what it is today and you represent the noblest ideals upon which America is built,” said Hensarling during a video introduction. “The many organizations and agencies that are assembled here today can help ensure you are getting the care you deserve. I want to assure you that I am listening to your concerns and working to protect the rights of our nation’s heroes.” Congressman Hensarling’s staff, along with representatives from the VA North Texas Healthcare System, the Texas Veterans Commission, the Small Business Administration, the North Texas Veterans Center and the Texas Workforce Commission’s Veterans Leadership Program, provided one-on-one counseling and helpful information on each of their respective programs aimed at making sure veterans understand the resources they provide. In addition to the discussion about resources available to Texas veterans, Air Force pilot and combat veteran Captain Scott O’Grady shared his inspirational story of survival after being shot down in Bosnia in 1995. Now a North Texas, resident, O’Grady detailed his survival and dramatic rescue by U.S. Marines after six days of evading capture by Serbian patrols. Congressman Hensarling’s duties as a member of the House of Representatives include helping those he represents in their dealings with federal agencies. Veterans needing assistance can contact Margaret Smith of Congressman Hensarling’s staff at (214) 349-9996.
08.04.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jeb Hensarling, the top Republican on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and the lone sitting member of Congress on the Congressional Oversight Panel (COP) for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner following press reports he “…blasted top U.S. financial regulators in an expletive-laced critique last Friday as frustration grows over the Obama Administration's faltering plan to overhaul U.S. financial regulation…”: Dear Mr. Secretary: I was alarmed at allegations that surfaced today regarding your purported intimidation of federal financial regulators, including Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke, who had expressed their concerns about aspects of the President’s regulatory reform proposal. In addition to Chairman Bernanke, this group of regulators reportedly also included FDIC Chairman Shelia Bair, Comptroller of the Currency John Dugan, Office of Thrift Supervision Acting Director John Bowman, SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro, CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler, and Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo. As reported in Wall Street Journal today, and apparently confirmed by several regulators during their testimony before the Senate Banking Committee this morning, last week you summoned these independent regulators to your offices and excoriated them for having voiced their concerns over the Administration’s restructuring plans. During the meeting, the Wall Street Journal reported that you “blasted” those present in an “expletive-laced critique” featuring the “repeated use of obscenities” and an “aggressive posture” designed to tell those regulators that “enough is enough.” Such attempted suppression of the judgment of independent regulators has no place in our or any other financial system, and is directly contrary to the Administration’s stated goals of increasing transparency and creating a safer, more stable economy. If these allegations are correct, I am gravely concerned that you would attempt to abuse your position to silence the expert opinions of the very public servants who are charged with ensuring the safety and soundness of our financial system. Federal regulators at the Fed, FDIC, SEC, OCC, CFTC, and OTS are statutorily designated as independent for a specific reason – so that they can provide unbiased assessments to Members of Congress and the public regarding the health of our financial system. Any attempt to intimidate these officials from speaking their minds or to suppress their concerns on issues affecting their agencies because it does not fit into your Administration’s political agenda would be a significant abrogation of the public’s trust and a substantial deviation from the Administration’s commitment to transparency. Thus, I request that you provide an explanation of the nature of this meeting, including what if any limits you attempted to place on these officials as well as a written explanation of Treasury’s internal policies and procedures with respect to its interaction with these independent agencies. Sincerely, JEB HENSARLING
