06.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Ami Bera (D-CA) today applauded the White House’s cancellation of a plan to cut $252 million in vital pandemic funding. In May, the Trump administration proposed slashing previously allocated funds for a number of programs, including children’s health insurance, affordable housing, and efforts to counter Ebola. Representative Bera has led Congressional opposition to cutting emergency Ebola funds. In light of the ongoing Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo that has killed at least 25 people, he urged the House Appropriations Committee and National Security Advisor John Bolton to fully fund America’s global health security programs. Congressman Bera also pressed Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on the funding in a House Foreign Affairs hearing, where the Secretary personally committed to reviewing the proposed cuts. “Cutting these funds would have been very shortsighted and I’m glad the administration listened to health experts on this issue,” said Congressman Bera. “Congress has long funded pandemic response efforts in a bipartisan manner and the United States’ unique ability to fight global outbreaks makes our help and expertise invaluable. We need to continue that leadership.” As a doctor, Congressman Bera has always been a strong supporter of American leadership in global health. He led efforts by the House Foreign Affairs Committee to address the global Zika epidemic and has pushed Congress to do more to stop future outbreaks. ###
05.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Ami Bera (D-CA) led members of Congress today in a letter to the House Appropriations Committee urging them not to cut vital pandemic funding. The Trump administration recently proposed slashing allocated, but unspent, funds for a number of programs, including children’s health insurance, affordable housing, and emergency pandemic response. Congress is expected to consider the proposal in the coming weeks. The letter – which can be read below – urges the committee not to follow through with the Trump administration’s proposal to cut $252 million reserved for responding to major pandemics like Ebola. Last week, the Democratic Republic of Congo declared they are dealing with several new cases of Ebola. Nineteen people have died and there are 39 confirmed or suspected cases across rural parts of the country. What’s more, the White House’s top official on global health security, Rear Admiral Tim Ziemer, recently left the National Security Council. Admiral Ziemer’s departure raised alarms in the global health community and it is now unclear who at the White House would be in charge in a global pandemic outbreak. “Cutting these vital funds – especially with a new Ebola outbreak on the horizon – is shortsighted and puts American lives in danger. America has a unique ability to address pandemics and Congress has long acted to fund preparedness and response efforts,” said Congressman Bera, the Vice Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. As a doctor, Congressman Bera has always been a strong supporter of American leadership in global health. He led efforts by the Foreign Affairs Committee to address the global Zika epidemic and has pushed Congress to do more to stop future outbreaks. The full text of the letter can be read below: The Honorable Rodney Frelinghuysen The Honorable Nita Lowey Chairman Ranking Member House Appropriations Committee House Appropriations Committee U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member Lowey, We urge you to reject the inclusion of $252 million in unspent Ebola supplemental funds in whatever rescissions package you may consider, in light of the declaration of an Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo this week, which experts suspect has already killed 19 people and has the potential to spread globally because of its location in a town upriver from the densely populated capital of Kinshasa. Should the outbreak spread further, the funds the administration proposes to cut may be needed to fight yet another global epidemic. The Ebola outbreak in West Africa in 2014 was both a challenge in and of itself, and a wakeup call for the United States, agencies, vulnerable countries, and international health organizations and partnerships, including the World Health Organization. This threat is current and ongoing, and requires vigilance, expertise, and basic health infrastructure that are severely lacking in some of the most vulnerable countries. However, due to these Ebola supplemental funds and regular appropriations, there have also been tremendous successes. In Cameroon, USAID helped reduce that country’s response time to recent outbreaks of cholera and bird flu from 8 weeks to just 24 hours. In Liberia, ground-zero for Ebola, just last year was able to quickly contain an outbreak of an unknown pathogen by mobilizing 14 U.S.-trained disease detectives to identify it. Americans on the ground then helped Liberia limit its outbreak, containing it in a matter of weeks, in contrast to its months-long response to Ebola two years earlier. But the work is far from over. The DRC’s outbreak is its ninth in the countries’ history. Local health officials have reported two confirmed cases, and suspect that at least 19 individuals have already died from Ebola. Experts fear that the number will grow in the coming days and weeks. The United States has invested considerable resources into the DRC to build its health infrastructure, but work is still necessary to train local experts to quickly coordinate an effective response to a pandemic. Congress has recognized that our efforts are not yet over while also making clear that we must have a plan and maintain funding to ensure these countries stand on their own. For instance, the FY18 Omnibus required the administration to submit a strategy to accelerate our work in targeted countries to prevent, detect, and respond to infectious disease outbreaks. It also used the same funding that the administration now seeks to cut in order to help these countries continue their work detecting and responding to outbreaks. United States’ leadership has made progress in global health security and preparedness possible. These investments have protected the safety of our nation and saved countless lives. Given the emerging Ebola epidemic in the Democratic Republic of Congo, we urge you to reject the inclusion of $252 million in unspent Ebola supplemental funds in this rescissions package. We need those funds now – more than ever. Sincerely, Ami Bera, M.D. Member of Congress Rick Larsen Member of Congress Gerald E. Connolly Member of Congress
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA) today pressed Energy Secretary Rick Perry on Saudi Arabia’s nuclear ambitions and his Department’s plan to stop nuclear weapons proliferation in the Middle East. Following President Trump’s decision to violate the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), commonly known as the Iran Nuclear Deal, Congressman Bera asked Secretary Perry for an update on any Saudi talks with U.S.-based companies to provide the Kingdom with 16 nuclear reactors over 25 years. Saudi Arabia is prepared to spend $80 billion dollars on the project. “By violating the Iran Nuclear Deal, President Trump has made it clear he doesn’t value nonproliferation in the Middle East,” said Congressman Bera. “Congress must ensure that the Department of Energy and Secretary Perry make a firm commitment to deter weapons proliferation in the region – including negotiating a strong 123 agreement with additional protocols. Nobody wants an arms race in the Middle East, but sadly the president’s actions have pushed us closer to that reality while alienating our allies. I am grateful for Secretary Perry clarifying the administration’s official position.” In the exchange – which can be viewed here – Secretary Perry committed that the U.S. would seek “an acceptable 123 [agreement] with additional protocols” that ensures Saudi Arabia only uses nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. Secretary Perry also said that if the Kingdom does not sign a 123 agreement with the U.S., “the message will be clear to the rest of the world” that Saudi Arabia is not concerned about being leaders in nonproliferation. In March, Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman sparked international concern when he stated that the Kingdom would build a nuclear bomb if Iran develops nuclear weapons. And today, Saudi Foreign Minister Adel Al-Jubeir echoed the Crown Prince’s statement, saying that Saudi Arabia would do everything they could to acquire a nuclear weapon if Iran began further enrichment of uranium. Congressman Bera is deeply concerned that President Trump will overlook the vitally important step of securing a comprehensive 123 agreement with Saudi Arabia in conjunction with the Kingdom contracting a U.S. company for peaceful nuclear power. ###
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Ami Bera (D-CA) introduced two bills today to expand access to affordable health care, simplify enrollment, and empower States to innovate. The two bills, the Pathway to Universal Coverage Act and the Easy Enrollment Act, are the second step in Bera’s plan to build on the progress of the Affordable Care Act. Last year Congressman Bera helped lead both the New Democrat Coalition and the Problem Solvers Caucus in releasing their plans to stabilize the individual marketplace and bring down costs for all Americans. The next step to improve health care is working towards universal coverage and further reducing costs by increasing flexibility and the choices offered to consumers. “As a doctor, I know that health care is extremely personal,” said Congressman Bera. “Too many hardworking families have been left out or left behind by premiums and deductibles they can’t afford. Americans deserve a plan that protects their current health care coverage, expands enrollment, and reduces costs for everyone. The Pathway to Universal Coverage Act and the Easy Enrollment Act are two steps we can take right now to give affordable coverage to millions.” The Pathway to Universal Coverage Act would provide grants for States to pilot opt-out insurance coverage for individuals eligible for premium assistance or Medicaid. The bill gives States the tools they need to expand coverage, including access to data, streamlined enrollment and new reporting to identify the uninsured. It also contains strong consumer protections, only allowing opt-out enrollment for people with no upfront costs and holds those auto-enrolled harmless from recoupment if their incomes change. Individuals would be given 60 days to opt-out of receiving coverage – ensuring complete consumer choice in their health care decisions. More than half of uninsured people eligible for financial help could have qualified for a health plan that required no premium in 2018. Using an opt-out model, like what has been successful for retirement plans, could have expanded coverage to at least 4 million Americans. The Easy Enrollment Act would help maximize health insurance coverage by aligning tax season with health care open enrollment. Evidence suggests that the current timing of enrollment, during the holiday season, is when people are most over-burdened and financially strained. This could be limiting the number of healthy people signing up for coverage. Shifting the enrollment period to tax season when people have up-to-date financial information means families can make more informed decisions when they aren’t under stress trying to make ends meet. This also simplifies individuals’ interactions with government – once a year you would pay taxes and sign up for health care coverage. Right now, more than 25 million Americans remain uninsured and the Trump administration’s actions have triggered double-digit premium increases. ###
03.30.2018	“As we learn more facts about this tragic shooting, our hearts go out to Stephon Clark’s family and the community. It’s very clear that we need a full investigation to find out what happened and to make sure a tragedy like this doesn’t happen again. Having served with Attorney General Xavier Becerra in Congress, I have no doubt he will conduct a thorough investigation. In this difficult time I would ask everyone to keep Stephon and his family in your prayers.”
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC — Representative Ami Bera, M.D., along with Representatives Mike Kelly (R-PA), Ron Kind (D-WI), and Markwayne Mullin (R-OK), today announced the creation of the new bipartisan Health Care Innovation Caucus. Supported by a diverse group of health care organizations across the country, the caucus will advance a legislative agenda that encourages innovative policy ideas to improve the quality of care and lower costs for consumers. With the health care industry rapidly transforming from a volume-driven system to one that rewards value and outcomes, it is vital to support a marketplace that uses multiple payment models and improves care for consumers. The main focus of the Health Care Innovation Caucus will be to explore and advance successful, innovative payment models as well as the technologies needed to support these models. Rep. Bera: “As a doctor, I know that health care is rapidly changing and it’s important Congress understands new innovations and ideas that can improve patients’ lives and lower costs. The Health Care Innovation Caucus will provide a bipartisan space for these important conversations. I am glad to join my colleagues in this effort to accelerate promising strategies to improve the health care system and ensure patients have access to cutting edge innovation.” Rep. Kelly: “With the highest cost of care per person in the world, we as a country need to think critically about how we can control costs while improving quality for Americans. The Health Care Innovation Caucus is a great opportunity for Members from both parties to come together and advance new ways of paying and coordinating health care. Knowing full well that innovation is in the DNA of America, I look forward to working with my colleagues to encourage new ideas and technology in health care.” Rep. Kind: “For too long, our health care system rewarded the volume of services, regardless of the outcome. I am proud to launch the bipartisan Healthcare Innovation Caucus and look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to explore models of care that are coordinated, integrated, patient-centered, and produce great results at a much better price.” Rep. Mullin: “Innovation is the driving force behind the evolution of today’s health care industry. The industry improves almost daily with the introduction of electronic health care records, groundbreaking cures approved by the FDA, and medical devices that create possibilities we never imagined. However, old and outdated payment models stand in the way of innovation and quality care. We need to make sure that the federal government doesn’t stand in the way as medical innovation brings health care into the 21st century. I’m proud to be a part of the Innovation Caucus which will serve as a bridge for the novel developments of the medical field as they navigate the pre-digital age laws of Congress.” ###
02.15.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA) released the following statement on the ADA Education and Reform Act: “The ADA Education and Reform Act would give small businesses a reasonable time to fix violations of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Rather than immediately face lawsuits, small business owners should be given time to actually fix what’s wrong so they can improve access and better serve all members of our community. Americans with disabilities face real challenges every day, but too often, small businesses are unaware their stores are not up to code. This bill is commonsense legislation that is consistent with the spirit of California state law. But, in listening to my constituents in Sacramento County, many are concerned that the timeframe for fixing these violations was too long. I agree. In response, I offered an amendment that cuts the time businesses have to fix these violations in half. I am glad my amendment was included, along with other meaningful changes that make the bill better by reducing the burden on individuals and closing potential loopholes. I fully support the ADA and if any business fails to comply with its provisions, there should be consequences.” For more information on this issue you can read news coverage from NPR, The Sacramento Bee, or 60 Minutes.
02.14.2018	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-07) led 18 bipartisan members of Congress in a letter urging Secretary of Veterans Affairs David Shulkin to ensure funding for a program that reduces homelessness among veterans. The program, known as HUD-VASH, serves homeless veterans and combines HUD rental vouchers with VA case management services, including health care and counseling. In Sacramento County, VASH vouchers helped fund Mather Veterans Village, a housing complex built for veterans and their families. “The VASH voucher program is a critical service that Sacramento County veterans rely on,” said Rep. Ami Bera. “Veterans have sacrificed for our country and we owe them all the support they need to live healthy, productive lives. This program has bipartisan support from across the country. Secretary Shulkin should ensure that HUD-VASH is properly funded and remove the uncertainty for our veterans still struggling to find a home.” "Congressman Bera is the ultimate champion when is comes to assisting all veterans, particularly homeless veterans in California," said Sacramento veterans advocate Don Harper. "Reducing the HUD-VASH program would be devestating for this community and others across the country. He always has our backs and as veterans, we have his back." In December, Secretary Shulkin announced that the Department of Veterans Affairs would reallocate $460 million dollars from the program to local VA hospitals. Facing fierce opposition, the VA backtracked, halting their plans for several months to receive public input. This indecision left long-term funding for the program in limbo and increased uncertainty for homeless veterans. As a doctor who has cared for veterans, Congressman Bera has seen firsthand how they have sacrificed for our country. Since taking office, Rep. Bera has helped return more than $2 million dollars in benefits and services to Sacramento County veterans. A full text of the letter can be found below: February 13, 2018 The Honorable David J. Shulkin, M.D. Secretary Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary Shulkin, We write to urge continued support and robust funding for the HUD-VASH program. As you continue your process of soliciting input on the program, we’d like to emphasize the importance of HUD-VASH program to veterans in our communities. According to the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s 2017 report to Congress on Homelessness, veterans’ homelessness rose by nearly 2 percent for the first time since 2010. Much of this was driven by increases in veterans’ homelessness on the West Coast. California had the largest absolute increase in the number of its homeless veterans- there were nearly 1900 more homeless veterans in 2017 than in 2016. Meanwhile, the state of Washington had the largest percentage increase- 41% over the previous year. Oregon has the third highest rate of unsheltered veterans. These are the homeless literally on the street and lack access to safe, temporary housing. Upon release of the report, HUD Secretary Carson noted that a lack of affordable housing, particularly on the West Coast, was “manifesting itself on our streets” in the form of homelessness. The VA has also noted the connection between a shortage of affordable housing, particularly in cities like Los Angeles and Seattle, and a corresponding rise in veterans’ homelessness. As members whose districts face a dearth of affordable housing, and whose communities confront the homelessness that often results, we could not agree more. While our communities work to address this crisis, we urge you to maintain and prioritize the VA’s support for the HUD-VASH program. We have seen firsthand how pivotal these vouchers are. By combining rental vouchers with case management services that address healthcare, substance abuse, mental health and other issues for homeless veterans, the HUD-VASH program provides a sustainable path for keeping our veterans off the street. Since the program began in 2008, the vouchers have provided housing for 138,000 veterans. But as our communities grapple with a continued lack of affordable housing, and as this year’s increase in veterans’ homelessness showed, our work is far from over. Our nation’s veterans sacrificed too much for us to turn our backs on them. The HUD-VASH’s multipronged approach to addressing the root causes of homelessness offer a solution for at-risk veterans. We owe it to them to continue this critical program- and that is why we urge its continued support and prioritization at all levels of the VA this year and for many years to come. Rep. Ami Bera, M.D. Rep. Earl Blumenauer Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard Rep. Kurt Schrader Rep. Adam Smith Rep. Peter A. DeFazio Rep. Scott Peters Rep. Jim Costa Rep. Barbara Lee Rep. Denny Heck Rep. John Garamendi Rep. Jerry McNerney Rep. Suzanne Bonamici Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler Rep. Dave Reichert Rep. Rick Larsen Rep. Suzan K. DelBene Rep. Greg Walden ###
02.12.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Ami Bera (CA-07) released the following statement after the Trump administration announced it would open up 1.3 million acres of public land to mining, reversing President Obama’s efforts to protect those lands: “After opening up California’s coastline to offshore drilling, the Trump administration has launched yet another attack on our state’s economy and environment. California has the best National Parks and public lands in the country. This decision threatens dozens of communities and unique ecosystems – not to mention southern California’s tourism and recreational economies. Instead of protecting these amazing public spaces, the Trump administration seems determined to roll back environmental protections anyway they can. The California desert plan was developed with years of study to create certainty for all kinds business while preserving our public lands. That plan also helps America move towards a clean energy future that creates jobs and protects the planet for our children and grandchildren. Why would we throw that away? I urge the administration to reconsider their decision and to stop needless attacks on California residents.” ###
02.09.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Ami Bera (CA-07) released the following statement on the bipartisan compromise to fund the government: “Today I supported bipartisan legislation to keep the government open and establish a budget. While not perfect, this bill begins to make necessary investments to improve our crumbling infrastructure, strengthen our national defense, improve the VA, increase research funding, and reauthorizes many critical health care programs. Additionally, the bill provides overdue disaster relief to help recovery from wildfires and the 2017 winter storms that impacted Sacramento County. If Congress continues to be unwilling to compromise, we will never be able to address the very real issues I had hoped to see as part of this package – meaningful immigration reform that protects DREAMers and ends their state of limbo, as well as bipartisan reforms that bring down health care costs and stabilize the marketplace.” Congressman Bera has led the fight to keep Congress accountable. One of the first bills Bera introduced was the No Budget, No Pay Act, which says if Members of Congress don’t do their jobs and pass a budget, they shouldn’t get paid. A version of this bill became law in 2013, and he is now fighting to make it permanent. Additionally, Bera has pledged to give back his pay in past and recent shutdowns.
02.02.2018	Sacramento, CA – Congressman Ami Bera, Vice Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement today in response to President Trump’s decision to publish the House Intelligence Committee’s Republican memo: “Having read both the Republican and Democratic memos prepared by the House Intelligence Committee, the president’s decision to only publish the Republican version is dangerous. The memo released today is misleading and misrepresents facts in what appears to be an attempt to undermine Special Counsel Robert Mueller. Despite urgings from the Justice Department and others in the intelligence community not to release the memo, the president has not heeded their advice. What’s more, the FBI took the unusual step to issue a statement saying they have ‘grave concerns about material omissions of fact that fundamentally impact the memo’s accuracy.’ Any release of classified intelligence should be reviewed by the appropriate agencies to ensure the information is accurate. All Americans should stand up to politicizing intelligence and attacks against law enforcement. I urge Congress and the president to immediately declassify and publish the corresponding Democratic memo. Americans deserve full transparency.” ###
02.01.2018	IN CASE YOU MISSED IT WWII veteran receives much needed assistance By Lance Armstrong Elk Grove Citizen January 31, 2018 Bill Fox sits on the back seat of a convertible at the 2014 Elk Grove Veterans’ Day Parade, where he was honorary grand marshal. Elk Grove-South County Democratic Club Treasurer Nancy Fox said that her husband, World War II veteran Bill Fox, recently received timely assistance after she contacted U.S. Rep. Ami Bera, D-Elk Grove. Bill, a Wilton resident who is currently under hospice care, is suffering from dementia, cannot walk without using a walker, and has one kidney that is operating at 28 percent. He served in a supply unit in the Pacific during World War II and he was the honorary grand marshal in the 2014 Elk Grove Veterans Day Parade. Nancy said that she contacted her local congressional office and received a list of veterans’ service officers, as well as their contact information. She then called an AMVETS veterans’ service officer, and received direction regarding federal forms. Bill later obtained an in-home caregiver and eventually hospice care through the Department of Veterans Affairs. Nancy said that, during the process of acquiring assistance for her husband, she received an unexpected phone call from her local congressman. “My phone rang; I answered and it was Congressman Ami Bera calling to check on me, to find out how I was and that if I needed anything, even if just to talk, please give him a call,” she said. -- This story follows Congressman Bera’s work helping to launch Mather Veterans Village, a housing complex for veterans that already houses 50 vets and their families. The second phase of construction is currently underway.
01.24.2018	Sacramento, CA – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. announced today that he will bring his Sacramento County constituent, Dr. Bennet Omalu, to President Trump’s State of the Union. Dr. Omalu is a Nigerian born immigrant who first discovered Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE) in football players and was recently portrayed by Will Smith in the film “Concussion.” “Dr. Omalu’s accomplishments and persistence are a testament to what immigrants bring to the United States,” said Congressman Bera. “America is a nation of immigrants, all bringing together our cultures, heritage, traditions, and religions. I am honored to bring Dr. Omalu to this year’s State of the Union. He is a great example that with hard work, anyone can achieve the American Dream.” ###
01.22.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Ami Bera (CA-07) released the following statement on opening the U.S. government: "This shutdown was a failure of leadership. Congressional leaders refused to sit down and hammer out a deal. Washington is broken, but if we refuse to negotiate we’ll never fix things. Republican leaders have pledged that we will get to vote on critical issues, including a responsible budget, stabilizing the health care marketplace, and bipartisan immigration reform. Congress is elected to serve the people. It’s time we stop bickering, roll up our sleeves, and get to work.” ###
01.20.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Ami Bera (CA-07) released the following statement on the first day of the U.S. government shutdown: “If you want evidence that Washington is broken, look no further than this shutdown. Instead of putting people before politics, Congressional leadership continues to refuse to sit down and hammer out a deal. Governing crisis to crisis is irresponsible. Congress needs to start acting like adults. We need to start talking, and more importantly, we need to start listening. We need to open the government and vote on a budget that actually addresses our challenges.” ###
01.04.2018	Sacramento, CA – Congressman Ami Bera released the following statement condemning the Trump administration’s offshore drilling announcement, opening the East and West coast to oil and gas drilling: "As kid who grew up enjoying our beautiful California beaches, this decision is a travesty. Instead of embracing energy sources that keep our air and water clean, President Trump is doubling down on drilling California’s coastline. I am seriously concerned about the potential environmental and public health risks that come with offshore drilling. We must defend our coastline and the environment from disaster, such as the BP oil spill that did such tremendous damage. Moving towards a clean energy future would ensure we create 21st century jobs and safeguard a clean environment to pass on to our children and grandchildren. This decision takes us backwards.” ###
12.21.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Ami Bera (D–CA) released the following statement on the Continuing Resolution that will fund the U.S. government until January: “This is not how you run a government. Instead of sitting down and working in the best interest of the American people, Washington keeps kicking the can down the road. This Continuing Resolution leaves critical issues unresolved and will only fund the government until January 19. Until lawmakers set aside partisan bickering and work together, Washington will continue to lurch from one crisis to another.” ###
12.15.2017	IN CASE YOU MISSED ITSacramento County approves more funding for Mather Veterans Village By John BrenneiseNews Radio KFBKDecember 15, 2017 Veterans services in Sacramento County got a nice shot in the arm last year with the Mather Veterans Village modern housing complex for veterans, and now money for Phase II has been approved. With more than 92,000 vets living in the Sacramento area, support for those who were homeless and disabled was virtually nonexistent before Mather Veterans Village opened last August. Congressman Ami Bera helped launch a project, “it shows what’s possible when the city, the county, the state, the federal government all come together around an initiative.” The facility is on the former Mather Air Force base and is close to the VA Center. And the Sacramento county board of supervisors has just approved $1 million dollars for construction for Phase II, which will offer 60 transitional housing spaces for residents who need supportive care. Supervisor Don Nottoli, “it’s very important to recognize that, ongoing, beyond the living quarters that are stellar, we have those supportive services that will be in place for the long term.” All 50 homes in Phase I are now occupied by vets and their families.
12.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Ami Bera accepted the International Franchise Association’s (IFA) 2017 Franchise Small Business Award last week for his support of the small business community. Rep. Bera was recognized for championing local franchises and businesses, as well as his leadership on smart policies that promote economic growth and job creation. “Owning a small business is part of the American Dream,” said Rep. Bera. “If you work hard and play by the rules, everyone should have the opportunity to get ahead. I’ve seen how hard small business owners work in Sacramento County and we need to support them every way we can. Thank you to the International Franchise Association for this award. I look forward to working together to continue improving Congress’ support for small business.” “Congressman Bera has proven to be steadfast advocate who ensures small businesses are protected in his district and across the country,” said IFA President and CEO Robert Cresanti. “Franchise businesses are the small business backbone of our economy and hugely important to their local communities. They create a significant portion of our nation’s jobs, give aspiring entrepreneurs a unique and guided path to business ownership, and even sponsor local teams and charitable events. On behalf of the 733,000 franchise businesses across the country and the 7.6 million people they employ, the IFA is proud to recognize Congressman Bera today.” Rep. Bera is committed to supporting Sacramento County’s vibrant small business community by fighting for common-sense tax relief, reducing burdensome regulation, and ensuring that government is a strategic partner for growth – not an obstacle. His office can also connect local businesses with resources they can use to grow and hire. For more information on Sacramento County’s small businesses, visit https://bera.house.gov/helpforbusinesses. ###
12.12.2017	Sacramento, CA – Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA) highlighted his office’s strong record of constituent services for Sacramento County residents last night. On a Telephone Town Hall, Bera thanked his staff for a productive 2017 and revealed that, since taking office, his staff has helped almost 9,000 Sacramento residents with their backlogged veterans’ benefits, Social Security and Medicare issues, stalled tax refunds, and much more. Bera also noted his office has helped return more than $4.6 million dollars to local Sacramento residents. “Listening to Sacramento County residents and making government work them is my most important job,” said Rep. Bera. “Our office does everything we can to help taxpayers cut through bureaucratic red tape and I am proud of my staff for a productive year.” Since taking office, Rep. Ami Bera’s office has helped 8,958 Sacramento County residents and returned $4,649,954 to local taxpayers. These constituents include Virgilio, an Air Force veteran who was owed thousands of dollars in backlogged benefits; Courtney, a local mother who needed help with her passport to attend her grandmother’s funeral; Carrie, a veteran who lost her GI Bill benefits; and Steve, a local doctor who was owed thousands by the IRS. You can read all these success stories and more at https://bera.house.gov/gethelp. ###
12.07.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA) released the following statement on the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act: “This bill undermines California state law. A state like Alabama is not forced to follow California’s laws. Why should Californians be forced to accept Alabama’s gun laws? The answer is simple – they shouldn’t.” ###
11.30.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Ami Bera released the following statement on cosponsoring the ME TOO Congress Act, introduced by Rep. Jackie Speier: “Members of Congress are given the public’s trust and should be held to the highest standard. The ME TOO Act is a strong first step that empowers victims of sexual harassment and holds lawmakers accountable for their behavior. This bill would provide counsel to victims, increase transparency, and require lawmakers who settle claims to personally reimburse taxpayers. Americans are sick of Washington politicians playing by a different set of rules. We need to reform this broken system to protect and support victims, not harassers. Democrats and Republicans alike need to send a clear, consistent message: sexual harassment is unacceptable and we cannot tolerate it anywhere, from anyone.” ###
11.16.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Ami Bera (D–CA) welcomed Sacramento Municipal Utility District (SMUD) Director Jason McAlister to Washington last week to help lead a discussion with Members of Congress on jobs, education, and vocational training. As the Co-Chair of the Access to Jobs Task Force, Rep. Bera invited Director McAlister to share his expertise leading SMUD’s premier training program. “SMUD’s Power Academy offers Sacramento electrical workers quality training as well as a pathway to a fulfilling career,” said Rep. Ami Bera. “Director McAlister’s discussion with members of Congress highlighted the growing need for investment in these jobs. Programs like SMUD offer greater job security and lifelong career opportunities, and Jason emphasized the need to educate teachers, parents, and guidance counselors on the benefits of these programs. This discussion opened new avenues and understanding for other members of Congress. Accredited programs like SMUD help ensure workers learn the skills they need in these careers. We were very grateful to have Director McAlister’s expertise today.” “I want to thank Representative Bera for inviting SMUD to participate in this discussion,” said SMUD Director Jason McAlister. “We appreciate his leadership and service to our community, and are grateful to speak about SMUD’s Power Academy and apprenticeship programs with Congress. For the past 70 years, SMUD has supplied affordable and reliable electricity to residents of Sacramento and is the sixth largest municipal utility in the country. There is a shortage of qualified electrical utility employees across the country. Programs like SMUD’s Power Academy provide high quality vocational training to individuals preparing to enter the electric utility industry and we hope our model can be used elsewhere to provide good-paying jobs to other communities.” The Access to Jobs Task Force will help workers achieve their full potential by eliminating outdated barriers that impact local communities and expanding access to educational opportunities, including skills development, professional licensing, and apprenticeship training. ###
11.16.2017	Sacramento, CA – Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA) released the following statement on the Republican tax bill that he voted against today: "Middle class families deserve tax reform that helps them get ahead. This bill would eliminate critical deductions that help Americans save for the future, saddle the next generation with mountains of debt, and make it harder for families to recover when unexpected tragedy hits. That's not good policy. Sacramento County families pay their fair share of taxes and are counting on us to put politics aside and work in their best interests - this bill falls short. Californians deserve better from Washington." ###
11.11.2017	Sacramento, CA – Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA) released the following statement on the ADA Education and Reform Act: “The ADA Education and Reform Act would give small businesses a reasonable time to fix violations of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Rather than immediately face lawsuits, small business owners should be given time to actually fix what’s wrong so they can improve access and better serve all members of our community. Americans with disabilities face real challenges every day, but too often, small businesses are unaware their stores are not up to code. This bill is commonsense legislation that is consistent with the spirit of California state law. I fully support the ADA and if any business fails to comply with its provisions, there should be consequences.” For more information you can read the full text of the bill here or read news coverage from NPR, The Sacramento Bee, or 60 Minutes.
11.09.2017	Sacramento, CA – Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA) released the following statement on the Save Local Business Act: “For more than 30 years, the standard of an employer is someone who has direct control over their employees. The Save Local Business Act clarifies that definition and provides certainty for small business owners fighting to achieve the American Dream. Unclear rulings and inconsistent enforcement hurt both workers and businesses. Nothing in this bill changes hard earned workers’ rights or protections.” The Save Local Business Act clarifies conflicting standards to provide one clear legal definition. You can read the full text of the bill here. A person may be considered a joint employer if they have direct, immediate control over essential terms and conditions of employment, including: Hiring employees Discharging employees Determining individual pay and benefits Day-to-day supervision of employees Assigning work schedules, positions, and tasks Administering employee discipline
10.26.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Ami Bera (D–CA) has introduced the Grid Cybersecurity Research and Development Act of 2017 aimed to bolster existing cybersecurity infrastructure, address emerging issues such as workforce training, and enhance the coordination between the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Energy. Following troubling reports that Russia has developed a cyberweapon that can disrupt power grids and that hackers have successfully penetrated nuclear power plant cybersecurity, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) issued a rare warning that “sophisticated hackers are targeting energy and industrial firms,” presenting a threat to the electrical grid and other public infrastructure. The DHS and FBI also warned that key nuclear, energy, aviation, water, and manufacturing sites have been targeted as far back as May 2017. “The safety and stability of our energy grid is a critical national security issue,” said Rep. Bera. “Safe, secure production and transmission of electricity fuels our economy and provides power to our schools, hospitals, nursing homes, and first responders. Ensuring that we protect our public and private infrastructure and have the resources to defend ourselves is essential.” The Grid Cybersecurity Research and Development Act would reauthorize funding for the Department of Energy’s Cybersecurity for Energy Delivery Systems account. The bill requires an Interagency Strategic Plan to advance cyber capabilities for the electricity sector, increases access and use of test facilities, and authorizes a comprehensive, coordinated R&D effort between the Department of Energy, the Department of Homeland Security, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and the National Science Foundation. The bill also has the support of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA). ###
10.13.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Ami Bera, M.D. released the following statement after news broke that the Trump administration will end key Affordable Care Act subsidies: “This is sabotage, plain and simple,” said Rep. Ami Bera, M.D. “Why is this administration so set on hurting millions of Americans? As a doctor, I swore an oath to do no harm – it’s time the Trump administration take that same oath. Despite multiple failed attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, I was hopeful we could finally improve health care in a bipartisan manner. Instead, President Trump has undermined the Affordable Care Act at every turn, just to fulfill a political promise. This decision will raise premium costs and increase the deficit according to the Congressional Budget Office. Creating confusion and undermining insurance markets less than three weeks before open enrollment hurts those who need insurance the most. My message to the Trump administration is clear: stop playing politics with people’s health care.” President Trump has consistently undermined the Affordable Care Act, including issuing an Executive Order yesterday that paves the way to weaken protections for people with preexisting conditions, cutting Health and Human Services outreach and marketing budget by 90 percent, reversing birth control coverage rules, cutting the open enrollment period in half, shutting down the enrollment website for 12 hours on Sundays during enrollment, and using official resources to promote anti-Affordable Care Act videos and advertisements. ###
10.06.2017	Sacramento, CA – Rep. Ami Bera, M.D. released the following statement after news broke that the Trump administration will roll back the Affordable Care Act’s birth control coverage rules: “As a doctor, I am deeply concerned and angered by the Trump administration’s decision to repeal the contraception coverage requirements in the Affordable Care Act. This rule will allow bosses to deny birth control coverage and decide what’s best for women. As a medical professional and public health expert, that’s unacceptable. Birth control is health care. It enables women to live healthier lives and enhances their economic security. A woman’s health decisions should be between her and her doctor – not her boss or Washington politicians. My job as a doctor is to listen to patients, answer their questions, and empower them to make the decisions that best fit their lives. There is no greater decision than when to start a family and become a mother. Striking this rule will make it more difficult for millions of American families to access birth control and place a large financial burden on the 62 million women who use birth control. My message to the Trump administration is crystal clear: stop playing politics with women’s health. Every doctor swears an oath to do no harm; this decision does a great deal of harm. I urge the administration to immediately reverse this decision. Every American deserves access to quality, affordable health care to lead health and productive lives – and that means contraception.” ###
10.02.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Ami Bera, M.D. released the following statement in response to the Las Vegas shooting, reportedly the deadliest shooting in modern American history. “I am deeply saddened by the tragic loss of life in Las Vegas. No community should have to fear going to the movies, a concert, or dropping their child off at school. We all mourn the loss of life in Las Vegas. Please keep the families impacted in your thoughts and prayers.” ###
09.27.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Ami Bera, M.D. released the following statement after news broke that the Trump administration will not waive shipping restrictions that are delaying Puerto Rico relief: “As a doctor, I am gravely concerned about the growing humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico. There are 3.4 million American citizens in dire need of drinking water, food, medical supplies, and electric power. We have to act now and use every option available to support response efforts. The Department of Defense says that 44 percent of Puerto Rico – American citizens – are without clean drinking water. Nearly the entire island is without power. I echo Governor Ricardo Rosselló’s comments, that Congress must immediately pass an aid package to assist Puerto Rico. The Trump administration and the Department of Homeland Security must also waive the Jones Act so more aid can reach the island as quickly as possible. Similar steps were taken in Texas and Florida after hurricane Harvey and hurricane Irma. Puerto Rico should be no different.”
09.26.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-07), the Vice Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the longest serving Indian-American in Congress, and Congressman Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06), the founder of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, introduced legislation supporting India having a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council. The resolution would put the U.S. House of Representatives officially on record in support of India's bid and has seven original cosponsors. “As the world’s oldest democracy and the world’s largest democracy, the United States and India share common values and a growing partnership on many fronts, especially defense cooperation,” said Rep. Ami Bera. “India plays a critical role as a strategic partner for the United States and is a pillar of stability in South Asia. The five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council reflect the world as it was 60 years ago, and it’s time we recognize India’s role increasing global prosperity. Securing a permanent spot for India on the UN Security Council would strengthen democracy around the world.” “I am proud to represent one of the largest Indian-American constituencies in Congress, and I strongly support India’s bid for a permanent seat on the UN Security Council,” said Congressman Pallone. “At a time when international relations are being redefined, we should acknowledge and empower those nations that share our enduring core values. It's in the interests of the United States and the world to have a U.N. Security Council whose members combine military strength with respect for democracy and pluralism, and an appreciation of the dangers posed by rouge states and terrorist groups. India belongs on the U.N. Security Council and it is imperative that Congress makes this clear to the Trump administration and the world. " The U.N. Security Council still reflects the world as it was in 1945 when the United Nations was created. Despite the fact that the U.N. has grown from 51 member nations at its inception to nearly 200, the Security Council has not grown to reflect these changes. There are currently five permanent members of the council, including the United States, United Kingdom, Russia, China, and France. The bill was introduced on the last day that the U.N. General Assembly was in session in New York. ###
09.26.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Ami Bera, M.D. welcomed the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) to Washington today to help stop the disastrous Graham-Cassidy health care bill and celebrate World Contraception Day. They released the following statements: “The Graham-Cassidy health care bill was an assault on women’s health that would have gut access to reproductive care. I am glad it’s been defeated,” said Rep. Ami Bera, M.D. “As a doctor, I took an oath to put my patients first. My job is to answer their questions, talk about the risks and benefits of options available, and then empower them to make decisions that best fit their lives. Access to affordable contraception is critical for women’s reproductive health. It enables women to live healthier lives and enhances their economic security. There’s no greater decision than when to start a family and become a mother. Protecting access to reproductive health care is at the core of any doctor’s oath.” “World Contraception Day (WCD) marks the critical role contraception plays in advancing women’s health care and building robust societies everywhere,” said Haywood Brown, M.D., president of ACOG. “Every year, contraception helps to prevent a staggering 188 million unintended pregnancies worldwide. By empowering women with choices about if, when, and how they want to start a family, contraception ensures women can align their reproductive health with social, educational, professional and financial priorities. As a physician in the United States Congress, Representative Bera is uniquely positioned to protect Americans’ access to care and keep politics out of the exam room. As Congress continues to debate health care legislation, WCD shines an important light on the need for continued and increased access to and coverage of contraceptive care for America’s women. At the moment when the World Health Organization and health experts from across the globe promote access to contraception, the United States should reject efforts to take our country backward.” “As a practicing physician, I see firsthand the vital role contraception plays in my patients’ lives,” said Katie McHugh, M.D., junior fellow at ACOG. “Access to contraception ensures young patients can finish their education without interruption; patients with heart problems can prevent unplanned and high risk pregnancies; and patients with young children can space their pregnancies as works best for their family. World Contraception Day highlights the many important ways contraception allows women to move through their daily lives, in control of their reproductive health. As a physician, Representative Bera shares this understanding and I appreciate his efforts to keep shared decision making about health care between patients and their physicians. It’s essential that we continue to guarantee patients’ access to the affordable contraception of their choice. We can't turn back the clock on women's health.” ###
09.26.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-07), the Vice Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the longest serving Indian-American in Congress, and Congressman Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06), the founder of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, introduced legislation supporting India having a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council. The resolution would put the U.S. House of Representatives officially on record in support of India's bid and has seven original cosponsors. “As the world’s oldest democracy and the world’s largest democracy, the United States and India share common values and a growing partnership on many fronts, especially defense cooperation,” said Rep. Ami Bera. “India plays a critical role as a strategic partner for the United States and is a pillar of stability in South Asia. The five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council reflect the world as it was 60 years ago, and it’s time we recognize India’s role increasing global prosperity. Securing a permanent spot for India on the UN Security Council would strengthen democracy around the world.” “I am proud to represent one of the largest Indian-American constituencies in Congress, and I strongly support India’s bid for a permanent seat on the UN Security Council,” said Congressman Pallone. “At a time when international relations are being redefined, we should acknowledge and empower those nations that share our enduring core values. It's in the interests of the United States and the world to have a U.N. Security Council whose members combine military strength with respect for democracy and pluralism, and an appreciation of the dangers posed by rouge states and terrorist groups. India belongs on the U.N. Security Council and it is imperative that Congress makes this clear to the Trump administration and the world. " The U.N. Security Council still reflects the world as it was in 1945 when the United Nations was created. Despite the fact that the U.N. has grown from 51 member nations at its inception to nearly 200, the Security Council has not grown to reflect these changes. There are currently five permanent members of the council, including the United States, United Kingdom, Russia, China, and France. The bill was introduced on the last day that the U.N. General Assembly was in session in New York. ###
09.21.2017	Elk Grove, CA – Rep. Ami Bera (CA-7) and Fire Chief Mike McLaughlin announced a multi-million dollar Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) grant today for the Cosumnes Fire Department. The SAFER grant, totaling $1,947,191, will hire eight additional Cosumnes firefighters. “State and local firefighters are the frontline of public safety,” said Rep. Ami Bera. “These men and women put their life on the line and it’s critical that we support them every way we can. First responders work tirelessly to meet the needs of the community and this funding for new staff will significantly reduce injuries and illness, overtime costs, and increase response time. This is great news for Sacramento County.” “The SAFER grant will be an enormous asset for our Department and we are grateful to FEMA for these funds restoring much-needed positions lost during the economic downturn,” said Cosumnes Fire Chief Mike McLaughlin. “The grant will fund new personnel and will enhance the safety of our community and our firefighters. More firefighters reduce the need for mandatory overtime and add flexibility to our force.” This $1.94 million dollar grant is part of over five million dollars awarded to Sacramento County by the Department of Homeland Security this year. The grants also follow a $3,742,000 dollar grant to Mather Airport earlier this year. ###
09.05.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA) released the following statement in response to the Trump administration’s decision to end Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA): “This decision by the Trump administration goes against our American values, plain and simple. Children brought to the United States – through no fault of their own – deserve our compassion. These children have passed background checks and are already contributing to our economy as productive residents. Detaining and deporting children is not only morally wrong, it doesn’t make economic sense. I urge the administration to reverse this decision immediately.”
09.03.2017	Sacramento, CA – Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA), the Vice Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement after North Korea detonated a nuclear device: “Having just returned from South Korea and having met with President Moon Jae-in and Foreign Minister Kang Kyung-wha, the United States stands fully behind our South Korean allies. North Korea’s latest nuclear detonation is unacceptable and Kim Jong-un must understand that any military action taken by North Korea will be swiftly met by an American response. I am also troubled by President Trump’s recent actions to undermine the vital U.S.-South Korean alliance. Allies deserve our support, not a president who casts doubts between our two nations. China too must take responsibility and help stabilize the Korean peninsula. Their unwillingness to engage North Korea is exacerbating tensions in the region. The United States stands ready and prepared to defend our South Korean allies, and North Korea must be held accountable for its actions. Now is the time to ratchet up economic sanctions targeting Kim Jong-un’s regime and work tirelessly to find diplomatic solutions.” ###
08.26.2017	Sacramento, C.A. – Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to the Trump administration’s ban on transgender people serving in the military: “If you wear an American military uniform, you deserve the respect and support of the Commander-in-Chief. Unfortunately, Donald Trump is more comfortable peddling in discrimination and bigotry, and he’s shown that he is unable to support our troops. Thousands of transgender men and women serve in the United States military. Removing these men and women from service or refusing recruits because of who they are goes against every American value they swear to defend. To those who serve, thank you for your sacrifice. You deserve better.” ###
08.26.2017	“Today is the 97th anniversary of the 19th Amendment, granting women the right to vote. Women’s Equality Day celebrates the courage, fortitude, and conviction of the brave women and men who fought for equality in the early 1900s. Nearly one hundred years later, America has accomplished so much for women’s equality, but there is still work to do. Women today face many obstacles in the workplace, whether it be receiving unequal pay for equal work or being denied paid family leave. When women are passed over for promotions or denied higher salaries, that has a real impact on millions of American families. As a doctor, I’ve also seen firsthand the assault on women’s health and reproductive rights. Equality and empowerment should mean the right to control your own body and make your own health care decisions. This Women’s Equality Day honors the struggles and sacrifices of those American heroes who fought for the right to vote. We should celebrate their success by continuing our own struggle for gender equality – and we will not stop the fight until every woman and girl has an equal opportunity to reach her highest potential and realize her dreams.” ###
08.14.2017	Sacramento, C.A. – Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA) issued the following statement after white supremacist protests turned violent in Charlottesville, Virginia: “The violence in Charlottesville is an example of what happens when politicians tolerate hatred and bigotry. As a candidate, Donald Trump knew these hate groups supported his campaign. In both his rhetoric and actions, Trump encouraged these groups to come out of the shadows. He gave groups like the KKK and white supremacists legitimacy and a voice. Sadly, that trend has continued during the Trump presidency. This weekend, the former leader of the Klu Klux Klan, David Duke, was recorded saying, “we’re going to fulfill the promises to Donald Trump, and that’s what we believe in, that’s why we voted for Donald Trump.” As Americans, we must all come together and say with one voice that hate and bigotry have no place in this country. President Trump has failed – for two days – to condemn these hate groups outright. I call on the president to do so immediately.” ###
07.28.2017	Sacramento, C.A. – Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA) issued the following statement after the Republican Senate plan repealing the Affordable Care Act failed last night: “As a doctor, I swore an oath: to do good, to do no harm, and to help patients make the best health care decisions for their own circumstances. This week, Senator John McCain called for a return to bipartisanship – I could not agree more. Sacramento County faces real health care challenges and it’s time Washington put aside the political games and worked to improve the lives of the American people. I recently led ten of my colleagues who released a plan to improve the Affordable Care Act. Just a few weeks later, our plan has the support of over 80 House Democrats. We are ready and willing to come to the table with solutions. I hope to work with my Republican colleagues in the coming weeks to put patients first, cut costs, and increase the number of people insured.” Congressman Ami Bera is one of only two Democratic doctors in Congress. Before being elected to the House of Representatives he served as Sacramento’s Chief Medical Officer, directed care management in Mercy Healthcare’s seven-hospital system, practiced private medicine, and taught at the UC Davis School of Medicine. ###
07.25.2017	Washington, D.C.­ – Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA), the Vice-Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the House voted to pass a bill that punishes Russian interference in the 2016 elections and imposes additional sanctions on Iran and North Korea: “Russia, Iran, and North Korea present significant challenges to peace and stability around the world. The United States will always defend our values at home and abroad and that means confronting our adversaries when they threaten our nation or our interests. “Russia’s attempts in 2016 to sway our elections cannot be tolerated. This bipartisan bill responds to Russia by imposing additional sanctions on the country while preventing President Trump from repealing sanctions against Russia without Congressional approval. These sanctions will also degrade Russia’s ability to spread disinformation and deter them from launching future cyberattacks. “In the Middle East, these sanctions target anyone who provides financial or technical support to Iran’s ballistic missile program and exposes Iran’s human rights violations. The bill also enacts a strong arms embargo that weakens Iran’s ability to obtain heavy weaponry such as helicopters, tanks, and missiles. These sanctions will greatly improve our ability to counter and contain Iranian threats and aggression in the region. “Finally, this bill continues to put pressure on the North Korean regime and those who do business with them. By targeting their missile program and financial sector, it will help drive North Korea back to the negotiating table so we can resolve this crisis peacefully.” ###
07.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA) released the following statement after the largest update to the GI Bill in ten years passed the House of Representatives. Rep. Bera was a sponsor of the bill that removes time limits for veterans to claim benefits, adds funding for vets pursuing STEM degrees, and increases benefits for thousands of Reservists and National Guard members. “We owe our veterans gratitude and respect for the sacrifices they’ve made to keep our country safe. This bill enhances veterans’ benefits and provides quicker processing to get vets the care they deserve. Veterans are a small segment of the population, but they have given this country so much. This bill ensures that veterans have access to the best support and resources when they return home,” said Rep. Bera. Rep. Bera has championed veterans’ issues in Congress, including fighting for more transparency at the VA. In Sacramento County, Bera’s office has held resource workshops and career fairs specifically for veterans, and has helped more than 1,700 Sacramento veterans with their government issues, returning over $1.8 million in owed benefits to veterans and their families. ###
07.21.2017	Sacramento, CA – Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) announced a major, multi-million dollar grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) today to improve Sacramento Mather Airport. The grant of $3,742,000 will be used to resurface pavement areas and upgrade drainage systems that will improve the airport’s safety and efficiency. “Mather Airport is a vital part of Sacramento’s aviation and cargo infrastructure. This multi-million dollar grant will make Mather more convenient for passengers and businesses looking to invest in Sacramento. This is great news for our community and I look forward to seeing the improvements very soon,” said Rep. Bera. Congressman Bera believes the United States should continue to invest in future infrastructure, and that means funding Sacramento’s long term success. This year’s $3,742,000 FAA grant follows a $788,000 grant awarded to Mather Airport in 2016. ###
07.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D., along with Congressman Jim Renacci (R-OH), introduced the Protecting Consumer Access to Vision Care Act of 2017 today. This bill would provide relief from the health insurance tax (HIT) for stand-alone vision plans under the Affordable Care Act. “As a doctor, I know how important eye health is to whole health. This simple, bipartisan idea puts the patient first and helps keep care affordable for seniors and families. These fixes are exactly the kind of reform both Democrats and Republicans can get behind,” said Rep. Bera. “Access to vision care is critical, especially for those 88 million Americans who are served by SAVPs, with over 4 million covered in Ohio alone. Since vision plans provide limited-scope health coverage, they are not subject to ACA market reforms and therefore should be exempt from other ACA taxes and fees,” said Rep. Renacci. “In fact, unlike other traditional health insurance subject to the fee, SAVPs are excluded from being offered directly on the Exchanges per the ACA.” Stand-alone vision plans cover routine eye exams and are critical in revealing other conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, tumors, and undiagnosed strokes. The health insurance tax can place an undue burden on vision plans, leading to higher prices and limited eye care. ###
07.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA) applauded the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act today with measures he strongly supports, including an increase in military pay, funds for America’s fight against ISIS and al-Qaeda, and measures to thwart Russian aggression. “Our men and women in uniform deserve this much needed pay raise,” said Rep. Bera. “This bipartisan bill enhances our ability to fight ISIS and strengthens our commitment to veterans transitioning back to civilian life.” Six amendments Rep. Bera sponsored were also included in the bill, including permanently requiring mental health assessments for servicemembers during their deployment and expediting the replacement of medals for World War II and Korean War veterans. ###
06.22.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA) released the following statement in response to the Senate plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act: Just like the bill the House majority rushed to pass that takes health care away from 23 million people, the Senate’s plan would do incredible harm to America’s patients. Without any public input, the Senate is preparing to overhaul the health care system and make it more difficult for hardworking families to afford the care they need. This bill increases out of pocket costs and makes even deeper cuts than the House bill to health care for children, pregnant women, people with disabilities, and the elderly. As a doctor, I don’t want to go back to a time when too many of my patients were one catastrophe away from losing everything. Health care isn’t about politics – it’s about people’s lives. I hope that Senators will listen to the concerns of patients and physicians across the country and start over with a genuine attempt to improve care and lower costs. Before serving in Congress, Dr. Bera practiced internal medicine, served as Sacramento County’s Chief Medical Officer, and taught at the UC Davis School of Medicine.
05.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA), issued the following statement after nonpartisan experts determined the impact of the House Majority’s bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office’s updated report on the latest version of the House-passed health care bill, 23 million hardworking Americans will lose their health care, premiums will rise by more than 20 percent by next year, and the bill will make it harder for older Americans and those with preexisting conditions to purchase health care. “Just as we suspected, the version of this bill that was rammed through the House would still kick millions of hardworking Americans off their health care, force patients to pay more for less coverage, and make it harder for people with preexisting conditions and seniors to get health care,” said Rep. Bera. “As a doctor, I’m urging Democrats and Republicans to come together to fix the Affordable Care Act and make it better because we cannot play politics with people's lives.” According to the nonpartisan CBO, “people who are less healthy (including those with preexisting or newly acquired medical conditions) would ultimately be unable to purchase comprehensive nongroup health insurance at premiums comparable to those under current law, if they could purchase it at all.” Rep. Bera is one of two Democratic doctors in Congress, and before being elected to the U.S. House of Representatives served as the Chief Medical Officer to Sacramento County, practiced internal medicine, and taught at the UC Davis School of Medicine. ###
05.17.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA) released the following statement after the Justice Department appointed former FBI Director Robert Mueller special counsel to lead the investigation into potential ties between Russia and the Trump campaign, and Russian interference in the 2016 election. “We owe it to the American people to find out what happened, and I’m encouraged to see that the Justice Department has appointed a special counsel to lead the investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election. I hope Former Director Mueller, a tried public servant, is given the opportunity to conduct a thorough and independent investigation to get to the bottom of this. It’s time to put politics aside for the sake of our democracy.” Rep. Bera has served on the House Foreign Affairs Committee since 2013, and currently serves as the Vice Ranking Member. ###
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Representative Ami Bera (D-CA) are leading the effort in Congress to support students who work their way through school. Today, Rep. Bera and Sen. Baldwin introduced the Working Students Act to allow students who must work while in college to complete their degrees more quickly and with less debt“Increasing access to affordable education is core to rebuilding our middle class and that means a student’s decision to take paid work while they’re in school should not impede their access to financial aid,” said Rep. Bera. “We should be encouraging students to get valuable work experience early and start saving for their futures – and I’m proud to say this bill does just that.” “As I’ve traveled Wisconsin, I have heard firsthand from students and graduates struggling with the cost of higher education in America,” said Senator Baldwin. “Making college affordable is one of the most important steps we can take toward building a strong path to the middle class for all Americans. Students who work while in school should not be penalized with less access to financial aid. I’m proud to introduce legislation to help ensure that working students have the opportunity to earn an affordable higher education and succeed in the workforce.” Nearly 44 million Americans have outstanding student loans. According to data from the Federal Reserve, student loan debt totals more than $1.4 trillion across the country. The rising debt load makes it more difficult for young professionals to purchase homes, automobiles, and other goods, creating a huge drag on the overall economy. Currently, students who work while attending school often are eligible for less financial aid due to their work income. The Working Students Act will allow students that must work while in college to complete their degrees more quickly and with less debt. The legislation increases the amount working students can earn without that income counting against them in accessing need-based federal financial aid, including Pell Grants. This legislation is cosponsored by U.S. Senators Jack Reed (D-RI), Tim Kaine (D-VA) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH). A copy of the Working Students Act is available here. ###
05.15.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Ami Bera, (D-CA), released the following statement following reports that President Donald Trump shared highly classified information regarding the Islamic State with Russian officials at a meeting in the Oval Office. If the reports are true that President Trump shared highly classified information with Russian officials, this is the latest in a series of concerning actions that undermine the trust of our allies and compromise our national security. Intelligence sharing is crucial in the fight against terror, and this reckless disclosure jeopardizes our relationships, and our ability to win that fight. Americans deserve a leader who has sound judgment and respect for the work our intelligence community and allies risk their lives for. According to reports, Trump described details of an Islamic State threat – intelligence provided by a U.S. ally -- during his meeting with Russian officials. Rep. Bera has served on the House Foreign Affairs Committee since 2013, and serves as the committee’s Vice-Ranking Member. ###
05.04.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA) released the following statement after the House narrowly voted to pass the American Health Care Act, the Majority’s bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. Rep. Bera voted against the bill, which experts predict will kick 24 million hardworking Americans off of their health care, and eliminates protections for preexisting conditions. “While the House Republicans celebrate at the White House, millions of hardworking Americans are worrying about whether they will be able to stay on their health care plans. I don’t want to go back to a time when my patients would have to make health care decisions based on their insurance coverage, and this bill is going to make it a lot harder for people with treatable diseases like arthritis, diabetes, heart disease, and survivors of cancer and assault to get health care. We cannot play politics with people’s lives, and what happened today put political goals ahead of the lives of hardworking Americans. The fact that this bill was rushed through with no budget analysis or public debate shows just how bad it is. This is a sad day for America’s patients, and for the public’s trust in Congress.” Before serving in Congress, Dr. Bera practiced internal medicine, served as Sacramento County’s Chief Medical Officer, and taught at the UC Davis School of Medicine. ###
04.07.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Today, Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA) released the below statement following targeted missile strikes in Syria: "The actions of the Syrian government are horrific acts and cannot be tolerated by the United States and our allies. The administration’s use of targeted missile strikes against a military target was a measured response to Assad’s use of chemical weapons against his own people. If the President wants to pursue any further use of military force in Syria, he must work with Congress to authorize a comprehensive plan to address this complicated conflict. I stand ready to return to Washington.” Rep. Bera serves as the Vice Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and has served on the Committee since 2013.
04.04.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Today, Rep. Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-07), pushed back against the US Department of State’s announcement that it would cut off funding to the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), which provides maternal and women’s health care in 150 countries, including Iraq, South Sudan, Syria, Yemen, and Somalia. US funding to UNFPA in 2016 went to pregnancy check-ups, family planning, midwife training, and HIV/AIDS prevention in some of the world’s most conflict-ridden areas. “Denying women in refugee camps and war zones the resources to ensure they give birth safely is not only misguided, it is cruel," Rep. Bera said. We know that these small but crucial funds are working to save the lives of the most vulnerable women and children who are suffering from our worst humanitarian crises in recent history. As a doctor, I am outraged that instead of stepping up to save lives, the administration is walking away.” According to the UNFPA, in 2016, the program gave 800,000 people access to contraception, prevented 320,000 unintended pregnancies, and averted 100,000 unsafe abortions. In Jordan’s Refugee camps alone, nearly 50,000 women could lose safe delivery services without UNFPA funding. Rep. Bera is one of only two Democratic doctors in Congress, and has served on the House Foreign Affairs Committee since 2013.
04.04.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Ami Bera, (D-CA) cosponsored the Paycheck Fairness Act on Equal Pay Day, a day to bring awareness to the gender income gap that exists in America and around the world. The bill takes a number of crucial steps to close the pay gap by strengthening the Equal Pay Act of 1963, guaranteeing that women can challenge pay discrimination to hold their employers accountable, and protecting women from retaliation if they ask about their company’s pay policies. "Today is a reminder that in our nation, a woman earns on average eighty percent of what her male counterparts earn for the same work,” Rep. Bera said. “The gender pay gap hurts women, their families, and our economy. I want my daughter to grow up in a country where she knows her work is just as valuable as her male coworkers’ and that her salary reflects it. That’s why I’m fighting in Congress for equal pay for equal work.” Equal Pay Day is recognized in April, to symbolize the amount of time a woman will have to work into the next year to earn what her male counterparts earned for the same work in the year before. It’s held on a Tuesday to mark that same pay disparity from the previous work week. Rep. Bera is an original co-sponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act, which was introduced in the 113th and 114th Congresses. ###
03.30.2017	Washington, DC -- Four years after landmark legislation that led to Congress passing America’s budget on time after years of partisan gridlock, Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA) helped reintroduce the No Budget, No Pay Act. Bera renewed his call for Democrats and Republicans to do their jobs and get Congress working again by joining Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN), Rep. Ron DeSantis (R-FL), and Rep. Vern Buchanan (R-FL) as a lead cosponsor of the bill that would halt paychecks for members of Congress and Senators if they do not pass a budget on time.“If Congress doesn’t do its job for the American people and pass a budget on time, they shouldn’t get paid,” said Rep. Bera. “Appropriations and budget season is on the horizon, and we’ve got to get Congress working again, starting with holding Members and Senators accountable through a permanent No Budget, No Pay Act. Federal funding runs out in less than a month unless we can come together, do our jobs, and pass a budget.” In 2013, Rep. Bera, alongside Reps. Reid Ribble (R-WI), Ron DeSantis (R-FL), Jim Cooper (D-TN), and others introduced the No Budget, No Pay Act, and Congress overwhelmingly passed a one-year version of the bill into law. That year, both the House and Senate passed a budget on time in for the first time in years. With only nine legislative days and less than a month until federal funding runs out, Bera stressed the need for Congressional accountability to pass America's budget. Earlier this month, Rep. Bera raised concerns that the White House’s budget proposal would make it harder for Sacramento County families to get ahead, make it harder to fund local projects, and diminish our ability to respond to floods or forest fires. The No Budget, No Pay Act introduced in the 115th Congress is permanent and would stop member and Senator pay for each day after Sept. 30 that budget and spending bills are not passed. ###
03.28.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA) released the following statement after the White House signed an executive order rolling back environmental efforts aimed at reducing carbon emissions and preparing for the impact of climate change: Putting America first means preparing our nation for the storms and extreme weather that are impacting us as a direct result of climate change. Putting America first means continuing our role as a global leader in reducing carbon emissions. Our work over the last decade to reduce carbon emissions put America first -- and this irresponsible executive order throws into uncertainty how we prepare for and tackle the very real consequences of climate change. We in Sacramento County know all too well the havoc that the dual risk of flooding and drought have on our communities. We risk throwing away decades of hard work growing the clean energy economy and connecting our nation’s workers to the jobs of the future with this partisan and misguided action. Rep. Bera has served on the Science, Space, and Technology Committee since the 113th Congress, in 2013, and currently serves as the ranking member on Space subcommittee.
03.24.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA), released the following statement after the House majority cancelled a vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act: This bill would have kicked millions of hardworking Americans off of their health care, raised the cost of coverage for families, and imposed an age tax on our parents and grandparents. I hope that after cancelling this vote, the Speaker and the majority will hear loud and clear that playing politics with peoples’ health care is not going to work. Now is the time for Democrats and Republicans to come together, because the job isn’t over until every American has affordable and accessible healthcare. Real lives are at stake here and I’m ready to get to work. It’s estimated that more than 100,000 hardworking Americans in Sacramento County would have lost their health care under the proposed legislation. Dr. Bera is one of just two Democratic doctors in Congress, and practiced internal medicine, taught at the UC Davis school of medicine, and served Sacramento County as Chief Medical Officer before being elected to Congress. ###
03.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA) released the following statement after the White House released its proposed budget: The budget that the White House put forward this morning is bad for Sacramento County, and it’s bad for California. Instead of making our middle class stronger, this budget will make it harder for hardworking Americans to get ahead. The entire family – children, working parents, and seniors – will be hit, and it’s going to hurt them. This shortsighted budget makes it harder for our region to fund local projects, diminishes our ability to respond to floods or forest fires, damages our air and water, and hinders our children’s education all the way from kindergarten to their chances of getting an internship. As a doctor, I’m outraged that this budget undermines American scientists who are on the brink of discovering lifesaving cures, and leaves us more vulnerable to global health epidemics like the Zika and Ebola Viruses. In the face of current global challenges, the drastic cuts to our international affairs programs will undermine America’s world leadership and threaten our security. The bottom line is that middle class families should not shoulder the costs of the President’s agenda. Rep. Bera is one of only two Democratic doctors in the U.S. House of Representatives, and serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee as Vice-Ranking Member. ###
03.08.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Ami Bera (D CA-7) introduced TechCorps, a bill that would incentivize the best and brightest Science Technology Engineering and Math (STEM) graduates to enter the federal workforce through a debt forgiveness program. Bera’s bill addresses both the federal government’s acute challenges to recruit enough talented cyber professionals to fill crucial roles, and the debt that students face when they graduate, by creating a new national service program. Tech Corps would forgive federal student debt for STEM graduates who go to work for the federal government in cyber and information technology positions for at least two years and offer loan forgiveness for up to four years. “We have critical national security needs that are going unmet because the government struggles to attract and retain necessary talent,” said Rep. Bera. “This bill will make it possible to hire the best and the brightest to keep our country safe. Providing student debt relief in return for service in crucial cybersecurity and technology jobs makes it possible for the next generation to serve their country.” The government’s difficulty competing with high-paying tech companies not only leaves our nation at risk to a cyber threat, but means that outdated and inefficient technology could impede access to online services. How Tech Corps works The bill would create a new national service program within the Corporation for National and Community Service, called TechCorps Qualified TechCorps positions would be any cybersecurity or IT job vacancy across the federal government If a TechCorps member serves for two years, they would be eligible to receive forgiveness on 50 percent of their current loan obligation. If they serve an additional one or two years in their job, they would be eligible for forgiveness of an additional 25% for an additional year of service, to a maximum of $31,000 Cyber and Technology Workforce According to the US Chief Information Officer, in late 2015, the government needed to fill at least 10,000 additional IT and cybersecurity positions More than 527,000 open computing jobs nationwide saw fewer than 43,000 computer science graduates enter the work force Rep. Bera has served on the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee since the 113th Congress, in 2013, and currently serves as the Ranking Member for the Subcommittee on Space. ###
03.07.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Rep. Ami Bera, ranking member of the House Subcommittee on Space, released the following statement after the House voted to pass the NASA Transition Authorization Act, which establishes a funding range for the nation’s space program. For nearly 60 years, NASA has been one of our nation’s greatest symbols of American excellence and ingenuity, and I’m pleased that the NASA Transition Authorization Act will provide important funding stability for our mission in space and aeronautics. That said, I believe this bill would have been better served by a comprehensive multi-mission outlook that includes Earth Science, Planetary Science, Astrophysics, and Heliophysics. I’m energized that this bill establishes a requirement for NASA to provide a Human Exploration Roadmap that lays out how we send humans to the surface of Mars – something that I believe we can, must, and will achieve. The NASA Transition Authorization Act sets a funding cap for NASA at $19.5 billion for fiscal year 2017, and commits the agency to outlining a comprehensive strategy to send humans to the surface of Mars. The passage of this bill through the House marks the first time since 2010 that Congress has passed authorization to fund NASA. ###
03.06.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Today, Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA), the Vice-Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the President signed a second executive order affecting immigrants and refugees from Yemen, Syria, Somalia, Libya, Sudan, and Iran. “My job is to keep our country safe, and this kind of ban on travel does not enhance our national security -- in fact it makes us less safe. As Americans, it is not who we are to turn our backs on people who are fleeing persecution. This is a bad second attempt at an executive order that is just as un-American and xenophobic as the first version that was struck down by multiple courts. If you or anyone you know is experiencing issues or has concerns because of this executive order, my office is here to help. Contact us at bera.house.gov or (916) 635-0505." Bera, along with other members of Congress, introduced the SOLVE Act to block a previous executive order, announced Jan. 27, that affected travelers from Iraq, in addition to Yemen, Syria, Somalia, Libya, Sudan, and Iran, and took effect immediately after it was signed. ###
03.03.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Vice-ranking member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Rep. Ami Bera released the following statement following Attorney General Jeff Sessions' announcement that he would recuse himself from any Department of Justice investigation into Russia’s involvement in the 2016 election: Jeff Sessions' decision to recuse himself from any investigation is the right thing to do, but if it's found that he lied under oath, he must resign and should face the legal consequences. Otherwise, it undermines the integrity of our laws. Our national security and enforcing our laws are not partisan issues. Rep. Bera has served on the House Foreign Affairs Committee since the 113th Congress, in 2013. ###
02.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) will attend this year’s Joint Session of Congress with an undocumented student whose ability to pursue the American Dream was made possible by immigration policies that face uncertainty under the new administration. Rep. Bera’s guest, 25-year-old Alfredo Rivas, arrived in the United States at age 13 after fleeing El Salvador with his family, and despite excellent academic grades, tuition costs prevented him from attending college. Through immigration policies including AB 540 and the 2011 California Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors (DREAM) Act, Rivas became eligible to pay in-state tuition, qualified for financial aid, and is pursuing his goal to become an immigration attorney. “When people ask me where I’m from, I say ‘California’ but I have worried every day since the election that my family or I could get deported at any time. DREAMers are here, we love this country just like every other American, and it gives me courage to know that there are people like Congressman Bera who have my back,” said Rivas. The immigration policies that allowed Rivas to take the steps to attend college and pursue his dream face an uncertain future under the new administration. “As a nation of immigrants, it is not who we are to turn our backs on people who have risked everything for a chance at the American dream. Alfredo’s hard work and love for our country exemplify our American values. The next time the President talks about undocumented immigrants, I want him to think about this bright young man and others like him,” said Bera. *** To arrange an interview with Rep. Bera, please contact Annie Ellison at 202-809-2398 or annie.ellison@mail.house.gov. ***
02.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) released the following statement after a fatal attack on two Indian Americans in Kansas. According to reports, the shooter said “get out of my country” before opening fire on the two men, both engineers at Garmin Ltd., killing 32-year-old Srinivas Kuchibhotla and injuring Alok Madasani and Ian Grillot. "As details emerge about the nature of this crime, it is disturbing for all Americans that a potential hate crime could happen here. Racism and xenophobia have no place in America, and I have full confidence that the investigating agencies will determine whether this crime was motivated by prejudice. As a nation of immigrants, it is not who we are to attack someone based on where they come from or what they look like. This senseless attack on these young men is a tragedy and my thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families." In his third term representing California’s 7th Congressional district, Bera is the longest currently serving Indian American member of Congress.
02.14.2017	Washington, D.C. –Today, Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA) was elected ranking member of the Space Subcommittee of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. Bera has served on the subcommittee since being elected in 2013 to the 113th Congress. “As a kid who grew up during the height of the space race dreaming of what lay beyond us, it’s an honor to be selected to serve as the ranking member for the Subcommittee on Space,” said Rep. Bera. “I look forward to working with my colleagues to continue our nation’s leading tradition of innovation in space for the 115th Congress.” California is home to some of the world’s leaders in the aerospace industry, including Aerojet Rocketdyne in Rancho Cordova, inside California’s 7th Congressional district, and NASA research facilities across the state. The space industry contributes billions each year to California’s economy.
01.29.2017	Elk Grove, CA -- Today, Rep. Ami Bera (CA-07) released the following statement regarding the President's Executive Order affecting immigrants and refugees: "This executive order is a dramatic overreach that lacks understanding of and respect for our constitution, and goes against the core of what makes us Americans. As a member of Congress, it is my duty to speak out against actions that I believe are unAmerican, and I urge my colleagues -- both Democrats and Republicans -- to do the same. Law-abiding, documented residents of our country are facing chaos and instability. The uncertainty this has created among workers, students, and at our airports is wreaking havoc on families and businesses. The message this sends internationally does not reflect who we are as a nation of immigrants -- we do not close our doors to those who are fleeing persecution, or target people based on their faith. Since being elected, my office and I have helped constituents navigate a wide range of immigration issues, and we are here to continue to help. Contact us at bera.house.gov."
01.24.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Ami Bera (CA-07), was named the Vice Ranking Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, a new deputy position. The new Vice Ranking Member positions are intended to better harness emerging leaders in order to strengthen the fight on behalf of hard-working Americans. “I’m honored that my colleagues unanimously put their confidence in me to serve in this new ranking position, and I’m energized to continue advancing the role America plays in ensuring stability and security in an increasingly complex global landscape,” said Rep. Bera. Bera has served on the Foreign Affairs Committee since first being elected to the 113th Congress in 2013. Please click here to see the announcement from Democratic Ranking Member Engel here. ###
01.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) issued the following statement after voting against House Republicans’ budget designed to repeal the Affordable Care Act: Today, I voted against a reckless budget that was drafted for the clear purpose of repealing the Affordable Care Act. Despite rhetoric of “Repeal and Replace,” I have yet to see a meaningful replacement, without which millions of hardworking Americans would lose their health care, and thousands of workers would lose their jobs. Now more than ever, I want to work with my colleagues in the House to improve and make the Affordable Care Act better so that we can reduce the cost of health care and medication for families, seniors, businesses, and taxpayers, and keep Americans healthy. ###
01.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7), Chair of the Caucus on India and Indian Americans, applauded the Army’s Religious Accommodation Policy as an important step forward for Sikh Americans in the Army. The January 3 update allows for Sikh Americans in the Army to receive career-long accommodations to wear articles of faith, such as a turban or beard, and to gain that approval from a brigade-level commander. Observant Sikhs must avoid shaving their beards, and maintain their hair uncut under a turban. “This is an important step in ensuring that our military can draw on the best and brightest patriots our nation has to offer, no matter what their faith or culture,” said Rep. Ami Bera. Prior to the announcement, Sikhs were required to submit to a religious accommodation process granting them limited, impermanent permission to wear articles of faith through the Secretary of the Army. Last month, in concert with the Sikh Coalition, Bera advocated for a constituent from California’s 7th District, Private Shabaddeep Singh Jammu, to obtain long-term religious accommodation. “Ever since I was 18, I’ve wanted to enlist, so this is a dream come true,” said Shabaddeep Singh Jammu. “This is a step toward showing America that as Sikhs we love this country, that this is really our country, and I hope to see one day that every Sikh can serve in the military without needing a religious accommodation,” said Shabaddeep Singh Jammu. “As a patriotic Sikh American, the ideals of service and moral character that Private Jammu holds are both prized by the Army and integral to his faith. We are better served when Private Jammu is serving the country that he loves, and I’m happy that all Sikhs in the army will be eligible for that same long-term accommodation,” said Rep. Ami Bera. Since taking office, Bera has led a years-long effort on behalf of Sikhs in law enforcement, sport, and the military. Bera, along with Rep. Joe Crowley (D-NY), pushed the International Basketball Federation (FIBA) to change its policy requiring Sikhs and other players to remove articles of faith during international competition, in addition to multiple letters signed by dozens of Members of Congress urging FIBA’s board to end its discriminatory policy against players who wear turbans. ###
12.05.2016	Washington, DC—Reps. Bera and Reed today announced plans for the Problem Solvers Caucus, which features dozens of Democrats and Republican focused on forging bipartisan cooperation in early 2017 and beyond. The shape and focus of this caucus was discussed today at No Labels’ first-ever bipartisan leaders meeting, 1787: Constructing the Peace After the War. Although many members of this caucus have been meeting regularly for well over a year to build trust and seek common ground, today’s announcement marked an elevated commitment from the members, as the new caucus will be formalizing a leadership structure and developing a more ambitious legislative agenda. “I’m proud to lead the Problem Solvers Caucus with my colleague Rep. Reed,” said Congressman Ami Bera. “Working together with other members of Congress to find solutions to the challenges that Americans are most concerned about has been my goal since I entered Congress. This caucus is a great way to get members from both sides of the aisle to focus on areas where we agree and can make progress.” “We care about developing solutions for our nation’s most pressing challenges,” said Tom Reed (R, NY-23). “It’s only right that we work together to find common ground on these issues with our bipartisan partners in Congress. We look forward to getting to work with our colleagues in the Problem Solvers caucus and bringing about meaningful change for the benefit of all Americans.” Many members of the Problem Solvers Caucus had previously signed a resolution (H.Res. 207) calling for both parties to come together to make progress on the four goals outlined in the National Strategic Agenda: · Create 25 million jobs over the next 10 years · Secure Social Security and Medicare for the next 75 years · Balance the Budget by 2030 · Make America energy secure by 2024 These goals set a vision for where the country needs to go, and the resolution also highlights the importance of working on broad issues like tax reform and investing in our transportation and infrastructure. With a new President and Congress about to take office, members of the Problem Solvers Caucus will aim to play a pivotal role in passing policies that advance these four goals. ###
10.26.2016	Elk Grove – Today, following a letter from Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-7) the Department of Defense called for an end to the National Guard’s recoupment of bonuses from California veterans. In a story that was first uncovered by The Sacramento Bee (LINK) with recent developments from the Los Angeles Times (LINK), almost 10,000 California National Guard soldiers were ordered to pay back enlistment bonuses received as many as ten years after signing up to serve in Iraq and Afghanistan. Congressman Bera contacted the Department of Defense and the National Guard to halt this recoupment from soldiers who served their country in good faith and are now being held responsible for a fraudulent scheme carried out by California National Guard officials to meet enlistment goals. “I’m glad that Secretary of Defense Carter saw what I saw, that the National Guard’s harsh bonus recoupment on thousands of California veterans was unfair, and put a stop to it,” said Congressman Bera. “As a doctor who’s cared for veterans, I’ve seen firsthand their sacrifices for our country and the extent to which they will work to keep all Americans safe. These soldiers completed the service obligations in exchange for these benefits, so I’m glad the Department of Defense has done the right thing by announcing those who served should not be required to pay back these benefits and is working to fix the process." Congressman Bera has championed veterans’ causes in Congress, including fighting for more transparency at the VA. In Sacramento County, Bera’s office has held several resource workshops and career fairs specifically for veterans, and has helped more than 1,700 Sacramento County veterans with their government issues, returning over $1.9 million in owed benefits to veterans and their families. The text of Congressman Bera’s letter is below: The Honorable Ash Carter Secretary U.S. Department of Defense The Pentagon Washington, DC 20301 General Joseph L. Lengyel Chief National Guard Bureau 111 South George Mason Drive, AHS2 Arlington, VA 22204 Dear Secretary Carter and General Lengyel, As you are aware, recent reports have found thousands of California National Guard members are being ordered to repay enlistment benefits many years after receiving them. I write today to urge the Department of Defense to immediately suspend the repossession of these benefits. Thousands of Californians enlisted or reenlisted to serve their country under an agreement that provided financial incentive payments. An investigation and subsequent audit found that many of these benefits were improperly awarded and those found responsible for awarding these bonuses were held accountable for their actions. There is no excuse for fraud within our government. However, soldiers who served our country should not be penalized for the mistakes of others. These soldiers volunteered to fight for our country and were promised these benefits and students loan repayments for their service. Men and women who have bravely served our nation should be able to keep the benefits that were earned in good faith. Recouping these benefits, in some cases a decade after the bonuses were issued, places these service members in an unfair and difficult financial situation through no fault of their own. Although Congress must take long-term action to investigate and solve this problem at a national level, I urge the Department to halt the collection of these bonuses at this time to prevent placing more service members in financial hardship. I appreciate your attention to this issue and I ask that you take quick action to stop this unfair collection. I look forward to hearing from you about this important issue. Sincerely, Ami Bera, M.D. Member of Congress ###
10.24.2016	Elk Grove – Today, Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-7) called for an end to the National Guard’s recoupment of bonuses from California veterans. In a story that was first uncovered by The Sacramento Bee (LINK) with recent developments from the Los Angeles Times (LINK), almost 10,000 California National Guard soldiers were ordered to pay back enlistment bonuses received as many as ten years after signing up to serve in Iraq and Afghanistan. Congressman Bera contacted the Department of Defense and the National Guard to halt this recoupment from many soldiers who served their country in good faith and are now being held responsible for a fraudulent scheme carried out by California National Guard officials to meet enlistment goals. “As a doctor who’s cared for veterans, I’ve seen firsthand their sacrifices for our country and the extent to which they will work to keep all Americans safe,” said Congressman Bera. “I was deeply disappointed by the recent reports of the National Guard bonus recoupment issue. That’s why I’ve sent a letter directly to the Secretary of Defense and the Chief of the National Guard to stop this unnecessarily harsh action on our veterans. These soldiers completed the service obligations in exchange for these benefits, so they should not be required to pay back these benefits. To use such tactics as wage garnishment or tax liens on men and women who signed up to defend our nation during wartime is troubling to say the least.” Congressman Bera has championed veterans’ causes in Congress, including fighting for more transparency at the VA. In Sacramento County, Bera’s office has held several resource workshops and career fairs specifically for veterans, and has helped more than 1,700 Sacramento County veterans with their government issues, returning over $1.9 million in owed benefits to veterans and their families. The text of Congressman Bera’s letter is below: The Honorable Ash Carter Secretary U.S. Department of Defense The Pentagon Washington, DC 20301 General Joseph L. Lengyel Chief National Guard Bureau 111 South George Mason Drive, AHS2 Arlington, VA 22204 Dear Secretary Carter and General Lengyel, As you are aware, recent reports have found thousands of California National Guard members are being ordered to repay enlistment benefits many years after receiving them. I write today to urge the Department of Defense to immediately suspend the repossession of these benefits. Thousands of Californians enlisted or reenlisted to serve their country under an agreement that provided financial incentive payments. An investigation and subsequent audit found that many of these benefits were improperly awarded and those found responsible for awarding these bonuses were held accountable for their actions. There is no excuse for fraud within our government. However, soldiers who served our country should not be penalized for the mistakes of others. These soldiers volunteered to fight for our country and were promised these benefits and students loan repayments for their service. Men and women who have bravely served our nation should be able to keep the benefits that were earned in good faith. Recouping these benefits, in some cases a decade after the bonuses were issued, places these service members in an unfair and difficult financial situation through no fault of their own. Although Congress must take long-term action to investigate and solve this problem at a national level, I urge the Department to halt the collection of these bonuses at this time to prevent placing more service members in financial hardship. I appreciate your attention to this issue and I ask that you take quick action to stop this unfair collection. I look forward to hearing from you about this important issue. Sincerely, Ami Bera, M.D. Member of Congress ###
10.13.2016	Mather – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) announced that Volunteers of America of Greater Sacramento and Northern Nevada, Inc. has received a grant of $1,226,241 from the Department of Veterans Affairs under the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program. The funding is directed to help very low-income veteran families around the nation who are permanently housed or transitioning to permanent housing, as well as services to prevent homelessness for veterans and their families. Congressman Bera was joined by VOA Director of Veterans Services Becca Bettis, and Rancho Cordova City Council Member and Air Force veteran Bob McGarvey. “We owe our veterans a debt of gratitude and respect for the sacrifices they've made to keep our country safe,” said Congressman Bera. “This investment from the VA in the Sacramento VOA will make a big difference for our veterans who need a helping hand. I’m proud to have the opportunity to secure these funds, and I’ll continue to fight to make sure that our vets have the resources they need to thrive when they return home.” "Through this VA grant we will serve at risk or homeless veteran households with financial assistance and case management. We are honored to continue to serve this population as they so honorably served our country," said Christie Holderegger, VP Volunteers of America Northern California and Northern Nevada. “The care and housing of our nation’s veterans is a top priority for the City of Rancho Cordova,” said Council Member Robert McGarvey, an Air Force veteran. “Rancho Cordova is a vibrant community with a strong military heritage that is home to over 5,000 veterans and their families. We are proud to have recently opened the first phase of Mather Veterans Village, which provides a home for veterans who are homeless and disabled. This grant will ensure that Rancho Cordova veterans, including those at the village, will continue to receive support services that address their unique needs.” This grant will allow the Sacramento VOA to continue to provide eligible veteran families with assistance in the form of obtaining VA and other benefits such as health care, income support services, financial planning, child care, legal services, transportation, and housing counseling. The VOA will continue to establish relationships with the local community to leverage supportive services that will enhance the housing stability of very low-income veteran families. Congressman Bera has championed veterans’ causes in Congress, including fighting for more transparency at the VA. In Sacramento County, Bera’s office has held several resource workshops and career fairs specifically for veterans, and has helped more than 1,700 Sacramento County veterans with their government issues, returning over $1.8 million in owed benefits to veterans and their families. ###
10.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-7) and Lois Capps (CA-24) today announced that Covered California has resolved an issue for pregnant women who have been dropped from their health insurance due to a computer glitch. As reported in the Sacramento Bee on April 18, nearly 2,000 women who reported their pregnancies to Covered California were switched to Medi-Cal, or in some cases dropped from their insurance altogether, without their knowledge. Bera and Capps were joined by 14 other California representatives in their call. “No woman should have to worry about losing health care while pregnant,” said Bera and Capps. “Prenatal health care is critically important for both mother and baby, and so is the peace of mind that comes with knowing your health coverage will be there when you need it. We’re pleased that Covered California has fixed this situation.” The text of the Representatives’ original letter is below: Diana Dooley Secretary, California Health and Human Services 1600 9th Street, Room 450 Sacramento, CA 95814 Mr. Peter V. Lee Executive Director, California Health Benefit Exchange 560 J Street, Suite 270 Sacramento, CA 95814 Dear Secretary Dooley and Mr. Lee, We write to ensure that women in California have uninterrupted access to health care throughout their pregnancies. Prenatal care is critical for healthy births and provides a foundation of lifelong health. Your leadership to expand health coverage for uninsured pregnant women has made it possible for countless families to welcome healthy babies. Pregnancy-Related Medi-Cal and the Medi-Cal Access Program (MCAP) provide an important bridge to affordable care for working women. Optimal prenatal care begins early and includes regular visits to establish a continuous relationship with a team of providers. No woman should have to worry about losing health care while pregnant. That’s why we were concerned to learn that a glitch in the system has been terminating Covered California plans for pregnant women without notice. While we appreciate your efforts to ensure women can switch between plans, we remain concerned that until the problem is fixed in late 2016, women will continue to be unenrolled from their Covered California plans and lose access to their current medical providers. We encourage you to develop a proactive plan to ensure that there are no care interruptions. Specifically we ask that you notify all women before any changes in their health coverage are made. We thank you for your prompt attention to this issue and stand ready to work together to guarantee that all pregnant women are aware of their coverage options and have access to high quality prenatal care. Sincerely, ###
09.30.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) released the following statement after 40 years of the Hyde Amendment: “As a doctor and as a father, I firmly believe that a woman’s health decisions should be between her and her doctor. Respecting a patient’s autonomy is something I take seriously, as I’ve spent countless hours one-on-one with patients discussing their questions and concerns about their health. Politicians have no place deciding medical treatment for anyone, which is why I strongly oppose the Hyde Amendment, which denies critical services to women who need them the most and are unable to afford them. No one should be denied access to a health service because of their income. Instead of dictating choices to women, Congress should be working to improve both access and the quality of healthcare. That’s why I’ve fought against witch hunts in Congress to defund organizations that provide cancer screenings, checkups, and other preventative care services to women. No one’s reproductive decisions should be based on their income, and I look forward to the day when the Hyde Amendment will be history.”
09.16.2016	Elk Grove – Today, Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-7) announced a U.S. Department of Justice grant of $179,674 for the Elk Grove Police Department and WEAVE Sacramento to combat domestic violence. This investment will be used continue a program that places advocates within the police department to work specifically with victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and elder abuse. Dr. Bera was joined by Elk Grove Chief of Police Robert Lehner and WEAVE CEO Beth Hassett, as well as members of the Elk Grove Police Department and WEAVE staff. “As a doctor who has cared for victims of sexual violence and the father of a teenage daughter, I know the programs this grant makes possible are critical to keeping our community safe. No one should ever have to live in fear of enduring domestic abuse. The support provided by our police officers and WEAVE is an invaluable asset that has resulted in more abusers being apprehended and punished. I’m proud to have played a part in keeping this effective program going,” said Congressman Bera. “For a city such as ours – where the majority of our violent crime is domestic violence related – a partnership with a caring and effective advocacy group is vitally important. We learned how important when this grant was when it was first awarded several years ago. We are grateful for this grant that funds our onsite victim advocate from WEAVE and know it will continue to contribute positively to the services we are able to provide our victims,” said Elk Grove Chief of Police Robert Lehner. "The continued funding of the Elk Grove Police Department Domestic Violence Response Team demonstrates the value of partnership between domestic violence service providers and law enforcement. When Advocates can work side by side with officers, survivors are safer, stronger, and better supported. The model has allowed WEAVE to provided consistent and high quality advocacy while allowing officers and detectives to focus on their roles as investigators. We are proud to continue this lifesaving program with the Elk Grove Police Department,” said WEAVE CEO Beth Hassett. This grant is a renewal of funding for the Domestic Violence Response Team Program, which was reestablished in 2013 between WEAVE and the Elk Grove Police Department. Through federal investment, WEAVE is able to have embedded advocates in EGPD Investigations Department who ensure victims of domestic violence, dating, sexual assault, stalking, and elder abuse have access to a supportive point of contact within the department. WEAVE advocates can accompany victims to court hearings, assist in accessing legal assistance with Domestic Violence Restraining Orders, and more. Advocates ensure that victims receive appropriate support from a trained professional while allowing police officers to focus on their investigative role. The program has helped to increase victim willingness to participate in investigation and prosecution, resulting in more abusers being held accountable and increasing public safety. ###
09.07.2016	Sacramento – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) announced that Volunteers of America of Greater Sacramento and Northern Nevada, Inc. has received a grant of $1,226,241 from the Department of Veterans Affairs under the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program. The funding is directed to help very low-income veteran families around the nation who are permanently housed or transitioning to permanent housing, as well as services to prevent homelessness for veterans and their families. “We owe our veterans a debt of gratitude and respect for the sacrifices they've made to keep our country safe,” said Congressman Bera. “This investment from the VA in the Sacramento VOA will make a big difference for our veterans who need a helping hand. I’m proud to have the opportunity to secure these funds, and I’ll continue to fight to make sure that our vets have the resources they need to thrive when they return home.” "Through this VA grant we will serve 220 at risk or homeless veteran households with financial assistance and case management. We are honored to continue to serve this population as they so honorably served our country," said Christie Holderegger, VP Volunteers of America Northern California and Northern Nevada. This grant will allow the Sacramento VOA to continue to provide eligible veteran families with assistance in the form of obtaining VA and other benefits such as health care, income support services, financial planning, child care, legal services, transportation, and housing counseling. The VOA will continue to establish relationships with the local community to leverage supportive services that will enhance the housing stability of very low-income veteran families. Congressman Bera has championed veterans’ causes in Congress, including fighting for more transparency at the VA. In Sacramento County, Bera’s office has held several resource workshops and career fairs specifically for veterans, and has helped more than 1,700 Sacramento County veterans with their government issues, returning over $1.8 million in owed benefits to veterans and their families.
08.31.2016	Rancho Cordova – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) delivered remarks at the Mather Veterans Village dedication. Congressman Bera has been a strong supporter of the village, by securing 50 additional housing vouchers for the project from both the VA and HUD, which was key to keeping the project on schedule. He also participated the groundbreaking of the project in October 2014, and his office has worked to provide services and information to many of the veterans who will be living in the village. “We owe our veterans a debt of gratitude and respect for the sacrifices they've made to keep our country safe,” said Congressman Bera. “This facility is more than a place for veterans who need a place to sleep – it’s a community of servicemembers who can offer support in many forms to help veterans get back on their feet. I’m proud to have played a part in securing assistance from the federal government to complete this project on time. Mather Veterans Village is a model facility for the county that shows how to provide care for our men and women who have served so honorably.” Congressman Bera has championed veterans’ causes in Congress, including fighting for more transparency at the VA. In Sacramento County, Bera’s office has held several resource workshops and career fairs specifically for veterans, and has helped more than 1,700 Sacramento County veterans with their government issues, returning over $1.8 million in owed benefits to veterans and their families. Bera has also co-authored and passed the bipartisan Healthcare for Heroes Act, which constructs a streamlined and easily accessibly electronic health record system for service members and veterans. This initiative will have the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs merge their electronic health records, to save money, help make the transition to civilian life easier for veterans, and help address the VA backlog.
08.25.2016	Sacramento – Today, Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-7) called on the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to take immediate action to make lower cost alternatives available in response to exorbitantly priced EpiPens from the drug manufacturer Mylan. Currently, EpiPens have a virtual monopoly on the market for emergency allergy attack treatment. In the letter, Congressman Bera asks the FDA to address processes that may limit competition and allow some companies to drastically increase prices. Today, Mylan announced they would offer additional coupons for EpiPens, but have not addressed the underlying cost. “As a doctor, I know that in the case of an allergic reaction no time can be wasted and we can’t allow anything to stand in the way of immediate access to epinephrine.” said Bera. “$600 for an EpiPen is outrageous, and Mylan must be held accountable for their pricing on a life-saving drug. That’s why I’m calling on the FDA to make sure that families have other more affordable and safe options to EpiPens so that no one needs to make a choice between paying their bills or having a life-saving drug.” Congressman Bera has previously urged the FDA to regulate the prices of life-saving drugs. He lead the push to ensure that drug companies are not able to charge excessive prices for drugs, like in the case of Martin Shkreli and Turing Pharmaceuticals. The text of the letter is below: Robert Califf, M.D. Commissioner U.S. Food and Drug Administration 10903 New Hampshire Avenue Silver Spring, MD 20993 Dear Dr. Califf, I write today again concerned about significant price increases for lifesaving medications and ask for your assistance in ensuring families have access to lower price alternatives. After a February 2016 letter with 29 of my colleagues, I was pleased to see the subsequent announcement that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) would speed up the review of “sole source” drugs. However, like many Americans, I was outraged this week to see the exorbitant price increase for EpiPens by Mylan. While drug price increases have become too common, I believe this is a unique case that deserves additional attention. As a doctor, I know that in the case of certain acute allergic reactions, individuals need epinephrine administered immediately. The most common, and virtually universal, device used to deliver epinephrine by an individual in the event of an anaphylactic reaction is the EpiPen. This device takes a century old medication and packages it in a self-administered format. This is a truly lifesaving medication. However, as a result of a more than 400% price increase, a single prescription now costs more than $600, a prohibitive price for many individuals. Because of the single use format, short shelf life, and unpredictable nature of allergic reactions, most families must purchase multiple EpiPens each year. No family should have to decide between filling a lifesaving prescription or paying their bills. I have concerns that the underlying processes at the FDA have created conditions that have given Mylan a virtual monopoly, allowing them to drastically increase prices without consequence. Within the past year, three possible alternatives have either been rejected by the FDA or taken off the market. With appropriate competition there is increased ability to negotiate lower prices and as a result keep prices in check. I ask that you take all necessary steps to prioritize approval of alternatives to exorbitantly priced drugs, like the EpiPen, and that you work with companies that have submitted meaningful alternatives to facilitate rapid development of safe substitutes. Additionally, I ask that you reevaluate existing guidance regarding therapeutic equivalency. Current FDA guidance prohibits families from substituting EpiPens with existing less expensive epinephrine alternatives. Uncertainty surrounding bioequivalence has contributed to provider dependence on a single pharmaceutical and discouraged insurance coverage of alternatives. What additional research is necessary to inform bioequivalence and how can Congress support the shared goal of safe innovation? Thank you for your continued work toward an efficient approval process that encourages vigorous competition. I appreciate your immediate attention and look forward to working together to advance lower price alternatives to expensive medications. Sincerely, Ami Bera, M.D. Member of Congress
08.24.2016	Sacramento – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7), Co-Chair of the House Caucus on India and Indian Americans and currently the only Indian American serving in Congress, announced that the United States Postal Service will issue a Diwali Commemorative Stamp. Congressman Bera has pushed for a stamp since he came to Congress in 2013, leading the effort by co-sponsoring several resolutions, most recently H. Res. 32. "I'm thrilled that the United States Postal Service has issued a stamp to celebrate Diwali,” said Congressman Bera. “Diwali is a celebration of goodness over evil observed by nearly a billion people around the world, including more than two million right here in the U.S. This stamp is long overdue, and I’m glad Diwali has the same acknowledgment as many other major religious holidays do with a commemorative stamp.” As Co-Chair of the House Caucus on India and Indian Americans, Congressman Bera organized the largest Congressional Celebration of Diwali last November, with over 1,000 participants and more than 30 members of Congress. The annual celebration focuses on the accomplishments of the Indian American Diaspora in Washington, and highlights the contributions of the South Asian community in business, technology, health care, arts, academics, and much more.
08.23.2016	Sacramento – Today, Congressmen Ami Bera (D-CA), Co-Chair of the House Caucus on India and Indian Americans and the only Indian-American Member of Congress, and Joe Crowley (D-NY), led over 40 Members of Congress in sending a letter to the International Basketball Federation (FIBA) reiterating their strong support for a change in policy that requires Sikhs and other players to remove their articles of faith, such as turbans, in international competition. Two years ago, in response to a letter led by Crowley and Bera, and strong public pressure, FIBA announced that it would review the issue and begin a testing phase that would allow players to wear head coverings starting in summer 2015, with an ultimate eye toward a final decision after the 2016 Olympics, which ended on Sunday. “Every day that FIBA has delayed this decision is another day that Sikhs can’t play,” said Crowley and Bera. “This is a policy that can only be described as outdated, discriminatory, and totally inconsistent with the ideals of team sports, and it is long past time it change. That’s why we have continued to push for action, including with this latest letter, and we thank all those who have raised their voices with us. Our message to FIBA is simple: let them play!” FIBA’s discriminatory policy came to light in 2014 when two Sikh players who were told by referees that they must remove their turbans if they were to play in FIBA’s Asia Cup. The players, who have always played in turbans, were told that they were in violation of one of FIBA’s official rules, which states, “Players shall not wear equipment (objects) that may cause injury to other players.” However, there is no evidence that a Sikh turban poses a threat to cause injury, and other sports leagues, such as Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) and the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), allow athletes wearing turbans to participate. Following the Asia Cup incident, Crowley and Bera led multiple letters signed by dozens of Members of Congress urging FIBA’s board to end its discriminatory policy against players who wear turbans. In addition to Sikhs, changes to FIBA’s policy could also allow players practicing other religions, such as Islam, to participate in international basketball. The full text of the letter is below: Horacio Muratori President International Basketball Federation /Federation Internationale de Basketball Route Suisse 5 1295 Miles - Switzerland Dear President Muratori, Nearly two years ago the International Basketball Federation (FIBA), after preventing observant Sikhs from participating in international games, announced that it would review its policies and after the 2016 Olympics make a decision on whether observant Sikh basketball players may participate in future FIBA games. In explaining its ban of observant Sikhs, FIBA said the wearing of a small turban violated Article 4.4.2 of FIBA’s official rules, which states that “Players shall not wear equipment (objects) that may cause injury to other players.” Now, as we are days or weeks away from FIBA’s timeline for a final decision, we reiterate strong Congressional support for a decisive change in FIBA policies. Sikhs participate in a wide variety of sports around the globe, and there has never been a single instance of someone being harmed or injured by a turban, or of a turban interfering with the sport. Already, at both the amateur and professional levels, Sikhs have played sports without a problem. This includes Sikh American Dipanjot Singh, who played Division I basketball at the University of Illinois at Chicago in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) before going on to play semi-professional basketball in several leagues. It also includes Darsh Preet Singh, who played at the NCAA level at Trinity University in Texas. Both were beloved by teammates and excelled in their roles. Darsh’s jersey has been at the Smithsonian Museum in Washington, DC to help recognize him as the first-ever Sikh-American to play in the NCAA. Observant Sikhs excel at more than basketball. In fact, the Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) already changed its policies to ensure that Sikhs and other religious minorities are not subjected to discrimination. Sikh FIFA players wear turbans while playing in international soccer events. Given this information, it is long past time that FIBA ends discrimination against observant Sikhs and allows them to participate; such a change could also expand opportunities for players of other faiths, such as observant Muslims. Basketball has rapidly become a global sport popular not only in the United States but in countries like India where many Sikhs proudly participate. There is no justification for continuing the ban, and we strongly appeal to you to quickly announce that observant Sikhs and others may participate in all FIBA games without being forced to remove their articles of faith. Sincerely, Joseph Crowley Ami Bera Grace Meng Jim McDermott Michael M. Honda Sheila Jackson Lee Bill Pascrell, Jr. Judy Chu Donna F. Edwards Eric Swalwell Nydia M. Velázquez Keith Ellison Mark Takano Carolyn B. Maloney Bobby Rush Ted Deutch John Garamendi Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. Eliot L. Engel Gregory W. Meeks Zoe Lofgren Adam Smith Mark DeSaulnier Tulsi Gabbard Jackie Speier Bonnie Watson Coleman Jim Costa Don S. Beyer, Jr. Frank Pallone Kathleen Rice Brad Sherman James P. McGovern Earl Blumenauer Chris Van Hollen Eleanor Holmes Norton Jan Schakowsky Sean Patrick Maloney Barbara Lee Ben Ray Luján Steve Israel Linda Sánchez Paul Tonko Danny K. Davis
08.12.2016	Sacramento – Congressman Ami Bera's (CA-7) District Director, Matthew Ceccato will address the Stand Out Veterans Diversity Conference TOMORROW, Saturday August 13th at 9:00am at the American River College. Ceccato is a veteran and previously served as a Wounded Warrior Fellow in Congressman Bera's office. Dr. Bera has championed veterans causes in Congress, including fighting for more transparency at the VA. In Sacramento County, Bera’s office has held several resource workshops and career fairs specifically for veterans, and has helped more than 1,700 Sacramento County veterans with their government issues, returning over $1.8 million in owed benefits to veterans and their families. When: Saturday, August 13th, 9:00 am Where: American River College - Student Center 4700 College Oak Drive Sacramento, CA 95841 ***Please contact Alex Miller at alex.j.miller@mail.house.gov or 202-809-2398 to RSVP
08.11.2016	Florin – This week, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) celebrated National Farmers Market Week with a farm-to-fork tour of the 7th District that included a children’s cooking class in Elk Grove, a visit to the Florin Farmers Market, and a tour of Davis Ranch in Sloughhouse. Sacramento County sits at the heart of one of the most vibrant agricultural areas in the world, with over $495 million in crop production in 2014 alone. “As a doctor and a dad, I know that ensuring our kids and families have access to healthy, fresh food is critical to their health and success,” Bera said. “Agriculture is the backbone of our local economy, and our farmers produce some of the best crops in the world. I was happy to have the chance to see local programs in action this week that bring our world-class produce from farms to markets to tables right here in Sacramento County. We must continue to support our farmers and programs that help folks get the nutritious food they need to lead healthy lives.” Bera’s farm-to-fork tour began with a visit to a children’s cooking class in Elk Grove, where Dr. Bera discussed the importance of healthy habits and nutrition. The class was hosted by the Food Literacy Center, a Sacramento-based group that teaches low-income elementary children the importance of healthy cooking and nutrition. Congressman Bera toured the farmers market in Florin this morning, where he met with local farmers to discuss the unique challenges they face, and learn how Congress can help markets like these that accept payment assistance like food stamps to get fresh foods into underserved communities. This afternoon, he toured Davis Ranch, which grows and supplies seasonal produce to Sacramento County. More photos of Congressman Bera’s farm-to-fork tour can be found here: https://flic.kr/s/aHskEVy9NR
08.04.2016	Folsom – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) met with local entrepreneurs from startups to discuss ways to encourage local business growth in Sacramento County on Startup Day Across America in Folsom. Startup Day is a national effort to celebrate the ingenuity and entrepreneurship taking place right in our backyard by connecting elected officials with the startups in their communities to learn about the challenges new companies face and help generate support for startups across the country. Congressman Bera was joined by innovators from several local startups, including Locable, New Wallet, Pondera Solutions, and Tallac. Velocity Venture Capital, a Sacramento area organization that helps startups get off the ground, partnered to host the event. “I’m proud to participate in Startup Day Across America and am particularly proud of the progress Sacramento County is making to support startups and encourage them to grow and thrive in the 21st century economy,” said Bera. “This is an invaluable opportunity to bring together public and private stakeholders from our region to learn from one another about how we can cultivate and support startup growth and job creation.” Congressman Bera has worked closely with the business and startup community to find ways to support their efforts through hosting small business workshops to connect businesses with federal and local resources, inviting the head of the U.S. Small Business Administration to meet with local businesses, and by personally touring businesses throughout the district. He is also a strong advocate of increasing investment in infrastructure, research and development, and looking for innovative ways to make capital accessible for entrepreneurs. “We are enthusiastic about having an exploratory discussion about innovation, technology and policy in the Sacramento Region with Congressmen Bera,” said Jack Crawford, General Partner at Velocity Venture Capital. “As a startup that has incubated and grown here in the Capital, it is nice to see Congress taking interest in supporting tech companies like ours in the region,” said Pat Bumpus, VP of Marketing for New Wallet.
08.04.2016	Washington, D.C. – In advance of the Summer Olympic Games in Rio, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7), currently the only Indian American Member of Congress, and Congressman Joe Crowley (NY-14) are calling on the International Basketball Federation (FIBA) to change its policy and allow observant Sikhs to participate in international basketball competition. The Press Trust of India reported on the renewed push that Bera and Crowley first began nearly two years ago. Presently, FIBA's policies prevent observant Sikhs from playing basketball while wearing a small turban, even though the Sikh turban doesn’t interfere with participation in sports and poses no danger to fellow players. Congressman Bera has been a champion for religious expression for Sikhs, and has been vocal on the right to wear articles of faith while in police uniform, serving in the military, and competing in athletic events. He has also successfully fought to put protections in place against hate crimes, discrimination, and bullying targeted at the Sikh community. The article can be found here, and the text is below: Allow Sikh basketball players: US lawmakers From Lalit K Jha Top US lawmakers, including an Indian-American Congressman are making a final push to urge the International Basketball Federation to change its policies that discriminates Sikh players over head gear or turbans. Democratic Congressman Joe Crowley, Vice Chairman of Democratic Caucus and Indian-American Congressman Ami Bera have launched a signature campaign among their Congressional colleagues to write a letter to the International Basketball Federation (FIBA) maintaining their support for a change in the policy that requires Sikhs and other players to remove their articles of faith, such as turbans, in international competitions. FIBA is weeks away from making such a decision. "It is long past time that FIBA ends discrimination against observant Sikhs and allows them to participate." "Basketball has rapidly become a global sport, popular not only in the United States but in countries like India where many Sikhs proudly participate," the letter currently under circulation among members of the US House of Representatives says. The letter addressed to the International Basketball Federation chief Horacio Muratori asserts that there is no justification for continuing the ban. "We strongly appeal to you to quickly announce that observant Sikhs may participate in all FIBA games without being forced to remove their articles of faith," the letter read which is likely to be sent after the Rio Olympics. Nearly two years ago the federation, after preventing observant Sikhs from participating in international games, announced that it would review its policies and after the 2016 Olympics and make a decision on whether observant Sikh basketball players can participate in future FIBA games. In explaining its ban of observant Sikhs, FIBA said the wearing of a small turban violated article 4.4.2 of FIBA's official rules, which states that, "Players shall not wear equipment (objects) that may cause injury to other players." "Now, as we are weeks away from FIBA's timeline for a final decision, we reiterate strong Congressional support for a decisive change in FIBA policies," the letter said. Sikhs participate in a wide variety of sports around the globe, and there has never been a single instance of someone being harmed or injured by a turban, or of a turban interfering with the sport, it added. At both the amateur and professional levels, Sikhs have already played sports without a problem. This includes Sikh American Dipanjot Singh, who played Division I basketball at the University of Illinois in Chicago in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) before playing semi-professional basketball in several leagues. It also includes Darsh Preet Singh, who played at the NCAA level at the University of Texas. Both were beloved by teammates and excelled in their roles. Darsh's jersey has been at the Smithsonian Museum in Washington, DC to help recognise him as the first-ever Sikh-American to play in the NCAA. Sikh FIFA players wear turbans while playing in international soccer events, the letter says. ###
07.22.2016	Sacramento – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) announced a major grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for upgrades to Mather Airport’s runways. The grant of $788,500 will be used to rehabilitate and upgrade the taxiway to FAA standards and to install runway lights along the taxiway. Congressman Bera was joined by Airport Director John Wheat and Airport Chief Administrative Officer for Planning and Development TJ Chen, and will discussed other ongoing projects to improve the safety and efficiency of the airport. “This investment in Sacramento Mather Airport is great news for our community,” said Congressman Bera. “Improving the conditions of the runway and safety with lights is critical to attracting, maintaining, and expanding private investment and economic development in the area. Making our airport more convenient and efficient to passengers and businesses has a positive impact on our community and our economy.” “Sacramento County is grateful of the efforts made by the Congressman to secure Federal funding from the FAA to improve the airfield at Mather Airport, which is a vital component of the aviation and cargo infrastructure for the Sacramento region,” said Airport Director John Wheat. This grant will fund the rehabilitation of approximately 670 feet of the existing connector Taxiway B-North that is needed to maintain structural integrity of the pavement. It will also fund the installation of a new Taxiway B-North edge lighting system to enhance safe airfield operations during low visibility conditions.
07.22.2016	Sacramento – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) called on NBA Commissioner Adam Silver to consider Sacramento as a host city for the 2017 NBA All-Star Game. Yesterday, it was announced that the NBA will not hold the game in Charlotte due to the "bathroom law," a recently enacted state law that eliminates protections for the LGBT community. Congressman Bera highlighted the brand new Golden 1 Center, Sacramento’s regional assets and the inclusive and welcoming spirit of the city. “I can think of no better place for the NBA to host the 2017 All-Star Game than at our new Golden 1 Center in Sacramento,” said Congressman Bera. “We have the infrastructure and experience from hosting Sacramento Kings games and fans from around the country for years. Our community is diverse and welcoming to visitors, no matter who they are, and would be excited to host an event of this caliber.” The text of the letter is below: Dear Commissioner Silver, Following Thursday's reports that the National Basketball Association will no longer hold the 2017 All-Star Game in Charlotte, I write to ask that you strongly consider Sacramento as a host city. With the new, state-of-the- art Golden 1 Center, conveniently located near several major airports, our city is the perfect place to hold this event. More importantly, I am proud of how our region embodies inclusivity and know that all members of the NBA community will be welcomed with open arms and hospitality. As you know, the brand new Golden 1 Center will open this October as the home to our Sacramento Kings. Not only is this facility set to deliver an unmatched fan experience, it's also on the cutting edge of environmental sustainability. The arena is the first major sports venue in North America that will be powered fully by solar energy, and will source much of the concessions from fewer than 150 miles away. We're proud to be nicknamed America's Farm-to-Fork Capital! NBA games have been a staple of the Sacramento community for years, so we've had plenty of practice with hosting enthusiastic fans from all over the country. The Golden 1 Center is located in downtown Sacramento, providing easy access to restaurants, bars, shops, and hotels to accommodate guests from out of town. New public transportation will also be available, including bike lanes and several bus and rail routes. Our infrastructure makes it easy to get around a world-class city without the world-class traffic you might find in larger metro areas. Perhaps most importantly, we are proud of our city and the community that surrounds our team - and the feeling is mutual. The Kings organization has committed to give back 10,000 volunteer hours to the local community and non-profits. We welcome visitors new and old with warmth and enthusiasm, no matter their background or identity. While I may be a bit biased, the Sacramento region has all the makings of a perfect host city for the 2017 NBA All-Star Game. We would welcome the opportunity to show you and the fans a great time. Go Kings, Congressman Ami Bera
07.08.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-7) announced that his bipartisan legislation to fund prescription drug disposal across the country, the Dispose Responsibly Of Pills (DROP) Act, has passed the House toady 407-6 as part of the Comprehensive Opioid Reduction Act of 2016. The bill will move on to the Senate and then be signed into law. Congressman Bera first introduced this bill in May 2015 and has been working across the aisle with colleagues like Dr. Phil Roe (TN-1) to enact a solution to curb opioid abuse. Research shows that more than half of nonmedical users of prescription medications got them from people they know. Safely disposing of old or unused prescription medications can curb prescription drug abuse that can lead to addiction and overdose. In the United States, prescription drug abuse impacts people of all ages, across all socioeconomic backgrounds, and in all kinds of communities. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), more people died in 2014 from drug overdoses than in any year before. “As a doctor, I’ve seen firsthand the devastating impact prescription drug abuse has had on families,” said Congressman Bera. “I’m pleased that members from both sides of the aisle in the House voted to help combat prescription drug abuse and make it easier to dispose of unused prescription drugs by passing my legislation. Making safe and secure prescription disposal more available, and educating people on the importance of appropriately getting rid of unused medications are simple steps we can take to keep prescription drugs from falling into the wrong hands and prevent addiction. This solution is an easy fix to a problem that is too serious to ignore.”
07.06.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) announced that he has introduced a resolution to allow independent cameras to record House floor proceedings after cameras were turned off by Speaker Ryan two weeks ago during the Democratic sit-in. Despite repeated requests from the press, House rules prohibit all outside video cameras and provide complete discretion to the Speaker on when to operate cameras. Bera’s resolution is endorsed by the Sunlight Foundation, Public Citizen, and Common Cause. “Controlling what the public can see based on whom is speaking and what is being said runs counter to our principles as a country. I believe the government works best when the public can see their elected representatives discussing the nation’s issues, no matter their politics or position. Allowing independent, non-partisan cameras is critical for transparency and is an important tool to hold elected officials accountable,” said Congressman Bera. "The public deserve a nonpartisan source for real-time video of activities in the House of Representatives. While access to video has generally been reliable, House leadership under both parties have failed to guarantee access to activities that sometimes matter the most – like activities on the floor that fall outside normal procedures. This bill would end the ambiguity of whether unofficial floor activities should be available by video,” said John Wonderlich, Executive Director of the Sunlight Foundation. "Public trust in our governmental institutions is at an all-time low. Congress must work toward regaining that trust by operating as transparently as practical. This legislation is a significant step toward that transparency,” said Craig Holman of Public Citizen. “Common Cause commends Representative Bera for introducing a resolution to ensure that the American public will be able to view proceedings in the House of Representatives at all times. Americans of all political parties deserve to see our democracy in action on the floor of the House of Representatives no matter which party is in the majority,” said Aaron Scherb, Director of Legislative Affairs at Common Cause. ###
06.29.2016	In 2015 Alone, Over 10 million Acres were Burned by Forest Fires Federal Land Agencies Borrowed Close to $700 Million to Deal with Wildfires Last Year Washington, D.C. – Representatives Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-7), Mike Simpson (ID-2), Derek Kilmer (WA-6), David Reichert (WA-8), and Kurt Schrader (OR-5) led a group of 54 other representatives in calling for an immediate fix to the practice of “fire borrowing,” which forces federal land agencies to take money from other important projects to cover the costs of dealing with wildfires. Many of these projects are used to prevent wildfires from spreading out of control. The Western United States is still experiencing dry conditions that have stoked wildfires for several weeks, with conditions primed for more to come. Last year, fires swept over 10 million acres and damaged communities and wildlife. Following the letter, the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources pushed for an end to fire borrowing. “The practice of fire borrowing is irresponsible – our first responders must have the resources they need to combat wildfires,” said Bera. “My home state of California has seen the terrible damage wildfires can do to homes, ecosystems, and entire communities – the same devastation that other natural disasters incur. We need to start treating wildfires like every other natural disaster that has access to emergency funding.” “The severity of recent fire seasons underscores the fact that our current wildfire suppression budget does not work,” said Simpson. “The Forest Service budget for wildfire suppression was roughly 15% twenty years ago, now it is over half. Until we address the problem of fire borrowing, funds intended for forest management, including hazardous fuels removal, timber harvest, and trail maintenance, will continue to pay for fire suppression.” “Increasingly intense wildfires are swallowing up the U.S. Forest Service’s budget,” said Kilmer. “The practice of fire borrowing cannibalizes funding from other important areas of the Forest Service like managing our forests. In the end that hurts forest health, hurts our ability to prevent fires, and hurts local economies. To reverse this trend the Senate needs to join the House in finally declaring that wildfires are a natural disaster and should be treated just like a flood or a hurricane.” “Last year’s relentless wildfires burned over one million acres in my home state of Washington, destroying homes that stood in their path and displacing families throughout our region,” said Reichert. “And while our brave first responders worked tirelessly to protect our communities, their efforts were limited by the resources available to them. This dangerous and irresponsible cycle of fire-borrowing must end. In order to prevent future wildfires, we must focus on addressing the issues that cause them in the first place.” “Wildfire season last year devastated communities throughout Oregon and many states across the west, shattering spending records and forcing the Forest Service to divert more money to fighting fires from other programs designated for hazardous fuels reduction,” Schrader said. “When we have catastrophic wildfires in the west, these are our natural disasters just like the tornadoes and hurricanes that affect our friends in other parts of the country. It’s time that Congress recognizes this, and acts not only to address the funding issue, but also the root problem and that’s the mismanagement of our forests.” The text of the letter is below: The Honorable Mitch McConnell Senate Majority Leader 317 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Lisa Murkowski Chairwoman Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 304 Dirksen Senate Building Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Harry Reid Senate Minority Leader 522 Hart Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Maria Cantwell Ranking Member Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 304 Dirksen Senate Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Majority Leader McConnell, Minority Leader Reid, Chairwoman Murkowski and Ranking Member Cantwell, Many Members of Congress are concerned about the costly practice of fire borrowing. As we continue to work with our colleagues in the House of Representatives to end this practice, we would like to urge the Senate to take up similar legislation. As you know, most of the American West is still experiencing severe drought conditions which has significantly increased the danger for damaging wildfires. These wildfires cause serious damage to property and threaten lives. In 2015, more than 10 million acres were burned by wildfires. Federal land agencies borrowed nearly $700 million from land management and other important activities to fight these fires. This leaves these agencies with fewer resources to conduct thinning, timber harvests, and controlled burns which can reduce the severity of these wildfires. Before the 2016 fire season begins, we believe it is critical that Congress change the way in which we provide funds to the U.S. Forest Service and Department of Interior to fight catastrophic wildland fires. In seven of the past 10 years, the costs of fighting wildfires has exceeded the Forest Service’s firefighting budget. This forced the agency to borrow funds intended for forest management practices. In addition, the portion of firefighting costs out of the U.S. Forest Service budget has risen steadily over the past 20 years. In 2015, wildland fire suppression costs were more than 50 percent of the Forest Service’s total budget. Redirecting funds to firefighting takes funds away from other important programs that can help land managers more actively manage forests to reduce the risk of future wildland fires. We believe that Congress needs to address this problem through legislation that would treat wildfires like other natural disasters such as floods and hurricanes. This change would eliminate the need for the Forest Service to use funds appropriated for other programs to cover the costs of fighting wildfires. The House has shown strong support to end fire-borrowing and we are committed to addressing this problem during the remaining months of the 114th Congress. We hope that you will do the same and take action to give the Forest Service and the Department of the Interior the ability to fight wildland fires without limiting their ability to carry out the rest of their missions. We stand to ready to work with you to fix this critical problem.
06.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) released the following statement after the mass shooting in Orlando: "My prayers are with the victims, families, and first responders affected by the tragic shooting in Orlando that took so many lives. I'm heartbroken that this occurred in a space created by the LGBT community to celebrate Pride Month. This terrible crime is an attack on our core value of equality for all. This is the deadliest mass shooting in our nation's history, yet occurrences like this are far too common in our society. We must do a better job of keeping our communities safe with common-sense background checks, and I will continue to fight to prevent these mass casualties like this in Congress."
06.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) released the following statement after Indian Prime Minister Modi’s address to a joint meeting of Congress: “India is a key partner of the United States, so I was pleased to have Speaker Ryan grant my request to bring Prime Minister Modi to Congress to address his vision on the U.S.-India partnership. “As the world’s oldest democracy and the world’s largest democracy, our countries have much to gain by working together to strengthen our economies and our national defense through mutual cooperation. I’m proud to have worked on both these fronts on behalf of the people of Sacramento County and California. Since I began serving in Congress, trade has more than doubled between California and India, according to the California Chamber of Commerce. I look forward to continuing to strengthen our special global relationship with India. “As the son of parents who emigrated from India, this is a special privilege for me. I was also pleased to have National Spelling Bee finalist Snehaa Ganesh Kumar and her mother, both from Folsom, attend the speech with me. I’m glad the Prime Minister made note of the National Spelling Bee champions from the diaspora during his address.” Congressman Bera played a key role in securing the address from Congressional leadership (read more here). Bera’s guest for the address was Snehaa Ganesh Kumar, a Folsom Middle School student recently took third place in the 2016 National Spelling Bee. Congressman Bera is the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and serves on the Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific. He is also the co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans. ###
05.19.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) released the following statement after the House failed to pass an amendment barring federal contractors from discriminating against LGBT employees: “It's outrageous that today Representative Maloney’s amendment to prohibit discrimination against LGBT employees who are hired under federal contracts failed in the House. This is a step back for our nation on the path toward full equality for every American. I will continue to fight for equal rights until everyone has equal protection under the law.” ###
05.19.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) announced that two of his amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) were passed by the House last night as part of the NDAA package. Congressman Bera’s amendments would help the transition to civilian life for veterans by improving the transfer of skills learned on the battlefield to college credit, as well as a bipartisan amendment to strengthen existing defense and economic ties with the United States and India. “I’m proud to have my amendments one step closer to becoming law with the passage of NDAA,” said Congressman Bera. “My amendment to help our skilled military men and women would give them the credit they deserve in their pursuit of higher education from the real-life lessons they learned on the battlefield. Our veterans have invaluable experience to contribute to our society, and it’s time they get the credit they deserve. “As the world’s oldest democracy and the world’s largest democracy, the United States and India share common values and a growing partnership on many fronts, especially on defense cooperation. India plays a critical role as a strategic partner to the United States, and as a pillar of stability in South Asia. That’s why I’m proud to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to grow the economic and defense relationship between our countries." Specifically, Congressman Bera’s amendment for military skills transferability would direct the Secretary of Defense in consultation with the Secretaries of Veterans Affairs, Education, and Labor, to submit to Congress a report on the status of transfer of skills into equivalent college credits or technical certifications for service members leaving the military. Co-Chair of the House Caucus on India and Indian Americans, Congressman Bera’s bipartisan amendment would strengthen defense ties between the United States and India. This legislation formalizes the U.S. government’s focus on the U.S.-India security relationship. The Chair and Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Chairman Royce and Ranking Member Engel, as well as his House Caucus on India and Indian Americans Co-Chair, Congressman Holding join him on the amendment.
05.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-7) and Phil Roe, M.D. (TN-1), both physicians, announced that the House has included their bipartisan legislation to fund prescription drug disposal across the country, the Dispose Responsibly Of Pills (DROP) Act, in the Comprehensive Opioid Reduction Act that passed the House today 413-5. Research shows that more than half of nonmedical users of prescription medications got them from people they know. Safely disposing of old or unused prescription medications can curb prescription drug abuse that can lead to addiction and overdose. In the United States, prescription drug abuse impacts people of all ages, across all socioeconomic backgrounds, and in all kinds of communities. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), more people died in 2014 from drug overdoses than in any year before. “As a doctor, I’ve seen firsthand the devastating impact prescription drug abuse has had on families,” said Congressman Bera. “I’m pleased that members from both sides of the aisle in the house voted to help combat prescription drug abuse and make it easier to dispose of unused prescription drugs by passing my and Dr. Roe’s legislation. Making safe and secure prescription disposal more available, and educating people on the importance of appropriately getting rid of unused medications are simple steps we can take to keep prescription drugs from falling into the wrong hands and prevent addiction. This solution is an easy fix to a problem that is too serious to ignore.” Congressman Bera took to the House floor prior to the vote to urge passage of the bill. A video of his remarks are below and can be found on YouTube here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l3hp1d4zau4&feature=youtu.be “Prescription drug abuse is a growing problem throughout the United States, particularly in East Tennessee, and there’s no question that a significant source of the supply for prescription drug abuse is unused prescriptions,” said Roe. “We need to do everything possible to encourage the safe disposal of drugs that may be ripe for abuse, and I’m proud to partner with Dr. Bera to make disposal of unused and expired medications easier.” ###
04.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7) announced that following his request, Speaker of the House Paul Ryan has invited Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi to address a joint session of Congress during his visit this June. “I’m pleased that Speaker Ryan has granted my request to hold a joint session of Congress with Prime Minister Modi,” said Congressman Bera. “India is a key partner of the United States, and this will be an opportunity for members of Congress to learn more about the challenges and opportunities facing our two nations. As the son of parents who emigrated from India, this is a special privilege for me and I look forward to working to strengthen our special global relationship with India.” Congressman Bera urged Speaker Ryan earlier this month to invite the Prime Minister to address a joint session of Congress. His letter can be found here: https://bera.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/bera-requests-joint-meeting-of-congress-with-india-s-prime-minister.
04.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-7) and Lois Capps (CA-24) led a group of 14 California representatives in calling for an immediate fix for pregnant women who have been dropped from their health insurance due to a computer glitch. As reported in the Sacramento Bee on April 18, nearly 2,000 women who reported their pregnancies to Covered California were switched to Medi-Cal, or in some cases dropped from their insurance altogether, without their knowledge. Bera and Capps are joined by Representatives Sam Farr (CA-20), Loretta Sanchez (CA- 46), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Tony Cárdenas (CA-29), Jared Huffman (CA-2), Mark Takano (CA-41), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), John Garamendi (CA-3), Ted Lieu (CA-33), Raul Ruiz (CA-36), Judy Chu (CA-32), and Mike Honda (CA-17). “No woman should have to worry about losing health care while pregnant,” wrote the representatives. “That’s why we were concerned to learn that a glitch in the system has been terminating Covered California plans for pregnant women without notice. While we appreciate your efforts to ensure women can switch between plans, we remain concerned that until the problem is fixed in late 2016, women will continue to be unenrolled from their Covered California plans and lose access to their current medical providers.” The text of the letter is below: Diana Dooley Secretary, California Health and Human Services 1600 9th Street, Room 450 Sacramento, CA 95814 Mr. Peter V. Lee Executive Director, California Health Benefit Exchange 560 J Street, Suite 270 Sacramento, CA 95814 Dear Secretary Dooley and Mr. Lee, We write to ensure that women in California have uninterrupted access to health care throughout their pregnancies. Prenatal care is critical for healthy births and provides a foundation of lifelong health. Your leadership to expand health coverage for uninsured pregnant women has made it possible for countless families to welcome healthy babies. Pregnancy-Related Medi-Cal and the Medi-Cal Access Program (MCAP) provide an important bridge to affordable care for working women. Optimal prenatal care begins early and includes regular visits to establish a continuous relationship with a team of providers. No woman should have to worry about losing health care while pregnant. That’s why we were concerned to learn that a glitch in the system has been terminating Covered California plans for pregnant women without notice. While we appreciate your efforts to ensure women can switch between plans, we remain concerned that until the problem is fixed in late 2016, women will continue to be unenrolled from their Covered California plans and lose access to their current medical providers. We encourage you to develop a proactive plan to ensure that there are no care interruptions. Specifically we ask that you notify all women before any changes in their health coverage are made. We thank you for your prompt attention to this issue and stand ready to work together to guarantee that all pregnant women are aware of their coverage options and have access to high quality prenatal care. Sincerely, ###
04.27.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-7) discussed the relationship between India and Afghanistan at a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing, where he questioned U.S Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan Richard Olson. Bera discussed the need for the United States to work with India to strengthen economic and security interests in Afghanistan. “We need to invest and maintain economic growth for stability in Afghanistan. The United States has invested billions of dollars and lost hundreds of lives in the last decade [in Afghanistan],” said Congressman Bera. “India as the major economy in South Asia clearly has a role in helping increase trade with Afghanistan. Through economic development and trade, you can create some stability, and I encourage State [Department] to push that agenda.” Congressman Bera’s full remarks can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=05ajATNEfxA&feature=youtu.
04.18.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ami Bera (CA-07), Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, joined with House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY), and Rep. George Holding (R-NC) to send a letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan requesting that Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India, be granted the opportunity to address a Joint Meeting of Congress. Prime Minister Modi is scheduled to travel to Washington in June. In the letter to Speaker Ryan, the members write: “Given the depth of our relationship with India across a range of areas—defense, humanitarian and disaster relief, space cooperation, conservation, and innovation—we believe this is an ideal opportunity for the Congress to hear directly from the Prime Minister…. The U.S.-India relationship consistently garners strong bipartisan support. Inviting Prime Minister Modi to address a Joint Meeting will allow Congress to express support for this special global partnership.” The signed letter to Speaker Ryan is available HERE and the text can be found below: The Honorable Paul D. Ryan Speaker of the House H-232, The Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to visit Washington on June 7th and 8th of this year. Given the depth of our relationship with India across a range of areas -- defense, humanitarian and disaster relief, space cooperation, conservation, and innovation, -- we believe this is an ideal opportunity for the Congress to hear directly from the Prime Minister. Therefore, we ask that you invite Prime Minister Modi to address a Joint Meeting of Congress. It is our understanding that if invited, the Prime Minister would accept. The U.S. partnership with India is based on a foundation of shared values, including the rule of law, electoral democracy, and religious pluralism. This renewed partnership has found champions in the leadership of both parties, including both President Clinton and President George W. Bush, and has been further emboldened in the United States by a strong, proud, and growing Indian-American diaspora. The U.S.-India relationship has seen significant growth. President Obama has visited India twice, and Prime Minister Modi reciprocated with two trips of his own to the United States. Our two countries have signed a defense framework agreement to increase military cooperation and the civilian nuclear agreement, signed in 2008, will result in the construction of nuclear power plants in India. Additionally, the United States and India are forging closer ties to address humanitarian crises, such as the aftermath of the earthquake in Nepal, in the renewable energies sector, and in space exploration. It is no wonder that the partnership has been characterized as the defining partnership of the 21st century. The U.S.-India relationship consistently garners strong bipartisan support. Inviting Prime Minister Modi to address a Joint Meeting will allow Congress to express support for this special global partnership. Thank you for considering this request. Sincerely, EDWARD R. ROYCE Chairman ELIOT ENGEL Ranking Member GEORGE HOLDING Member of Congress AMI BERA Member of Congress ###
03.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. released the following statement following th deadly bombing in Pakistan. “I strongly condemn the deadly attack on innocent civilians, including women and children, in Pakistan over the Easter holiday and my thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. The terrorists behind the bombing must be brought to justice. This kind of targeted violence cannot be tolerated.” Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov. ###
03.24.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. joined Congressman Charles Boustany, M.D. to introduce legislation that would protect employees’ health savings accounts. H.R. 4832, the Health Savings Protection Act, addresses the so-called Cadillac tax, which aims to reign in excessive health spending, but in reality would shift more costs to patients and has led many employers to threaten to stop providing health savings accounts, citing the fact that they are subject to a tax on their employees’ contributions. Bera and Boustany’s legislation would exempt contributions to health savings plans from being taxed. “We should not punish those who are doing the right thing and saving for potential health care costs,” Bera said. “The Cadillac tax, while intended to lower the cost of health care, has threatened health savings accounts, which are a practical, efficient ways for people to save for unforeseen medical costs. This bipartisan bill is an important step towards fixing the Cadillac tax and helps businesses and employees avoid additional costs while ensuring continued access to health care.” Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov. ###
03.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Ami Bera (CA-07) and Scott Peters (CA-52) praised the Food and Drug Administration’s recent decision to begin accelerating applications for generic drugs. Bera and Peters sent a letter to the FDA last month urging the agency to prioritize generic drug applications to stop irresponsible price-gouging like in the case of Turing Pharmaceutical CEO Martin Shkreli. “I’m glad to see the FDA taking action to keep other irresponsible actors from charging exorbitant prices for drugs,” Bera said. “They are profiting off the scarcity of medications many people need and as a doctor I find this especially troubling. By speeding up the application process, more drugs can reach the market, ultimately lowering prices and ensuring patients can get the medications they need.” “I applaud this common sense step from the FDA to streamline the generic drug approval process and provide consumers with more affordable options,” Peters said. “Access to generic drugs is especially important to the long-term and critically ill who would otherwise have nowhere else to turn when companies like Turing and Valeant choose to drive up prices.” Read Bera & Peters’s letter here. ###
03.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. highlighted the importance of strengthening drought forecasting in light of recent water releases at Folsom Dam. In his opening remarks to the Administrator at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Bera discussed the recent water releases from Folsom Lake and emphasized the benefit of better forecasting. “My district relies heavily on Folsom Lake for its drinking water and the recent releases have caused some concern as many people work to cut back on their water usage,” Bera said. “More accurate forecasting would help improve water management so that we know when to increase flows to create capacity and when we should hold water if the forecast shows storms aren’t coming. It would improve efficiency and ensure we are better prepared in dry and wet months.” Watch Bera’s remarks here. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov. ###
02.25.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-07) questioned Secretary of State John Kerry during a Foreign Affairs Committee hearing about the sale of eight F16 multirole fighter planes to Pakistan. Bera emphasized the importance of ensuring Pakistan is cracking down on terrorists in the country before a sale can be made. “Pakistan must prove it is taking substantive steps to go after all terrorist groups in the country before we move forward with the sale of F16s,” Bera said. “So far, Pakistan has not shown willingness to go after groups like the Haqqani network and Lashkar-e-Taiba, which is why I cannot support a sale at this time. Furthermore, in the event that we do proceed with a sale, U.S. taxpayers should not subsidize the cost of the F16s. If Pakistan wants to buy the planes they should pay for them.” Watch his remarks here: https://cs.pn/1RqInmX ###
02.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. released the following statement after voting for a bill to impose new sanctions on North Korea. “As a member of the Foreign Affairs committee I understand the threat North Korea poses to our country and the global community. Last month’s nuclear missile test, ongoing human rights abuses, cybersecurity attacks, and the aggressive actions of Kim Jung Un reinforce the importance of imposing stronger sanctions. I recently met with the Korean Foreign Secretary and other leaders to discuss how we can partner with countries in the region to de-escalate tensions. As we work together we must also be proactive in implementing these sanctions to send a message that North Korea’s extreme behavior will not be tolerated.” Watch Congressman Bera’s comments from the House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing on North Korea’s Nuclear Provocations: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ij07Mmo0EEI ###
02.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-07) praised the recent announcement from Walgreens that the drugstore chain will install more than 500 drug disposal bins in stores across the U.S. to help fight prescription drug abuse. Bera has introduced legislation to help expand prescription drug take-back programs. His bill, the DROP Act, would help keep unused or expired medication out of the wrong hands. “Prescription drug abuse is a growing problem in our country and for many people it starts when they can access the drugs from a family member or friend’s medicine cabinet,” Bera said. “I’ve been working to raise awareness about this issue and I’m glad Walgreens is taking this simple step to help prevent abuse and I’m glad the rollout of their program will begin in California. It will make a big difference in the effort to prevent prescription drug abuse and addiction.” Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov. ###
02.03.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. and Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) are leading a group of 28 members of Congress to urge the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to take steps to reduce the sky-rocketing costs of generic prescription drugs. In a letter to the FDA, they ask the agency to take two common sense steps to address loopholes that limit competition that permits some drug companies to charge exorbitant prices for generic drugs. The average wait time for a new generic drug to be approved is nearly four years. In 2014, more than 1,400 generic drug applications were filed and not one was approved. Bera and Peters are asking the FDA to expedite the review process for new generic drugs to increase market competition. Without any competition to drive down prices, a drug company can charge an excessive amount, like in the case of Martin Shkreli and Turing Pharmaceuticals. The letter also asks the FDA to examine its Unapproved Drugs Initiative in response to concerns that over-regulation has unintentionally increased prices. This initiative aims to ensure that all drugs on the market before FDA regulation are safe, but Bera and Peters are asking that the program focuses on drugs that pose a serious safety risk, citing the fact that the program has pushed common and long-term treatments off the market, leading to price spikes. “Americans should be able to access quality, affordable prescription medication,” Congressman Bera said. “Competition is critical to maintaining reasonable pricing and the backlog in generic drug applications, as well as the unintended consequences of the Unapproved Drugs Initiative, has created opportunities for some irresponsible drug companies to make a lot of money while Americans suffer. This is not acceptable. We urge the FDA to take these common sense steps to help increase competition and lower drug costs.” “Making our generic drug approval process faster and more efficient will increase competition and provide consumers with more affordable options,” Congressman Peters said. “This is especially important to the long-term and critically ill who might be taken advantage of by companies like Turing and Valeant who choose to drive up prices because they know these patients don’t have anywhere else to turn for the medicine they need.”Click here to read the letter. ###
01.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. made the following statement in response to President Obama’s 2016 State of the Union address. “The President shared a message of working together tonight. We may have our differences, but we need to set broad goals and work together to accomplish big things for the good of our country. We must work together to strengthen and grow our economy so that hardworking Americans can get ahead. And we need to work together to ensure our country is safe. I am optimistic about our country’s future and we must continue to work together to help advance America’s goals.” Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
01.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – The Co-Chairs of the Caucus on India and Indian-Americans, Reps. Ami Bera (CA-7) and George Holding (NC-13), condemned the deadly terrorist attack at the Pathankot air base in India. “We condemn the attacks on India’s Pathankot Air Force base and the Indian Consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif, Afghanistan. These deplorable acts of terror threaten to undermine peace and stability in the region. Those responsible need to be brought to justice immediately. As Co-Chairmen of the House India Caucus, we offer support to the people and government of India and vow to stand together as the United States and India address the shared challenge of combating region and global terrorism.”
12.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. made the following statement after voting for the tax credit and government funding bills. “This package represents a true compromise that will not only keep the government open, but for the first time in two years it will lift harmful spending caps and increase investment in programs that families and businesses rely on to get ahead. The package includes permanent tax credits that support working families, make college more affordable, and help small businesses grow. It also fully funds upgrades to Folsom Dam to increase safety and storage. “The package encourages innovation by increasing funding for critical research into cures for some of our most pressing diseases at the National Institutes of Health. I’m also happy my proposal to reduce health insurance premiums was included in the package. And, in the midst of a prescription drug epidemic, I’m glad to see an increase in funding to address prescription drug abuse. “Several important issues were left out of this package, including measures to address California’s drought. I’m also disappointed that lawmakers did not take the opportunity to lift the ban on research into gun violence at the Centers for Disease Control. We must do more to keep our communities safe. “At a time when too many families and businesses in my district are still struggling, this spending package includes multiple measures to help keeps millions out of poverty and grow our economy. I’m glad members from both parties were able to come together and pass this bill to provide stability and support to hardworking Americans.” Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov. ###
12.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. praised the passage of a one year pause of the Health Insurance Tax, highlighting how it will lower the cost of health care for seniors, families and small businesses. By delaying the tax, the average individual will save more than $200 on health insurance costs and seniors enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans will save $350. “I introduced the Small Business and Family Relief Act in 2013 to help make insurance more affordable for middle class Americans and am pleased to see a version was finally included in the spending package. We should not be imposing this financial burden on small businesses for doing the right thing and providing their workers with quality health care. The tax makes it more expensive to provide health insurance to employees, hinders job growth, and could force layoffs. We must continue to work to increase health care enrollment to help drive down health care prices, but in the meantime this delay will protect small businesses, seniors, and families from potentially harmful costs.” River City Printers, a Rancho Cordova-based business that employs 31 people emphasized the benefit that this delay will have for the small business. “Congressman Bera has been fighting to provide relief for California small businesses from the Health Insurance Tax,” said Kasey Cotulla, owner of River City Printers in Rancho Cordova, CA. “We appreciate his leadership in securing a 1-year delay of the tax, which will allow small businesses like ours to re-invest those costs in our company and employees. We hope Congress will continue to fight for a long-term solution to this harmful tax on small businesses.” Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov. ###
12.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – The Co-Chairs of the Caucus on India and Indian Americans, Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. and Congressman George Holding (R-NC), met with a delegation of Indian defense and aerospace industry leaders today to discuss how the two countries can mutually benefit in these sectors. The meeting was organized by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) to discuss how the U.S. and India can work together to grow and innovate in the aerospace and defense industries. “There are many opportunities for America and India to grow their strategic partnership,” Congressman Bera said. “Today, we discussed how we can advance the U.S.-India defense relationship and build on the partnership that has been created between the countries administrations. I look forward to continuing this discussion when I travel with a Congressional delegation to India next year.” ###
11.19.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. released the following statement after voting for H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act. The bill requires the Department of Homeland Security to verify that each refugee entering the United States has undergone a background check to ensure they are not a security threat. “It is critical that our first priority is to keep America safe – that is why I voted today for a bill to ensure that all Syrian refugees are thoroughly vetted. However, we can’t let the terrorists win and influence who we are as Americans. Our country has always been a place for those fleeing violence or oppression and we must stay true to those values. This additional screening step will ensure that we know those coming into the country are not a security threat.” Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov. ###
11.17.2015	Sacramento, CA – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. announced a $100,000 grant awarded to Sacramento City Unified School District for its farm to school program. The school district, in partnership with the Food Literacy Center and Soil Born Farms, created a farm to school program that will introduce a new vegetable each month to students in three elementary schools. After testing the pilot project, they will expand it throughout the district. The grant is part of nearly $5 million awarded by the Department of Agriculture to 74 projects in 39 states. “Ensuring our children have access to healthy, fresh food is critical,” Bera said. “I am thrilled to see a local program receive this support for its effort to improve child nutrition. We must continue to support our schools as they work to provide students with healthier options and teach them about healthy eating. Students do better in school when they are eating right and it puts them on the right track toward a future of healthier eating.” “We’re thrilled to partner with Sacramento City Unified School District and Soil Born Farms to improve the health of our kids through delicious, local produce,” said Amber Stott, Food Literacy Center founding executive director. “Having our collaborative model recognized at the federal level helps inspire others around the country. Because we live in America’s Farm-to-Fork capital, we have a special opportunity to showcase local farmers while helping students develop healthy habits that will last a lifetime.” “Getting recognition and funding from federal partners is a great acknowledgement of the benefits Food Literacy Center and Sacramento City Unified School District have made to improve the long term health of their students,” said Shawn Harrison, Founder and Co-Director of Soil Born Farms. “This funding will help us create best practices that we can then translate for other school districts to create similar programs that promote healthy eating, change awareness and behaviors over time, and open up career pathways in agriculture from early childhood to early adulthood.”
11.11.2015	Sacramento, CA – Twelve local CEOs and business leaders joined Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. and U.S. Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker to discuss how to strengthen the region’s agriculture, technology, manufacturing and health sectors. “As our region grows, we need to focus on making our region a destination for young people and businesses,” Bera said. “Part of that includes increasing access to international markets, it also includes workforce training and collaborating with our universities and businesses about the kind of skills needed to propel us into the 21st century economy.” “As I visit businesses all over the country, I am told repeatedly that the shortage of workers with the necessary training to meet businesses demands is a critical problem. We must address skills training and workforce development to remain globally competitive,” Secretary Pritzker said. “Also central to the success of businesses across the country and in Sacramento is trade. Today we heard from several local businesses that will significantly benefit from the Trans Pacific Partnership.” Business leaders from Blue Diamond, VSP Global, and Siemens emphasized how the increased access to international markets will help their businesses continue to grow and hire more workers. The roundtable was held at the joint facilities of California Pavement Maintenance Company (CPM) and Rayner Equipment Systems. The veteran-owned business was founded by Gordon Rayner and his brother Richard. They make pavement maintenance trucks that are shipped all over the world to developing countries that are working to improve their infrastructure. ###
11.05.2015	Washington, D.C. – Citing the tragic death of a veteran at the Mather Veterans Affairs hospital last year, Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. introduced a bill today to implement additional accountability measures at Veterans Affairs hospitals across the country. His bill, the VA Quality Care Act, includes additional oversight measures to ensure all problems at VA facilities are reported, communicated, and fixed across the network. “The tragic death of this veteran illustrates problems within the VA system that must be addressed,” Bera said. “My bill increases transparency and reporting so that any issues in the delivery of care at one facility are shared with other facilities in the system. The information from my requested investigation suggests that VA facilities are not sharing best practices and other quality improvement measures effectively. This bill will ensure doctors, nurses, and staffs are all operating efficiently and effectively and collaborating across health centers to deliver the best care possible to our nation’s heroes.” Last October, the Sacramento County Vietnam veteran died after a do-not-resuscitate bracelet was incorrectly placed on his wrist. Bera requested an investigation with the Office of the Inspector General; their report found that Mather was responsible for a “delay in life-saving intervention”. “Our service members have sacrificed for our country and it is our responsibility to ensure they receive top quality care,” Bera said. “Based on the findings in the Inspector General report, there are institutional problems that are seriously affecting the quality and delivery of care. Reporting requirements in my bill will help correct and improve care. We must do all we can to ensure this does not happen to any other veterans.” ###
11.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – The co-chairs of the Caucus on India and Indian Americans, Congressmen Ami Bera (D-CA) and George Holding (R-NC), celebrated the accomplishments of the Indian American diaspora at the annual Diwali in DC event. The annual celebration attracts people and Indian American organizations from all over the country to meet with members of Congress and other elected officials to celebrate the contributions of the South Asian community in business, technology, health care, arts, academics, and much more. “This event celebrates who we are and all our community has accomplished,” Bera said. “Over the next decade, I look forward to making DC the hub for connecting members of the community not just from the surrounding region, but across the country to celebrate our progress and talk about the future.” Close to 1,000 people and more than 30 members of Congress attended the event, including Senators Mark Warner (D-VA) and Tim Kaine (D-VA), and Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Ed Royce (R-CA). Diwali is celebrated by nearly a billion people around the world and more than two million people in the U.S. “The United States and India have been building a partnership to make both our nations safer and stronger," Holding said. "The Indian-American Community has been playing a key role in building needed ties between our two countries, and I congratulate the volunteers who worked to make this year’s Diwali celebration in Washington a success. In the coming year, I look forward to continuing to strengthen the bonds between our countries.” ###
10.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. voted to support the bipartisan budget agreement to help prevent another government shutdown and ensure economic stability: “Core to our job as members of Congress is passing a budget. That’s why the first bill I introduced and helped pass when I came to Congress was the No Budget No Pay bill that says that if lawmakers don’t pass a budget they shouldn’t get paid. Today’s budget agreement is a positive step forward and although it is not perfect, it will help millions of Americans and strengthen our economy. “This budget agreement will create more than 340,000 jobs in 2016, protect millions from a spike in Medicare costs, cut down on fraud and abuse within Social Security Disability Insurance while ensuring the program’s long-term solvency, and it will restore economic stability by raising the debt ceiling. This agreement will also limit the harmful, across-the-board spending cuts known as sequestration, which leaves thousands of seniors, children, and veterans without critical nutrition, after-school, job training, and housing programs. “Americans want Congress to get things done and I am pleased we were able to come together and pass a budget today. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to find areas of agreement and pass legislation.” ###
10.21.2015	Elk Grove, CA – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. highlighted his bill to help prevent prescription drug abuse in Sacramento County and across the country. The Dispose Responsibly of Pills Act (DROP) would fund additional prescription drug drop-off sites across the country. Bera spoke at the Elk Grove Police Station, where one of the region’s drop-off bins is located and discussed the broad effort needed to address the issue. “This is a growing problem across the country,” Bera said. “As a doctor and policymaker I understand just how serious prescription drug abuse is and how quickly it can escalate. The solution will require a multi-pronged approach that begins with prevention. My bill will help keep medicine out of the wrong hands, but we must also work on treating and destigmatizing addiction.” Click here to see a high resolution version of this image. Bera spoke alongside Deborah Simpson, a Sacramento County mother whose son became addicted to prescription pain medication he found in his family’s medicine cabinet. “My accident was not the tragedy, the tragedy was that my son began stealing two or three prescription pills at a time and at 15-years-old he became an addict,” Simpson said. “I cannot tell you the suffering my family went through over five years because of prescription drug abuse. Four trips to rehab later, I am happy to say that he is a recovering addict.” Click here to see a high resolution version of this image. Simpson’s son began using prescription drugs, but escalated to heroine and methamphetamine. Sacramento County Medical Officer Dr. Olivia Kasirye explained that that is quite common. “Four out of five heroin users start with prescription opioids and studies show that 54 percent of individuals who have been arrested for [drug] abuse got their prescriptions from friends or relatives,” Dr. Kasirye said. “The State of California’s Department of Public Health has called this an epidemic and considers it a priority for us to address it. There is no simple answer; we must work with our partners from a variety of sectors to prevent addiction and treat abuse.” Click here to see a high resolution version of this image. ###
10.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. recognized Elk Grove mail carrier Scott Gallegos today as he received the National Hero of the Year award for saving a woman on his route who had been shot. Gallegos was on duty in April when a woman knocked on his truck – she was covered in blood and falling in and out of consciousness. Gallegos immediately began treating her wounds and helped get her to safety to avoid the gunshots coming from a nearby apartment building. “Scott’s heroic actions likely saved this woman’s life and helped ensure no one else was injured in the ensuing standoff,” Congressman Bera said. “As an Army combat veteran, it’s no surprise Scott didn’t hesitate to help this woman. His actions are truly emblematic of American values.” Gallegos stayed with the woman and called police, waiting until he could safely get her to an ambulance. He was honored today at the National Association of Letter Carriers’ award ceremony in Washington, D.C. “I’m so glad I was able to meet Scott and his family and recognize his selfless act. It’s a wonderful reminder of the heroes in our own community working to keep us safe and help others,” Congressman Bera said.
10.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – Reps. Ami Bera (CA-07) and Jared Polis (CO-02) today led a group of 21 representatives in sending a letter calling on U.S. trade negotiators to ensure that the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) does not impede the efforts of member countries to enact public health protections aimed at preventing and reducing tobacco consumption. You can download the letter by clicking here. The letter urges negotiators to ensure that tobacco-related disputes are excluded from the TPP’s investor-state dispute settlement (ISDS) mechanism so that tobacco companies cannot attempt to undercut public-health laws for the sake of their own profits. As dictated by Trade Promotion Authority, ISDS cannot be used by corporations to undermine national sovereignty or weaken food safety, environmental, or public health laws. Despite this clear language, tobacco companies have continued to aggressively pursue lawsuits in an attempt to undermine local laws. The letter urges USTR to put a stop to such abuses. “At the same time countries are taking meaningful measures to prevent or reduce tobacco consumption, some tobacco companies are increasingly attempting to undermine these policies through trade dispute mechanisms. This deliberate intimidation has created an environment of fear that discourages legitimate policies to protect public health,” the representatives wrote. “We welcome your continued commitment to preserve the sovereign ability of member countries to implement appropriate and balanced regulations in the public interest. We are concerned that failure to negotiate a strong position that prevents foreign investors from weakening or blocking health protections will have a detrimental effect on the global population.” In addition to Bera and Polis, signers of the letter include Reps. Jim Himes (CT-04), Ron Kind (WI-03), Sam Farr (CA-20), Susan Davis (CA-53), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Don Beyer (VA-08), Beto O’Rourke (TX-16), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Mike Quigley (IL-05), Scott Peters (CA-52), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Jim Cooper (TN-05), Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Gregory Meeks (NY-05), and Gerald Connolly (VA-11).
09.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D., criticized the short-term spending bill passed today in the House of Representatives and called on lawmakers to work on a long-term budget solution. “Funding the government from month-to-month is no way to operate,” Bera said. “In just two months we will face another manufactured crisis, with a government shutdown even more likely. While the House passed the short-term spending bill today we must work toward a long-term budget that sets our priorities for the country and helps pay down our debt, that’s why the first bill I introduced and helped pass in Congress was the No Budget, No Pay Act. Let’s make sure members of Congress do their job and pass a budget and if they don’t they shouldn’t get paid.” ###
09.25.2015	“In the face of new and unprecedented global challenges, Pope Francis’s stance on poverty, immigration, and climate change have resonated with people around the world. Today from Capitol Hill, he continued to make his case, encouraging all of us to consider how these issues affect the global community. “The reality is too many still live in poverty, our immigration system is in desperate need of repair, and climate change is having catastrophic effects on our planet. The political hurdles to addressing these issues seem high, but today the Pope reminded us of the important obligation we have to make this planet better for the next generation. It is why I ran for office and it is our responsibility to work together to accomplish even the smallest bit of progress. I applaud the Pope’s call to action and hope he continues to inspire people all over the world to do what they can to make their country and our world a better place.” ###
09.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ami Bera, M.D., the only Indian American in Congress and Co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian-Americans, and 33 other members sent a letter today to the Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi welcoming him to the United States for his second consecutive visit and his first visit to the West Coast. Prime Minister Modi is visiting California and touring several Silicon Valley companies this week, including Facebook, Google, and Tesla. In the letter, Congressional members highlight the value the Silicon Valley trip will have. “We look forward to your upcoming trip to California, which marks the first time an Indian head of government has visited the Golden State in 33 years. This trip to Silicon Valley will help showcase the exciting contributions Indians and Indian Americans make to the U.S. technology industry. It was clear that your last trip to the United States provided the momentum needed to refocus the U.S.-India relationship. We are hopeful that your second visit will lead to the continuation and deepening of the Indian investment into the U.S. economy, as well as the use of U.S. technological knowledge to drive more development in India.” FULL LETTER BELOW: September 22, 2015 His Excellency Narendra Modi Prime Minister of the Republic of India 152 South Block Raisina Hills, New Delhi 110011 Dear Prime Minister Modi, We are honored to welcome you to the United States for the second consecutive year. Under your leadership, our bilateral relationship has been revitalized and India has undergone a domestic transformation while engaging with the world and continuing to serve as a democratic model. Your visit to the United States provides an opportunity to reflect on the effects your leadership has had on the U.S.-India relationship over the last year. We applaud your and President Obama’s commitment to the strategic partnership which has already led to several accomplishments including the Delhi Declaration of Friendship, the adoption of a Joint Strategic Vision for Asia and Pacific and Indian Ocean region, and the announcement of renewal of the ten-year Defense Cooperation Agreement. Close collaboration between our governments has led to progress in several areas including counterterrorism, non-proliferation, cyber-security, science and technology, knowledge economy, energy, space, and health to name just a few. We are excited to see how it progresses in the near future for both countries. Additionally, your decision to open up domestic markets to foreign direct investment has helped grow U.S. investment into India to $28 billion. And at the same time, trade between our countries has reached about $120 billion. We look forward to your upcoming trip to California, which marks the first time an Indian head of government has visited the Golden State in 33 years. This trip to Silicon Valley will help showcase the exciting contributions Indians and Indian Americans make to the U.S. technology industry. It was clear that your last trip to the United States provided the momentum needed to refocus the U.S.-India relationship. We are hopeful that your second visit will lead to the continuation and deepening of the Indian investment into the U.S. economy, as well as the use of U.S. technological knowledge to drive more development in India. What has cemented the renewed bilateral commitment is the maturity of the relationship. This has been reflected at the highest levels, with you and President Obama driving the relationship, and at the citizen-to-citizen level. The United States has greatly benefited from the contribution of millions of Indians and Indian Americans living here. These people-to-people relationships will ensure that our partnership will only flourish for years to come. ###
09.18.2015	“Congress should be working on a budget to avoid a government shutdown. Instead, we are wasting valuable time voting to defund Planned Parenthood and attempting to criminalize how doctors serve patients. As one of the few doctors in Congress, I find both of these bills troubling. We should not be limiting access to health care for millions of women and families. And we certainly should not be inserting government into doctor’s offices and interfering in how doctors practice medicine. Both these bills limit patient choice and that is bad policy. I urge my colleagues to come together and work on a budget without threatening women’s health.”
09.11.2015	“After multiple classified and unclassified briefings, hearing constituent input, and talking with our international allies it’s my belief that this is the best agreement we have at this time to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. With the growing likelihood that this agreement will be approved, my support is based on the robust accountability, transparency, and enforcement measures in this agreement so that, if Iran violates any provision, we will know and they will face immediate consequences. All options should be on the table, including military action. We must also ensure our allies, particularly Israel, have the resources necessary to protect themselves and to counteract potential future destabilization. We must take steps now to ensure this agreement is fully enforced and after 15 years leaves us in a better position and has diminished Iran’s nuclear capability.” WATCH Congressman Bera’s remarks here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LH9u0S8lQrc
08.24.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. hosted a roundtable last Wednesday with local startups, venture capital investors, and incubators at his district office for Start-Up Day Across America. Start-Up Day Across America is an opportunity for Members of Congress to engage with the start-up community. “I’m proud to participate in Start-Up Day Across America and am particularly proud of the progress our region is making to support start-ups and encourage them to grow and thrive in the 21st century economy,” said Bera. “This roundtable provided an invaluable opportunity to bring together public and private stakeholders from our region to learn from one another about how we can cultivate and support start-up growth and job creation.” Rep. Bera has worked closely with the business and start-up community to find ways to support their efforts through hosting small business workshops to connect businesses with federal and local resources, inviting the head of the U.S. Small Business Administration to meet with local businesses and by personally touring businesses throughout the district. He is also a strong advocate of increasing investment in infrastructure, research and development, and looking for innovative ways to make capital accessible for entrepreneurs. “We were extremely pleased to work with Congressman Ami Bera to bring together venture capitalists and technology companies from across the region to explore how to accelerate the success of the local tech economy,” said Howard Bubb, CEO of SARTA - the Sacramento Regional Technology Alliance. “His commitment to our region’s growth is clear and with Sacramento poised to emerge as a tech mecca with the development of the downtown area and rail yard, sessions like this one are important to preparing the way." Congressman Bera was joined at the roundtable by: Monique Brown, Managing Partner of Venture Velocity Capital, Entrepreneurs Campus Howard Bubb, CEO of SARTA Casey Call, Founder and CEO of Green Wheel Gardens, Urban Farms Brett Engelkemier, Sacramento Angels Denise Ferre, General Partner and CFO of Moneta Ventures Rich Foreman, Founder and CEO of Apptology and Start Up Grind Sacramento Barb Johnston, CEO of Healthlinknow Matt Phillips, Director of MedStart at SARTA Lokesh Sikaria, Managing Partner of Moneta Ventures Bera represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. A proponent for strengthening United States’ strategic and trading relationship with India and Asia, Bera is co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans and a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. He is working to open Asian markets to California products to create new jobs. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov. ###
07.31.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D., the only Indian American in Congress and Co-chair of Congressional Caucus on India and Indian-Americans, this week introduced a resolution (H. Res. 395) to recognize India’s upcoming Independence Day and the significance of the United States - India partnership. The resolution commemorates the 68th anniversary of India’s Independence Day on August 15th, and celebrates the contributions of Indian Americans in various sectors of American society. “As the world’s oldest democracy and the world’s largest democracy, the United States and India share common values and the growing partnership between the two countries makes sense. On this Independence Day anniversary, and as the son of Indian parents, I’m proud to recognize the contributions of this community to our military efforts, law enforcement, scientific innovation, and so many other aspects of public life,” said Bera. Several other members co-sponsored the resolution including: Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus Joseph Crowley (NY-14) , House Foreign Affairs ranking member Elliot Engel (NY-16) , Co-chair of Congressional Caucus on India and Indian-Americans George Holding (NC-13), Rep Jim Costa (CA-16), Rep. Ted Deutch (FL-21), Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (HI-2), Rep. Brian Higgins (NY-26), Rep. Steve Israel (NY-3), Rep. Grace Meng (NY-6), Rep. Pete Olson (TX-22), Rep. Brad Sherman (CA-30), and Rep. Adam Smith (WA-9). The Resolution also recognizes the importance of continuing and growing the strategic partnership between the United States and India to further common goals of supporting democracy, pluralism, and rule of law. With a population of more than 1.2 billion people, the Republic of India is the world’s largest democracy, and shares a commitment to promoting human rights and freedom. The resolution also mentions the economic dimension of the United States’ relationship with India, which is based on trade and investment interests. These ties have helped create jobs and growth in both countries. As Co-chair of Congressional Caucus on India and Indian-Americans, Bera works on strengthening these ties to the benefit of American economic prosperity. Bera represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. A proponent for strengthening United States’ strategic and trading relationship with India and Asia, Bera is co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans and a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. He is working to open Asian markets to California products to create new jobs. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
07.31.2015	A report released by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) this week on the death of a Sacramento County Vietnam Veteran at the Mather VA Hospital revealed the hospital was responsible for “delay in life-saving intervention.” The investigation, requested by Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. last October, took place after the patient died following an incorrect do-not-resuscitate band was placed on him. Among the report’s findings: The facility staff did not follow through on the patient’s request upon admission to discuss advance directives. There was no evidence of advance care planning discussion during the patient’s hospital stay. The patient’s wristband had the incorrect code status of “Do Not Resuscitate/Do Not Intubate” printed on it and that staff did not verify the wristband code status during the patient’s hospital stay. Read the full report. In response to the report, Bera called on VA Secretary Robert McDonald to immediately ensure procedures to prevent repeat incidents be implemented nationwide. “Our veterans have served us, and we have the responsibility to provide them with the highest quality health care,” said Bera. “I’m deeply saddened that a local Veteran being treated at the Mather VA Hospital passed away, and extremely troubled that preventable mistakes lead to a delay in lifesaving treatment. As a doctor, I know that every second counts in an emergency. I commend the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) on their responsive and thorough investigation into the circumstances surrounding this tragedy. In light of their findings that suggest several contributing factors may have been larger institutional problems, not isolated facility incidents, I’ve requested further clarification on VA hospital procedures to implement appropriate procedures throughout the VA system nationwide so this kind of tragic incident does not happen to any more of our Veterans.” Read the full text of Bera’s letter to McDonald. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
07.23.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. released the following statement on HR 3009: "Making sure Sacramento County residents are safe is one of my most important duties as their representative. In October, right in our own backyard, an individual with a long criminal record who’d been deported multiple times, shot and killed two local sheriff's deputies, Danny Oliver and Michael Davis. I’ve gotten to know the Oliver family over the past few months, and we must ensure preventable tragedies like these don’t happen in the future. Today’s bill is a step in that direction. That being said, let me be clear, I believe comprehensive immigration reform is still the only way to deal with what is clearly a systemic problem. Our current immigration system is broken and in order to have a true, long-term fix, we need bipartisan, comprehensive immigration reform that both strengthens our borders, and allows the best and the brightest to stay in the United States to contribute to our economy. As the son of immigrants who came to this country legally and made a better life for their family, I know that our country’s success would not be possible without the contributions of immigrants who’ve come here. That’s why I’ve been fighting for comprehensive immigration reform since I got to Congress.”
07.20.2015	I sent an email update about I fought against partisan water grab bill that would make our local water shortage even worse. I also gave an update about how I'm working to address our drought in a more thoughtful and comprehensive way. Join my e-mail updates now so you don't miss any in the future! Yesterday, I voted against a partisan water grab bill in Congress. This bill would do nothing to address our state’s water shortage, and actually would send more water out of Sacramento County to other parts of the state. We simply don’t have more water to send. The drought is hurting families, farmers, and small businesses across the state, and we need to work together on a comprehensive, long-term solution. That’s why instead of this divisive bill, I'm strongly supporting the Drought Relief and Resilience Act. This bill includes input from people all over California and has solutions to build new clean water infrastructure in California and expand the water supply. View this graphic to learn more about it. You can click here if you're having trouble viewing it and you can click here to see and share it on Facebook. Above all, we have to make sure there is enough safe drinking water available to California families. Folsom Lake is already expected to reach its lowest levels in history this summer, and the risk of contamination grows as drinking water supplies shrink. That includes higher concentrations of nitrates, arsenic, and industrial chemicals. That's why I fought to amend yesterday's partisan water grab bill to guarantee that Sacramento families continue to have access to safe drinking water. You can click here to see me fight for my amendment on the House floor: As always, it is an honor and a privilege to serve you in Congress. If you or someone you know is being hurt by the drought, please call my office at (916) 635 0505 so we can connect you with emergency help. You can also visit bera.house.gov/droughtrelief to learn more. Be well, Ami Bera, M.D. Member of Congress
07.16.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. voted today against the so-called Western Water and American Food Security Act, a partisan bill which would take water away from the Sacramento region and send it to other parts of the state. He also offered an amendment to this dangerous bill to guarantee Sacramento families continue to have access to safe drinking water and to ensure that there is enough water to fight wildfires. “California is in the fourth year of a serious drought ,” said Bera. “It’s hurting families, farmers, and small businesses across the state. In a crisis, everyone has to come together to find solutions that work for all of us. That’s why it’s inexcusable that instead of working collaboratively to pass a comprehensive solution to help us secure water access throughout the state, today Congress pushed a bill that does nothing to actually address the water shortage but instead just pits one area of the state against others. Our region simply cannot send water that doesn’t exist elsewhere. “ Watch him speak out against this legislation on the House floor. Bera recently joined Congressman Jared Huffman and several other members from California and western states in introducing legislation to help deal with California’s historic drought in a comprehensive way. The Drought Relief and Resilience Act includes feedback from nearly 1,000 Californians from all over the state, including those from cities and rural areas. Advocating for long-term and comprehensive solutions to address California’s drought since coming to Congress, Bera has voted repeatedly to fund upgrades at the Folsom Dam, a project that creates infrastructure jobs while boosting Folsom Lake’s water storage capacity to hold onto more water during drought years, fighting for legislation to increase water storage at other California reservoirs, and supporting water recycling efforts. He’s also working to provide resources to Sacramento County residents being impacted by the drought. For more information visit: https://bera.house.gov/droughtrelief. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
07.10.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. voted for the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act today. The bill, which passed (344-77) will help scientists develop new treatments and cures for some of our deadliest diseases faster and boost biomedical innovation. The legislation not only helps streamline the process the Food and Drug Administration uses for approving new drugs and treatments to get them to patients more quickly, it also increases funding for the National Institute of Health, which funds a large portion of our federal medical research, helping give certainty to researchers who depend on it. “The 21st Century Cures Act is a big step forward in bringing lifesaving cures to millions of Americans and I’m glad Democrats and Republicans have come together to support critical health care investments. As a doctor, I’ve seen too many sick patients with no place to turn, and I believe this bill will help bring new, innovative treatments to people who desperately need them. I’m disappointed, however, with the last minute addition of political restrictions in the bill. All women, no matter their financial situation, should be able to make the health care choices that work for them, and that’s why I’m supporting the EACH Act to ensure constitutional rights belong to everyone.” Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov. ###
07.09.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. has joined Congressman Jared Huffman and several other members from California and western states in introducing legislation that will help deal with California’s historic drought in a comprehensive way. The Drought Relief and Resilience Act includes feedback from nearly 1,000 Californians from all over the state, including those from cities and rural areas. The legislation includes both short- and long-term solutions to build new clean water infrastructure in California and expand the water supply, while creating jobs and not undermining environmental safeguards, preempting state laws, or helping one area of the state at the expense of another. “For the fourth year in a row, drought and dry conditions are hurting many Sacramento County families, small businesses, and farmers,” said Bera. “We have to work together to address this growing crisis. That’s why I’ve signed onto this bill with both immediate, emergency help, and a long-term, comprehensive plan for securing water access and storage throughout the state. It adds to our water supply rather than taking from it; it’s based on sound science; and it does not put southern water interests ahead of northern. This shouldn’t be a partisan issue, or one that pits one region against the other, and it’s not a problem that’s going away. It impacts us all and I hope my colleagues in both parties and from all parts of the state will do what’s right and work together to pass legislation to deal with our drought.” “The drought deserves real solutions, considered in an open debate,” said Huffman. “I am grateful to the nearly 1,000 Californians that weighed in on my bill and supplied their ideas, their feedback, and their questions, helping this to be the most open, transparent legislative process we’ve seen in response to the drought. This is what a serious response to western water and drought looks like. It helps every drought-impacted state and region with critically-needed short-term actions and longer-term solutions to help us through future droughts. It will yield much greater water supply benefits, and make that water available far faster, than other congressional proposals we’ve seen—especially the secretive House GOP bill which would ignite a water war without any meaningful benefits to most of California. I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and in both chambers of Congress can come together around this bill and ensure our state and the arid American West can get through this drought—together.” Bera has been fighting for long-term and comprehensive solutions to address California’s drought since coming to Congress, voting repeatedly to fund upgrades at the Folsom Dam, a project that creates infrastructure jobs while boosting Folsom Lake’s water storage capacity to hold onto more water during drought years, fighting for legislation to increase water storage at other California reservoirs, and supporting water recycling efforts. He’s also working to provide resources to Sacramento County residents being impacted by the drought. For more information visit: https://bera.house.gov/droughtrelief. Original cosponsors of The Drought Relief and Resilience Act include: Reps. Sam Farr (D-CA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Mike Honda (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), John Garamendi (D-CA), Mark Takai (D-HI), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Tony Cardenas (D-CA), Lois Capps (D-CA), Scott Peters (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ami Bera (D-CA), Norma Torres (D-CA), Linda Sanchez (D-CA), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Dina Titus (D-AZ), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Raul Ruiz (D-CA), and Susan Davis (D-CA). A PDF of the drought response bill can be found HERE. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
07.09.2015	Two high school students from Elk Grove recently travelled to Washington and met Congressman Ami Bera to receive separate Congressional awards. Alec Gonzales, a student at Christian Brothers High School, received the Congressional Award Gold Medal, the highest Congressional honor for youth. Christopher Chen, a junior at Franklin High School, was the winner of the 7th district’s Congressional High School Art Competition. “Alec and Christopher have made Elk Grove proud,” said Bera. “Their talent and accomplishments should serve as an inspiration to other local students.” Congressman Bera with Alec Gonzales, who earned the Congressional Award Gold Medal. Congressman Bera with Chris Chen, who won the Congressional Art Competition. Gonzales received the award for setting and achieving challenging goals in 4 focus areas: volunteer public service, personal development, physical fitness, and expedition. He met these objectives by volunteering at the Sacramento Food Bank and Family Services, becoming a certified open water diver, playing on his high school football team, and completing exploration trips in multiple national parks. He was honored with 266 other recipients at a reception in the U.S. Capitol attended by local community and corporate leaders. Chen’s portrait, entitled ‘Bob the Veteran’, was selected from dozens of submissions in the district. Chen received two round-trip tickets to Washington D.C., where he saw his artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol and met Bera to receive his award.
07.02.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. welcomed U.S. Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx to Sacramento County today to highlight the need for a new infrastructure funding bill. Federal transportation funding is set to expire at the end of this month, and if Congress doesn’t act soon, Americans’ safety, and thousands of jobs across the country will be at risk. Bera and Foxx also met with local officials from the Sacramento Area Council of Governments (SACOG) to discuss transportation projects in the region and the federal help needed to move the projects and the economy forward. Other area members of Congress including Congressman John Garamendi and Congresswoman Doris Matsui were also in attendance. “Updating our roads, bridges, and highways is not only important to keeping Sacramento County families safe, but it’s also vital to our local economy,” said Bera. “That’s why we need a fiscally responsible and long-term transportation bill that will allow us to update our infrastructure, and we can’t let partisan politics get in the way. Secretary Foxx understands better than anyone the importance of investing in our infrastructure, and it was great having him in Sacramento County to talk about the projects that will help our region’s economy grow.” Click here to see photos. “Our nation’s infrastructure has long been the backbone of our economy, but we’ve been underinvesting in it for far too long,” said U.S. Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx. “In 2045, there will be 30 million more people living in the United States, and our current system is not prepared for that growth. That's why earlier this year, the Administration put forth the GROW AMERICA Act, a six-year transportation proposal that provides increased and stable investment in our nation’s roads, bridges, transit, and rail systems ; this bill will not only bring our system to a state of good repair, it will prepare us for our future. It’s time that Congress acts to address America’s critical needs.” “We are delighted that Secretary Foxx chose the Sacramento region for a stop in California,” said SACOG Board Chair Don Saylor. “The six county and 22 city SACOG region has worked together to invest federal transportation dollars in the highest performing and most strategic projects that benefit the region near- and long-term. Our region’s Metropolitan Transportation Plan/Sustainable Communities Strategy is a model for the country. We have used the best tools and analysis to build transportation infrastructure projects that support all modes of transportation and the diverse lifestyles of our residents.” Our roads and bridges are in dire need of improvement. According to the U.S. Department of Transportation and the American Society of Civil Engineers, nearly 7,000 bridges in California are structurally deficient or functionally obsolete. Nearly 70 percent of the state’s roads are in poor or mediocre condition. If Congress does not come up with a solution before funding expires at the end of July, greatly needed new projects to upgrade our roads and bridges would immediately stop, and current projects that receive federal funds could be interrupted. That includes upgrades like Sacramento County’s Hazel Avenue Improvement Project to improve traffic safety and ease congestion by widening Hazel Avenue to six lanes, updating traffic signals and improving bike lanes. Bera supports the bipartisan Partnership to Build America Act, which would help pay for billions of dollars of infrastructure upgrades at no cost to taxpayers. This proposal would incentivize U.S. companies to bring back billions of dollars earned abroad if they invest in infrastructure bonds. The bonds would then be used to help state and local governments finance transportation improvements and create American jobs. The Administration has also proposed a multi-year transportation Bill called the GROW AMERICA Act to address our nation's transportation needs.
06.17.2015	Bera: 202-225-5716 Maloney: 202-225-7944 Rangel: 202-225-4365 Polis: 202-503-7569 Reps. Ami Bera (D-CA), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Charles Rangel (D-NY), and Jared Polis (D-CO) today joined leaders of Promundo, the Center for Urban Families and the National Partnership for Women & Families to unveil the first-ever State of the World's Fathers report. The report, which examines data from 193 countries, shows the United States is one of just a few high-wealth countries that do not have family friendly workplace policy standards, such as paid family leave or paid sick days, which help dads manage work and family responsibilities. See Maloney release here. Bera spoke about his experience as a father. When he and his wife Janine adopted their daughter Sydra, she was born prematurely and they had to take time off from work to care for her. Bera’s employer gave him paid time off, and Janine was able to take time away from medical school, but unfortunately, Bera said, not all families have that kind of support. “Being a dad is my most important job, and we need to make sure dads are part of the conversation about issues like paid family leave,” said Bera. “Neither fathers nor mothers should have to choose between caring for a sick child and keeping their jobs” “Too often we focus on leave and childcare as women’s issues, but these are family issues affecting both fathers and mothers,” said Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney. “How fathers engage in parenting and caregiving has a profound impact on the lives of their children and on the lives of women, but unfortunately the United States lags far behind the rest of the world in implementing family friendly policies. It is inexcusable that the U.S. is the only developed country without paid leave. Our leave policy should be the best in the world.” Congressman Charles Rangel said: “Mothers are rightfully discussed as one of the most important people in a child's life. However, the role of fathers goes often overlooked. While a man cannot physically deliver a child, our country should afford him the opportunity to take leave to help alleviate the burden on his spouse or partner and get to better know the life he has just brought into the world.” Congressman Ami Bera said: "Being a dad is my most important job, and we need to make sure dads are part of the conversation about issues like paid family leave. Neither fathers nor mothers should have to choose between caring for a sick child and keeping their jobs." Congressman Jared Polis said: "Increasingly fathers are taking a more active role in parenting and caregiving around the world and here in the U.S. And that’s a good thing. We must make sure that we’re enacting family friendly policies, like paid family and medical leave and paid sick days, that support moms and dads and help them be the best parents they can be." The comprehensive State of the World's Fathers report addresses major issues related to fatherhood, including unpaid care work in the home; sexual and reproductive health and rights; maternal, newborn and child health; men's care giving; violence against children and women; and child development. The report also makes a series of recommendations about involving fathers in raising children and improving family life. The House Members are all cosponsors of the Family and Medical Insurance Leave Act (FAMILY Act, HR 1439), legislation that would provide workers with up to 12 weeks of partial income when taking sick or parental leave. The State of the World's Fathers is being released around the world throughout the week by MenCare, a global campaign promoting responsible fatherhood in 30 countries on five continents, and describes long-lasting disparities between the time and support given to fathers and mothers who care for a child or an older person. MenCare is coordinated globally by Promundo and Sonke Gender Justice, and jointly steered by Save the Children, Rutgers, and the MenEngage Alliance. A copy of the State of the World’s Fathers Report can be found here: https://sowf.men-care.org/
06.05.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. hosted and offered opening remarks during his Brain Health Forum and Community Resource Fair today at the Carmichael Public Library. He introduced guest speakers from the Alzheimer’s Association and Dr. Dan Mungas, Associate Director of the UC Davis Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center. “Alzheimer’s is the 6th leading cause of death in the U.S. As a doctor and as the former Chief Medical Officer of Sacramento County, I’m very concerned about how this disease is impacting our parents and grandparents. That’s why my office hosted this new Brain Health Forum to provide local residents with information on the latest in Alzheimer’s research and what community resources are available to assist caregivers and persons living with Alzheimer’s or other dementias” said Rep. Bera. Michelle Johnston, Regional Director for the Greater Sacramento Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association added, “We appreciate the Congressman's efforts to host this Forum to raise awareness and help his constituents connect with community resources. Over 590,000 Californians are living with Alzheimer's disease and over 1.5 million Californians are unpaid caregivers for individuals living with Alzheimer's or other dementias. Research shows that education and support services for these caregivers can help reduce costs and improve the quality of life for the caregiver and the person with dementia.” Staff members from Bera’s office, the Alzheimer’s Association, UC Davis Alzheimer's Disease Center and other community groups were available for a community resource fair to answer individual questions and provide resources to those who attended. The forum was recorded and will be available on the Alzheimer's Association YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/user/AlzheimersNVCA Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
06.04.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. released the following statement on the fiscal year 2016 Commerce, Justice, and Space Appropriations bill vote: “I’m extremely disappointed that hyper-partisan, harmful amendments, including one that would send desperately-needed water out of Sacramento County and risk the health and safety of my constituents, were added to the Commerce, Justice, and Space funding bill. As a result, I could not vote in favor of the current bill. I do, however, strongly support increased investment in the next generation of our space launch and crew programs. Our space programs have led to innovation and new technologies that have grown our economy and improved our lives. I sincerely hope that this robust funding in space exploration and technology is maintained in the final bill and I will continue to fight for investment in our space programs through my role on the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.” The Commerce, Justice, Space Appropriations bill provides funding for a diverse range of programs in the Departments of Justice and Commerce, as well as funding for the National Science Foundation and NASA. For fiscal year 2016 the House bill includes $1.1 billion for the Orion multipurpose crew vehicle, the first new human spacecraft in a generation, and $2.3 billion for space launch systems. Aerojet Rocketdyne, which is headquartered in Rancho Cordova, has been part of both the Orion and space launch system teams.
05.28.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. joined federal, state, and local officials to kick off the groundbreaking for the regional EchoWater Project earlier today in Elk Grove. The project will be one of Sacramento’s largest public works projects ever and will ensure that water going through the Sacramento region’s wastewater treatment plant will meet higher standards. It could also help address the region’s drought in the long-term by increasing recycled water use in landscaping and agricultural irrigation. (Click here for full version of photo). “We need to invest more in our infrastructure to create jobs and keep our communities safe,” said Bera. “The EchoWater project is a great example of state and federal agencies working together on a project that contributes to a thriving local economy and community.” The project was approved in April to receive $1.6 billion in low-interest financing from the State of California. According to the Sacramento Regional County Sanitation District, the favorable loan terms will save ratepayers more than a half billion dollars in interest costs. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
05.25.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. spent Memorial Day weekend traveling the district to help honor the men, women, and families throughout history who have given their lives while serving our country. Bera’s first stop was at the 17th Annual Fair Oaks Cemetery District’s Memorial Day Ceremony to honor the 150th Anniversary of the Civil War’s end. He also attended the 5th Annual Wounded Veteran Run in Folsom and the 9th Annual Memorial Day Celebration at Sacramento VA Medical Center. Bera wrapped up the day by presenting overdue military medals and awards to WWII Veteran Ken Mork and Vietnam Veteran Julian Andrade during a medal presentation at his district office in Sacramento. "Memorial Day is a time for Americans to come together in appreciation and recognition of the millions of men, women and their families who have sacrificed their lives for our great nation," said Bera. This weekend was especially poignant for me as I helped honor our nation’s veterans from the the Civil War to the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan." Mr. Ken Mork of Carmichael received the following medals and awards: World War II Victory Medal American Campaign Medal Asiatic Pacific Campaign Medal Combat Action Ribbon Honorable Discharge Button Honorable Service Lapel Pin Mr. Julian Andrade of Sacramento received the following medals and awards: Army Commendation Medal National Defense Service Medal Vietnam Service Medal Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal with 1960 device Combat Infantryman Badge Sharpshooter Badge (Rifle, Auto rifle, Machine gun) Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov. ###
05.20.2015	Congressmen Ami Bera and Phil Roe, both medical doctors, introduced bipartisan legislation today to establish a grant program for funding prescription drug disposal across the country, the Dispose Responsibly Of your Pills Act (DROP) of 2015 (H.R. 2463). Research shows that more than half of nonmedical users of prescription medications got them from people they know. Properly disposing of prescription medications that are no longer needed is one way to help curb prescription drug abuse. In the United States, prescription drug abuse is an increasing issue. It impacts people of all ages, across all socioeconomic backgrounds, and in all kinds of communities. According to the 2013 National Survey on Drug Use and Health conducted by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), an alarming 15.3 million people 12 or older used prescription drugs non-medically. That non-medical use is leading to thousands of deaths caused by overdoses each year. In fact, a 2011 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report analysis found that prescription drugs were involved in more than half of the 38,300 overdose deaths in 2010. “As a doctor, I’m very concerned about the increasing prevalence of prescription drug abuse in our communities,” said Bera. “Making proper prescription disposal available, and educating people on the importance ofappropriately throwing away unused medications are simple steps we can take to help solve a big problem. I’m proud to have worked with my Republican friend Dr. Roe on this important bill.” “Prescription drug abuse is a growing problem throughout the United States, particularly in East Tennessee, and I am proud to partner with Dr. Bera on this important bipartisan legislation,” said Roe. “Our bill would establish a grant program to fund programs to help law enforcement agencies, pharmacies, narcotic treatment programs, hospitals and clinics, and long-term care facilities properly dispose of outdated or unused prescription medications. Currently, there are no existing grants available for programs to properly dispose of prescription drugs and I believe this effort could help curb the widespread prescription drug abuse we’re seeing around the country.” “I am particularly pleased that this proposed bill includes a provision for implementing community education strategies because far too often the public does not know what it does not know,” said Calvina Fay, executive director of Drug Free America Foundation, Inc. and Save Our Society From Drugs. “ Individuals have historically left unused medications sitting in their homes well beyond their shelf life and ultimately tossed them into their trashcans or flushed them down the toilet without any thought about where they end up or what impact they have on the environment or other individuals. Most people want to do the right thing; they just need to be educated on this issue! I believe that this bill will help the public to understand what needs to be done and why and also make it easier for people to comply.” Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
05.19.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. voted today to continue the funding for infrastructure in the Highway Trust Fund for two more months. He made the following statement: “I voted to continue critical funding for our infrastructure for the short-term because we cannot in good conscience abandon or delay vital infrastructure projects during the busy summer months. These projects support too many jobs, and are too important to our communities’ safety to play politics. We must, however, stop these short-term patches and work together to find a long-term solution for fixing our outdated roads, bridges and levees that isn’t fiscally irresponsible, and doesn’t raise the gasoline tax on families who are already struggling. That’s vital to Sacramento County’s public safety and to our economic growth.” America’s infrastructure received a D+ grade from the American Society of Civil Engineers in 2013 based on physical condition and needed investments for improvement. Bera is a sponsor of the Partnership to Build America Act, bipartisan legislation to rebuild America’s infrastructure at no cost to taxpayers. Currently, transportation infrastructure projects are funded by the Highway Trust Fund, which is sustained by a tax on gasoline. Some have suggested raising that tax as gasoline tax receipts have declined. Bera has repeatedly been against this approach because it unfairly hurts middle class families and small businesses, and puts a strain on our economy. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
05.15.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. introduced the Women’s Preventive Health Awareness Campaign (H.R. 2355) today, capping off National Women’s Health Week. The bill calls for the Department of Health and Human Services to launch a national public outreach campaign to raise awareness about the importance of women’s wellness visits. When women meet with their doctors for annual well-woman visits, it can prevent illness, improve health, and lower healthcare costs. But, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, in March of 2014, more than 3 years after a new measure in the Affordable Care Act made free preventive services available to women, less than half the population, or 43 percent, reported that they were aware of this new benefit. “I know, as a physician myself, that encouraging women to see their doctors regularly helps keep our wives, mothers, and daughters healthy,” said Bera. “Annual wellness visits can help doctors prevent illnesses or diagnose them early when they can be treated. That’s not only good medicine— it can save lives and cut costs.” Bera first introduced a similar measure in 2013. In addition to the education campaign included in that version, this new bill also includes a number of clarifications on how providers and insurers implement the ACA Women’s Preventive Services Guidelines to ensure that women get the care they need. For example, it mandates that the entirety of the well-woman visit be covered without cost sharing— there can’t be additional facility fees, or office visit fees. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
05.15.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bipartisan amendment to the FY2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) calling for expansion of U.S.-India defense cooperation. The amendment was offered by Reps. Joe Crowley (D-NY), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus; Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee; Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee; Ami Bera (D-CA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans; and George Holding (R-NC), Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans. In addition to urging an overall expansion in defense ties, the amendment specifically calls for the U.S. to welcome the role India plays in providing security and stability in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond, work cooperatively with India on matters relating to our common defense, vigorously support the implementation of the U.S.-India Defense Framework Agreement, as well as support the India Defense Trade and Technology Initiative (DTTI). This was the first vote held by the House on U.S.-India since the 2014 Indian elections, and comes on the heels of the defense framework advanced by President Obama and Prime Minister Modi in January. Support for building the U.S.-India relationship is a solidly bipartisan effort in Congress. “As the world’s oldest democracy and the world’s largest democracy, the United States and India are natural allies,” said Bera. “Continued cooperation in defense benefits both our countries as we draw down in Afghanistan and deal with terrorism around the world. This amendment demonstrates our strong support for growing the defense partnership between the U.S. and India, and I’ll continue to be an advocate for strengthening the overall strategic and economic relationship between our two countries.” “One of the most important decisions the U.S. has made in recent years is to strengthen our relationship with India, including cooperation and coordination on defense matters,” said Crowley, former co-chair of the House India Caucus. “Our amendment makes clear that the U.S. Congress stands firmly behind expanding and moving our defense relationship forward as we strengthen our overall strategic partnership with India.” “Fifteen years ago, the dynamic nature of the strategic-plus partnership that we have today with India would have been unthinkable. This amendment, which has bipartisan support, reiterates that our partnership with India is far and wide in scope, from shared security in the Indo-Pacific to expanded scientific collaboration in clean energy and space exploration,” said Engel. “The U.S.-India partnership will define the South Asia region and beyond for years to come. Front and center in this critical partnership is our increasing defense cooperation, which was further cemented by renewing our Defense Framework Agreement. This amendment puts the House on record supporting further cooperation between the U.S. and Indian armed forces,” said Royce, former co-chair of the House India Caucus. “With the emerging challenges the United States and India both face in the Indo-Pacific region and across the globe, it is essential we strengthen the defense partnership and cooperation between our two nations. I am encouraged by the progress made thus far by the Defense Trade and Technology Initiative and I strongly support continued defense collaboration between the United States and India for years to come,” said Holding.
05.13.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. today fought against a radical assault on women’s access to health care and voted against the so-called Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R. 36)– a bill that would ban abortions after 20 weeks and not allow any real exceptions to protect women’s health. “When I became a doctor, I took an oath to provide my patients with the best options available to them and to explain the risks and benefits of these choices,” said Bera “ Women should be free to make the health care decisions that are best for them, and doctors should not be threatened with jail time for doing what’s in the best interest of their patients. This bill is just another extreme attempt of politicians trying to insert themselves into the exam room where they don’t belong.” Watch Bera’s speech on the bill. H.R. 36 makes it more difficult for women to get the health care they need, even in the cases of rape and incest, and interferes in the doctor patient relationship by placing criminal penalties on physicians providing life-saving care for their patients. According to Planned Parenthood, Nearly 99 percent of abortions occur before 21 weeks, but when they are needed later in pregnancy, it’s often because of a serious medical issue when a woman and her doctor need every medical option available. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
05.08.2015	Sacramento's Elica Health Centers (Elica), has been awarded $700,000 in federal funds to a operate a new permanent health center in the Arden-Arcade area, a project for which Congressman Ami Bera advocated. Elica provides high-quality, affordable, culturally and linguistically appropriate health care to under-served families and children in the Sacramento region living below the poverty level, including individuals who are homeless. They emphasize prevention, wellness, health education, and chronic disease management. Due to an increase in demand for primary care services, the Elica-Wright St. location will expand services for homeless patients and low-income residents that reside in the general community. "As a doctor who volunteers in local free clinics myself, I know how necessary the services that Elica provides to our community are," said Bera. "Everyone deserves access to good health care, and preventive care not only keeps people healthy, but also helps keep costs down for the entire health care system." Formerly Midtown Medical Center for Children and Families, Elica was established in 1979, and became a Federally Qualified Health Center in 2012. Primary care services are currently provided from two sites, one in downtown Sacramento and the other on 15th Street in West Sacramento, and by means of a school-based Health on Wheels (HOW) mobile clinic. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
05.01.2015	Earlier today, Congressman Ami Bera, M.D., offered the final amendment to the energy and water funding bill for fiscal year 2016 (H.R. 2028) to bring more emergency drought relief to California families, farmers, and small businesses. The amendment also sought to help communities modernize their water infrastructure to use their water more efficiently and prepare for future droughts. Click here to watch his remarks supporting the amendment on the House floor. Bera made the following comment: “The Sierra Nevada snowpack is at just 5 percent of normal and we’re entering our fourth year of drought conditions. There are families, famers, and small businesses who are feeling the pain of our prolonged drought every single day and we need to focus on bringing emergency help to the people who are being hurt now. This issue is too serious to play games and pit Republicans against Democrats or place southern delta interests ahead of Northern Californians. We need immediate relief now and long term, comprehensive solutions to secure water access and storage throughout our state.” Bera also voted for the energy and water bill that, among many other things, included funding to continue upgrades at the Folsom Dam, a project that creates infrastructure jobs while boosting Folsom Lake’s water storage capacity to hold onto more water during drought years. He has been fighting for long-term and comprehensive solutions to address California’s drought since coming to Congress, supporting not only the Folsom Dam project, but other legislation to increase water storage at other California reservoirs, and supporting water recycling efforts. He has also fought the governor’s ill-conceived water draining tunnels in the Bay-Delta Conservation Plan. Visit bera.house.gov/ca-drought to learn more. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
04.20.2015	Congressmen Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-07) and Tom Reed (NY-23) introduced a resolution this week to move beyond Congressional gridlock and develop a new national strategic agenda with shared goals for our nation that both parties can agree on. A bipartisan group of 26 members—all part of the Congressional Problem Solvers Caucus—are supporting the bill, H-Res 207. The national strategic agenda aims to solve problems by setting goals first, then working through the details together. The four shared goals are: • Create 25,000,000 new jobs over the next 10 years; • Balance the Federal budget by 2030; • Secure Medicare and Social Security for the next 75 years; and • Make the United States energy secure by 2024 “I came to Congress to work with people, regardless of party, to solve this country’s challenges and put the people of Sacramento County before politics,” said Bera. “That starts by agreeing on goals for our country. Everyone should be able to support creating jobs, balancing the budget to address our debt, securing Medicare and Social Security for our seniors, and securing America’s energy needs, and the American people deserve to have their leaders work to address these important issues.” “Working toward tackling our nation’s greatest challenges is why I came to Washington,” said Reed. “We must reaffirm our promises to the elderly by securing Social Security and Medicare. We need to ensure our debt is not paid for on the backs of our kids. We need to create jobs and opportunity and we must work towards energy security. These issues are critical and I am humbled to work towards solving them.” Co-Sponsors include Reps. Brad Ashford, Sanford Bishop, Carlos Curbelo, Ryan Costello , Rodney Davis, Charles Dent, Robert Dold, Chaka Fattah, Michael Fitzpatrick, Tulsi Gabbard, Christopher Gibson, Jim Himes , Jared Huffman, Lynn Jenkins, Adam Kinzinger, Daniel Lipinski, David Loebsack, Rick Nolan, Scott Peters, Reid Ribble, Scott Rigell, Kurt Schrader, Kyrsten Sinema, and Todd Young. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
04.15.2015	The Senate last night overwhelmingly passed legislation to restore certainty to our seniors and to Medicare physicians, and to end the more than decade-long cycle of “doc fix” patches, by repealing and reforming the flawed Medicare payment system known as the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR). The bill passed by a vote of 92 to 8. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D., one of a handful of doctors in Congress who fought for this legislation, made the following statement: “As a doctor who’s cared for many seniors who rely on Medicare, I know how big this victory is for both America’s seniors and for generations to come. After years of gridlock and 17 short-term patches over the last decade, I’m proud we’ve found a bipartisan solution to replace the broken SGR formula, giving seniors access to the care they need and improving how we deliver health care through Medicare. Under the new system, we’re keeping the promise we’ve made to our parents and grandparents: seniors will get better, more patient-centered care while at the same time costs will be lower and Medicare will be strengthened for the long term. This is a great, bipartisan achievement, and it shows what Congress can accomplish when we put politics aside and do what’s best for the American people.” Watch Bera’s remarks during debate of the bill.Read Bera’s statement when the bill passed the House.Read Bera’s op-ed on SGR reform in The Hill. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
04.08.2015	CMS announced yesterday that Medicare Advantage rates for 2016 will increase by an average of 1.25 percent, a reversal from the 0.95 percent cut CMS proposed in February. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. fought against the proposed cuts that would have increased costs for seniors and blocked their access to care. He offered the following comment: “As a doctor, I know firsthand how critical strengthening Medicare is for our seniors, and how much seniors in Sacramento County especially rely on Medicare Advantage. Medicare Advantage is a program that works. It delivers improved health outcomes for patients while also bringing down costs for nearly 100,000 seniors in our area, and I’m pleased the Administration listened to our calls to stop the cuts. This step will protect seniors from significant increases in costs or cuts in benefits, and ensure this critical program is there for the people who need it. We also must continue to ensure the most vulnerable seniors, particularly those with chronic conditions, have access to high quality and preventive health care and I’ll continue to fight for that.” Medicare Advantage plans cover 44 percent of Medicare recipients in Sacramento County, nearly 100,000 seniors. More than 90 percent of people using Medicare Advantage have access to a $0 premium plan. Bera called on the Administration to reverse course and reconsider the proposed cuts in multiple letters, including one signed by 239 of his colleagues. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
03.27.2015	Today, while in Elk Grove to celebrate March for Meals month with local seniors, Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. announced that he’s returning his 2014 pension to the U.S. Treasury to pay down the U.S. debt, keeping the oath he made to the people of Sacramento County to decline his Congressional pension until Medicare and Social Security are secure. “Yesterday, the House took a major step to protect and strengthen Medicare, passing a milestone bill to fix its payment system,” said Bera. “But we still have work to do to make sure Medicare and Social Security are secure for this generation and the next. I’ve pledged to not take a Congressional pension until Medicare and Social Security are secure because Sacramento County families shouldn’t be forced to pay for my retirement when many of theirs are still vulnerable. Instead, I’m putting that money toward paying down this country’s mounting debt—another issue that Congress needs to make a top priority.” Bera wrote and sent a check to the United States Treasury Bureau of the Public Debt for $4,914.53, the pension amount he accrued during 2014. He also returned his 2013 pension earnings last March. In addition to announcing his pension return, Bera served food and spoke with the seniors at the Elk Grove Senior Center for an ACC Meals on Wheels program. He discussed how his office can help seniors having issues with federal agencies like Social Security and Medicare and about the House’s recent vote for a bipartisan, historic package to repeal and reform the flawed Medicare payment system known as the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) and how it will help them. March for Meals is a nationwide, community-by-community, celebration of Meals on Wheels programs that help elderly adults live independently in their own homes. The national campaign is held annually during the month of March, initiated and sponsored by the Meals On Wheels Association of America to raise awareness of the struggles faced by those aging in their respective communities, and to encourage action on the part of those local communities. Hundreds of elder nutrition programs across the United States, like ACC Meals on Wheels, promote March for Meals through public events, partnerships with local businesses, volunteer recruitment and fundraising initiatives. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
03.26.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted on a bipartisan, historic package to restore certainty to our seniors and to Medicare physicians, and to end the decade-long cycle of annual “doc fix” patches, repealing and reforming the flawed Medicare payment system known as the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR). The bill passed with overwhelming bipartisan support. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D., one of a handful of doctors in Congress, made the following statement: Watch Bera’s remarks during debate of the bill. “As a doctor who’s cared for many seniors who rely on Medicare, I know how important it is to strengthen and protect the promise we’ve made to our parents and grandparents. For more than a decade, though, the financial uncertainty caused by the broken payment system that Washington created has threatened Medicare’s future and left many doctors no choice but to reduce the number of Medicare patients they see. Today’s bill will not only end that and help seniors on Medicare get the care they need, but it also has the potential to transform how we deliver health care, improving it while lowering costs and protecting Medicare for the long term. Under SGR reform, no longer will our seniors’ care be about how many tests and procedures they order or how much they charge. Instead, it will be about patient outcomes: fewer repeat hospital visits, higher patient satisfaction, and fewer medical errors, to name a few. Of course this bill isn’t perfect. Like many, I am disappointed the Hyde Amendment was included. I have always stood against the Hyde Amendment and any other attempts to restrict a woman’s right to make her own reproductive decisions. The Hyde Amendment is a temporary rider that expires every year, and I – along with many people across this country – look forward to the day when it will end. But I came to Congress to work with my colleagues, regardless of party, to solve this country’s toughest challenges and to put the people of Sacramento County before politics. This bill is a good agreement and a great example of that kind of bipartisan work. It also includes many important health provisions for women and families. Because of this legislation, 7.4 million patients will still have access to care at community health centers, and 8 million low-income children and pregnant women will still have care through CHIP, the children’s health insurance program. In addition to that, the bill includes the same provisions as the PRIME ACT, a bill I’ve sponsored and fought for because it curbs fraud, waste and abuse in Medicare and Medicaid and saves taxpayers money. After years of inaction and gridlock, and 17 short-term patches over the last decade, I’m proud a broad, bipartisan consensus on reforms to give seniors access to quality has finally been reached. This is how Congress is supposed to work. Now that this bill has passed with overwhelming bipartisan support in the House, I hope the Senate will do the right thing and vote yes on this bill to secure Medicare for today’s seniors and the next generation.” Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov. ###
03.26.2015	On Saturday, Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. hosted his first Community Forum in Rancho Cordova. The forum featured remarks from Bera, California Assemblyman Ken Cooley, and Mayor of Rancho Cordova Robert McGarvey and a question and answer period that was moderated by Rancho Cordova City Councilman Donald Terry. Staff was also available to help constituents with any issues they may be having with the federal, state, or local government. “Staying connected with Sacramento County is core to my job as a representative. I’m here to listen and make government work for my constituents. That’s why I started a new series of Community Forums that are designed to bring together elected officials from all levels of government. This type of forum provides constituents with an opportunity to hear from their federal representative, state representative, and local representative on a variety of topics in one setting,” said Bera. Rep. Bera’s office will continue to host Community Forums throughout the region. To see what upcoming events Rep. Bera is hosting visit: https://bera.house.gov/upcomingevents Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov. ###
03.25.2015	Last Friday, Congressman Ami Bera, M.D., presented Mr. Paul Williams with three service medals earned during the Vietnam War. Williams, a longtime Fair Oaks resident, had never received nor pursued his medals after separating from the Air Force due to the public sentiment about the Vietnam War at the time. “It was an honor to help recognize Mr. Williams’ service to our country. Too many of our veterans go without thanks, especially our Vietnam War veterans who faced a difficult homecoming,” said Bera. Williams served in the Air Force from April 1969-February 1973. He was previously awarded the Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal by the South Korean government. Born in February 1950 in War, WV, Williams enlisted in the Air Force after graduation from high school and an attempt at college. He spent 13 months in Vietnam and a total of 15 months overseas as a C-130 Hercules crewman. Williams flew throughout Vietnam with the aircraft for transport and other military missions. He was separated from the service in 1973. Bera presented Mr. Williams with the following medals on Friday March 20, 2015: Vietnam Service Medal: The Vietnam Service Medal (VSM) is awarded to any service member who served on temporary duty for more than 30 consecutive days, or 60 non-consecutive days, attached to or regularly serving for one, or more, days with an organization participating in or directly supporting ground (military) operations or attached to or regularly serving for one, or more, days aboard a naval vessel directly supporting military operations in the Republic of Vietnam, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos within the defined combat zone between the dates of 15 November 1961 and 28 March 1973, and from 29 April 1975 to 30 April 1975. National Defense Service Medal: A service medal is an award to individuals who participated in designated wars, campaigns, or expeditions, or who waive fulfilled specific service requirements in a creditable manner; awarded to service members who served honorably during a designated time period of which a "national emergency" had been declared during a time of war or conflict. Air Force Good Conduct Medal: The criteria for award of the Air Force Good Conduct medal are as follows: It is awarded to Air Force enlisted personnel during a three-year period of active military service or for a one-year period of service during a time of war. Airmen awarded this medal must have had character and efficiency ratings of excellent or higher throughout the qualifying period including time spent in attendance at service schools, and there must have been no convictions of court martial or non-judicial punishment during this period. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov. ###
03.25.2015	The U.S. House of Representatives voted on several budget proposals today and passed a Republican budget proposal with extra spending on defense 219 to 208. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. made the following comment: “We owe it to the American people to work together, taking ideas from both parties, to craft a budget that reins in wasteful spending and deals with our debt, makes smart investments in infrastructure, education, and innovation to grow our economy, and strengthens important lifelines like Social Security and Medicare. Unfortunately, none of the proposals we voted on today accomplished that goal, but were instead one-sided, political exercises that I could not support. I remain optimistic that we can come together to solve this country's pressing challenges and will continue to fight for the pragmatic, responsible solutions that Sacramento County families deserve.” Bera has led the fight to pass a responsible, bipartisan budget. He's working to pass a permanent No Budget No Pay, which says if Congress doesn’t do its job and pass a responsible budget, they don’t get paid. In 2013, he helped pass a version of the law, and for the first time in years the House and Senate passed a budget. The resulting bipartisan Murray Ryan budget agreement, a bill Bera supported, was eventually signed into law. In December, Bera also supported the “Cromnibus,” a bipartisan budget that funds the government through the end of September. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
03.25.2015	Today, Reps. Ami Bera (CA-07), Reps. Joe Crowley (NY-14), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Mike Honda (CA-17), Grace Meng (NY-06) and John Garamendi (CA-03), along with leading advocacy groups, welcomed the inclusion of Sikh, Hindu, and Arab American communities in the Department of Justice’s hate crimes tracking effort. This is the final step in the long-fought effort to encourage the federal government to finally begin tracking and quantifying hate crimes against these at-risk communities. Recently, the DOJ and FBI updated its hate crimes database and FBI training manual in order to start tracking hate crimes committed against these groups – that system is now fully operational. The members led a Congressional effort to encourage the Department of Justice and FBI to document hate crimes against Sikh, Hindu, and Arab Americans, spearheading numerous letters to the DOJ and FBI, introducing a Congressional resolution in the wake of the tragic massacre in Oak Creek, Wis., and submitting testimony urging action on hate crimes. This is of particular importance to Sacramento County. In 2011, two elderly Sikh Americans, Gurmej Atwal and Surinder Singh, were shot while out for a walk in Elk Grove in a suspected hate crime. “Since the September 11th attacks, too many Americans, especially Sikh, Hindu and Arab-Americans, have been wrongfully subjected to hate crimes and discrimination, including the shooting of two Sikh Americans in my own city. Religious tolerance is a fundamental value of our nation and we must do everything we can to prevent these crimes motivated by bias against a victim’s religious beliefs. That’s why I applaud the Department of Justice and FBI for their formal inclusion of Sikhs, Hindus and Arab-Americans in the FBI training manual and their new efforts to track crimes against these groups. I’ve been calling for these steps since I got to Congress because they’re important to confronting hatred and increasing public awareness about the crimes committed against often-targeted people. This is a big win for these communities, and a huge win for justice,” said Rep. Bera. “Time and time again, we have seen vicious attacks on members of Sikh, Hindu and Arab American communities. Tracking hate crimes is more than just putting a number in a column – it means giving law enforcement agencies the resources and information they need to help prevent this kind of violence in the first place,” said Rep. Crowley. “This has been a long time in the making and I’m proud to stand with my colleagues and advocates in recognition of this significant milestone. This victory would not have been possible had it not been for the tenacious and tireless efforts of advocates and citizens across the country. We thank the FBI and the Department of Justice for hearing their concerns, as well as ours, and making these important changes that will go a long way in protecting Sikh, Hindu, Arab Americans, as well as many other communities, from hate crimes.” “Representing one of the most diverse districts in the nation, I understand that our strength is found in that very diversity, but only if we protect the rights of each and every individual,” said Rep. Pascrell. “We know that domestic, home grown terrorism remains a threat, yet several years ago some tried to downplay DHS warning about right wing radicals and hate groups who might be targeting certain immigrant communities. Just because you're Muslim, or a Sikh, or an immigrant doesn't mean you should have to live your life in fear.” “I’m glad that the FBI’s newly updated Hate Crimes Training Manual includes specific information to help law enforcement agencies address hate crimes against Sikh, Hindu, and Arab Americans. The best tool for preventing these crimes is to find out how, when, and where they are occurring. Better data means better policies and better policing. Since 9/11, Sikhs, Hindus, and Arab Americans have been the unfair targets of many acts of violence. I applaud the FBI for taking steps to protect these groups, prevent crimes against them, and prosecute those who commit them,” said Rep. Honda. “In 2013, I was among those in Congress who called for separate tracking of hate crimes against Sikh, Hindu and Arab Americans, and I’m pleased that the FBI has made it fully operational. This is an unfortunate, ongoing issue for these communities – where in just the last few months – an Islamic Center, a Hindu temple, two multiple Muslim families, and an Indian grandfather were all targets of hate. I hope that the community will feel more comfortable coming forward and reporting incidents so that we can track the true extent of this problem. I also want to applaud Congressman Crowley for his hard work on this issue,” said Rep. Meng. “Our nation values freedom from fear. However, far too many people in communities across America, including Sikhs, are the targets of violence, bullying, and bigotry. By expanding the tracking of hate crimes, the Department of Justice, FBI, and civil rights groups can better understand and more effectively combat this hate. We must reaffirm our shared belief that every American deserves the opportunity to live out the American Dream,” said Rep. Garamendi. “After 9/11, there was more than a 300% increase in hate crimes in California alone – mostly against Arab, Muslim, Sikh, and South Asian Americans. These are crimes of the worst kind that make entire communities fearful. The FBI’s recent updates to the hate crimes database to include these affected groups combined with its new training guidance will improve reporting and build a bridge of trust between law enforcement and these communities. These improvements will bring us one step closer to an America where all are welcome to raise their families in peace,” said Rep. Chu. “Until now, Anti-Sikh hate crimes were not recognized by the FBI,” said Rajdeep Singh, Director of Law and Policy at the Sikh Coalition. “Year after year, Sikh Americans were being targeted for harassment and violence because of their distinct identity. For the first time, the FBI now officially acknowledges that Sikhs are targeted for being Sikhs. While refinements are needed to the agency’s tracking system and training standards, we are making progress.” “The new FBI hate crime training manual is the sin­gle most impor­tant, most inclu­sive hate crime train­ing resource avail­able for law enforce­ment officials. We never would have gotten to this day without the leadership of Rep. Crowley and other Members of Congress – who have been so persistent and so tenacious in working on this issue. But even the best training manual is irrelevant unless it is used. We look forward to working with Rep. Crowley and other Members to promote programs and training for law enforcement officials to ensure that the new manual will be circulated widely and used,” said Michael Lieberman, Washington Counsel, Anti-Defamation League. "The federal tracking of anti-Hindu, anti-Sikh, and anti-Arab hate crimes is an important, if long-overdue, development. Even as our community grows, Hindu Americans remain uniquely vulnerable to harassment, bullying, and violence. On this historic day, I'd like to remember Sunando Sen, a Hindu from Rep. Crowley’s home state of New York, who was murdered in a NYC subway station because of his faith. While this tracking comes too late for Sunando, it can help ensure that hate violence is combatted effectively in the future. The Hindu American Foundation looks forward to working with members of Congress, our coalition partners, and the FBI to build on this important step, and ensure that all Americans, regardless of their faith, can live safe and free,” said Harsh Voruganti, Associate Director of Public Policy, Hindu American Foundation. “The release of the updated FBI Hate Crime Data Collection Guidelines and Training Manual, a reform Sikh Americans and SALDEF have advocated towards for half a decade, marks a step towards ensuring accurate reporting of hate crimes committed against Sikhs, an important step that will ultimately aid the Sikh community as we continue to address the roots of anti-Sikh bias. We appreciate the support and leadership of Rep. Joe Crowley and other members of Congress on this issue,” said Jasjit Singh, executive director of the Sikh American Legal Defense and Education Fund (SALDEF). “South Asian Americans Leading Together commends the relentless efforts of the elected officials and fellow civil rights organizations at today’s press conference in ensuring that the FBI hate crimes training manual was updated to include Arab, Hindu, and Sikh categories. This is more important now than ever with the recent spike in hate violence targeting our communities. Our work ahead will be to ensure our communities are informed of these critical updates and are able to build trust with law enforcement so that hate crimes targeting South Asians, Muslims, Sikhs, Hindus, Middle Easterners, and Arabs are appropriately documented and prosecuted,” said Lakshmi Sridaran, Director of Policy and Advocacy, South Asian Americans Standing Together (SAALT). In March 2013, the group again led a letter signed by over 100 members of Congress to the FBI Advisory Policy Board to express strong support to begin tracking and quantifying hate crimes against Sikh, Hindu and Arab-Americans. Subsequently, the Advisory Board recommended that the FBI begin collecting this information. Two years later, the DOJ has formalized its hate crimes tracking mechanism and FBI training manual, used by law enforcement agencies across the country, to include guidelines for tracking hate crimes against Sikh, Hindu, and Arab Americans. ###
03.24.2015	Following the introduction of bipartisan legislation to permanently fix the SGR formula for Medicare provider payments, Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. released the following statement: “As a doctor who’s cared for many seniors who rely on Medicare, I know how much of a lifeline it is to our parents and grandparents. That’s why we need to fix the flawed formula for reimbursing Medicare health care providers that has threatened seniors’ access to health care for more than a decade. After years of gridlock, and 17 short-term patches, a broad, bipartisan agreement on reforms that will ensure access to quality care for seniors is attainable. While the bipartisan SGR reform package unveiled today is not perfect, it is a good deal that will help seniors on Medicare get the care they need, and potentially transform how we deliver health care, improving it while also lowering costs and protecting Medicare for this and future generations. Under SGR reform, no longer will health care payment be based on fees-for-services like how many tests and procedures doctors order, but instead it will be about patients’ outcomes and satisfaction. I was also happy to see the bill will preserve global payments for complex surgeries that have 10 and 90-day post-operative periods, an issue I’ve been working on since the proposal to replace bundled payments came out last summer. Returning to a costly fee-for-service system when, currently, payments for complex procedures are bundled by ailment is exactly the wrong direction healthcare should go in. I’m glad to see this proposal rejected, and that members from both parties recognize the importance of prioritizing patient care, so that patients don’t see additional copays.” Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov. ###
03.19.2015	Congressmen Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-7) and Mark Meadows (NC-11) recently introduced The Doctors Helping Heroes Act, bipartisan legislation first introduced last year that will help deal with the serious shortage of doctors the Veterans Affairs system is facing and help decrease wait times at VA hospitals. The bill would allow foreign doctors trained in the U.S. to practice at VA hospitals and in under-served areas where they are sorely needed. “As a doctor who’s worked in the VA system, I’ve seen first-hand how much our veterans and their families have sacrificed our country,” said Bera. “They deserve the best care possible and I’m proud to have worked with Congressman Meadows on this common sense bill to make sure doctors are available to care for our vets. This is just one step we should take to make sure our heroes get the health care they need and deserve.” Experts agree that one of the primary factors contributing to long wait times at VA facilities is the lack of enough physicians to care for aging veterans from the Vietnam War and younger ones who served in Iraq and Afghanistan. Under current law, most international physicians who are trained in the U.S. on J-1 visas must return to their home country for two years after their residency ends before they can apply for a new visa or a green card. But under the Conrad 30 program, these doctors can stay in the country without returning home if they agree to practice in an under-served area for three years. The “30” refers to the number of doctors allowed per state to participate in the program. Bera and Meadows’ legislation would increase the number of visas allowed per state for doctors to practice at VA hospitals and under-served areas where doctors are sorely needed. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
03.18.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. received Planned Parenthood's Champions for Women's Health Award last night during the 2015 Planned Parenthood National Conference. The award is given to one member of the U.S. House of Representatives and one U.S. Senator annually who exhibit the vision, leadership, and integrity it takes to protect and advance access to reproductive health care. Rep. Bera with representatives of Planned Parenthood Mar Monte. “I’m truly honored by this recognition from Planned Parenthood,” said Bera. “As a doctor and the father of a daughter, I believe that health care decisions should be made between a woman and her doctor. Unfortunately, that doctor patient relationship is under constant attack and we’ve seen what happens when people play politics with women’s access to health care. But we’ve also seen the progress that’s possible when policies embrace science and medicine to expand access to health care instead of standing in the way. We must continue that progress, and I am proud to continue working with Planned Parenthood to protect women’s health.” President of Planned Parenthood Federation of America and Planned Parenthood Action Fund Cecile Richards, and President and CEO of Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California Kathy Kneer presented Bera with the award. ​Rep. Bera with fellow award winners Senator Sherrod Brown and Sen. Shaheen staffer Alison MacDonald, along with Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards. “Each year we recognize members of Congress and Congressional staff who exhibit the vision, leadership, and integrity it takes to protect and advance access to reproductive health care and I can’t think of a member of the House who better demonstrates these qualities than Representative Bera,” said Cecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood Federation of America. “Representative Bera and his allies in Congress are a critical voice for women at home and abroad as we face increased attacks on reproductive health care.” “We can always count on Dr. Bera to stand up for women’s access to health care in California, and around the world,” said Kneer. “As a member of the Congressional committee focused on global health, he has been a true advocate for women worldwide. His tireless efforts have made him a champion to Planned Parenthood and a champion to the women of Sacramento County.” The Planned Parenthood National Conference draws more than 500 affiliate staff from across the country, including many from California and the Sacramento region, who were present at the award presentation. Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio was the Senate recipient of the award. Alison MacDonald from the office of New Hampshire Senator Jeanne Shaheen’s office was recognized with a Stand up Staffer award. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov. ###
03.04.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. and the 46-member New Democrat Coalition today unveiled the American Prosperity Agenda, a comprehensive policy document aimed at fostering a new era of middle-class prosperity in the United States. The document, which is the first in the nearly 18-year history of the Coalition, seeks to “seize the opportunities of a new economy” with the best policies drawn from the left, right, and center. “Many Sacramento County families are still struggling as we climb out of the worst recession of our lifetimes,” said Bera. “We need to rebuild an economy that works for everyone to make sure that all families share in the economic growth of our country. These are not just Democratic priorities; they’re principles that people from all across the political spectrum should be able to get behind. The American people want Congress to work together towards goals like these, and I was pleased to join my colleagues in the New Democrat Coalition to introduce this important agenda today.” The Agenda’s overall aim of middle-class prosperity rests on three core priorities: growing the economy in every town and city, giving everyone a shot at the American Dream, and making government work for the middle class. It encourages lawmakers to reauthorize legislation targeted at fostering innovation in the United States, pass comprehensive immigration reform, fix America’s tax code, promote a free and open internet, and aggressively pursue export opportunities throughout the globe. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
03.03.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. today made the following statement regarding Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address before a Joint Meeting of the Congress: “Though I was disappointed with the clearly political timing of Prime Minister Netanyahu’s speech, as a Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I believe it was my duty to be there and listen today. Israel is one of America’s most critical allies and the issues in the Middle East are far more important than partisan politics. I continue to be committed to keeping Iran from getting nuclear weapons. That means an all-options-on-the-table approach towards Iran where the U.S. and the international community continue our vigilance and verification. If Iran violates the interim agreement, or if a long-term accord does not materialize, Iran must be fully aware they will face serious consequences.” Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
02.27.2015	Today the U.S. House of Representatives failed to vote on a real solution to keep the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) open and instead brought up a stop-gap, temporary measure that failed 224-203. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. made the following statement: “Terrorists don’t operate on a three-week timeline. The American people deserve so much better than this. Congress needs to do its job and pass a long-term budget for the agency tasked with keeping the American people safe. We cannot keep governing from crisis to crisis. We must stop the finger pointing, put politics aside, and make Washington work for the people again.” Earlier this week, Bera introduced a bill that will withhold the pay of members of Congress if the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) shuts down. Should it shut down, Bera will donate any Congressional pay earned during that time to charity. Bera is a co-sponsor of a clean bill to fund DHS through the end of the fiscal year. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
02.25.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-07), along with Representatives Brad Ashford (NE-02), Gwen Graham (FL-02), and Scott Peters (CA-52) introduced legislation, H.R. 1032, the “No Homeland Security, No Pay Act,” to withhold the pay of members of Congress if the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) shuts down. Currently, funding for DHS will expire on Saturday, February 28 if Congress does not act. “If Congress can’t do its job and put the security of the American people before politics, then they certainly shouldn’t get paid during a crisis that they are causing,” said Bera. “Shutting down the agency responsible for the safety of the American people —in our airports, at our borders, and all over this country —is the height of irresponsibility. We must stop the finger pointing, start acting like adults, and make Washington work for the people again. That starts with leading by example.” “All across the country, folks live by the idea that if you don’t do your job, you shouldn’t get paid,” said Ashford. “The same should hold true for members of Congress, and this bill simply codifies that belief. It comes down to accountability to the people we represent, and is meant to encourage members of both parties to end the gridlock and find common ground on this important issue. There are too many credible threats against our nation to let this important agency shut down.” “If Congress lets obstructionists shut down the Department of Homeland Security, each member should have their paycheck withheld,” Graham said. “There should be an immediate consequence for letting partisan games threaten the security of the American people.” “It is simple– if the hardworking men and women in the Department of Homeland Security will continue to go to work but not receive a paycheck, members of Congress, who have failed to do their job, should not receive a paycheck either,” Peters said. The “No Homeland Security, No Pay Act,” would withhold the pay of members of Congress in an escrow account should funding lapse for DHS. The funds would not be available until funding legislation is signed into law. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
02.24.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. today urged officials at the Oakland Veterans Affairs Center to reach out to individual veterans who may have been impacted by the mismanagement of records detailed in a report released last week to ensure that they receive the benefits they have earned. The Oakland VA serves Veterans in Northern California who are receiving and applying for benefits, including any of the 95,000 in the 7th Congressional District of California which Bera represents. “As a doctor who has helped care for Veterans in the VA system, I have seen first-hand how much our heroes have sacrificed for us,” said Bera. “I’m extremely troubled by the mismanagement of records at the Oakland VA and we absolutely must do better. My office is ready to work with the VA to assist our region’s Veterans. We must work to ensure that these mistakes do not happen again and that transparency and honesty remain core values at the VA. Our heroes deserve nothing less than our unwavering support.” If you are a Veteran in Sacramento County who may have been affected by the records mismanagement, or if you need help getting your benefits, Bera’s office may be able to help. Visit https://bera.house.gov/helpforvets for more info or call (916) 635-0505. Read the text Bera’s letter below: February 24, 2015 Julianna M. Boor Director Oakland VA Regional Office 1301 Clay Street, North Tower Oakland, CA 94612 Dear Director Boor, I am deeply concerns about the recent report from the Inspector General of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that validates allegations the Oakland VA Regional Office mismanaged more than 13,000 informal benefit claims. The report confirmed that the Oakland Regional Office improperly stored and delayed the processing of these benefit claims, some of which date back to the year 2002. Despite the creation of a special project team to address the problem in the fall of 2012, the report found that the team failed to complete the review of the unprocessed claims. In addition, the Inspector General was unable to confirm the initial list of 13,184 informal benefit claims or the number of claims that the Oakland Regional Office listed as needing additional action due to poor record keeping. In light of the report’s findings, I request that your office make every effort to contact all individuals on these benefit claims and all who may have been impacted by this mismanagement of records to ensure that these Veterans receive the benefits they have earned. The Oakland VA is here to serve all of Northern California, including the nearly 95,0000 Veterans that live in the 7th Congressional District of California which I represent, and many of them could have been affected. As a doctor who has helped care for Veterans in the VA system, I have seen first-hand how much our heroes have sacrificed for us, and we absolutely must do better. Our heroes deserve nothing less than our unwavering support. My office and I are ready to work with you to help assist our region’s Veterans who have heroically served us. While the Regional Office has completed recommendations made by the Inspector General to improve processing of these benefits, we must continue to work to ensure that these mistakes do not happen again and that transparency and honesty remain core values at the VA. I ask that you keep my office informed about the progress of this outreach and provide an update within a month. Thank you for your prompt attention to this request. Sincerely, Ami Bera, M.D. Member of Congress
02.13.2015	Earlier this week, Indian grandfather Sureshbhai Patel went for a walk while visiting his family in Alabama and ended up having an encounter with police that left him partially paralyzed. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. offered the following statement after the officer involved in the incident was arrested for assault and the FBI said they are investigating. Read more on the incident. “This week's incident in Alabama that left an Indian grandfather visiting his American family partially paralyzed is horrible and tragic,” said Bera. “My heart goes out to Mr. Patel and his family and I wish him a speedy recovery. I’m glad officials have acted quickly to respond and that the FBI has opened an investigation. Moving forward, we must come together as a nation to tackle the very real issues our minority communities face, and to rebuild trust and understanding among law enforcement agencies and the diverse communities that they serve.” Bera represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. A proponent for strengthening United States’ strategic and trading relationship with India and Asia, Bera is co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans and a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. He is working to open Asian markets to California products to create new jobs. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
02.12.2015	Today the House Committee on Foreign Affairs held a hearing on the growing threat of ISIL, one day after President Obama released his proposal for use of force against ISIL. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. made the following statement: “Among Congress’ responsibilities, there is none more important than protecting the American people and our interests both here and abroad. ISIL is made up of dangerous terrorists who have committed terrible atrocities, and any action we take must keep Americans safe. We also need to make sure our allies in the region are fully committed to the long-term engagement required to stabilize the region. As a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I look forward to thoroughly reviewing the President’s proposal and defining the strategy and scope of the United States’ involvement. We began that review at today’s hearing.” Watch Bera’s question and statement during the hearing. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
02.11.2015	Earlier this week, Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. and local elementary school students participated in the “Valentines for Vets” program in honor of National Salute to Veterans Patients Week (February 9-15th). More than 15 classes at Mission Avenue Elementary School in Carmichael made Valentine’s Day cards for veterans at Mather VA Hospital and spent the week learning about the service and sacrifices of our nation’s veterans. “I was honored to help connect our local students with our veterans for National Salute to Veterans Patients Week," said Bera. "It was heart-warming to hear from the students on what they'd learned about veterans, and I always enjoy visiting the Mather VA Hospital. This was a fun and creative way to help show our veterans how much our community cares.” Bera met with students and teachers to hear about why they thought it was important to honor veterans. Principal Townsend-Snider, teacher Mr. Polhemus, and student representatives escorted Bera to classes where he collected the Valentines. Bera and staff then hand-delivered the heart-felt messages to veterans at Mather VA Hospital. Director Stockwell and his team met and led Bera through the hospital where he handed out the cards to patients and veterans in the waiting rooms. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
02.06.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. joined U.S. Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell today for a tour of the ongoing upgrades at Folsom Dam. Jewell announced that the Bureau of Reclamation is making $50 million in funds available immediately for drought relief projects throughout the West —including nearly $20 million for California. This funding was included in the omnibus appropriations bill that Bera helped pass last December. He was one of only 57 Democrats to vote for the bill, in part because it included drought relief measures for California. It also included more than $100 million in funding for the Joint Federal Project at Folsom. “We need to do everything we can to help those being impacted by California’s historic drought, said Bera. “Ensuring that Folsom Lake can hold more water is crucial for Sacramento families because it will allow us to store water to help during drought periods and protect us from floods during rainy periods. The project has also brought hundreds of new jobs to our region and infused tens of millions of dollars into our local economy. It is a model for our region and the epitome of government working right with state, local, and federal agencies all collaborating to keep the project on schedule and under budget. That’s why I’ve been proud to vote to continue improvements at the Folsom Dam and for other California drought relief measures.” Secretary Jewell discussed the Administration’s ‘all-in’ approach to the drought in California. These efforts include strategic investments in science and monitoring, operational flexibility to help manage limited water supplies and other efforts to ensure that public health and safety are not compromised. “California’s ongoing drought is wreaking havoc on farmers, ranchers, municipalities, tribes and the environment,” said Secretary Jewell. “With climate change, droughts are projected to become more intense and frequent in many parts of the West, so we need to pursue every measure to provide relief and support to communities who are feeling the impacts. “Today’s funding will help boost immediate and long-term efforts to improve water efficiencies and increase resilience in high-risk communities, including in California’s Central Valley,” added Jewell. “I appreciate the support of Congress, especially that of Senator Feinstein and the California delegation, in helping make these much needed funds available." Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
02.05.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. today joined with 23 other Members of Congress from both parties to introduce the Preventing and Reducing Improper Medicare and Medicaid Expenditures (PRIME) Act of 2015 to combat waste, fraud, and abuse in Medicare and Medicaid. “As a doctor, I know how important it is to both strengthen Medicare for our seniors and reduce runaway health care costs,” said Bera. “The PRIME Act does just that, ensuring that criminals can’t take advantage of the system and resources get to the people who need them. It’s a commonsense, bipartisan bill that will save billions of taxpayer dollars.” Each of the provisions in the PRIME Act is meant to increase or enhance Medicare and Medicaid integrity efforts. Among its provisions, the bill would: Enact stronger penalties for Medicare and Medicaid fraud Curb improper or mistaken payments made by Medicare and Medicaid Establish stronger fraud and waste prevention strategies within Medicare and Medicaid to help phase out the practice of "pay and chase” Curb the theft of physician identities Expand the fraud identification and reporting work of the Senior Medicare Patrol Take steps to help states identify and prevent Medicaid overpayments Improve the sharing of anti-fraud data across state and federal agencies and programs The PRIME Act has strong bipartisan support. Its co-sponsors include: Bera, Peter Roskam (R-IL), John Carney (D-DE), Diane Black (R-TN), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Jim Cooper (D-TN), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), John Delaney (D-MD), Richard Hanna (R-NY), Jim Himes (D-CT), Randy Hultgren (R-IL), David Joyce (R-OH), Ron Kind (D-WI), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Pete Olson (R-TX), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Scott Peters (D-CA), Jim Renacci (R-OH), Reid Ribble (R-WI), Tom Rooney (R-FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and Steve Womack (R-AR). Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
02.03.2015	As a measles outbreak that is believed to have started in California’s Disneyland has spread to 14 states with no signs of its slowing, Congressman Ami Bera M.D. urged people to get vaccinated. The latest figures from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) show more than 102 people are now infected. Bera offered the following comment: “As a doctor and former chief medical officer of Sacramento County, I know the scientific evidence is irrefutable: vaccines save lives and are one of the most important medical advancements in our lifetimes. The measles outbreak is a serious public health concern, not a topic that should be politicized. It is our responsibility to educate families to make sure all parents understand the potential dangers unvaccinated children face and that vaccines are the safest and most effective tool we have for preventing infectious diseases like measles.” The CDC estimates that vaccinations will prevent more than 21 million hospitalizations and 732,000 deaths among children born in the last twenty years. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
01.25.2015	President Obama and Indian Prime Minister Narenda Modi announced today that they have come to a civil nuclear agreement. They also agreed to defense cooperation including the joint building of some equipment. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. is part of the delegation in India with President Obama for the historic trip. "The nuclear deal announced today makes billions of dollars in trade possible for U.S. companies that want to build and invest in India. That creates jobs in the U.S. and helps grow our economy," said Bera. "This is a deal we've been hoping to make for quite some time, and getting it done is another historic step forward in the U.S.-India relationship. Continued cooperation in defense also benefits both democracies as we deal with terrorism around the world." Congressman Ami Bera M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. A proponent for strengthening United States’ strategic and trading relationship with India and Asia, Bera is a member of the House Foreign Affairs committee and is working to open Asian markets to California products to create new jobs. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
01.23.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. has again sponsored the Partnership to Build America Act, bipartisan legislation to rebuild America’s infrastructure in a fiscally-responsible way. Bera was an original sponsor of similar legislation in the last Congress. Currently, transportation infrastructure projects like fixes to roads and bridges are funded by the Highway Trust Fund, which is sustained by a tax on gasoline. Some have suggested raising that tax as gasoline tax receipts have declined. Bera has repeatedly been against this because it unfairly hurts middle class families and small businesses, and puts a strain on our economy. “Middle class families can't afford a tax on taking their kids to school or to go to the grocery store" said Bera. "The Partnership to Build America is a common sense, bipartisan alternative that helps solve our infrastructure problem WITHOUT using any taxpayer money or increasing our country's debt, while also creating jobs right here at home. Improving our outdated infrastructure is an area where many Republicans and Democrats agree. In our region alone, millions of trips every single day are made over structurally deficient bridges and the state of our levees is extremely serious. It’s time to get this done, and the Partnership to Build America is the right solution.” The bill creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure reserve that is funded by selling bonds to private companies. U.S. corporations would be incentivized to bring home billions of dollars of money earned abroad if they invest in these infrastructure bonds. If passed, it would create significant American jobs in the short-term and help U.S. competitiveness in the long-term. America’s infrastructure received a D+ grade from the American Society of Civil Engineers in 2013 based on physical condition and needed investments for improvement. Congressman John K. Delaney (D-MD) and Congressman Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA) introduced the Partnership to Build America on Tuesday. There are 14 Republican co-sponsors, and 16 Democrats. They include: Andy Barr (R-KY), Larry Bucshon (R-IN), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), John Carney (D-DE), Lacy Clay (D-MO), Tom Cole (R-OK), Rodney Davis (R-IL), Robert Dold (R-IL), Michael Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Denny Heck (D-WA), Joseph Heck (R-NV), Steve Israel (D-NY), David Jolly (R-FL), David Joyce (R-OH), Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), Ann Kuster (D-NH), David Loebsack (D-IA), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Thomas MacArthur (R-NJ), Sean Maloney (D-NY), Luke Messer (R-IN), Patrick Murphy (D-FL), Frank Pallone (D-NJ), Scott Peters (D-CA), Robert Pittenger (R-NC), Jared Polis (D-CO), Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), and Ed Whitfield (R-KY). Partnership to Build America Act Benefits: • Creates a new large-scale infrastructure solution with zero appropriations. • New infrastructure projects will create significant middle-class jobs in the short-term and make the national economy more competitive in the long-term. • Allows for profits held overseas to be brought back to the United States, encouraging domestic investment and economic growth. • Encourages and creates a framework for growth in public-private partnerships Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
01.22.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. today voted against H.R. 7, the misleadingly titled No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. This radical assault on women’s health would deny millions of women the comprehensive health care they need and deserve, and also raise taxes on small businesses and families. Bera made the following comment: “As a doctor, I’m outraged by this radical attack on women’s health care. Personal health care choices should be made between a woman and her doctor, not Washington politicians. Instead of this divisive assault on women, Republicans and Democrats need to focus on what really matters to Americans: creating jobs, building an economy that works for the middle class, and reducing our debt.” H.R. 7 would allow the government to dictate how women with private insurance can spend their own money. It denies small businesses tax credits to help pay for worker’s health care if they offer insurance plans that include coverage for safe and legal abortion care. Almost 90 percent of private insurance plans cover abortion services, and the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office found that this change would force these businesses to stop offering these plans. The bill also denies tax credits to families who enroll in plans that cover abortion services in health insurance marketplaces such as Covered California. As a physician, husband, and as a father of a daughter, Bera has long championed women’s access to health care. One of the first bills Bera introduced was the Women’s Preventive Health Campaign Awareness Act, which would launch a national campaign to raise awareness on the importance of yearly women’s doctor’s exams. Providing women with access to birth control and family planning services is a crucial part of this. Just this week, Bera also became an original cosponsor of the Women’s Health Protection Act, which would overrule misguided state laws that undermine women’s access to safe, legal abortion care and harm women’s health. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
01.20.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. made the following statement in response to President Obama’s 2015 State of the Union Address to Congress: “Tonight the president put forward his plan to expand opportunity and make the American economy work for everyone. Too many Sacramento County families still aren’t feeling the impact of the economic recovery and we need to do more to rebuild an economy that works for the middle class. As someone who went to public school from kindergarten through medical school and benefitted from this country’s investments in me, I believe that means investing in the next generation to prepare them for the jobs of the 21st century. It also means investing in our country’s infrastructure and in the kind of innovation and technology that grows our economy. The president also addressed the importance of defending our nation’s safety and security. We must stay vigilant and work with our allies around the globe to combat terrorism wherever it exists. As we face critical situations around the world it will be more important than ever for President Obama to work with Congress on a plan that defines achievable goals to protect our national security without engaging in another unending conflict. But in order to address our most pressing challenges, it will be imperative for us to find ways to work together. As we start this new term, I’ll continue fighting to put people ahead of politics, and to make government work for the people of Sacramento County. That’s why I’m a leader of the No Labels’ Problem Solvers, a group of Members of Congress from both parties who are working across the aisle to build trust and find common ground. We cannot move forward separately, only together. It was an honor to have Susan Oliver as my guest tonight. Her strength in the face of tragedy is inspiring. Susan lost her husband Danny last year, when he was killed in the line of duty serving as a Sacramento County sheriff’s deputy. Their story is a reminder of the sacrifices our law enforcement make every day to keep us safe. We must work to rebuild trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve and I’m glad the president’s message on this issue was one on unity and not division.” Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
01.20.2015	Earlier today, Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to honor the memory of Sacramento County Sheriff Deputy Danny Oliver. Oliver’s widow, Susan Oliver, will join Bera as his guest to the State of the Union address later tonight. “Deputy Oliver had served the citizens of Sacramento County for 15 years when he paid the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty last October. Later that day, Placer County Deputy Michael Davis, Jr. was shot and killed by the same assailant,” Bera said in his speech. “The lives of Deputy Oliver and Investigator Davis remind us that our law enforcement officers put their lives on the line every day for our safety. They were true heroes and we are forever indebted to them and their loved ones. Let’s honor their memory by building understanding and trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve, just like Deputy Oliver did.” Watch Bera’s speech Full Speech text: Today, I rise to honor the memory of Sacramento County Sheriff Deputy Danny Oliver. Deputy Oliver had served the citizens of Sacramento County for 15 years when he paid the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty last October. Later that day, Placer County Sheriff’s Investigator Michael Davis, Jr. was shot and killed by the same assailant. Deputy Oliver grew up in the Del Paso Heights neighborhood of Sacramento and graduated from Grant High School. He loved serving the community where he grew up and dedicated his life to making it better. He was known for being a part of the community he served, answering emails from concerned citizens even when he was off-duty and never declining to attend a neighborhood meeting. Deputy Oliver was as dedicated to his family as he was to his job, and his family was dedicated to him. His wife, Susan Oliver, worked two jobs while Danny went through the sheriff’s academy, where he graduated at the top of his class academically. She will be my guest at tonight’s State of the Union. Susan and Danny have two daughters, Melissa and Jenny. The lives of Deputy Oliver and Investigator Davis remind us that our law enforcement officers put their lives on the line every day for our safety. They were true heroes and we are forever indebted to them and their loved ones. Let’s honor their memory by building understanding and trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve, just like Deputy Oliver did. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
01.20.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. announced today that he will join President Obama on his trip to India later this week. A lifelong Californian, Bera, whose parents moved to the U.S. from India in the 1950s, is co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and India Americans and the only Indian American currently serving in the U.S. Congress. “As the son of Indian immigrants, I am extremely honored to be a part of this historic trip to India with the president,” said Bera. “Prime Minister Modi’s trip to the United States last year was a turning point in relations for our countries, and now this trip will be an important opportunity to continue to move the U.S.-India relationship forward. Our countries should especially look for ways we can grow our strategic and economic partnerships. That will help bring stability to the Southeast Asia region and benefit our economy, in particular opening markets to California and Sacramento County products and creating new jobs. As the oldest and largest democracies in the world, our countries have many common interests and I hope this will be another step toward realizing the full potential of the U.S.-India partnership.” This trip marks the first time a sitting U.S. president will be the chief guest at India’s Republic Day parade. Bera will be part of the delegation traveling this Saturday to New Delhi, India, where they will attend Republic Day events and meet with Indian leaders to discuss strengthening and expanding the U.S.-India strategic partnership. Only the third Indian American to ever serve in Congress, Bera made his first official trip to India in 2013, meeting with business leaders, government officials, policy advocates and innovators in the non-profit sector to identify opportunities to advance the relationship between United States and India. During that trip, Bera helped facilitate an agreement between the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and the University of California Davis Postharvest Technology Center to collaborate on postharvest technology to reduce food losses due to spoilage. He also secured a pledge from CII to bring a delegation of Indian CEOs and potential investors to Sacramento County to learn more about opportunities in the region. Bera became India Caucus co-chair at the beginning of the current 114th Congress. Formed in 1993, the India Caucus is a bipartisan group of members dedicated to championing strong ties between the U.S. and India and supporting the Indian-American community. It is the largest country caucus in Congress. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. A proponent for strengthening United States’ strategic and trading relationship with India and Asia, Bera is a member of the House Foreign Affairs committee and is working to open Asian markets to California products to create new jobs. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
01.15.2015	Next Tuesday January, 20, the day of the president's State of the Union Address, Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. will honor the memory of a Sacramento County sheriff deputy who was killed in the line of duty. Sheriff Deputy Danny Oliver, 47, was a 15-year veteran of the Sacramento County Sheriff’s Department when he was shot and killed last October during a patrol in Arden. Oliver's widow, Susan Oliver, will be Bera's guest to the annual speech. “Sheriff Deputy Oliver is a true hero who was devoted to both his community and his family,” said Bera. “Our law enforcement officers risk their lives every day to protect us and Deputy Oliver paid the ultimate sacrifice while serving the citizens of Sacramento County. We will be forever indebted to him and his loved ones.” Deputy Oliver grew up in the Del Paso Heights neighborhood of Sacramento and graduated from Grant High School. He loved serving the community where he grew up and dedicated his life to making it better. He was known for answering emails from concerned citizens even when he was off-duty and never declining to attend a neighborhood meeting. Deputy Oliver finished at the top of his class academically at the sheriff’s academy. His wife worked two jobs while Oliver went through the unpaid training. The Olivers have two daughters. Mrs. Oliver plans to start a foundation in her husband's memory, the Danny Oliver Foundation, to help law enforcement and the communities they serve to come together. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
01.08.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. made the following statement about California’s Senator Barbara Boxer announcing her plans to retire from the U.S. Senate: “As a lifelong Californian and a doctor, I applaud Senator Barbara Boxer's decades of work protecting California's environment, and fighting for women's access to reproductive health care. We have big shoes to fill when she retires in 2016 and we must continue fighting for an economy that works for middle class families and to ensure women have the right to make their own health care decisions." Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
01.07.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. introduced the No Budget No Pay Act today which would stop pay for members of Congress if they fail to pass a budget. Bera introduced the bipartisan bill in the U.S. House with Congressmen Jim Cooper (D-TN), Reid Ribble (R-WI) and Ron DeSantis (R-FL). “If members of Congress don’t do their jobs and pass a responsible budget, then they shouldn’t get paid,” said Bera. “We need to pass a permanent No Budget No Pay Act and then work together to pass a budget that reduces our debt in a responsible way while also investing in an economy that works for everyone.” In 2012, Bera made a pledge to support No Budget No Pay and it was the first bill he sponsored after he was sworn into Congress. Soon after, Congress passed a one-year version of the law, and both the House and Senate passed a budget in 2013 for the first time in four years. Since then, Bera has been fighting to make the law permanent. The bill introduced today would prohibit members from receiving pay after missing deadlines for budget and appropriations bills, would not allow for that pay to be recouped retroactively, and would make the law permanent. Sen. Dean Heller (R-NV) and Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV) introduced the No Budget, No Pay Act in the Senate. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
01.06.2015	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. was sworn into the 114th Congress today. First elected in 2012, he won a close reelection in November and will represent California’s 7th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives for the next two years. “It’s been an incredible privilege to serve the people of Sacramento County as both a doctor and their representative in Congress and I am truly honored that they have once again put their trust in me,” said Bera. “I’m looking forward to working with my colleagues from both parties over the next two years; together is the only way we can move our country forward. We need to start by rebuilding an economy that works for the middle class, getting our debt under control with a responsible budget, and strengthening Social Security and Medicare for this and future generations, and I will make those my top priorities in this Congress.” Bera will continue serving on the House Committees of Foreign Affairs and Science, Space and Technology and as a leader of the Problem Solvers Caucus, made up of members committed to bipartisanship. He was elected co-chair of the House Caucus on India and Indian Americans in December. Bera has represented Sacramento County in Congress since 2013. Born and raised in California, he is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
12.23.2014	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. and his local staff joined hundreds of volunteers on Saturday, December 20th for the annual Christmas in Cordova event. The Folsom Cordova Community Partnership has been organizing this holiday toy drive for years to help support hundreds of local families and children in need. “It was heartwarming to see how many volunteers came out and donated to help make this year's Christmas in Cordova such an incredible success,” said Bera. "This event is a shining example of our community coming together and I hope it continues to grow in the years to come. My staff and I had a great time getting to know the dedicated volunteers and helping the families who attended." The partnership works with other local non-profits and churches throughout the year to collect food donations, monetary donations, and toys and gifts for children. The event serves families in the community who live paycheck to paycheck and struggle to make ends meet. “The families we serve often are faced with desperate decisions, such as buying food for their children, paying monthly rent and dealing with day-to-day challenges which often increase during the pressures of the holiday season,” said Robert Sanger, Executive Director of the Folsom Cordova Community Partnership. “This year, we were able to help bring cheer to more than 800 families, with more than 4,500 presents donated thanks to all of the support from our partners, the community, and our volunteers." The event featured three different play-care children sections for various age groups so that kids could play while parents went to the ‘toy shop’ to pick out Christmas presents. The gymnasium of Mills Middle School was converted into a toy shop and gift wrap area filled with volunteers ready to wrap and decorate the presents. Parents could select up to three gifts for each child and had the option of getting them giftwrapped before taking them home. In addition to the play-care areas and toy shop, families were treated to a hot lunch and received a basket of food to take home from the Salvation Army. More than 200 volunteers of all ages and experience helped out, many returning volunteers who help at this event every year.Volunteer duties ranged with helping to set up the toy store, greeting families as they arrived, helping parents pick out gifts for their children, wrapping presents, re-stocking and organizing toys, and watching children in play-care areas while parents shopped. Twin sisters and recent graduates of Cordova High School Monique and Monae Newton were among those volunteering. They participated with their friends from the Police Activities League and have taken part in Christmas in Cordova for the last four or five years. "We like volunteering here because it’s just a certain feeling you get of being part of the community and it’s nice knowing that you’re helping someone out,” said Monae. “You can really see the joy when they grab a gift and you get to wrap it for them and really see how it makes their day. It is just that feeling that we enjoy being a part of,” said Monique. Folsom High School junior and another Police Activities League member, Arya Sharma was also a volunteer at the event. “I was impressed that people who can’t afford presents can get them for their kids and that we are able to help them with something they otherwise couldn’t do. If I help other people and make them happy it makes me happy too I said why not just try and come help today," said Sharma. If you are interested in donating or volunteering next year, please contact the Folsom Cordova Community Partnership online at https://www.thefccp.org/ or by phone (916) 361-8684 or email at Info@theFCCP.org. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
12.15.2014	After weeks of delay, the U.S. Senate today confirmed Dr. Vivek Murthy to be the next U.S. Surgeon General. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. offered the following comment: “I’m thrilled the Senate has confirmed Dr. Vivek Murthy as our next surgeon general. As a practicing physician and instructor at Brigham and Women's Hospital, a champion of innovation in medicine, and a leader in the medical community, Dr. Murthy is an excellent choice for this role and his appointment is historic for the Indian American community. As a doctor myself, I also know that the American people will benefit from having a trusted physician leader to help them navigate the complex medical issues we face today.” Rep. Bera and several of his congressional colleagues sent a letter to the Senate leadership in both parties urging Dr. Murthy's confirmation. You may read that letter here. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
12.11.2014	WASHINGTON, DC–Today, Congressman Joseph Crowley (D-NY), and Congressman Peter Roskam (R-IL), the co-chairs of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans for the 113th Congress, announced that Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA) Congressman George Holding (R-NC) will serve as the new co-chairs for the 114th Congress: “Ami is an accomplished physician, a staunch advocate for his constituents, and is a go-to member when it comes to working constructively in Congress,” said Crowley. “His passion for the issues is impressive, and there is no question the Caucus will be in excellent hands. The Indian-American community has a wonderful partner in Ami Bera, and I look forward to working with him, and the entire India Caucus, as we continue our efforts to strengthen relations between the U.S. and India.” “George is the perfect person for this role and I know that the caucus will be in good hands,” said Roskam. “As Republican Chair of the India Caucus, George will focus in on growing the relationship between our two democracies, emphasizing our nations’ shared interests from global security to trade and international prosperity. At over 180 members, our caucus is the largest in the House dedicated to a single country. Among so many of his colleagues, and with an unmatched work ethic and understanding of the issues, George will absolutely thrive.” “As the only Indian American serving in Congress, I’m honored to have been voted co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian-Americans,” said Bera. “I'd like to express my gratitude to Congressmen Crowley and Roskam for their years guiding the Caucus. Under their leadership the India Caucus has grown to one of the largest caucuses in the House. I’m excited to take on this new role at a critical time for the partnership between the U.S. and India. Building on Prime Minister Modi’s visit to the U.S. in September and President Obama’s upcoming trip to India, I look forward to working with Congressman Holding and our colleagues in the Caucus to continue to grow the economic and strategic relationship between our countries and to advocate for the Indian American community.” “As I have said before, the United States-India bilateral relationship can be one of the defining partnerships of this century,” said Holding. “I’m honored to follow Congressmen Roskam and Crowley and thank them for their commitment to this important relationship. I look forward to advancing the efforts of the Caucus as co-chair with Rep. Ami Bera. With a shifting geopolitical situation in Asia, unwavering cooperation between the U.S. and India is essential to promoting peace and stability.” Bera represents Sacramento County in Congress. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and only the third Indian American ever to serve in Congress. A member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Bera is a proponent of strengthening United States' strategic and economic ties with India and Asia and is working to open Asian markets to California products to create new jobs. He is also fighting for equal rights for the Indian American community. Crowley has served as co-chair of the India Caucus in the 112th and 113th Congresses. Formed in 1993, the India Caucus is a bipartisan group of members that is dedicated to championing strong ties between the U.S. and India and supporting the Indian-American community. During his term, Crowley has helped grow the India Caucus to become one of the largest caucuses in the House and initiated several key events, including the first-ever Congressional Diwali celebration in 2013. Crowley led the Democratic whip effort as part of the Congressional push to secure the enactment of the U.S.-India Civil Nuclear Agreement, a landmark agreement that brought U.S.-India relations into the century after decades of distance during the Cold War. A recognized leader in Congress on issues related to the Sikh-American community, Crowley spearheaded a multi-year, successful effort to convince the federal government to begin collecting data on hate crimes committed against Sikh-Americans and Hindu-Americans, an important issue brought to the national spotlight by the massacre of Sikhs worshipping at a temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin. He is also the leading voice calling for an end to the presumptive ban on Sikhs serving in the U.S. military. George Holding (NC-13) is a former U.S. Attorney and currently serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the House Judiciary Committee. As a testament to Congressman’s Holding’s unique understanding of a strong U.S.-India relationship, he was chosen to lead a Congressional Delegation to India last year. In the 114th Congress, Representative Holding looks forward to strengthening U.S.-India relations as a member of the House Ways and Means Committee.
12.11.2014	Today, Rep. Ami Bera voted for the appropriations bill to fund the federal government and prevent another government shutdown. Rep. Bera made the following comment: "Today’s bill was far from perfect, but in the end I voted to keep the government open and to fund measures that are vital to Sacramento County families. Among its many provisions, the bill allows us to continue improvements at the Folsom Dam that will keep residents safe and put Sacramento County to work, provides aid to California families, small business and farmers being hurt by the historic drought, and makes much-needed investments at the Department Veterans Affairs to help address the shameful VA wait times our heroes have faced. I am, however, extremely troubled by some of the destructive special interest provisions that have nothing to do with funding the government that were added to today’s bill, including ones that weakened protections against Wall Street’s risky behavior, and expanded the influence of big money in elections. These kinds of underhanded political maneuvers are reprehensible and exactly what’s wrong with Washington. We should be working to protect consumers and to take money out of politics and I will continue to fight against special interests to do that." Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow@RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON­—Today, Northern California Representatives Jared Huffman (D-02), George Miller (D-11) Mike Thompson (D-05), Doris Matsui (D-06), Jerry McNerney (D-09), John Garamendi (D-03), and Ami Bera (D-07) released the following statement regarding the House Republican water bill introduced last night: “With just a few days left in the legislative session, the House plans to pass yet another divisive, dishonest, and potentially devastating California water bill without any public input or legislative oversight. This is unconscionable, and just the latest chapter in their reckless approach to micromanaging the state’s water during one of the worst droughts in our history. “The idea that this bill is a ‘compromise’ is laughable. It is clear that this bill was thrown together without any input from anyone other than those who stand to benefit from its passage. This bill was not reviewed by the Natural Resources Committee, nor has it received input from federal agencies, the state, affected local water agencies, the fishing industry, tribes, or communities. Legislation this sweeping should be the subject of public hearings and input from all affected stakeholders. “The bill makes it more difficult for state and federal agencies to make real-time water decisions, undermines state water rights priorities, misstates current law, and explicitly overrides the Endangered Species Act. These sweeping changes would place the west coast’s environment, tribes, communities, and the fishing industry in harm’s way in the next drought year. “The drought does not stop at the edge of congressional districts, yet this bill insulates some parts of the state from the tough water decisions that will be made in the next year. We’re all in this together, and Congress should not tie water managers’ hands nor should we address drought conditions in some parts of the state at the expense of others.” ###
11.21.2014	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. released the following statement in response to the University of California (UC) tuition hike that Regents voted on earlier today: "I'm extremely disappointed that U.C. Regents today voted in favor of an unreasonably high increase in tuition for students for the next five years. These hikes break a promise that was made to students and threaten to jeopardize the affordability of education for middle and low income students at a time when middle class families are already struggling. I attended U.C. schools for undergraduate and medical school because they were affordable and the education I got there has helped me pursue the American Dream. We need to work to bring down the skyrocketing cost of education so that that same dream is available to this and future generations, and I will continue to fight to do that." Earlier this month, Bera led the California delegation in urging U.C. President Janet Napolitano to maintain a tuition freeze (link to letter). Bera is a co-chair of the California Public Higher Education Caucus. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow @RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov.
11.21.2014	Today, President Obama announced that he will take temporary administrative actions to help address our country’s broken immigration system. These steps are intended to focus limited law-enforcement resources towards criminals who are more serious threats to public safety, while deferring action on lower-priority undocumented immigrants. Rep. Bera made the following statement: “We need an immigration policy that makes our country safe and our economy strong. Unfortunately, our immigration system has been broken for years, and Washington gridlock has continually gotten in the way of meaningful reform.While I understand the administration taking action, only Congress can fix our nation’s immigration system in a holistic way once and for all. Now more than ever, Democrats and Republicans have to come together to pass a comprehensive immigration reform bill that secures our borders, allows our economy to grow, and ensures accountability for new American immigrants. I will continue to work with Republicans, Democrats, and the Administration in any way I can to advocate for a bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform bill that truly solves the immigration issues we face." As the son of parents who immigrated to America in the 1950s, Rep. Bera grew up knowing the value of hard work and that America was a land of opportunity. He is a cosponsor of a comprehensive immigration reform bill in Congress to keep families safe, and to encourage the best and brightest people to stay in America so they can start their companies and create jobs here in the U.S. He also introduced the bipartisan Conrad State 30 and Physician Access Act, which would address the doctor shortage by issuing visas for U.S.-educated foreign physicians and worked to include this bill in the comprehensive immigration bill (H.R. 15) that was introduced in the House of Representatives. Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. represents Sacramento County. Born and raised in California, Bera is a physician and the only Indian American currently serving in Congress. He’s fighting to rebuild an economy that works for middle class families and to reduce our country’s debt in a responsible way. One of Bera’s first acts in Congress was to help lead the effort to pass the No Budget No Pay Act, which says if members of Congress don’t pass a budget, they don’t get paid. As a leader of the No Labels' Problem Solvers, he’s working with people from both parties to find bipartisan solutions to our nation’s challenges. He and his wife Janine live in Elk Grove with their daughter Sydra. For more updates on Rep. Bera follow@RepBera on Twitter, like Congressman Bera on Facebook, or visit https://www.bera.house.gov
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON­—Today, Northern California Representatives Jared Huffman (D-02), George Miller (D-11) Mike Thompson (D-05), Doris Matsui (D-06), Jerry McNerney (D-09), John Garamendi (D-10), Ami Bera (D-07) released the following statement after Senator Dianne Feinstein announced she will not be pursuing passage of her drought bill this year. “We are pleased Senator Feinstein will not be pursuing passage of the drought legislation secretly negotiated by her and House Republicans. This legislation would have eviscerated environmental laws protecting fisheries, California watersheds, local water supplies, and tribal and local economies in order to benefit a few powerful Delta water exporters. We applaud the Senator for stepping away from this deeply flawed legislation and realizing that a bill of this magnitude requires public hearings and regular committee process. “As Members of Congress who represent districts that would be directly affected by this legislation, we have been raising serious objections to both the secretive process and the harmful content of this legislation. We will continue to demand next year that any water legislation responding to California’s severe drought be balanced and take into consideration the array of stakeholders in California. “We have long supported inclusive, forward-looking responses to the drought and to our state's longer-term water needs, including decisions by federal and state agencies this year to maximize water supply while abiding by environmental laws. We remain eager and willing to work with Senators Feinstein and Boxer, state and federal agencies, and other Members of Congress to advance fair and responsible drought legislation.”
