03.08.2019	Washington, DC — Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1, the For the People Act, which includes two bills authored by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) to strengthen our democracy by ending partisan gerrymandering and requiring same-day voter registration. “Today is a major win for our democracy and for the American people,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “We are one step closer to passing transformative legislation to fight special interests, take money out of politics, and finally put the power of our democracy back in the hands of the people.” “I am especially pleased that this legislation includes two bills I authored to end partisan gerrymandering and fix the redistricting process. In Congress, I will continue to work to return our government to one that is of, by, and for the people once again.” H.R. 1 includes Brownley’s first bill in the 116th Congress, the Same Day Registration Act (H.R. 93), which requires all states to allow same-day voter registration for federal elections, just as there is in California. Same-day voter registration lowers barriers to voting, which has proven to increase voter participation. High participation in our democracy translates to representation that better reflects the needs and challenges of the people. H.R. 1 also includes legislation Brownley co-authored with Reps. Lofgren and Lowenthal to end partisan gerrymandering by requiring states to adopt a citizen redistricting commission, as California has done. This will help make politicians more accountable to the voters they are elected to represent. H.R. 1 makes critical reforms across three key areas: Voting Rights Improve Access – H.R. 1 expands access to the ballot box by taking aim at key institutional barriers to voting, such as burdensome registration systems, limited voting hours, and many other roadblocks. H.R. 1 creates automatic voter registration across the country, ensures that individuals who have completed felony sentences have their full rights restored, expands voting by mail and early voting, and modernizes the U.S. voting system. Promote Integrity – H.R. 1 fights back against Republicans’ assault on voting rights by committing Congress to restore the Voting Rights Act; prohibiting voter roll purges like those seen in Ohio, Georgia, and elsewhere; and ensuring that discriminatory voter ID laws do not prevent American citizens from exercising their rights. H.R. 1 also ends partisan gerrymandering to prevent politicians from picking their voters and lets American voters instead choose their elected officials. Ensure Security – H.R. 1 promises that American elections are to be decided by American voters without interference from foreign entities. The bill enhances federal support for voting system security, particularly paper ballots, and increases oversight over election vendors. Campaign Finance Guarantee Disclosure – H.R. 1 shines a light on dark money in politics by requiring any organization involved in political activity to disclose its large donors, which will break the nesting-doll system that allows big-money contributors and special interests to hide their spending in networks of so-called “social welfare” organizations. Empower Citizens – H.R. 1 levels the political playing field for everyday Americans, empowering individuals with a multiple matching system for small donations and allowing the American people to exercise their due influence in a post-Citizens United world, while reaffirming that Congress should have the authority to regulate money in politics. The new system of citizen-owned elections will break special interests’ stranglehold on politics and enable Congress to advance an agenda that serves the American people. Ethics and Accountability Fortify Ethics Law – H.R. 1 breaks the influence economy in Washington and increases accountability by expanding conflict of interest laws and divestment requirements, slowing the revolving door, preventing Members of Congress from serving on corporate boards, and requiring presidential candidates to disclose their tax returns. Impose Greater Ethics Enforcement – H.R. 1 gives teeth to federal ethics oversight by overhauling the Office of Government Ethics, closing registration loopholes for lobbyists and foreign agents, ensuring watchdogs have sufficient resources to enforce the law and creating a code of ethics for the Supreme Court. Issues: 116th Congress, Campaign Finance Reform, Civil Rights
03.04.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) and Congressman Scott DesJarlais (R-TN) announced that they will continue to serve as the co-chairs of the Congressional Range and Testing Center Caucus in the 116th Congress. The Caucus serves as a forum to educate Members of Congress about Department of Defense major range and test facilities, like Naval Base Ventura County and Arnold Air Force Base, and advocate for policies that support these critical national security assets. “As the proud representative of Naval Base Ventura County and the more than 19,000 personnel who work hard there every day to keep our nation safe and secure, I know how critical range and testing centers are to ensuring our troops have the best technology available to help defend our country,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am looking forward to continuing to work with Congressman DesJarlais and other members of the Caucus to ensure our military has the resources needed to support our major range and test facility bases, which play a critical role in protecting the U.S. military’s technological advantages.” “Tennessee’s Fourth District lies at the heart of the Aerospace and Defense Technology Corridor spanning several states. The surrounding area includes public and private enterprises developing cutting-edge technology to protect our country: unmanned aircraft, hypersonic flight and more. These facilities, such as Arnold Air Force Base, University of Tennessee’s Space Institute and Redstone Arsenal in Alabama, are crucial defense assets and economic resources, reliant on a high-skilled workforce,” said Congressman DesJarlais. “Congresswoman Brownley and I are helping to generate more public understanding and support for their work.” Issues: 116th Congress, Local Issues, National Security, Transportation and Infrastructure
02.27.2019	Washington, DC — The House Administration Committee yesterday passed H.R. 1, the For the People Act, which includes two bills authored by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) to strengthen our democracy by ending partisan gerrymandering and requiring same-day voter registration. “H.R. 1 is transformational legislation that will finally put the power back in the hands of the American people, fight special interests, and take money out of politics,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am so pleased that this sweeping legislation includes two bills I authored to take policies that made our democracy stronger in California and bring them to the national level. Returning our government to one that is of, by, and for the people once again is a top priority for the House Democratic majority.” H.R. 1 includes Brownley’s first bill in the 116th Congress, the Same Day Registration Act (H.R. 93), which requires all states to allow same-day voter registration for federal elections, just as there is in California. Same-day voter registration lowers barriers to voting, which has proven to increase voter participation. High participation in our democracy translates to representation that better reflects the needs and challenges of the people. H.R. 1 also includes legislation Brownley co-authored with Reps. Lofgren and Lowenthal to end partisan gerrymandering by requiring states to adopt a citizen redistricting commission, as California has done. This will help make politicians more accountable to the voters they are elected to represent. Issues: 116th Congress, Campaign Finance Reform, Civil Rights
02.26.2019	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Natural Resources Management Act (S. 47), which includes a bill co-authored by Congresswoman Katie Hill (D-CA) and Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) to establish a memorial and national monument for the 1928 Saint Francis Dam disaster. California Senators Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris introduced the bill in the Senate, which was incorporated into S. 47 and passed by the Senate on February 12. With today’s House passage, the legislation goes to the President’s desk for signature. More than 400 people perished when the dam burst on March 12, 1928, making this the second deadliest tragedy in California state history, behind only the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. “The Saint Francis Dam collapse was one of the most terrible tragedies in California history, yet the events of this historic day aren’t widely known,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “From the victims who sadly lost their lives, to the telephone operators and highway patrol officers who tried to warn their neighbors of the danger of the oncoming water, creating a memorial will ensure Californians for generations to come remember this part of our history and will serve as a reminder of the critical importance of our nation’s infrastructure. I am so pleased this bill is headed to the President’s desk, and I thank Congresswoman Hill and Senators Feinstein and Harris for their work to recognize this significant chapter in our state’s history.” “The St. Francis Dam Disaster took place 10 miles north of what is now my hometown of Santa Clarita. In honor of the hundreds of lives lost, this Memorial will uplift the stories of the tragedy and serve as a constant reminder that our infrastructure is deeply important to our community safety and security,” said Congresswoman Hill. “I am thankful to my neighbor, Congresswoman Julia Brownley for her leadership on this issue and to our Senators Kamala Harris and Dianne Feinstein for their support in the Senate.” Issues: 116th Congress, Local Issues, Transportation and Infrastructure
02.26.2019	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) released the following statement today after the vote on the Joint Resolution to terminate President Trump’s emergency declaration: “This emergency declaration is a desperate power grab engineered by the President after he failed to receive the Congressional approval the Constitution requires. Our democracy relies on a balance between the legislative and executive branches, where Congress has the power of the purse. The President can’t simply trample on the Constitution because he wants to pursue a divisive campaign promise the American people resoundingly rejected in last year’s election. The House of Representatives just voted to uphold the will of the American people, and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to do the same.” Issues: 116th Congress, Immigration, National Security
02.14.2019	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) released the following statement today after House passage of a government funding bill: “I am pleased that Congress has reached bipartisan agreement to prevent another shutdown and fund key priorities for Ventura County, including infrastructure investment and further securing our borders. It is imperative that the President signs this bipartisan compromise and ends his threat of another government shutdown. Never again should the President intentionally inflict damage on the U.S. economy and use America’s workers as political pawns in order to pursue radical and divisive policies opposed by the vast majority of the American people, including the great people of Ventura County, who I’m so proud to represent. “This is how the legislative process is supposed to work – compromise and coming together for the greater good. I hope the President will join us in that effort.” Issues: 116th Congress
02.13.2019	Washington, DC – On Saturday, March 23, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) will host an Income Tax Assistance Workshop in Oxnard for constituents whose income is less than $55,000 per year. “Tax season is upon us, and as your representative in Congress, I am here to help,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am hosting this event because I want to ensure that you are aware of tax credits and deductions that you may be eligible to claim, especially the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC).” The workshop is taking place on Saturday, March 23, 2019 from 11:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m. at California Lutheran University’s Oxnard campus. Volunteer tax preparers will meet one-on-one with constituents and offer free help on preparing their returns. Space is limited, and appointments are required. For more information or to schedule an appointment, contact Brownley’s district office at (805) 379-1779. Issues: 116th Congress
02.08.2019	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act (H.R. 840) with overwhelming bipartisan support. This bill, introduced by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA), Chairwoman of the House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee, would break down barriers for veterans to access healthcare by making permanent the VA’s Child Care Pilot Program and expanding it so that veterans across the nation who are parents, grandparents, or other caretakers of young children have a convenient, cost-free child care option when they have VA medical appointments. Congressman Brian Higgins (D-NY) was the original co-sponsor of the bill, and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced similar legislation in the Senate on Monday. “Keeping our promise to our nation’s veterans means not only providing the care our veterans need, but breaking down barriers to accessing that care,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “The lack of child care shouldn’t prevent veterans from receiving VA healthcare services. Ensuring veterans have access to child care is especially important for our growing population of women veterans, who are more likely to be taking care of young children. I am extremely pleased that the House passed this important legislation today, and I look forward to continuing to work with Senator Murray and Congressman Higgins, who have been long-time leaders on this issue, to get this bill passed in the Senate and signed into law.” In 2011, Congress created a pilot program to provide free child care for qualified veterans using VA healthcare services at a limited number of participating sites around the country. Since then, the program has been very popular with the veteran community. A VA reported issued in 2015 estimated that over 10,000 children had used the program through the end of FY 2014, and many more have used it since that report was issued. Women veterans used the service at a rate four times their population among the veteran community at large, indicating the program is working for the growing population of women veterans and their families. According to a VA Satisfaction Survey of veterans who have used the pilot program, a majority responded that, without the available child care, they would have brought their children to their appointment or cancelled their appointment altogether. Congress has reauthorized this popular and successful program four times, and unless Congress acts again, it will expire on October 1, 2019. The Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act would make the pilot program permanent and expand it to include every VA facility in the nation. “In 2011 the Buffalo VA Hospital was included in a pilot program providing veteran access to childcare while attending medical appointments. The program was a tremendous success in removing barriers to care,” said Congressman Higgins. “Approval of the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act makes this program permanent and is a strong statement of support for our military families. I’m pleased to work with my colleague Congresswoman Brownley, a champion for our veterans, to make this happen.” “I am proud to support the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act as the first bill our Committee would bring to the House Floor because it addresses a sometimes-overlooked group of veterans—veterans who are parents and caregivers to young children,” said House Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Mark Takano (D-CA). “Addressing underserved veterans is a pillar of my VA 2030 vision: which will drive our work on the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs in the 116th Congress. Providing cost-free, safe, and convenient child care so that veterans can get the care they need is the least we can do to make their lives easier so they in turn can be loving parents and caregivers to the children who depend on them. We ask our servicemembers to risk their lives in service to our country, and in return, we promise to provide healthcare and benefits, so they can live happy, healthy, and successful lives, and provide for their families.” “Part of fulfilling our promise to veterans is making sure their VA care is not only available, but accessible—and we know a lack of child care can be a huge barrier for veterans with young children,” said Senator Murray, a senior member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee. “By offering child care at VA facilities, at no cost to our nation’s heroes, we can help ensure veterans receive the seamless care they deserve. I applaud Congresswoman Brownley and the new Democratic majority for making this legislation a priority in the new Congress, and on behalf of military families everywhere, I look forward to fighting to make sure it moves through the Senate and gets signed into law.” This legislation is supported by Vietnam Veterans of America, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Disabled American Veterans, American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Paralyzed Veterans of America, AMVETS, Easterseals, Military Order of the Purple Heart, and the Fleet Reserve Association. “Vietnam Veterans of America stands in strong support of the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act,” said John Rowan, Vietnam Veterans of America National President. “This bill would expand the very successful pilot program created in 2011, and in doing so help the VA to fulfill its mission to care for veterans and their families. It’s time that all VA facilities have access to childcare so that our Post-911 veterans don’t have to choose between the needs of their children and their own health.” “Easterseals applauds Representative Brownley for her efforts to expand the availability of child care services at VA Medical Centers to make it easier for veterans with children to make medical appointments and to receive health care services through the VA,” said Angela F. Williams, a veteran and President and CEO of Easterseals, a leading provider of veterans services and inclusive child care and early education supports. “Easterseals is pleased to support the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act to help ensure veterans have full access to the care they need and are owed.” “With the rapidly changing face of the US military, and as a result, our veteran population, IAVA has aggressively sought to fill gaps in care for women veterans,” said Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America Legislative Director Tom Porter. “If a veteran is precluded from getting treated for her injuries of war for lack of resources for childcare, we need to correct that gap in care. We applaud Reps. Brownley and Higgins for this excellent bill, squarely in line with our She Who Borne The Battle campaign.” “Access to childcare should not be a barrier for veterans who need care to cope with their mental health conditions,” said Veterans of Foreign Wars Executive Director Bob Wallace. “The VFW applauds House passage of Representative Brownley’s Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act, which would enable veterans to attend their mental health care appointments without having to worry about who will take care of their children. The Senate must pass this bill immediately to show they are also serious about improving access to care for veterans and eliminating veteran suicide. ” “DAV believes that a fundamental need like child care should never stand in the way of veterans accessing needed health care services, and we have long called for VA to make their successful pilot child care program a permanent offering throughout its facilities,” said Disabled American Veterans National Legislative Director Joy Ilem. “This is not only a benefit for veterans, but could help reduce cancelled appointments when veterans are unable to find supervision for their children. We fully support the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act in hopes that it will help eliminate the barriers that too often force veterans to choose between health care and child care.” “PVA strongly supports H.R. 840, the ‘Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act.’ The availability of child-care is critical to ensuring a veteran’s ability to access health care,” said Heather Ansley, Associate Executive Director, Government Relations, Paralyzed Veterans of America. “A VA report from 2015, Barriers for Women Veterans to VA Health Care, discussed nine primary barriers, one of which was child care. Forty-two percent of women surveyed for the report said they had difficultly securing child care in order to seek VA health care services. This bill would help alleviate that key barrier and ensure the veteran is able to have both access to quality care and peace of mind.” Issues: 116th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
02.07.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) released the following statement after it was announced that she would serve as a member of the Select Committee on the Climate Crisis: “This Committee’s work could mean the difference between a safe and healthy future for our children and grandchildren and one where our planet, our economy, and our security are under unrelenting and catastrophic threat. As a long-time champion for protecting our environment, supporting investments in clean, renewable, and sustainable energy, and preventing anti-environmental policies, I am honored to be appointed to this important Committee and will be laser-focused on addressing climate change before it is too late. “My home state of California knows all too well the devastating economic and human toll brought by climate change, which has led to longer wildfire seasons and deadly disasters that have wreaked havoc on our local communities. As the representative of Ventura County and its 43-mile coastline and more than 300,000 acres with active agricultural production, I also know firsthand the impacts of rising sea levels on our coastal communities and the threats posed by warming temperatures and prolonged drought conditions on the sustainability of our nation’s food supply. Every year, we fight against coastal storms to maintain the integrity of our shoreline, including critical national defense assets at Naval Base Ventura County. “I look forward to bringing to the federal level the forward-thinking policies that California has long been a leader on, from limiting harmful industrial emissions, to supporting development of clean, alternative transportation infrastructure, to promoting wind, solar, hydropower, and other renewable resources, to spurring action to conserve energy and improve energy efficiency. Working together, I believe the Select Committee has an historic opportunity to learn from California’s example and expand these and other solutions to the climate crisis nationwide.” Issues: 116th Congress, Energy, Energy and Environment, Environment, Environmental Protection
02.06.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA), Chairwoman of the House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee, testified before the House Rules Committee on her bill, the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act (H.R. 840), which is on the House floor this week. Below is a link to the video and her remarks: Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you Ranking Member and all the members of the Committee for allowing me the opportunity to testify today about a very important bill, the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act. As already has been stated, VA research has shown that the lack of access to child care is a barrier to receiving VA healthcare for many of our veterans. In 2010, Congress directed VA to start a pilot program to provide child care at several VA facilities. Since then, it has been hugely successful, and is popular among veterans and all of the VSOs. My bill makes that pilot program permanent, finally. We have renewed it year, after year, after year, and expands it nation-wide. Like the pilot, the bill is narrowly tailored for veterans who are full-time caretakers of children and who need intensive medical care or mental health treatments, such as cancer treatment or treatment for PTSD. And it is strictly tailored for veterans who might otherwise miss their appointments because of lack of child care during appointments. Similar legislation passed the House in the 115th Congress by voice vote – and it was supported by VA Committee members on both sides of the aisle. Today, the Committee is considering many good amendments, such as clarifying that VA’s community-based outpatient clinics and Vet Centers are covered facilities under the bill, as well as amendments to clarify that healthcare services related to ‘substance use disorder,’ ‘military sexual trauma’, and ‘tele-mental health’ are intended to be covered. These amendments are fully consistent with my intentions. They are in-line with what VA has been doing. And they will help provide clarity to the VA as it develops implementing regulations. I appreciate all the work that the Rules and Veterans’ Affairs Committees have done to bring this bill forward. Thank you again for the opportunity to testify. I would be happy to answer also any questions and I yield back. Issues: 116th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
02.05.2019	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA), Chairwoman of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement today after President Donald Trump’s State of the Union address: “Tonight, we looked back on President Trump’s second year in office, and unfortunately, it was another year filled with broken promises. “The President denigrated immigrants, who have been the backbone of our economy, he reiterated his support for a tax bill that stole billions of dollars from the middle class in order to enrich the top 1%, he bragged about his rush to destroy our environment, and he espoused an incoherent foreign policy. “As the Chairwoman of the VA Health Subcommittee, I was particularly concerned by his failure to lay out a plan tonight to address very serious issues facing the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, including implementing the VA MISSION Act, the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act, and electronic health record modernization — one of the largest information technology modernization projects in our nation’s history. “Looking to the future, despite the President’s repeated broken promises, I remain hopeful that we can work to uphold the promise we’ve made to our veterans, to invest in our infrastructure, to work on immigration and border security policy that reflects our values as a nation, to strengthen our democracy through increased voter participation, and to recognize that we must act urgently to protect our environment for future generations.” Issues: 116th Congress
02.04.2019	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) today announced that Ventura County Fire Chief Mark Lorenzen will be her guest at the State of the Union on Tuesday. “I am honored that Ventura County Fire Chief Mark Lorenzen will join me as my guest for the State of the Union,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “From the Thomas Fire to the recent Woolsey and Hill Fires, our community has been tested, but with the brave leadership of Chief Lorenzen, we have remained strong and resilient. The words ‘thank you’ do not even begin to fully convey how deeply our community appreciates not only his service and leadership, but the service of all of our local firefighters and first responders, who sacrifice to protect our community every single day.” “Ventura County has been devastated by tragedy over the last year, and Julia Brownley has consistently stood beside first responders and our communities as we responded and now recover,” said Ventura County Fire Chief Mark Lorenzen. “I am honored to be invited by Congresswoman Brownley to attend the State of the Union as a representative of all those that are committed to serving others.” Issues: 116th Congress, Local Issues
01.30.2019	Ventura County Congresswoman to Continue Serving on Transportation Committee in 116th Congress Washington, DC – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) today introduced two pieces of legislation that would increase local infrastructure investments, improve safety, create jobs, and reduce congestion. Specifically, the first bill would eliminate tax subsidies for Big Oil and redirect those funds to the Surface Transportation Block Grant (STBG) program, which helps states and localities fund infrastructure projects. The second bill would increase the portion of the STBG program that goes directly to local communities, like Ventura County. “Our nation’s roads, bridges, and transit systems are in dire need of repair,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “What better way to invest in our nation’s crumbling infrastructure than by getting rid of a tax windfall for Big Oil? In addition to increasing investment, we also need to make sure that more funds are going directly to the local level, where transportation planning officials know their own communities’ needs best. As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I will continue to work to ensure local transportation projects, including right here in Ventura County, get the funding and support they need.” Brownley has served on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee since 2015, and last week she was named to the Highways and Transit Subcommittee and the Aviation Subcommittee for the 116th Congress. Surface Transportation Investment Act The Surface Transportation Investment Act would eliminate tax subsidies for Big Oil, and instead direct those funds to the Surface Transportation Block Grant Program, which provides federal funds for state and local infrastructure projects. The text of the bill is available here. Support Local Transportation Act When Congress developed the FAST Act in 2015, Congresswoman Brownley worked with Members on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to ensure that a larger portion of a state’s Surface Transportation Block Grant Program went directly to local communities, up to 55% of the funds. The Support Local Transportation Act would further increase the set-aside to 65% for local communities to ensure more of our federal dollars are sent directly to the local level, because communities know their needs best. The text of the bill is available here. Issues: 116th Congress, Energy and Environment, Transportation and Infrastructure
01.29.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA), newly elected Chairwoman of the House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee, introduced the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act, legislation which would make permanent the VA’s Child Care Pilot Program and expand it so that veterans across the nation who are parents or grandparents have a convenient, cost-free option for child care when they have VA medical appointments. Congressman Brian Higgins (D-NY) is an original co-sponsor of the bill. “The lack of affordable and convenient child care should never be a barrier for veterans trying to access the VA healthcare they’ve earned and deserve,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “This is especially important for the growing population of women veterans, who are more often taking care of young children. I look forward to continuing to work with Rep. Higgins and all of our colleagues to see this important program finally become permanent and nationwide.” “Treating our veterans right means removing barriers to quality care,” said Congressman Higgins. “This bill gives parents and grandparents, who have severed this nation, access to child care during their health and mental health appointments. We’ve seen the success of this model in Western New York since 2011 and I am proud to work with Congresswoman Brownley to extend this service on a permanent basis to all of our veterans.” In 2011, Congress created a pilot program to provide free child care for qualified veterans using VA healthcare services at a limited number of participating sites around the country. Since then, over 10,000 children have used the program, which has been very popular with the veteran community. Women veterans used the service at a rate four times their population among the veteran community at large, indicating the program is working for the growing population of women veterans and their families. According to a VA Satisfaction Survey of veterans who have used the pilot program, a majority responded that, without the available child care, they would have brought their children to their appointment or cancelled their appointment altogether. Congress has reauthorized this popular and successful program four times, and unless Congress acts again, it will expire on October 1, 2019. The Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act would make the pilot program permanent and expand it to include every VA facility in the nation. This legislation is supported by Disabled American Veterans, the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Paralyzed Veterans of America, AMVETS, Easterseals, and the Fleet Reserve Association. Issues: 116th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
01.29.2019	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) released the following statement today after she was elected by her Democratic colleagues on the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee to serve as Chairwoman of the Health Subcommittee: “It is an honor to have been chosen by my colleagues to serve as Chairwoman of the House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee. My top priority will be to ensure that our veterans have access to the care and benefits they have earned and deserve — including the fast-growing population of women veterans. While it often feels like there is little consensus in Congress, there is a clear agreement that we must work together to uphold the promise we make to our nation’s veterans: that we will serve them, as they served us. I am proud of the bipartisan progress our Committee has made, and I will continue to work across the aisle to deliver for veterans here in Ventura County and around the country.” Issues: 116th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
01.29.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) introduced the National Multimodal Freight Network Improvement Act, which would require the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to include the Port of Hueneme and other ports with annual cargo value of $1 billion or more on the National Multimodal Freight Network (NMFN). The Network was established to strengthen economic competitiveness, reduce congestion and bottlenecks, and improve the safety, security, efficiency, and reliability of freight transportation. There is concern that the Port of Hueneme and other major ports will be excluded from the Network – contrary to original Congressional intent – if only cargo weight, and not value, are considered for inclusion. “There are ports that are critical to our national economy, as well as our regional economy, that will be excluded from the Network – contrary to the original intent of Congress,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Businesses of all shapes and sizes rely upon these ports for goods movement in their supply chains – especially for high-value perishable cargo that is unable to sustain long wait times at larger ports. For example, 800,000 tons of fresh fruit and vegetables move through the Port of Hueneme to markets across the U.S. and Canada each year. We shouldn’t be prioritizing a port that moves two million tons of dirt over a port that moves hundreds of thousands of tons of fresh fruit and vegetables that feed our nation.” “Currently, the NMFN fails to account for the economic scale of cargo throughput. By way of example, a one ton vehicle is much higher in value than ten tons of cement. The current NMFN structure only considers the weight,” said Kristin Decas, CEO & Port Director of the Port of Hueneme. “The fix put forth in Congresswoman Brownley’s legislation adds the value metric to the formula. This is important because it is the value that translates into jobs and prosperity for port communities and is core to NMFN designations. This type of economic impact merits a designation on the NMFN.” “Not only is our Port the economic engine to our region, and one of California’s primary resources, it plays a vital role in our nation’s supply chain of essential products, including important military cargo,” said Jess Herrera, Oxnard Harbor District President. “The Port of Hueneme’s congestion free trade corridors and central coast location also provides a unique and strategic position when contingency or capacity issues face other Southern California Ports.” The Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act of 2015 established the National Multimodal Freight Network to highlight strategically important freight assets – including major highways, railways, waterways, airports, and ports. The law requires DOT to consider a variety of factors, including cargo value, when determining which ports should be included in the final network. However, Brownley is concerned that the White House Office of Management and Budget is planning to ignore the intent of the law and not permit DOT to add any ports based on the cargo value criteria – disregarding Congressional intent and ignoring the important role mid-sized ports play in our economy. Brownley’s bill would require the Executive Branch to implement the law as originally intended by including ports with annual cargo value of $1 billion or more in the network. There are several ports across the United States that meet this threshold and are critical to the movement of goods, but have been excluded from the current network, including the Port of Hueneme (California) and the Port of Everett (Washington). The Coalition for America’s Gateways and Trade Corridors and the American Association of Port Authorities – key stakeholders – have also urged DOT to consider cargo value when creating the network. Issues: 116th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
01.28.2019	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) and Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-AR) announced that they will once again co-chair the bipartisan House Dyslexia Congress in the 116th Congress. The Dyslexia Caucus was founded as a bipartisan task force dedicated to increasing public awareness about dyslexia, identifying policies that will support individuals as they overcome dyslexia, and ensuring equal educational and career opportunities for individuals with dyslexia. “I started my career in public service to help ensure that people with dyslexia, like my daughter, have the resources they need to succeed, and I am delighted to continue to serve as Dyslexia Caucus co-chair in the 116th Congress,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “By bringing together individuals with dyslexia, community advocates, scientists, educators, and policymakers, the Caucus can play an important role in ensuring that dyslexia is better understood and identified earlier, so that students are provided the necessary resources and accommodations to reach their full potential. I look forward to continuing to work with Congressman Westerman to ensure dyslexia receives the attention it deserves in Congress.” “Though society’s understanding and awareness of dyslexia continue to grow, significant challenges remain,” said Congressman Westerman. “Many communities and schools still lack the tools necessary for dyslexia identification and intervention, which causes families to be ill-equipped when helping their loved ones who have dyslexia. Congress must pay attention to these issues and help alleviate the resulting burdens. I’m honored to serve alongside Congresswoman Brownley as co-chair of the Dyslexia Caucus, and I’m committed to ensuring that advocacy efforts continue in the 116th Congress and beyond.” Issues: 116th Congress, Education
01.17.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) introduced the Student Loan Repayment Assistance Act, legislation to help college graduates more easily repay their student loan debts by incentivizing more employers to offer student loan repayment assistance. “Student loans have now surpassed credit cards as the second largest debt category behind mortgages in the United States, and that’s simply unacceptable,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Student loan debt can follow a student their entire life, limiting career growth, and making it more difficult to raise a family, start a business, buy a home, or save for retirement. By helping college graduates repay their student loan debts, this bill will help alleviate the financial and emotional burden this debt can have. This bill will also help employers to attract and retain skilled, qualified employees, so it’s a win-win for all.” Brownley’s bill would encourage more employers to offer student loan repayment assistance by offering employers a tax deduction of 10% for qualified student loan repayments up to $500 per month, or $6,000 annually. To qualify, employers must make the student loan repayment program widely available to all employees, not just for senior executives. To ensure that small businesses can participate, the bill allows small employers – those with 100 full-time employees or fewer and with $5 million or less in gross receipts for the preceding taxable year – to take a tax credit in lieu of a tax deduction. The text of the bill is available here. Issues: 116th Congress, Education
01.16.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) voted to pass the Emergency Disaster Supplemental Appropriations Act, which provides $12.14 billion in additional assistance to communities that faced disasters last year, including the Woolsey Fire and Hill Fire. “Our community was once again tested during the Woolsey and Hill fires, and while we are on the road to recovery, our community still needs assistance,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased to see the House pass this important legislation, which will go a long way toward helping Ventura County recover. In Congress, I will keep working to ensure our community has the resources it needs to recover and rebuild stronger than ever.” The bill includes additional funding for infrastructure repair and community development, resiliency to mitigate against future disasters, farmers and agricultural communities, and social services, including mental health care and education. A title-by-title summary of the legislation is available here. The full text of the bill is here. Issues: 116th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
01.16.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) introduced the Protect Veterans from Financial Fraud Act, legislation that will help ensure that veterans who are unable to manage their own financial affairs are better protected from fraud and abuse. “It is simply heartbreaking and unacceptable that there are hundreds of cases each year where veterans — through no fault of their own — have their benefits stolen by a fiduciary,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “For far too long, a bureaucratic loophole has stopped the VA from helping some of our most vulnerable veterans recover their hard-earned benefits. I introduced this bill to correct this injustice and ensure that all veterans receive the benefits that they have earned and deserve and rely on to make ends meet.” The VA’s Fiduciary Program was established to protect veterans and other beneficiaries who, due to injury, disease, or age, are unable to manage their own financial affairs, by appointing a fiduciary to assist the veteran in managing benefit payments. In 2016, the Fiduciary Program served more than 230,000 veterans, survivors, and dependents. Under current law, if a fiduciary misuses a veteran’s benefits, the VA can remove the fiduciary, but it can only re-issue benefits to the veteran if the appointed fiduciary manages benefits for 10 or more veterans. Brownley’s legislation ends the “10 or more” requirement so that all veterans are able to recoup their benefits in cases of fiduciary abuse or fraud. This bill is supported by the American Legion. The text of the bill is available here. Issues: 116th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
01.14.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that she and a bipartisan group of Members from the California delegation called on the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) last week to accelerate efforts to help California Hass avocados gain market access in China. California’s 2,000 avocado farmers produce over 90 percent of the total U.S. avocado crop, yet they have not gained the same level of access to China as competing countries. The letter calls on the Trump Administration to prioritize a California avocado trade agreement as part of upcoming trade negotiations with China. “The avocado industry plays a crucial role in Ventura County’s agricultural sector, which is a cornerstone of our economy and supports thousands of jobs throughout our region,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “It is imperative that our avocado farmers be afforded the same trade opportunities as their competitors in other nations. In Congress, I will continue to fight to strengthen and increase the sustainability and profitability of our farmers and growers, which will in turn grow and protect jobs in our region. A win-win for everyone.” The letter was signed by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Representatives Julia Brownley (D-CA), Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Ken Calvert (R-CA), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), TJ Cox (D-CA), and Devin Nunes (R-CA). The full text of the letter can be found here and below. The Honorable Sonny Perdue Secretary U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Avenue S.W. Washington D.C. 20250 The Honorable Gregory Ibach Under Sec. Marketing and Regulatory Programs U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Avenue S.W. Washington D.C. 20250 The Honorable Ted McKinney Under Sec. for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Avenue S.W. Washington D.C. 20250 Dear Secretary Perdue, Under Secretary Ibach and Under Secretary McKinney: We write to ask the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to accelerate efforts to gain market access to China for California Hass Avocados. California’s 2000 avocado farmers produce over 90 percent of the total U.S. avocado crop, including 100 percent of all U.S. Hass avocado production worth an average farm-gate value of $400 million, yet they have not gained the same level of access to China as competing countries. Equal access is an essential component of free trade, so we respectfully ask that you work with our producers to establish greater access to the Chinese market. In 2005, the California Avocado Commission (Commission) initiated a China market access request with USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS). For the last fourteen years, the Commission has worked diligently to provide APHIS with timely information to assist in the process. Over that same period, Mexico, Chile and Peru – all major exporters of Hass avocados to the U.S. – have secured market access to China. During that same time period, competition in the U.S. avocado market has continued to intensify. As there is no established commercial avocado production in China, the demand for avocados in China is experiencing tremendous growth. It is imperative that California avocado farmers be afforded the same trade opportunities as their competitors. In May 2016, the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine (AQSIQ) of the People’s Republic of China sent a team of officials for a Technical Inspection visit of California avocado groves and packing facilities. Since that visit, APHIS and China Customs (formerly AQSIQ) have been working to finalize a Pest Risk Analysis (PRA). Once a PRA agreement is reached, a work plan for market access would be the next step and shipments of California avocados could begin. It is our understanding the Administration is planning to send an agricultural trade delegation to China this month to discuss improving the balance of trade in U.S. fruits and vegetables. While increasing sales of existing U.S. agricultural exports is important, new market access for other commodities must also be pursued. We are not aware of any scientific or phytosanitary reasons for China to delay a market agreement for California avocados. A California avocado trade agreement with China should be made a priority in all trade negotiations with China. On behalf of California’s avocado farmers and the thousands of workers they employ, we thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this important trade issue. Please let us know if there are opportunities for us to provide support to the Administration’s efforts to achieve California avocado market access into China. Sincerely, Issues: 116th Congress, Agriculture
01.10.2019	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) today introduced a trio of bills to help our nation’s heroes achieve the American Dream through job training and improved access to entrepreneurship. “Our servicemembers gain invaluable experience and technical skills during their time in uniform, and we need to do more to ensure that they can succeed in the 21st Century economy,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “These bills will help our nation’s veterans have the resources they need to successfully transition into the job market and support themselves and their families. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to move these important bills through the legislative process.” Help Hire Our Heroes Act The Help Hire Our Heroes Act would restart the Veterans Retraining Assistance Program (VRAP). VRAP started in 2012 to provide training assistance to unemployed veterans between the ages of 35 and 60 who are no longer eligible for the GI Bill. It provided up to 12 months of training benefits at community colleges and technical schools in occupations that the Department of Labor has identified as “high demand.” During the 113th Congress, Brownley introduced legislation to keep the program going, but the Republican House refused to reauthorize the program. As a result of Congressional inaction, the VA was forced to end the program. VA stopped accepting new applications after October 1, 2013 and stopped paying benefits to enrolled veterans after March 31, 2014. The text of the bill is available here. Reduce Unemployment for Veterans of All Ages Act The Reduce Unemployment for Veterans of All Ages Act would lift the arbitrary 12-year time limit on when veterans with service-connected disabilities can participate in the VA’s Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) Program. VR&E helps veterans obtain employment through job training, employment accommodations, resume development, and skills coaching. In FY2017, 90 percent of veterans who achieved rehabilitation from an employment plan had a job in the prior year. Veterans who successfully completed the program also earned $18,000 more in individual income than those who did not complete the program. Brownley’s bill passed the House during the 115th Congress, but was not passed in the Senate. This legislation is supported by the American Legion, Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), and Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW). The text of the bill is available here. Veteran Entrepreneurs Act The Veteran Entrepreneurs Act, bipartisan legislation co-authored by Congresswoman Jackie Walorski (R-IN), promotes entrepreneurship by lowering up-front costs for veterans opening a franchise — a good option for first-time small business owners because of the built-in support. The bill cuts red tape and creates a tax credit to cover 25 percent of the initial franchise fees. The text of the bill is available here. Issues: 116th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
01.10.2019	Washington, D.C. — Today, Representatives Julia Brownley (D-CA) and Jackie Walorski (R-IN) introduced the Veteran Entrepreneurs Act, legislation to help veterans achieve the American Dream by reducing barriers often in the way of starting a small business. The bill lowers up-front costs for veterans opening a franchise — a good option for first-time small business owners because of the built-in support — by cutting red tape and creating a tax credit to cover 25 percent of initial franchisee fees. “Veterans have served our country with honor and distinction, and it is our duty to ensure that they can succeed in the job market when they’ve transitioned back to civilian life,” said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. “For many former servicemembers, their training and leadership skills mean they would make excellent small business owners, but they sometimes lack the initial capital needed to get started. I am proud to co-author this bipartisan legislation with Congresswoman Walorski to help more veterans achieve their dream of becoming entrepreneurs so they can better support themselves and their families.” “Our nation’s veterans are leaders and innovators in their own right,” said Congresswoman Walorski. “Who better to start businesses, create jobs, and grow our economy than those who bravely served our country? This bipartisan legislation will not only lift up our local small business community, it will help servicemembers return to civilian life and give them a better chance to achieve the American Dream they fought to protect. I am grateful to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to help provide the support our veterans earned.” The text of the bill is available here. Issues: 116th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
01.09.2019	Washington, DC — Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) introduced the Honoring Our Fallen TSA Officers Act, legislation that would ensure that Transportation Security Administration (TSA) employees killed in the line of duty receive the same death benefits that other federal law enforcement officers already receive. Brownley first introduced this bill in the 113th Congress in response to the tragic shooting death of TSA Officer Gerardo I. Hernandez at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) on Friday, November 1, 2013. “Our Transportation Security Officers, like Officer Hernandez, put their lives on the line in order to protect Americans and the traveling public from threats against our aviation, railway, port, and transportation systems,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “It is our duty to ensure that fallen TSA officers and their families are provided with the same benefits made available to the families of other federal law enforcement officers tragically killed in the line of duty, such as firefighters and police officers. It is simply the right thing to do.” “The Air Marshal Association is proud to offer our support to the Honor Our Fallen TSA Heroes Act,” said John Casaretti, President of the Air Marshal Association. “No family of a Federal Air Marshal or other Transportation Security Administration employee killed in the line of duty should ever suffer the loss of a family member without the compensation that every other Agency grants survivors.” “AFGE strongly supports this legislation and thanks Congresswoman Brownley for continuing the fight on behalf of our TSA workers and their families,” said J. David Cox Sr., American Federation of Government Employees National President. “Today, TSA employees who are killed while on the job – including Transportation Security Officers, air marshals, and security inspectors – are denied federal benefits provided to the families of other fallen public safety workers, including police officers and firefighters. In 2013, TSA lost one of its own when Officer Gerardo Hernandez was killed in a shooting rampage at Los Angeles International Airport. Officer Hernandez was just 39 years old and left behind a wife and two children, yet it took an act of Congress for his family to receive the death benefits automatically afforded to all other public safety officers. TSA officers literally put their lives on the line every day to protect the flying public. They and their families deserve to know that they will be cared for if the worst should happen. We look forward to working with the 116th Congress to get this common-sense legislation finally passed into law.” TSA is comprised of nearly 50,000 security officers, inspectors, air marshals, and managers who protect the nation’s transportation systems by screening for explosives at checkpoints in airports, inspecting rail cars, patrolling subways with law enforcement partners, and working to make all modes of transportation safe. Current law does not provide TSA officers with death benefits like those offered to firefighters, police officers, FBI agents, or state troopers. Brownley helped push for legislation that was signed into law in 2015 to provide public safety officer benefits to the Hernandez family, and this bill would correct this inequity for all officers going forward. The Honoring Our Fallen TSA Officers Act is co-sponsored by Reps. Pete Aguilar (D-CA), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Don Beyer (D-VA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Bobby Rush (D-IL), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Darren Soto (D-FL), Filemon Vela (D-TX), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL). Issues: 116th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
01.09.2019	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) joined the new House Democratic majority last week to introduce the For the People Act (H.R. 1), a sweeping package of pro-democracy and anti-corruption reforms that will put the power back in the hands of the American people. The bill will improve federal ethics laws to fight special interests, fix our broken campaign finance system to get big money out of politics, and make other improvements to strengthen our democracy. It also includes legislation Brownley co-authored with Reps. Lofgren and Lowenthal to end partisan gerrymandering by requiring states to adopt a citizen redistricting commission, as California has done. “The American people sent a resounding message on Election Day rejecting President Trump’s culture of chaos and corruption. My Democratic colleagues and I are hard at work now to restore our democracy and return our government to one of, by, and for the people once again. This transformational legislation will finally put the power back in the hands of the American people, and I am especially pleased that H.R. 1 includes my legislation to end partisan gerrymandering and fix the redistricting process. This will help make politicians more accountable to the voters they are elected to represent.” Read a section-by-section breakdown of H.R. 1 here. Brownley’s first standalone bill in the 116th Congress was also focused on restoring democracy. H.R. 93, the Same Day Registration Act, requires all states to allow same-day voter registration for federal elections, just as there is in California. Same-day voter registration lowers barriers to voting, which has proven to increase voter participation. High participation in our democracy translates to representation that better reflects the needs and challenges of the people. Issues: 116th Congress, Campaign Finance Reform, Redistricting
01.08.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) introduced two bills to make it easier for Ventura County families to achieve and maintain homeownership. The Mortgage Insurance Tax Deduction Act would make permanent the deduction for mortgage insurance premiums, which expired on December 31, 2017. This provision of the federal tax code makes it more affordable for working families to purchase a home when they are required to purchase mortgage insurance by their lender, as it allows the mortgage insurance premiums to be tax deductible. The Mortgage Debt Tax Forgiveness Act would make permanent the income tax exclusion for mortgage debt forgiveness, which also expired on December 31, 2017. This would allow taxpayers to exclude income from the discharge of debt on their principal residence. Qualifying debt includes debt reduced through mortgage restructuring, as well as mortgage debt forgiven in connection with a foreclosure. “Homeownership is a quintessential part of the American Dream and key to helping Americans build economic security and save for a secure retirement,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Extending and making permanent these provisions will help middle-class families achieve homeownership, stay in their homes, and provide stability and predictability for homeowners going forward. In Congress, I will continue to fight to ensure that our tax-code puts hardworking American families first.” Issues: 116th Congress, Tax Policy
01.03.2019	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) released the following statement today after she was sworn in to the 116th Congress: “I am so honored to have the opportunity to continue representing Ventura County in Congress and fighting for our community’s priorities and values. “As part of the new House Democratic majority, I am focused on ensuring our democracy is working for the people once again. That’s why the very first piece of legislation I introduced in this new session is to require all states to allow same-day voter registration for federal elections, just as we have in California. High participation in our democracy translates to representation that better reflects the needs and challenges of the people. Same-day voter registration lowers barriers to voting, which has proven to increase voter participation. “This session, I will continue to have the honor of serving on the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, and I intend to seek my colleagues’ support to serve as Chair of the Health Subcommittee. As Chair, my top priority will be to ensure that the VA is providing our veterans with access to the care and benefits they have earned and deserve — including the fast-growing population of women veterans. One of the first bills I Introduced today will help homeless veterans with children get off the streets and into a safe place to live — an issue disproportionately impacting women veterans. “While it often feels like there is no agreement in Congress, there is a clear consensus that we must work together to provide veterans with the care they have earned and deserve. I am proud of the bipartisan progress our Committee made in the 115th Congress, and I will continue to work across the aisle to deliver for veterans here in Ventura County and across the country. “Finally, it is imperative that we address the devastating economic and human toll brought by climate change, which has led to longer wildfire seasons and deadly disasters that have wreaked havoc on our local communities. I am committed to taking real action to curb the effects of climate change, protect public health, and build a competitive clean energy economy. Our future depends on it.” Other bills Brownley introduced today include: Amend the Code for Marriage Equality Act: Legislation to strike gendered words like “husband” and “wife” from all federal laws and replace them with the gender-neutral term “spouse” to ensure federal code better reflects LGBTQ equality. Dental Care for Veterans Act: Legislation to provide access to full-service dental care for veterans. Issues: 116th Congress, Civil Rights, Energy, Environment, Veterans' Affairs
01.03.2019	Washington, DC – On the first day of the 116th Congress, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) today introduced the Amend the Code for Marriage Equality Act, legislation to strike gendered words like “husband” and “wife” from all federal laws and replace them with the term “spouse.” “While the landmark Supreme Court decision ending the ban on same-sex marriage was a historic step in the right direction, there is still more work to be done to ensure that the LGBTQ community is treated equally under the law in all respects,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Our words reflect our values, and every gendered reference in our federal code undermines and de-legitimizes same-sex couples. This legislation will recognize and re-affirm that all Americans have the right to marry the person they love, ensure no one is denied federal benefits and protections because of who they love, and more broadly make sure that same-sex couples are treated equally under the law in all respects.” Issues: 116th Congress, Civil Rights
01.03.2019	Washington, DC — On the first day of the 116th Congress, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) introduced the Homeless Veteran Families Act, legislation to help homeless veterans with children find a safe place to live. The Veterans Affairs’ (VA) Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem (GPD) Program funds community housing agencies that provide services to homeless veterans. Currently, the VA does not have the authority to provide the reimbursements for the costs of services for minor children of homeless veterans. A Government Accountability Office (GAO) report found that this inequity led to a financial disincentive for providers and in turn, limited housing for veterans with young children. Brownley’s legislation would help address this issue by allowing VA to reimburse providers for 50 percent of the costs of housing minor dependents of homeless veterans while the veteran receives services from the grant recipient. “As a nation, we have a sacred responsibility to help those who served in uniform,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “It is simply unacceptable that veterans with children are living out on the street or in other unsafe locations because the VA can’t reimburse community agencies for housing them. This is an issue that disproportionately impacts women veterans — the fastest-growing veteran population. It is imperative that we fix this issue and keep families together and safe, while providing the stable living situation imperative to setting the conditions for a fresh start.” Issues: 116th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
01.03.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) introduced her first bill of the 116th Congress: the Same Day Registration Act, legislation that would require all states to allow same-day voter registration for all federal elections. Brownley’s legislation was introduced as the new House Democratic Majority’s effort to restore democracy gets underway. Currently, 17 states plus the District of Columbia permit same-day voter registration, which allows any qualified resident of the state to register to vote and cast a ballot on the same day. Brownley’s legislation would require every state to enact same-day voter registration for all federal elections, similar to the process allowed in her home state of California. “High participation in our elections ensures representation that works for the people, not special interests,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Same-day voter registration is one of the most effective tools for increasing voter turnout, which means better representation for everyday Americans.” Issues: 116th Congress, Civil Rights
12.20.2018	Washington, DC — In response to the U.S. Department of Energy’s Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for the clean-up of the Santa Susana Field Laboratory (SSFL), Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) issued the following statement: “I am deeply disappointed with the Department of Energy’s proposed clean-up decision, which breaks the department’s prior commitments under the Administrative Orders on Consent (AOCs). Clean-up of the Santa Susana Field Laboratory is a high public health and safety priority, and my involvement with the clean-up goes back to my time in the California Assembly as a principal co-author of SB990, state legislation to require the full clean-up. I urge the California Department of Toxic Substances Control to ensure that the AOCs are upheld.” Issues: 115th Congress, Energy and Environment
12.17.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) today announced that Nathan Juan, a junior at Newbury Park High School, won the 2018 Congressional App Challenge for California’s 26th Congressional District. Nathan created FaStats, an app that helps youth sports teams track statistics for fast, easy, and up-to-date results. “I want to congratulate Nathan on his great work developing this app,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “The fields of science and technology can play a critical role in young people’s lives and their educational success, and I want to commend all of the students who participated in the Congressional App Challenge this year. The talent and creativity of Ventura County high school students is exceptional.” The Congressional App Challenge is a competition organized by Members of Congress across the country for middle school and high school students to create their own software applications and gain experience with computer coding. Submissions from students across Ventura County were judged by a panel of experts, including Brian Ganley, Chief Information Officer for Ventura County; Rodrigo Cardenas, Industry Liaison for VC Innovates; and Catharine Reznicek, Educational Technology Specialist with the Ventura County Office of Education. “The process of making my app for the Congressional App Challenge has been a fulfilling journey because I have learned so many new computer science skills and expanded my knowledge in the field,” said Nathan Juan. “I am thankful for Congresswoman Julia Brownley for hosting this event that gives students an opportunity to apply themselves in the STEM field.” “I am very impressed with all the students and their entries,” said Brian Ganley, Chief Information Officer for Ventura County. “It was great to see the different approaches, problems, and solutions created by the apps. All of the students did a great job, and I hope they all keep up the great work!” “I have been a judge for the Congressional App Challenge for the past three years and consistently I see amazing, innovative, and socially relevant work coming from students around the nation,” said Catharine Reznicek, Educational Technology Specialist with the Ventura County Office of Education. “It is essential to continue supporting students to create, dream, and challenge themselves in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics).” As the winning submission, Nathan’s app will be featured in the U.S. Capitol Building and on the website of the U.S. House of Representatives. He will also receive $250 in Amazon Web Services credits to support his next technology project. Issues: 115th Congress, Education
12.12.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) released the following statement on House passage of the 2018 Farm Bill House-Senate conference agreement: “Agriculture is the cornerstone of our regional economy and a proud part of our heritage in Ventura County. This bipartisan Farm Bill includes many provisions that I called for to help Ventura County growers succeed in the global marketplace, including investments in specialty crop research, the creation of an emergency fund for citrus research and development, and more input for Californians on national citrus policy. By better supporting our local agricultural producers, this bill will strengthen our rural communities and increase sustainability and profitability for our farmers and growers, which will protect jobs in our region. “I am also pleased that the bill maintains critical support for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, which ensures millions of children, individuals with disabilities, veterans, and seniors, including 59,000 Ventura County residents, have food on the table. The bill also includes many animal health and welfare provisions, including strengthening protections against animal fighting. I am very pleased that we were able to reach a bipartisan agreement on this legislation. In Congress, I will continue to fight to ensure our agricultural producers and workers receive the support and investments needed to flourish.” Issues: 115th Congress, Agriculture
12.10.2018	Washington, DC — Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Programs Reauthorization Act, legislation co-authored by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) and Congressman Brad Wenstrup (R-OH) to fight veteran homelessness by strengthening job training programs. This bill was passed as part of the Veterans Benefit and Transition Act of 2018, and it is expected to pass the Senate and be signed into law in the coming days. “Our nation’s men and women in uniform undertake enormous sacrifices every day to keep us safe, and we must do everything we can to ensure they smoothly transition back into civilian life,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased the House passed our legislation today, which will allow veterans who have struggled with homelessness to remain eligible for job services while utilizing VA housing programs. This will help more veterans get jobs, break the cycle of homelessness, and support themselves and their families through meaningful work. I want to thank Congressman Wenstrup for championing this issue with me, and I look forward to continuing to work with him to see this bill signed into law.” Currently, homeless veterans are eligible for job training and placement services under the Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Program (HVRP). However, if a veteran is also eligible for assistance under the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program, Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF), or Native American Housing Assistance, the VA considers them to be no longer “homeless,” thereby restricting access to HVRP. In doing so, a veteran is denied access to a program that will help them re-enter the workforce and get them back on their feet. The Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Programs Reauthorization Act would clarify that veterans eligible for HUD-VASH, SSVF, or Native American Housing Assistance are still eligible for HVRP assistance. This legislation would also reauthorize the HVRP program for three years, along with programs that are designed for female homeless veterans and homeless veterans with children. “HVRP is the best job training and placement resource we have for homeless veterans. For many years however, a bureaucratic hurdle has made it impossible for veterans to qualify if they are housed before they can apply for employment assistance,” said Kathryn Monet, CEO of the National Coalition for Homeless Veterans (NCHV). “This bill completely removes that hurdle, ensuring that this program is available for any veteran who needs a permanent home and a good job.” Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
12.04.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley announced $14.8 million in federal funding for U.S. Army Corps of Engineers projects in Ventura County at Channel Islands Harbor, Ventura Harbor, and the Port of Hueneme that will strengthen our local infrastructure. “Ventura Harbor, Channel Islands Harbor, and the Port of Hueneme are essential drivers of our local economy, and they play a critical role in fueling job growth here in Ventura County,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased to announce this new funding for important infrastructure investments that will help keep our port and harbors open for business, which is good for Ventura County residents and businesses alike. Thank you to our local leaders for working together once again to bring this important support to our community.” The U.S. Army Corps’ Fiscal Year 2019 Work Plan was released on November 21 and includes funds for dredging at Channel Islands Harbor and Ventura Harbor and “donor port” funds for the Port of Hueneme, pursuant to legislation spearheaded by Congresswoman Brownley in 2016. Ventura Harbor The FY 2019 work plan provides $8,370,000 for Ventura Harbor, an increase of $3,000,000 over the President’s budget request, to support the annual dredge. “On behalf of the Ventura Port District Board of Port Commissioners and General Manager, Oscar Peña, we would like to thank and recognize Congresswoman Julia Brownley for her demonstrated support and continued commitment to Ventura Harbor. Congresswoman Brownley, through on-going collaboration with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has announced a significant increase in FY 2019 federal funds appropriations to conduct essential dredging to provide a safe and navigable Harbor,” said Brian Pendleton, Deputy General Manager of Ventura Harbor. Channel Islands Harbor The FY 2019 work plan includes $6,290,000 for Channel Islands Harbor dredging. “We really appreciate Cong. Brownley’s efforts to ensure additional Work Plan funding for the dredging and breakwater repair projects at Channel Islands Harbor. This year’s funding will nearly clean out the sand trap at the Harbor and provide plenty of sand for Port Hueneme and Naval Base Ventura County,” said Mark Sandoval, Director, Ventura County Harbor Department. Port of Hueneme The FY 2019 work plan also provides $140,000 for the Port of Hueneme. These funds were awarded pursuant to donor port legislation that Brownley spearheaded the enactment of in 2016. Donor ports, so named because they contribute far more to the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund than they receive back, receive an additional allocation of funds. Brownley’s legislation, enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (P.L. 114-322), ensured the Port of Hueneme receives equitable treatment as a donor port. “This additional influx of $140,000 of federal funding enables the Port to continue moving projects forward that support the over 13,633 jobs generated by the Port and its customers,” said Mary Anne Rooney, President of the Oxnard Harbor District. “We are grateful for Congresswoman Brownley’s tireless advocacy to bring more of the Harbor Maintenance Tax dollars back to our local community.” “For the second year in a row now, Congresswoman Brownley’s leadership has played a vital role in enabling the Port to receive its donor equity funding,” said Kristin Decas, CEO & Port Director for the Port of Hueneme. “Brownley’s leadership continues to drive the Port of Hueneme forward and create more equity in the federal HMT funding formula. These funds will directly benefit the Port’s deepening project, that promises to grow business and support local beaches with sand replenishment.” Issues: 115th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
10.30.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Dyslexia Caucus, today joined fellow Co-Chair Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-AR) and Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), to introduce a resolution designating October as National Dyslexia Awareness Month to recognize the significant educational implications of dyslexia. Senator Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-LA) and Chris Murphy (D-CT) introduced a companion bill in the Senate earlier this month. “I started working in public service to help ensure that people with dyslexia, like my daughter, have the resources they need to thrive,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “By recognizing October as Dyslexia Awareness Month, we can raise awareness and focus more attention on how to best identify and address dyslexia, so that every student can have the tools they need to live up to their full potential. As the Co-Chair of the Congressional Dyslexia Caucus, I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to ensure dyslexia receives the attention it deserves.” Original co-sponsors of the bill include Reps. Larry Buschon, M.D. (R-IN), Ted Deutch (D-FL), French Hill (R-AR), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Jim McGovern (D-MA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Steven Palazzo (R-MS), Mark Takano (D-CA), and Kevin Yoder (R-KS). The full text of the resolution is available here. Issues: 115th Congress, Education
10.25.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that the U.S. Department of Education has awarded two grants to California Lutheran University totaling more than $6 million over five years through the Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions Program. This funding will help increase transfer, retention, and degree-completion rates for students who are Latino, low-income, or the first in their family to attend college and to address the shortage of Latino teachers. “We build stronger communities and a stronger economy when we ensure that everyone has the opportunity to obtain a higher education and that our universities have a diverse faculty and student body,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased to announce that Cal Lutheran will receive these grants, which will not only allow them to partner with Moorpark College and enrich our local university system, but will also give local students – especially those who are all too often left behind – the chance to harness their abilities and get on the path for higher education success.” The first grant provides Cal Lutheran with $3.75 million over five years to fund a joint project with Moorpark College aimed at increasing transfer, retention, and degree-completion rates for students who are Latino, low-income, or the first in their family to attend college. The two institutions of higher education will work together to redesign and revamp up to 50 classes to incorporate more active- and experiential-learning opportunities and content that is culturally relevant to students who are underrepresented in higher education. They will also launch a transfer center and a cross-campus mentoring program and enhance advising and career development services. “This grant is all about student success,” said Cal Lutheran Provost Leanne Neilson. “It gives us an opportunity to work with Moorpark College to increase transfer rates and help Latina/o and low-income students complete their bachelor’s degrees.” The second grant provides Cal Lutheran with $2.75 million over five years to address the shortage of Latino teachers by creating a pre-credential program for Latino students and others who want to become teachers, enhancing undergraduate advising, and hiring an outreach coordinator and math and writing specialists. Cal Lutheran will also use the funding to organize events and activities for kindergarten through 12th-grade students, their families, community college students, teachers, and community members to stimulate interest in teaching. “This project will address one of the most pressing needs in teacher education – diversification of the candidate pool,” said Michael R. Hillis, dean of Cal Lutheran’s Graduate School of Education. Issues: 115th Congress, Education
10.23.2018	Washington, DC — Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced more than $500,000 in federal funding over four years from the U.S. Department of Education that will help support Ventura County Community College District’s Child Care Access Means Parents in School (CCAMPIS) Project, which will help enhance the existing child care programs at the college and provide for 30 additional child care scholarships per year. “Access to high-quality child care should never be a barrier to parents looking to further their education and better support their families,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased to announce that Ventura County Community College District will receive this grant to help support their existing child care program and provide student-parents with the support they need to succeed.” “We are proud of the Ventura College Child Development and Education Center and our other childcare facilities at Moorpark and Oxnard colleges. We continually seek ways to positively influence the lives of our students and are proud of the work being done at Ventura College,” said Ventura County Community College District’s Board of Trustees Chair Art Hernandez. “This grant will help remove the childcare barrier for our students with young children. Childcare fee scholarships provided to low-income parents will assist them in reaching their educational goals faster,” said Ventura College President Damon Bell. “In my 20 years at Ventura College, I have seen time and again how being unable to afford dependable child care prevents parents from being able to attend the college courses they need to qualify for good jobs. This funding will help many low-income student parents overcome that barrier – I am excited that we can provide this support,” said Ventura College Child Development Professor Robin Douglas. Ventura County Community College District will receive $521,580 over four years from the U.S. Department of Education as part of their Child Care Access Means Parents in School Program grant. This program supports the participation of low-income parents in postsecondary education through the provision of campus-based child care services. Ventura County Community College District will use this funding for their CCAMPIS Project, which will support the existing Ventura College Child Development Center, a center that has the capacity to serve 90 children, ages two through five. The CCAMPIS Project will further help serve low-income student-parents through the provision of 30 additional child care scholarships per year. The CCAMPIS Project aims to: Identify, recruit, and select low income (Pell Grant eligible) college student parents who do not qualify for other child care funding assistance to receive CCAMPIS child care scholarships. A sliding fee scale, described in the Absolute Priority section of the application, will be used to determine the order of awards and percentage of fees covered. Provide the children of CCAMPIS participants with high-quality, affordable onsite child care. Connect CCAMPIS participants with academic and support services in order to promote student success. Monitor CCAMPIS participants’ academic progress to ensure persistence from one academic year to the next until graduation with an associate degree and/or certificate; and/or successful transfer to a four-year university is achieved. Read more about the grant here. Issues: 115th Congress, Education
10.17.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) attended the Medal of Honor ceremony for Sergeant Major (Ret.) John Canley of Oxnard, who received the prestigious honor for his heroism during the Vietnam War. “I am so pleased that Sergeant Major Canley is finally receiving the Medal of Honor for his bravery and unwavering dedication to our country and his fellow Americans,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “He truly represents what it means to be an American hero and is a shining example of why our Armed Forces are the best in the world. It was my great honor to have him attend the State of the Union with me this year – 50 years to the day of the start of the Tet Offensive, where his bravery and courage saved many lives. I am happy to see him finally receive this much-deserved honor. His selfless actions will continue to be an inspiration to us all.” Sergeant Major Canley served as a Marine for 28 years, including service during the Vietnam War. His actions as Company Commander of Alpha Company, 1st Battalion, 1st Marine Regiment, during the early days of the Tet Offensive in Hue City, Vietnam, saved the lives of many Marines and sailors. In 1968, during the Battle of Hue, his commanding officer was gravely wounded, so then-Gunnery Sergeant Canley took immediate command of his company, directing several counter attacks over many days, advancing the war strategically, and saving many American lives. More than a dozen eyewitness statements corroborate this account. For his extraordinary heroism, Canley received the Navy Cross, as well as two Bronze Stars and a Purple Heart. In 2014, one of Sergeant Major Canley’s fellow servicemembers contacted Congresswoman Brownley’s office to request that she recommend that Canley’s medal be upgraded to the Medal of Honor – the highest military honor awarded by the U.S. government. Brownley’s office submitted the documentation requesting that the Department of Defense review Sergeant Major Canley’s records, and in December 2017, after several years of review by the U.S. Marine Corps and the Department of Defense, Secretary of Defense Mattis sent Congresswoman Brownley a letter stating that he agreed that Canley’s actions merit award of the Medal of Honor. However, Secretary Mattis noted that Congress would need to pass legislation to waive the five-year time limit on awarding the Medal of Honor. Congresswoman Brownley authored legislation to waive the time limit to make Canley eligible to receive the medal. Her bill was signed into law in January. Today, Sergeant Major Canley – at long last – received the Medal of Honor. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
10.16.2018	Washington, DC — Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that The Abundant Table, a nonprofit based in Camarillo, will receive nearly $250,000 in federal grant funding from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to expand access to locally grown fruits and vegetables for low-income families throughout Ventura County. The grant, part of USDA’s Farmers Market Promotion Program (FMPP), aims to increase domestic consumption of, and access to, locally and regionally produced agricultural products, as well as to develop new market opportunities for farm and ranch operations serving local markets. “As a mother of two, and a former school board member, I have seen first-hand the critical role that proper nutrition plays in the success of our children, families, and communities,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am so pleased to announce that The Abundant Table will receive this much-needed funding that will help our local, small farms grow and continue to be drivers of our economy and also ensure that they can play a role in the success of our region’s children in school.” “We thank Congresswoman Brownley for her continued support of the Farmers Market Promotion Program in Congress, and for being an advocate for increasing access to locally-grown fruit and vegetables. The FMPP, along with other government based grant funds for small farms, is critical to the growth and sustainability of community-based farms such as ours. This funding allows The Abundant Table to build upon its longstanding Farm to School efforts in Ventura County, ensuring that our children are not only eating healthily at school, but that our County’s most marginalized families are also able to eat healthily at home. In addition, this grant will allow The Abundant Table to pilot a produce program for farmworker families and ‘prescription’ food box for patients needing to increase intake of fruits and vegetables,” said Nicole S. Janelle, Executive Director of The Abundant Table. Read more about this grant here. Issues: 115th Congress, Agriculture
09.28.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today following passage in the U.S. House of Representatives of the GOP Scam 2.0: “We need a federal tax code that puts more money back in the pockets of working families and small businesses, incentivizes innovation, and spurs real job growth. Sadly, the ‘tax scam’ that Congressional Republicans pushed through today once again proves that lining the pockets of the 1% is their top priority – even if it means hurting Californians and sticking hardworking families with the bill. “This new tax scam doubles down on provisions that already were hurting my constituents. This includes making permanent the Republicans’ limits on the state and local tax deduction and the mortgage interest deduction, both of which are aimed squarely at hurting Californians’ pocketbooks. This Republican plan also explodes the deficit by trillions, further endangering Medicare and Social Security for our seniors and sticking our children with the bill, all in favor of wealthy special interests. “I will continue to fight for a long-lasting, bipartisan agreement to make the tax code fairer for middle-class families, help small businesses succeed, encourage innovation, and incentivize companies to create jobs here in Ventura County.” Issues: 115th Congress, Tax Policy
09.26.2018	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) released the following statement today after passage in the U.S. House of Representatives of new federal funding that will support our servicemembers and invest in critical drivers of our economy. The funding comes as part of the Fiscal Year 2019 Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act. “I supported today’s funding bill because it invests in Ventura County’s priorities. As the proud representative of Naval Base Ventura County, it is imperative that our servicemembers receive the support they deserve, and this bill provides them with a very well-earned pay raise. This legislation also invests in the critical drivers of our economy, including life-saving medical research, increased Pell grants to help students afford higher education, and more resources for apprenticeships and career and technical education so everyone can succeed in the 21st Century economy. This bill also protects and makes key investments in programs that help support our seniors, children, those living with poverty, and those suffering from the opioid crisis. “This bill represents how our government should function — working across the aisle to advance our shared goals. I hope we can continue to work in this manner going forward.” Issues: 115th Congress, Budget, Education, Jobs, Economy, and Small Business
09.26.2018	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the House-Senate conference agreement to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) (H.R. 302), including provisions authored by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) to support veterans and to curb human trafficking. The bill also includes critical funding for our nation’s aviation system and helps address airplane noise in our community. It is expected to be passed by the Senate and signed into law in the coming days. “I am pleased that the final FAA conference agreement supports the critical role our local airports play in Ventura County’s economy and includes several provisions that I spearheaded, including my bill to help more veterans succeed in the job market, several provisions to address air travel barriers for veterans and other individuals with disabilities, and a provision I authored to help stop human trafficking,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Many veterans with disabilities, especially those who require the use of a wheelchair, face significant hurdles when traveling and sometimes have their specially configured wheelchairs damaged in transit. It is incumbent upon us to ensure that we eliminate these barriers to make air travel more accessible to disabled veterans, as well as to other individuals with disabilities. We can also do more to ensure that our airlines and airports are not conduits for human trafficking, which is why I authored legislation requiring training for frontline airline employees on how to properly report suspected human trafficking to law enforcement.” Improving Travel for Veterans and Other Individuals With Disabilities As Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee, Brownley worked with veterans organizations and spearheaded House efforts to include three provisions in the FAA bill that will improve travel for veterans and other individuals with disabilities. Specifically, the final bill establishes a Select Subcommittee on air travel needs of passengers with disabilities; requires a study on airport accessibility best practices for individuals with disabilities and a review of air carrier and airport training policies; and requires a study on feasibility of in-cabin wheelchair restraint systems. Brownley has been working with the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and stakeholders to ensure these provisions, and others that will improve travel for individuals with disabilities, were included in the final legislation. Helping Veterans Succeed in the Job Market The final conference agreement also incorporates Brownley’s bill, the Federal Aviation Administration Veterans’ Preference Protection Act (H.R. 3007), to help more veterans succeed in the job market after their service. Brownley’s bill will ensure veterans’ preference in hiring decisions at FAA, including giving veterans specific legal protection to enforce those rights. Brownley’s legislation, which she originally added during the Committee mark-up last year, will allow veterans to better compete for vacancies and give preference to military and veterans’ spouses. Preventing Human Trafficking Air travel is sadly a major pathway for the illegal trafficking of children and other victims of forced labor and the sex trade. Brownley’s legislation, incorporated into the final bill, will help to curb this insidious crime and save lives by requiring more airline personnel to be trained to identify possible victims of human trafficking and to ensure that those frontline employees, like ticket counter agents and gate agents, know how to properly report suspected trafficking to law enforcement. Safely Integrating UAVs into Airspace and Better Protecting Privacy The bill also includes amendments that the Congresswoman co-authored with Congressman Jason Lewis (R-MN) to ensure the FAA’s various pilot programs will better inform FAA and Congressional decision-making on the future of UAV integration into the national airspace. Southern California has long been the home of pioneers in aerospace development, and the integration of UAVs into our national airspace offers even greater opportunities for small businesses and jobs growth throughout the region. UAVs have also proven helpful for firefighters, such as during the Thomas Fire, when the California National Guard used them for aerial surveillance and to help direct resources to areas of critical need. The final bill will ensure that state and local stakeholders will have a greater say in how UAVs are used in their own communities, and it will better protect personal privacy and the private property rights of individuals. Supporting Ventura County’s Airports, Protecting Consumers, and Addressing Airplane Noise Overall, the FAA bill included a number of critical provisions to better protect aviation consumers, improve safety and security, and improve our national airspace. The bill provides FAA with the long-term funding it needs to carry out its safety mission and ensures the United States will continue to be a world leader in aviation. The bill requires FAA to issue regulations on minimum seat size, improves rest time for flight attendants, requires new aircraft to be built with secondary cockpit barriers, prohibits airlines from involuntarily removing passengers from flights after they’ve cleared the boarding gate, and requires airlines to better communicate with customers during mass flight cancellations and groundings. The final conference agreement also includes language on airport and aviation security, provisions to reduce airplane noise, and the Disaster Recovery Reform Act, which Brownley has supported. Brownley recently authored an op-ed on the importance of this legislation, especially for helping to prevent and to mitigate the negative impacts of wildfires like the recent Thomas Fire. The legislative text has is available here. A summary of highlights of the package is available here. Issues: 115th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
09.26.2018	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Disaster Recovery Reform Act. This bill, which is expected to pass the Senate and be signed into law in the coming days, will help communities better mitigate against and respond to disasters like wildfires and earthquakes. As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) has been fighting for this legislation to better prepare for and prevent disasters like the Thomas Fire. “Our community was tested during the Thomas Fire, and while we are on the road to recovery, we must remain vigilant and ensure we are planning ahead because we don’t know when another disaster may strike,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased the House passed this important legislation, which will help communities like ours fight wildfires and also recover and rebuild after natural disasters. By focusing on funds for preventative mitigation measures, this will help save money, and more importantly, lives.” Congresswoman Brownley co-authored an August 2018 VC Star op-ed with Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Ranking Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, in support of the bill. Issues: 115th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
09.26.2018	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) today voted in support of the House-Senate conference agreement to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) through 2023 and help reduce airplane noise concerns in Ventura County and across the country. The bill passed the House of Representatives today and is expected to be passed by the Senate and sent to the President’s desk for signature in the coming days. “I have heard from many of my constituents in Ventura County about airplane noise in our district that is disrupting daily lives and diminishing quality-of-life, and I have been hard at work to address this issue in Congress,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I joined with my fellow members of the Congressional Quiet Skies Caucus and the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to ensure that the final FAA reauthorization bill takes steps to address these noise concerns raised by local residents. I am very pleased that we reached agreement with the Senate on a number of measures that will directly address the serious issues raised by my constituents.” Not only does the bill authorize continued funding for airport noise abatement programs, but the bill also includes new language to require FAA to do more to address noise complaints, especially in areas like Ventura and Los Angeles Counties that have recently completed metroplex redesign projects. Among the provisions included in the final agreement: The bill requires FAA to update its noise measurement metrics and requires certain airports to update noise exposure maps. It also requires FAA to evaluate alternative metrics to the current average day-night level standard, such as the use of actual noise sampling, to address community airplane noise concerns. The bill requires FAA to consider the feasibility of dispersing airplane flight paths in areas where aircraft fly 6,000 feet or less above ground level. The bill requires a study on the health impacts of noise from aircraft on residents exposed to a range of noise levels in major metropolitan areas, including throughout the Southern California Metroplex. The study shall consider the incremental health impacts on residents living partly or wholly underneath flight paths most frequently used by aircraft flying at an altitude lower than 10,000 feet. The study shall also review the economic impacts of overflight noise for businesses in these areas. The bill creates a new position of regional ombudsman to serve as a regional liaison with the public, including community groups, on issues regarding aircraft noise, pollution, and safety; to make recommendations to FAA to address concerns raised by the public and improve the consideration of public comments in decision-making processes; and to be consulted on proposed changes in aircraft operations affecting the region, including arrival and departure routes, in order to minimize environmental impacts, including noise. The bill requires FAA to study the phase-out of the use of so-called “stage 3” aircraft, which are aircraft with older, noisier engines. The bill requires FAA to improve its community engagement practices for Metroplex redesign projects. The bill requires a study of take-off speeds to evaluate noise reduction options. The full text of the bill is available here. A summary of highlights is available here. Residents who are interested in getting more involved are also encouraged to engage with local efforts around airplane noise, including the LAX Community Noise Roundtable, which meets regularly to address noise impacts surrounding LAX. More information about the group is available here. Issues: 115th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
09.25.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) today welcomed passage in the U.S. House of Representatives of the Department of Veterans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act of 2018, which extends critical veterans programs through September 2019, including the VA’s child care pilot program, women veterans retreats pilot program, and support services for homeless veterans. “I am so pleased the House passed bipartisan legislation that extends critical veterans programs,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Whether it’s ensuring veterans have access to affordable and convenient child care when they have VA appointments, to providing mental health services tailored to the unique needs of women veterans, to housing veterans who are experiencing homelessness, these VA programs play an essential role in keeping our sacred promise to our nation’s veterans that we will take care of them when they return from service. The passage of today’s bill is a testament to the success, effectiveness, and popularity of these programs, and I will continue fighting to make them permanent so that every veteran has access to the care and services they have earned and deserve.” Congresswoman Brownley has been spearheading the effort in Congress to secure the future of these important veterans programs, including introducing legislation last January to make permanent the VA’s pilot program on retreats for women veterans (H.R. 91), to expand and make permanent the VA’s child care pilot program (H.R. 95), and to make permanent several homeless veterans assistance programs (H.R. 104). H.R. 91 passed the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee in May of last year, and H.R. 95 passed the full House in July of last year. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
09.25.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) welcomed the White House’s announcement that Sergeant Major (Ret.) John Canley of Oxnard will receive the prestigious Medal of Honor for his heroism during the Vietnam War. Brownley’s legislation making Canley eligible to receive the medal, which passed with overwhelming bipartisan support, was signed into law in January. Sergeant Major Canley served as a Marine for 28 years, including service during the Vietnam War. His actions as Company Commander of Alpha Company, 1st Battalion, 1st Marine Regiment, during the early days of the Tet Offensive in Hue City, Vietnam, saved the lives of many Marines and sailors. In 1968, during the Battle of Hue, his commanding officer was gravely wounded, so then-Gunnery Sergeant Canley took immediate command of his company, directing several counter attacks over many days, advancing the war strategically, and saving many American lives. More than a dozen eyewitness statements corroborate this account. For his extraordinary heroism, Canley received the Navy Cross, as well as two Bronze Stars and a Purple Heart. In 2014, one of Sergeant Major Canley’s fellow servicemembers contacted Congresswoman Brownley’s office to request that she recommend that Canley’s medal be upgraded to the Medal of Honor – the highest military honor awarded by the U.S. government. Brownley’s office submitted the documentation requesting that the Department of Defense review Sgt. Canley’s records, and in December 2017, after several years of review by the U.S. Marine Corps and the Department of Defense, Secretary of Defense Mattis sent Congresswoman Brownley a letter stating that he agreed that Canley’s actions merit award of the Medal of Honor. However, Secretary Mattis noted that Congress would need to pass legislation to waive the five-year time limit on awarding the Medal of Honor. Congresswoman Brownley authored legislation to waive the time limit to make Canley eligible to receive the medal. Her bill was signed into law in January. Today, the White House announced that Sgt. Canley would – at long last – receive the Medal of Honor that he earned during his notable service in Vietnam. It will officially be awarded on October 17. “Sergeant Major Canley is a shining example of why our Armed Forces are the best military in the world, and his heroism and bravery showcases what being an American hero truly means,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am so happy that the White House has announced that he will receive the Medal of Honor for his gallantry during the Vietnam War. It was my great honor to have him attend the State of the Union with me this year, which fell on the 50-year anniversary of the start of the Tet Offensive, where his extraordinary actions saved so many lives. I look forward to Sergeant Major Canley finally receiving this much-deserved honor, and thank him for his unwavering dedication to our nation and his fellow servicemembers. This is truly an example of how bipartisanship is possible, and I hope we can continue to work in that manner going forward.” “I am accepting this on behalf of all the Marines I had the honor of serving with in Vietnam and who continue to be an inspiration to me everyday,” said Sergeant Major Canley. “Their bravery and sacrifice is unparalleled. I also want to thank Congresswoman Brownley and her staff for their continued work to help make this happen.” Photos of Sergeant Major Canley are available here. What Sergeant Major Canley’s Fellow Servicemembers Say About His Bravery: “The sheer cumulative effect of Gunny Canley’s actions and deeds over this continued period rank with the acts of America’s greatest heroes from the Revolutionary War to this present day,” said John Ligato. “This man is the epitome of A Marine Warrior.” “I spent nine months in the St. Alban hospital, required numerous surgeries and am disabled, but, I would have died if [Canley] had not risked his life for mine,” said Pat Fraleigh. “This was not the first time I saw Gunny Canley act heroically. At Cen Thien he not only carried Marines to safety, but also exposed himself to enemy fire. … He was always leading and attacking the enemy and always standing up and encouraging us.” “One man in front of our position was hit and we were being kept down from incoming fire. As the Lieutenant was calling in fire support, Gunny [Canley] directed fire on the enemy then at risk to himself he got up and ran to the injured man, picked him up, and carried him to safety, all the time while taking fire,” said Paul D. Patterson. “[Canley] was a man who inspired men, he was a Marine’s Marine. There was not place that [Canley] would ask us to go that we would not follow.” “The leadership [and] cool under fire bravery that Gunny Canley showed throughout this horrendous battle has inspired me to this day,” said Gary E. Eichler. Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues, Veterans' Affairs
09.24.2018	Washington, DC — Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced more than $8 million in federal grant funding for community development, homelessness, and affordable housing programs throughout Ventura County. “Ensuring Ventura County remains an accessible place to live is essential to keeping our community vibrant and diverse,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “By helping local governments meet housing and community development needs, these grants play a critical role in improving quality of life in Ventura County and keeping our communities strong.” As part of the Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) program, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded $1,739,049 to Ventura County, $310,228 to Camarillo, $2,502,719 to Oxnard, $580,240 to Thousand Oaks, and $765,504 to the City of Ventura. As part of the HOME Affordable Housing program, HUD awarded $667,279 to Ventura County, $791,219 to Oxnard, and $418,436 to the City of Ventura. As part of the Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) homelessness program, HUD also awarded $145,872 to Ventura County and $196,549 to Oxnard. “These funds are essential to improving the quality of life for some of our most vulnerable residents; they allow us to preserve and expand affordable housing opportunities and provide services to our at-risk youth, elderly, low-income and homeless residents. On behalf of our Entitlement Area partner communities of Santa Paula, Port Hueneme, Ojai, Fillmore and Moorpark, we are grateful to Congresswoman Brownley’s commitment and ongoing work to ensure that these funds are awarded to our area,” said Mike Powers, County Executive Officer of Ventura County. “The CDBG funding that the City of Camarillo receives goes to provide important services to Camarillo’s seniors, homeless, and low-income residents, in addition to providing affordable housing rehabilitation and ownership opportunities. We are grateful for the efforts of Congresswoman Brownley to protect this important source of federal funding from budget cuts,” said Dave Norman, Camarillo City Manager. “The city of Oxnard is pleased to have received grants from the CDBG, HOME and ESG programs this year,” said Arturo Casillas, Housing Director for the City of Oxnard. “We are grateful to the Congresswoman for her continued efforts to advocate for this critical funding.” “City of Thousand Oaks is pleased to receive our annual CDBG formula grant,” said Thousand Oaks Mayor Andy Fox. “We are grateful to Congresswoman Julia Brownley who has continued to advocate for level funding.” “We are very grateful to receive this grant. The CDBG programs provide a range of supportive services that benefit low-to-moderate income residents in Ventura and make a visible difference in our efforts to improve public infrastructure,” said Matt LaVere, City of Ventura Deputy Mayor. “The funds serve the cities’ most vulnerable residents by creating housing for the homeless, and housing rehabilitation to help seniors age in place. These funds also support the City’s economic development efforts by supporting small business loans and services. Thank you to all the nonprofit organizations partnering with us to improve the quality of life for Ventura residents. We thank Congresswoman Brownley for her hard work and help in securing the grants.” Issues: 115th Congress, Affordable Housing
09.20.2018	Thousand Oaks CA – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) toured Smiths Interconnect, located in Thousand Oaks, a company that designs, manufactures, and tests precision antennas and antenna systems, on Tuesday. She met with Smiths Interconnect employees and saw firsthand the critical role local manufacturers play in our region’s economy as part of her “Julia at Your Job” series. “Local manufacturers play an integral role in Ventura County’s diverse economy,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Through their innovative products, Smiths Interconnect showcases how technology companies are supporting jobs and spurring growth that makes our economy strong. In Congress, I will continue to fight to ensure our local businesses can thrive, because when they succeed, Ventura County residents succeed.” “It was an honor to show Congresswoman Brownley how Smiths Interconnect brings economic vitality to California’s 26th Congressional District. We greatly appreciate the time the Congresswoman took out of her busy schedule to learn more about our business and speak to our employees,” said Kevin Schmidt, VP Government Relations, Smiths Group. Photos from the visit are available here and here. Issues: 115th Congress, Jobs, Economy, and Small Business, Local Issues
09.17.2018	Washington, DC — Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that Chabad of Camarillo received a $125,000 Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Support Program grant from the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) to help prevent youth substance abuse. “We must do more to help address and prevent drug abuse from afflicting the young people in our community,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased to announce that Chabad of Camarillo will receive this grant, which will go directly to helping young people in Ventura County make smart choices and prevent substance abuse, making our communities safer and healthier for everyone.” The Drug-Free Communities Program, created by the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997, mobilizes communities to prevent youth substance use. The program provides grants to community coalitions to strengthen the infrastructure among local partners to create and sustain a reduction in local youth substance use. Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues
09.14.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) welcomed passage yesterday in the U.S. House of Representatives of new federal funding for projects in Ventura County. The funding, which comes in the Fiscal Year 2019 Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act (H.R. 5895), supports dredging at Channel Islands Harbor and Ventura Harbor, “donor port” funds for the Port of Hueneme, and new infrastructure projects at Naval Base Ventura County. “Since coming to Congress, I have worked side by side with local leaders to bring additional funding for Ventura County’s port and harbors, as well as funding for Naval Base Ventura County, and I am pleased to see our efforts pay off once again,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “The Port of Hueneme, Channel Islands Harbor, and Ventura Harbor are critical engines of our economy here in Ventura County, and this funding will help them stay open for business and continue to be positive contributors to our community. The funding for Naval Base Ventura County will support the construction of three new facilities, which are critical to further solidifying our base’s essential role in U.S. national security. All these investments will play a pivotal role in fueling job growth in Ventura County, which is good for residents and businesses alike.” Channel Islands Harbor H.R. 5895 includes $6,290,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to dredge Channel Islands Harbor to support the upcoming biannual dredging that is necessary to keep the harbor open for business. “Channel Islands Harbor, and Ventura County, are grateful to Congresswoman Brownley and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for their work to obtain this funding,” said Lyn Krieger, Special Projects Manager, Ventura County Harbor Department. “These funds go to two important projects. The first will provide sand to protect Hueneme Beach, the City of Port Hueneme and Naval Base Ventura County by providing sand from the sand trap at Channel Islands Harbor. The second project will provide breakwater and jetty repairs in the Harbor that have been needed for some time. We look forward to getting this work underway in October.” Ventura Harbor H.R. 5895 includes $5,370,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to dredge Ventura Harbor to support their annual dredge. “On behalf of the Ventura Port District Board of Port Commissioners and General Manager, Oscar Peña, we would like to thank and recognize Congresswoman Julia Brownley for her demonstrated support and continued commitment to Ventura Harbor. Congresswoman Brownley has been a consistent advocate for the appropriation of federal funds to conduct essential dredging on an annual basis to provide a safe and navigable Harbor,” said Brian Pendleton, Deputy General Manager, Ventura Port District. Port of Hueneme H.R. 5895 also provided $50,000,000 to be distributed among donor ports, which includes the Port of Hueneme. Donor ports contribute far more to the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund than they receive back, and are allocated some funding through the donor port program to address the inequity. Brownley spearheaded enactment of legislation in 2016 (P.L. 114-322) to ensure the Port of Hueneme received equitable treatment as a donor port. “We are appreciative of Congresswoman Brownley’s leadership on securing the Donor Ports an additional $10M of funding this year,” said Kristin Decas, Port of Hueneme CEO & Port Director. “As one of only nine ports in the nation which receive pennies on the dollar of what we contribute in Harbor Maintenance Tax, funding like this through the Donor Port Fund is critical to help us maintain the $179M of infrastructure at the Port of Hueneme and sustain over 13,600 jobs for our local community,” said Mary Anne Rooney, Oxnard Harbor District President. Naval Base Ventura County H.R. 5895 also provides funding to the Department of Defense for military construction projects. The DOD budget for Fiscal Year 2019 requested funds for three new facilities at Naval Base Ventura County (NBVC). This funding ensures DOD can move forward with its most pressing needs, including these facilities at NBVC. Issues: 115th Congress, Defense, Transportation and Infrastructure
09.11.2018	Washington, DC — Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that the Southern California Regional Rail Authority (Metrolink) will receive $9.9 million in federal grant funding from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to upgrade its Positive Train Control (PTC) system in Ventura County and throughout Southern California to further improve rail safety. PTC systems help prevent collisions and derailments. This announcement comes ahead of the 10-year anniversary of the Metrolink crash in Chatsworth that took place on September 12, 2008 and killed 25 people, including 21 Ventura County residents. “I am pleased to see Metrolink receive this critical funding so it can continue to lead the way on Positive Train Control technologies,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “This funding will directly contribute to the improved performance, reliability, and safety of passenger and freight rail services in Ventura County and across Southern California — which is essential to keeping our local economy moving and local community safe. The families of the victims of the Metrolink crash continue to be in my thoughts, and I will keep working in Congress to ensure rail safety is a top priority.” Metrolink will receive $9,944,000 from DOT’s Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements grant program to upgrade processing power and improve hardware. Brownley wrote a letter of support to the Federal Railroad Administration in support of Metrolink’s grant application. Learn more about the grant here. Issues: 115th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
09.10.2018	Washington, DC — Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that San Miguel Produce, based in Oxnard, will receive $250,000 in federal grant funding from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to help create jobs in Ventura County and support California’s leafy green growers. “Agriculture is an essential part of Ventura County’s heritage and plays a critical role in our vibrant and diverse economy,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am so happy to see San Miguel Produce receive this grant, which will help create jobs and increase returns for leafy green growers in our community.” This grant is part of USDA Rural Development’s Value-Added Producer Grant program. These funds will be used for marketing and processing costs to support the launch of San Miguel Produce’s juicing kit product across the West Coast and Midwest. This will help create more than two dozen jobs in the area according to the grant announcement. Congresswoman Brownley wrote a letter of support for the grant to USDA. Brownley wrote, “I am pleased to support this application as San Miguel Produce is an important leader in the leafy green industry and new market opportunities developed on its behalf would benefit the entire industry.” “San Miguel Produce is very excited to have been awarded a USDA, Value-Added Producer Grant for its new line of fresh-cut juicing greens,” said Jan Berk, COO of San Miguel Produce, Inc. “The Juicing NuGreens line are blended with specific varieties of dark greens to promote unique nutrient values for healthy lifestyles. More and more people are trying to add more dark greens to meet their healthy lifestyle and our new Juicing line is designed to help consumers make it easier to do so. We want to thank Congresswoman Brownley for her support of our grant application.” Learn more about the grant here. Issues: 115th Congress, Agriculture
09.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, 83 bipartisan Members of Congress, led by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA), called on the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to end its ban on medically necessary treatments for our country’s transgender veterans. Currently, the VA bans certain medically prescribed procedures to treat gender dysphoria. The VA, through a recent request for comment, is seeking to justify this ban based on antiquated and discriminatory claims that these treatments can lead to suicidal thoughts. In fact, peer-reviewed evidence shows that denying patients access to these procedures can actually increase the risk of suicide. “More than 160,000 transgender servicemembers have put their lives on the line in order to protect our constitutionally protected freedoms, including the right to live free from discrimination,” said Congresswoman Brownley, Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee. “It is simply unacceptable that we would ask our veterans to risk their lives to protect our rights, but we would refuse to defend theirs in return. The VA must put an end to this discriminatory and outdated ban on treatments for gender dysphoria and ensure that all our nation’s veterans have access to the healthcare they have earned.” “VA’s prohibition on surgical treatment for veterans experiencing gender dysphoria is not only discriminatory on its face, it also puts the health and well-being of transgender veterans at risk. Let me be clear: denying any veteran the medical treatment they need to live healthy and productive lives is antithetical to VA’s core mission, and to do so based on a prejudiced world-view that disregards scientific consensus is disgraceful. VA should immediately reverse course and provide these veterans the care they deserve. It is the right thing to do,” said Congressman Tim Walz, Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “One of our government’s most sacred obligations is to support those who have served their country, regardless of their gender identity,” said Charlotte Clymer, the Human Rights Campaign’s Press Secretary for Rapid Response. “The Department of Veterans Affairs’ exclusion of many forms of transition-related health care flies in the face of every major medical authority and undermines the health and wellbeing of transgender patriots who have laid their lives on the line for this country and their families. We are grateful to Representative Brownley for her leadership on this critical issue, and thank all the Members of Congress who signed onto this letter to support transgender veterans like myself.” “We thank Representative Brownley and Members of Congress who are calling on the VA to do the right thing by veterans. No eligible veteran should be denied the health care they have earned and that medical professionals say they need. Standing between veterans and their care would be nothing less than a moral failure,” said Mara Keisling, Executive Director of the National Center for Transgender Equality. The letter, which is supported by the Human Rights Campaign, the National Center for Transgender Equality, Equality California, and the Palm Center, was signed by Reps. Julia Brownley (D-CA), Tim Walz (D-MN), Salud O. Carbajal (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Andre Carson (D-IN), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Nanette Barragán (D-CA), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC-AL), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Joseph P. Kennedy III (D-MA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Anthony G. Brown (D-MD), Daniel T. Kildee (D-MI), Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Dina Titus (D-NV), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Jared Polis (D-CO), Susan Davis (D-CA), Danny K. Davis (D-IL), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Scott H. Peters (D-CA), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Kathleen M. Rice (D-NY), Elizabeth H. Esty (D-CT), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Bill Foster (D-IL), Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Bonnie Watson-Coleman (D-NJ), A. Donald McEachin (D-VA), J. Lou Correa (D-CA), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Robert A. Brady (D-PA), Darren Soto (D-FL), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Judy Chu (D-CA), Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), Adam B. Schiff (D-CA), José E. Serrano (D-NY), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), David Cicilline (D-RI), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL), Donald M. Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Charlie Crist (D-FL), David E. Price (D-NC), John Yarmuth (D-KY), Karen Bass (D-CA), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), William R. Keating (D-MA), Paul D. Tonko (D-NY), Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Ruben Kihuen (D-NV), Grace Meng (D-NY), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), and Katherine Clark (D-MA). The full text of the letter can be found here and below. September 7, 2018 The Honorable Robert Wilkie Secretary U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue SE Washington, DC 20420 RE: Notice of Petition for Rulemaking and Request for Comments – Exclusion of Gender Alterations from the Medical Benefits Package Dear Secretary Wilkie: Our country has made a sacred commitment to care for those who have borne the battle, and that includes the more than 163,000 transgender veterans[1] who have served their country in uniform. We urge the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide our nation’s transgender veterans, all medically necessary treatments prescribed by a veterans’ physician, including medically necessary procedures to treat gender dysphoria. The VA itself explained in a 2016 Impact Analysis that the exclusion for “gender alterations” was originally based on an assumption that surgical treatments were not medically necessary, but it agreed that “surgical procedures are now widely accepted in the medical community as medically necessary treatment for gender dysphoria.”[2] Indeed, there is an overwhelming international consensus that medical treatments, including surgical treatments, are safe, effective, and medically necessary when clinically indicated to alleviate gender dysphoria. Leading medical associations agree that such treatment should be a covered benefit in programs such as the VA.[3] America’s leading medical and mental health organizations, including the American Medical Association, the American Academy of Nursing, the American College of Physicians, the American Medical Student Association, and the American Nurses Association, have argued against the VA’s current ban on covering surgical treatment for gender dysphoria. They maintain that proper treatment of gender dysphoria, as determined between a patient and physician on a case-by-case basis, can include surgical treatment. These experts warned that by prohibiting VA physicians from recommending and providing this medically necessary care, the VA was contradicting established standards of care and placing transgender veterans at “substantially greater risk of serious physical and emotional trauma.”[4] The VA, in its request for comment, is attempting to justify a continued ban on surgical treatment for gender dysphoria because it could lead to suicide and suicidal ideation among veterans. In particular, the VA cites the February 2018 Department of Defense report on “Military Service by Transgender Individuals” to suggest that there is “considerable scientific uncertainty” on the efficacy of medical treatments for gender dysphoria. This report was widely refuted by medical experts, who criticized its mischaracterization of the scientific consensus on the effectiveness of medical treatments for gender dysphoria.[5] In fact, evidence shows that denying patients access to this medically-recommended procedure can increase risk of suicide. As the medical community notes in their brief: “When not properly treated, gender dysphoria can result in clinically significant psychological distress, dysfunction, debilitating depression, and, for some people, self-mutilation, thoughts of and attempts at suicide, and death.” [6] This broad medical consensus on the treatment of gender dysphoria is based on decades of peer-reviewed studies and clinical observation—including studies of veterans—that demonstrate its efficacy and substantial health benefits. Studies have found that access to medical treatment, including surgical treatments when clinically indicated, substantially contribute to decreasing rates of suicidal ideation and behavior,[7] including among transgender veterans.[8] Additionally, numerous studies have found that access to these treatments is associated with substantial improvements in other measures of mental health closely tied to suicidality, including anxiety and depression.[9] Our nation’s veterans have put their lives on the line to defend our freedoms, including the right to equality and to protection from discrimination. That our nation would ask our veterans to protect rights that we would not afford them in return is unacceptable. It is wrong to single out any group of veterans to deny access to medically necessary care. While transgender veterans represent a small percentage of the overall veteran population, transgender Americans are twice as likely to be veterans than the general US population.[10] By excluding medically necessary treatments from its medical benefits package, the VA hurts transgender veterans who have served their country, harming their health and in some cases putting their lives at risk. Simply put, the VA has an obligation to provide the necessary care that is prescribed to enrolled veterans by their health care practitioners. It is unconscionable to deny veterans the same access to health care services that civilians receive in the private sector, and that is available to Medicare beneficiaries and federal workers, simply because of outdated and unscientific prejudice against their gender identity. As Members of Congress, we have repeatedly declared our commitment to caring for our veterans who have risked their lives to protect our essential freedoms. In providing this coverage through the Veterans Health Administration we affirm this commitment, ensuring our veterans will not have to face insurmountable debts and continued distress to realize their gender identity. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, [1] Janelle Downing, Conron, Herman, and Blosnich, Transgender and Cisgender US Veterans Have Few Health Differences, (July 2018) https://www.healthaffairs.org/doi/abs/10.1377/hlthaff.2018.0027 [2] VHA Chief Financial Officer, Impact Analysis for RIN 2900-AP69, Removing Gender Alterations Restriction from the Medical Benefits Package. (July 24, 2016) [3] World Prof. Ass’n for Transgender Health, Standards of Care for the Health of Transsexual, Transgender, and Gender Nonconforming People. (7th ed.2011) https://www.wpath.org/publications/soc; Wylie C. Hembree, Endocrine Treatment of Gender- Dysphoric/ Gender- Incongruent Persons: An Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. (2017) 102 The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism 3869; Am. Medical Association, AMA Policies on GLBT Issues, Patient Centered Policy H-185.950, Removing Financial Barriers to Care for Transgender Patients. (2008) http://www.tgender.net/taw/ama_resolutions.pdf; Am. Psychiatric Association, Position Statement on Discrimination Against Transgender and Gender Variant Individuals. (2012) http://www.dhcs.ca.gov/services/MH/Documents/2013_04_AC_06d_APA_ps2012_Transgen_Disc.pdf;Am. Psychological Association, Policy on Transgender, Gender Identity and Gender Expression Non-Discrimination. (2008) http://www.apa.org/about/policy/transgender.aspx; Am. College of Physicians, Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Health Disparities: A Policy Position Paper from the American College of Physicians. (2012). https://www.aafp.org/dam/AAFP/documents/about_us/special_constituencies/2012RCAR_Advocacy.pdf;American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Committee Opinion No. 512: Health Care for Transgender Individuals. (2011) https://www.acog.org/Clinical-Guidance-and-Publications/Committee-Opinions/Committee-on-Health-Care-for-Underserved-Women/Health-Care-for-Transgender-Individuals; [4] Brief for Medical and Mental Health Professionals. et al. as Amici Curiae Supporting Petitioners, Dee Fulcher, Giuliano Silva, and the Transgender American Veterans Associations vs. Secretary of Veterans Affairs [5] American Medical Association, Letter to Secretary Mattis. (April 3 2018) https://www.politico.com/f/?id=00000162-927c-d2e5-ade3-d37e69760000; American Psychiatric Association, APA Reiterates Its Strong Opposition to Ban of Transgender Americans from Serving in U.S. Military. (March 24 2018)https://www.psychiatry.org/newsroom/news-releases/apa-reiterates-its-strong-opposition-to-ban-of-transgender-americans-from-serving-in-u-s-military; American Psychological Association, APA Statement Regarding Transgender Individuals Serving in Military. (March 26 2018) http://www.apa.org/news/press/releases/2018/03/transgender-military.aspx; Palm Center, Six Former Surgeons General Rebut Pentagon Assertions About Medical Fitness of Transgender Troops. (April 25 2018) https://www.palmcenter.org/six-former-surgeons-general-%E2%80%8Brebut-pentagon-assertions-about-medical-fitness-of-transgender-troops [6] Brief for Medical and Mental Health Professionals. et al. as Amici Curiae Supporting Petitioners, Dee Fulcher, Giuliano Silva, and the Transgender American Veterans Associations vs. Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. § 502 (2017)(No. 17-1460). [7]. The Public Policy Research Portal Cornell University, What does the scholarly research say about the effect of gender transition on transgender wellbeing? (2018) https://whatweknow.inequality.cornell.edu/topics/lgbt-equality/what-does-the-scholarly-research-say-about-the-well-being-of-transgender-people;G Bauer, J. Pyne, M. Francino, T, R. Hammond, Suicidality among trans people in Ontario: Implications for social work and social justice. (2013) Service social (59)1, 35-62; L Bailey, S Ellis, J McNeil, Suicide risk in the UK trans population and the role of gender transition in decreasing suicidal ideation and suicide attempt. (2014) The Mental Health Review, 19(4)209-220; G De Cuypere, E Elaut, G Heylens, G Maele, V Selvaggi, Long term follow- up: Psychosocial outcome of Belgain transsexuals after sex reassignment surgery. (2006) Sexologies 15(2)126-133; C Imbimbo, P Verze, A Palmieri, N Longo, F Fusco, D Arcaniolo, V Mirone, A report from a single institute’s 14 year experience in treatment of male to female transsexuals. (2009) The Journal of Sexual Medicine, 6(10) 2736-2745; G Bauer, R Scheim, A I Pyne, J Travers, R Hammond, Intervenable factors associated with suicide risk in transgender persons: a respondent driven sampling study in Ontario, Canada (2015) BMC Public Health 15(1)1-15 [8] Tucker, R. P., Testa, R. J., Simpson, T. L., Shipherd, J. C., Blosnich, J., & Lehavot, K. Hormone therapy, gender affirmation surgery, and their association with recent suicidal ideation and depressive symptoms in transgender veterans. (2018) https://doi.org/10.1017/S0033291717003853 [9] C Dhejne, R Van Vlerken, G Heylens, J Arceleus, Mental health and gender dysphoria: a review of the literature. (2016) International Review of Psychiatric; HM Murad, BM Elamin, ZM Garcia, JR Mullan, A Murad, PJ Erwin, VM Montori, Homronal therapy and sex reassignment: A systematic review and meta-analysis of the quality of life and psychosocial outcomes. (2010) Clinical Endocrinology https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19473181; A de Vries, J McGuire, T. Steensma, E Wagenaar, T Doreleijers, P Cohen- Kettenis, Young adult psychological outcome after puberty suppression and gender reassignment. (2014). http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/early/2014/09/02/peds.2013-2958; S Davis, S Colton-Meier, Effects of testosterone treatment and chest reconstruction surgery on mental health and sexuality in female to male transgender people. (2014) https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/19317611.2013.833152; R Weigert, E Frison, Q Sessiecq, K Al Mutairi, V Casoli, Patient satisfaction with breasts and psychosocial, sexual and physical wellbeing after breast augmentation in male to female transsexuals. (2013) Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, 132(6), 1421–1429; L. Schmidt and R Levine, Psychological outcomes and reproductive issues among gender dysphoric individuals (2015). Endocrinology and Metabolism Clinics of North America 44(4), 773-785. [10] Sandy E. James, The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey 167. (2016), www.ustranssurvey.org/report. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
09.05.2018	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that the Port of Hueneme received $360,000 for security enhancements through the Department of Homeland Security’s Fiscal Year 2018 Port Security Grant Program (PSGP). “The Port of Hueneme is one of the most important economic drivers in Ventura County and Southern California,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased to see the Port of Hueneme receive this critical Homeland Security funding, which will help ensure security and safety at the Port.” “The Port Security grants are so important to the health of our Port ecosystems and Congresswoman Julia Brownley repeatedly stands out as a champion in both ensuring the Port Security Grant Program continues and that funding comes back to Ventura County for robust security initiatives and technologically advanced surveillance controls. We are grateful for her leadership,” said Kristin Decas, CEO and Port Director of Port of Hueneme. “The Port of Hueneme recognizes the importance of a safe and secure Port to the communities we serve. The Port Security Grant award provides critical funding to enhance our security systems while our commerce creates jobs and social and economic benefit,” said Mary Anne Rooney, President of the Oxnard Harbor District. In 2013, Brownley offered an amendment to restore funds for port security grants, which had been eliminated in the FY2014 House Homeland Security Appropriations Act. Her amendment passed the House with bipartisan support, ensuring dedicated funding for port security would continue. Most recently, Brownley urged the Department of Homeland Security to approve the Port of Hueneme’s FY2018 PSGP application. Learn more about the grant here. Issues: 115th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
08.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced her office is hosting a series of information nights across Ventura County to help students and their families learn more about attending a service academy and the Congressional nomination process. The schedule for the information nights is as follows: Thursday, September 6 – Thousand Oaks High School Multi-Purpose Room Wednesday, September 12 – Foothill Technology High School Cafeteria Thursday, September 13 – Pacifica High School Cafeteria Tuesday, September 18 – Adolfo Camarillo High School Library Each session will begin at 6 p.m. Representatives from the U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and U.S. Coast Guard Academy will provide presentations on each of their institutions and will be available to answer questions. Congresswoman Brownley’s staff will also be on hand to answer questions regarding the application process for a Congressional nomination from her office. Applications for a Congressional nomination are due to her office no later than October 10, 2018. “Attending a service academy is a great honor,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I encourage all young people who are interested in serving their nation to come to one of the information nights and learn more about the opportunities the service academies can afford them.” For more information or to RSVP, visit JuliaBrownley.House.gov/Events or contact Congresswoman Brownley’s office at (805) 379-1779. Issues: 115th Congress, Defense, Education, Local Issues
08.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Julia Brownley (D-CA) and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Annie Kuster (D-NH) requested that the VA Inspector General investigate recent reports of undue influence by unaccountable outside individuals on the operations of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Brownley and Kuster also called for the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee to hold a hearing on whether these “advisors” to President Trump have violated any laws. These requests follow a recent report from ProPublica that personal friends of President Trump — who have no official role within the VA, whose qualifications to advise on veterans’ policy are unclear, and who may have undisclosed conflicts of interest — are issuing directives to VA staff and otherwise exerting influence over VA operations without any accountability. In May, Brownley and Kuster called for an investigation into earlier reports of interference at the VA by personal friends of the President and now are asking for the scope of that inquiry to be expanded. “Taxpayers want to know that their tax dollars are going to high-quality care for our nation’s heroes, not to line the pockets or egos of President Trump’s billionaire boys club,” said Brownley. “Sadly, these reports are just one more example of this administration’s inability to operate in an open and transparent manner, threatening the very bedrock of our democracy at the expense of those who made great sacrifice to protect our country.” “I am deeply disturbed by reports that friends of President Trump, who are not government officials and have no military experience, are having significant influence over the Department of Veterans Affairs,” said Kuster. “Our brave men and women in uniform have sacrificed so much to protect the freedoms we cherish, and they deserve to have people who are knowledgeable and committed to their best interests fighting for them every day. I urge Secretary Wilkie to do what is right and seek counsel from people who have expertise and appreciation of veterans’ needs, instead of yielding to wealthy outsiders who should have no say in VA policies that impact millions of people.” The full text of the letters and PDF copies are available below. — The Honorable Michael J. Missal Inspector General U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue NW Washington, DC 20420 Dear Inspector General Missal: On May 2, 2018, we led a letter requesting your office investigate attempts by outside, non-governmental individuals to influence the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) transition to a commercial, off-the-shelf electronic health record system. Unfortunately, a ProPublica article published August 7, 2018,[1] suggests that the attempts by unofficial advisors to influence the activities of the VA extends far beyond undermining the largest Information Technology modernization program undertaken by the VA in decades. ProPublica reported that over the last year and a half, a group of three individuals, all members of the President’s private resort of Mar-A-Lago, daily talked with VA officials and reviewed “all manner of policy and personnel decisions.”[2] Mr. Ike Perlmutter, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Marvel Entertainment, LLC, Dr. Bruce Moskowitz, an Internal Medicine specialist, and Mr. Marc Sherman, an attorney without healthcare industry experience, have reportedly instructed VA to begin new programs and have apparently and egregiously demanded fealty by VA employees by travelling to Mar-a-Lago to “kiss [their] ring”[3] using taxpayer funded travel. Not only are these individuals making policy decisions without nomination by the President or Senate confirmation, they have reportedly made personnel decisions that adversely affected the careers of numerous VA employees who felt their counsel was contrary to the delivery of quality care to our nation’s veterans. The instances uncovered by ProPublica’s investigative team require immediate attention. Together with previous concerns regarding undue influence over the multibillion-dollar EHR modernization effort, we respectfully request that the Inspector General investigate any and all VA officials that removed, demoted, or otherwise levied adverse action against any VA employee or official due to the counsel, advise, influence, or instruction of Mr. Perlmutter, Dr. Moskowitz, Mr. Sherman, and any other individuals unofficially advising the President, the Secretary, or other officials on VA matters. Additionally, we request that the Inspector General seek an accurate accounting of alleged personnel actions by reviewing the emails, memoranda, meeting minutes, issue briefs, and any other material of VA officials like then-Acting Secretary Peter O’Rourke and other recent political appointees that may have related to the alleged personnel actions. Ensuring VA officials are not improperly using authorities and offices, such as the Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection, or violating equal employment opportunity rights is crucial for a well-functioning VA. Veterans deserve and demand a transparent and accountable VA, yet these actions do nothing to satisfy those needs. Rather, this episode sows further distrust in the institutions designed to serve the needs of those who “borne the battle.” Veterans, Congress, taxpayers, and all Americans deserve answers. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, [1] Isaac Arnsdorf, “The Shadow Rulers of the VA,” ProPublica, August 7, 2018, https://www.propublica.org/article/ike-perlmutter-bruce-moskowitz-marc-sherman-shadow-rulers-of-the-va (accessed August 9, 2018). [2] Ibid. [3] Ibid. PDF available here. — The Honorable Phil Roe Chairman Committee on Veterans’ Affairs United States House of Representatives 335 Cannon House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Roe: We write today to share our serious concerns about recent reports of undue influence by unaccountable outside individuals on the operations of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). As Members of this Committee dedicated to effective oversight of the VA and full transparency of taxpayer resources, we have been extremely alarmed by reports of inappropriate interference into the actions of the VA by personal friends of the President, whose qualifications and conflicts of interest are completely unknown. On August 7, 2018, ProPublica reported that over the last year and a half a group of three individuals, all members of the President’s private resort, “spoke with VA officials daily” and reviewed “all manner of policy and personnel decisions.”[1] These conversations were private and hidden from Congressional oversight, these individuals have not disclosed any potential conflicts of interest, and their actions are not subject to the ethics guidelines that are essential to the strength of our democracy. Most concerning of all is the potential that these conversations and undue influence were used to financially benefit those involved, at taxpayer expense, or that their lack of qualifications and undue influence harmed the delivery of quality care to our nation’s veterans. As such, we respectfully request a full committee oversight hearing into whether these non-governmental and unaccountable individuals have improperly attempted to impact the work of the VA. We believe the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee would benefit from testimony from the individuals named in the recent reports, as well as federal employees named in these reports who continue to work at the VA, especially former Acting Secretary Peter O’Rourke. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, [1] Isaac Arnsdorf, “The Shadow Rulers of the VA,” ProPublica, August 7, 2018, https://www.propublica.org/article/ike-perlmutter-bruce-moskowitz-marc-sherman-shadow-rulers-of-the-va (accessed August 9, 2018). PDF available here. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
08.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) announced that she will serve as the co-chair of the Congressional Range and Testing Center Caucus, which serves as a forum to educate Members of Congress about Department of Defense major range and test facilities, like Naval Base Ventura County, and advocate for policies that support these critical national security assets. The Caucus’s other co-chair is Congressman Scott DesJarlais (R-TN). “As the proud representative of Naval Base Ventura County and the 19,000 military and civilian personnel who work there, I know firsthand how important range and testing centers are for ensuring our troops have the best technology to help them defend our nation,” said Brownley. “I am looking forward to working with Congressman DesJarlais and other members of the Caucus to ensure DOD has the resources needed to support our major range and test facility bases, which play a critical role in protecting the U.S. military’s technological advantages.” Caucus activities are expected to include site visits to range and testing installations and briefings on topics affecting testing and evaluation. Learn more about the Caucus here. For many years, Congresswoman Brownley has urged her colleagues to increase funding for the Navy’s Test and Evaluation Support program, which provides institutional maintenance and operations support for research, development, test, and evaluation at the Navy’s major range and test facilities. Learn more about her work on behalf of Naval Base Ventura County here. Issues: 115th Congress, Defense
08.03.2018	Washington, D.C. – On Saturday, August 18th, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) will host a workshop for eligible legal permanent residents who are interested in applying for U.S. citizenship. Volunteers will be on hand at the U.S. Citizenship Workshop to assist individuals with the naturalization application, fee waiver assistance, and the filing process. The workshop is taking place from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. at the Thousand Oaks Library (1401 E. Janss Road, Thousand Oaks, CA 91362). Applicants must be legal permanent residents for at least five years, or three years if married to a U.S. citizen. “America is a great nation because of its diversity,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “It was founded by immigrants, and our history and heritage is rich because of the countless contributions of the immigrant community. All of us here share a common desire to achieve the American Dream, and for some Ventura County residents, that means being active participants in our nation’s democratic process by the rights granted to us as United States citizens. I welcome all eligible legal permanent residents who live in Ventura County to attend the workshop and learn more about the honor and privilege of becoming a U.S. citizen.” This service is free, but space is limited and appointments are required. Representatives from Brownley’s district office urge anyone interested in attending the workshop to schedule an appointment by calling (805) 379-1779. Issues: 115th Congress, Immigration, Local Issues
08.01.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) today announced the launch of the 2018 Congressional App Challenge for California’s 26th District. The Congressional App Challenge is a competition for middle school and high school students to create their own software applications. Students of all coding experiences are welcome to participate. “Coding and computer science skills open doors of opportunity for young people across the nation, and what better way to learn more about these important fields than through hands-on experience,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased to host the Congressional App Challenge once again and encourage students in Ventura County to learn more about programming and how they can help their communities through technology and innovation.” More information about the Congressional App Challenge, as well as how to register, can be found here. Students must register by September 10, 2018 to participate. Final submissions are due by October 15, 2018. Issues: 115th Congress, Education, Local Issues
07.30.2018	Camarillo, CA – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee, today led a Congressional hearing in Camarillo to discuss VA’s long-term care services. Brownley was joined by Subcommittee Chairman Neal Dunn (R-FL) and expert witnesses, including: Teresa Boyd – Assistant Deputy Under Secretary for Health for Clinical Operations, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Katy Krul – Acting Executive Director, Oxnard Family Circle Thomas Martin – Assistant Deputy Secretary, Veterans Homes, CalVet Mike McManus – Veterans Service Officer, County of Ventura The hearing, titled “The State of VA’s Long-term Care Services: What’s Working, What’s Not, and How We Can Best Serve Our Aging Heroes,” explored VA-related services including community living centers, state veterans homes, medical foster care, adult day care, and the Caregiver program. “As Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee, I called for this hearing to shine a spotlight on long-term care issues to ensure that VA’s services are meeting our veterans’ specific needs,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Overall, Americans are living longer so we must be prepared for how to care for them, and this is especially important at the VA, as more than 12 million veterans across the country are over age 65. Today’s hearing gave us a lot of insight into what is working and what is not. There are a number of important programs within VA that are meant to support its aging veterans and those with disabilities. However, it is unclear that both VA employees and veterans are fully aware of these programs, their eligibility requirements, or how they interact with programs outside of the VA. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that the VA is providing the quality care and options necessary for our veterans to age gracefully and with dignity and that our veterans are aware of the options available to them.” “Oxnard Family Circle Adult Day Healthcare is a medical model day program that provides care for Veterans in our community. … Many of the spouses or other family members of our Veterans are overwhelmed with the day-to-day responsibility of caring for the Veteran. We find that the caregivers are at risk of experiencing a decline in their physical and mental health conditions. Our program is the resource for vital respite care for many families as it offers day-long extended services for 5 days per week,” said Krul in her written testimony. “We are in the leading edge of a massive shift in the veteran population demographic. Veterans’ healthcare needs and preferences are evolving, and their service providers must anticipate and adapt to those changes. CalVet will continue to collaborate with the VA and with industry leaders to ensure veterans receive the full spectrum of care that they earned in service of their country,” said Martin in his written testimony. “VA’s various long-term care programs provide a continuum of services for older Veterans designed to meet needs as they change over time. Together, they have significantly improved the care and well-being of our Veterans. These gains would not have been possible without consistent Congressional commitment in the form of both attention and financial resources,” said Boyd in her written testimony. “Ventura County has over 40,000 veterans, thousands more National Guard, Air National Guard, and Reserve personnel who may over time be eligible for VA long term care. Approximately 22,000 Ventura County veterans served in World War II, Korea, and Vietnam and range in age from 65 up. In addition to the typical ailments of aging, over 4,100 of these veterans also have chronic injuries from military service. In essence you have tens of thousands of veterans in Ventura County and many of these will need some form of long term care. I feel there is a large unmet need in the community due to misperceptions by veterans and lack of information from the VA,” said McManus in his written testimony. A video recording of the hearing is available here. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
07.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding House passage of the House-Senate conference agreement on the FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act: “As the proud representative of Naval Base Ventura County, I was honored to be selected by my colleagues to represent them on the House-Senate conference committee to finalize the FY 2019 defense bill. I am very pleased the final agreement that passed today includes a much-deserved pay raise for military personnel, support for new and existing commands at Naval Base Ventura County, and a prohibition on new or additional round of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC). In Congress, I will continue to fight to protect and support our base and ensure our armed forces have the resources they need.” Issues: 115th Congress, Defense
07.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congresswoman Julia Brownley’s (D-CA) bill to ensure that veterans with service-connected disabilities – regardless of age – can prepare for, find, and maintain meaningful careers. As the co-chair of the House Democratic Caucus’s Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes Task Force, Congresswoman Brownley introduced the Reduce Unemployment for Veterans of All Ages Act as part of the Task Force’s veterans jobs agenda. Her bill would lift the arbitrary 12-year time limit on when veterans with service-connected disabilities can participate in the VA’s Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) Program. VR&E helps veterans obtain employment through job training, employment accommodations, resume development, and skills coaching. In FY 2017, 90 percent of veterans who achieved rehabilitation from an employment plan had a job in the prior year. Veterans who successfully completed the program also earned $18,000 more in individual income than those who did not complete the program. “Our nation’s veterans – especially those who come home with the wounds of war – deserve access to all the resources they need to succeed in the 21st Century economy,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Our servicemembers gain invaluable experience and technical skills during their time in uniform, and we need to do more to ensure, regardless of age, that they can succeed in the job market and have the dignity of supporting themselves and their families. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to get this important bill signed into law.” Brownley’s legislation is supported by the American Legion, Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), and Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW). Her bill was incorporated into the Navy SEAL Chief Petty Officer William ‘Bill’ Mulder Transition Improvement Act, which passed the House today. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
07.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee, today released the following statement after the Senate’s confirmation of Robert Wilkie as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs: “I am deeply concerned about the many controversial positions that Robert Wilkie has supported. However, now that he has been confirmed, we must work together to put veterans’ needs first. I fully expect him to uphold the VA’s mission to serve all veterans – not pursue ideologically motivated policies opposed by our nation’s veterans service organizations. “It’s been more than 100 days since the Department of Veterans Affairs has had a permanent Secretary. Moving forward, it is imperative that Mr. Wilkie and President Trump prioritize filling the many other high-level vacancies at the Department, including Deputy Secretary and Under Secretary for Health. We cannot continue to let these positions languish unfilled, while our veterans wait for the much-needed reforms Congress has mandated to be implemented. From the executive suite to the front lines of care, this vacant VA is undermining the service our heroes deserve.” Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
07.20.2018	McAllen, TX — Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) today conducted site visits to facilities along the Texas border to assess the current state of President Trump’s family separation crisis and efforts to reunite children with their parents. Brownley, along with seven other Members of Congress, observed court proceedings at the U.S. Federal Courthouse in McAllen, TX, and visited the Ursula Border Patrol Processing Center, the Port Isabel Detention Center, and the Brownsville Port of Entry. Brownley released the following statement: “Today, I watched tearfully as children were finally reunited with their parents after they had been cruelly ripped apart from their parents by President Trump’s senseless family separation policy. Some of the children were hysterical as they saw their parents for the first time in far too long, clinging onto them for fear they would be taken away again. Others seemed so in shock from the terror they had experienced, including being told that their parents had abandoned them, that they did not know how to react. While these reunifications were still joyous in many ways, it only served to underscore how truly heartless the President’s policy has been and continues to be. “The American people should not be fooled — families continue to be separated. We met a grandmother today who was crying inconsolably because she was separated from her granddaughter and did not know where she was. Grandparents, aunts, uncles, and siblings are being torn from young children, who are still being kept in cages. “What is most shocking of all is that all this trauma was purposefully caused by one man’s decision to use children as hostages in order to force Congress to advance his extreme immigration policies. These are not the values upon which our country was founded. “President Trump has already failed to meet the court-ordered deadline to reunite children with their families, and what I saw today suggests we are still far from resolving this stain on American history. Congress must address this humanitarian crisis and move forward with an immigration policy that actually reflects our values as a nation. The very soul of America depends on it.” Brownley was joined by Reps. Karen Bass (D-CA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), and Terri Sewell (D-AL). On July 5th, Brownley, along with Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), took part in a site visit of a Southern California facility that is housing immigrant children who have been separated from their parents due to President Trump’s immigration policies. Issues: 115th Congress, Immigration
07.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives considered H. Res. 990: “Instead of working to reunite families torn apart by President Trump, or working on comprehensive immigration reform our country badly needs, Republican leadership wasted precious legislative time to pursue a political ploy. Congress needs to focus on ensuring that innocent children, who have been cruelly ripped from their parents’ arms, are safely reunited with their families. The Trump administration’s failure to meet the court-ordered reunification deadline speaks volumes to the administration’s callous disregard for the well-being of these children and families and to the values we share as a nation. “Rather than harming children to further an extreme immigration policy opposed by the vast majority of the American people, the President and Republican leadership in Congress need to work with Democrats to pass comprehensive immigration reform that reflects our values and recognizes the contribution immigrants have made to our success as a nation.” Issues: 115th Congress, Immigration
07.13.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) announced today that the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health will be holding a Congressional hearing in Ventura County on Monday, July 30, to discuss VA’s long-term care services. Brownley is the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee. “Ensuring our nation’s veterans have access to the high-quality care they have earned and deserve is a top priority for me in Congress,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “As Ventura County’s veteran population continues to age, we must ensure that the VA’s long-term care services are meeting their specific needs.” The hearing, titled “The State of VA’s Long-term Care Services: What’s Working, What’s Not, and How We Can Best Serve Our Aging Heroes,” will take place on Monday, July 30, at 10:00 a.m. at the Ventura County Office of Education, located at 5100 Adolfo Road, Camarillo, CA 93012. Brownley will be joined by Subcommittee Chairman Neal Dunn (R-FL) and expert witnesses to discuss VA services, including community living centers, the Caregiver program, and innovative VA programs like medical foster care and adult day care. Those interested in attending are encouraged to RSVP at JuliaBrownley.House.gov/Events. For more information or to RSVP, visit JuliaBrownley.House.gov/Events or contact Brownley’s district office at (805) 379-1779. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
07.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee passed Congresswoman Julia Brownley’s (D-CA) bill to ensure that veterans with service-connected disabilities – regardless of age – can prepare for, find, and maintain meaningful careers. Brownley is co-chair of the House Democratic Caucus’s Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes Task Force, and she introduced the Reduce Unemployment for Veterans of All Ages Act as part of the Task Force’s veterans jobs agenda. Her bill would lift the arbitrary 12-year time limit on when veterans with service-connected disabilities can participate in the VA’s Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) Program. VR&E helps veterans obtain employment through job training, employment accommodations, resume development, and skills coaching. In FY 2017, 90 percent of veterans who achieved rehabilitation from an employment plan were employed in the prior year. Veterans who successfully completed the program also earned $18,000 more in individual income than those who did not complete the program. “We need to address veteran unemployment for all of our returning heroes — especially those who come home with the wounds of war – by giving them access to the resources they need to succeed in the 21st Century economy,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Sixty percent of veterans who are unemployed are over the age of 45, and the arbitrary 12-year limit means older veterans with disabilities are not eligible to receive the resources they may need to succeed in the job market. Older veterans have outstanding experience and technical skills, and we need to do more to help these veterans succeed in the labor market. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to move this important legislation forward.” Brownley’s legislation is supported by the American Legion, Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), and Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW). Her bill was incorporated into the Navy SEAL Chief Petty Officer William `Bill’ Mulder Transition Improvement Act, which passed the Committee today. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
07.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) released the following statement on BMW’s announcement that it is raising prices on American manufactured automobiles and increasing production in China due to President Trump’s trade war: “It’s clear that another part of our local economy will be impacted by President Trump’s self-inflicted trade war with China. We’ve already seen the President’s reckless and cavalier approach to trade hit local companies that use steel, as well as our lemon and avocado growers. Now the President’s policies are hurting jobs connected to the Port of Hueneme, a critical economic driver in Ventura County. “This will have a direct and negative impact on jobs in our community, where many of the automobiles made in South Carolina are shipped for processing and then exported to Canada and distributed throughout 13 western states. “This is another example of how the President’s sledgehammer approach to our global economy can have serious consequences for American jobs and the American economy. Instead of a destabilizing trade war that hurts communities across the nation, we need economic policies that benefit American workers, farmers, businesses, and consumers.” Brownley sent a letter to President Trump today strongly urging him to end the U.S. Department of Commerce investigation on auto imports, which is hurting the local and national economy. Issues: 115th Congress, Jobs, Economy, and Small Business, Local Issues, Transportation and Infrastructure
07.09.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced a $300,000 federal grant from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation that was awarded to United Water Conservation District to build an iron and manganese filtration system for deep wells at the El Rio Water Treatment and Groundwater Recharge Facility. This project will help maintain a reliable supply of water during drought conditions. “Reliable access to water is essential for our families, our community, and our agricultural economy,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am so happy to see Ventura County receive this funding because making better use of technology to filter and treat our water supplies is a smart way to increase our ability to use both shallow and deep groundwater and better prepare for future drought conditions.” United Water Conservation District operates a 335-square mile service area on the Santa Clara River Valley and the Oxnard Plain, providing both potable water to major cities in the region, with groundwater augmentation as well as surface water that supports the more than $2 billion agricultural economy in Ventura County. According to the project summary, this project will result in better management of 11,757 acre-feet of water per year. “We are very appreciative of the federal government’s support of the United Water Conservation District’s efforts to combat the collateral damage resulting from the region’s sustained period of drought. The District’s Board of Directors and staff have been working diligently to educate our legislature and federal agencies to the serious challenges in Ventura County regarding access to safe, clean water. This grant from the Bureau of Reclamation will get us to the next step, which is final design of the Iron and Manganese filtration system that will ultimately benefit the several economically disadvantaged communities that receive their drinking water from the District’s Oxnard Hueneme (OH) Pipeline system,” said United Water Conservation District General Manager Mauricio E. Guardado, Jr. Learn more about the project here. Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues, Transportation and Infrastructure
07.06.2018	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced more than $240,000 in federal funding from the National Science Foundation for a California State University Channel Islands (CSUCI) project aimed at increasing the number of ethnically and culturally diverse individuals serving as faculty in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields. “Math and science fields continue to be a critical part of the U.S. economy, and ensuring that people from all backgrounds have the opportunity to succeed and become leaders in these fields is paramount for our nation’s success,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased that CSUCI has received this award to move ahead with its program to help create more diverse STEM faculty, not only at the university itself, but also the broader University of California (UC) and California State University (CSU) systems and even nationwide.” “We firmly believe the greatest innovation happens when we harness the perspectives of a broad range of individuals from a wide variety of cultural backgrounds and experiences,” said CSU Channel Islands President Erika D. Beck, Ph.D. “CSUCI is deeply committed to equity and inclusion for all and as a nationally-recognized Hispanic Serving Institution we are extraordinarily proud to be a part of this important research to increase the diversity of STEM faculty in higher education.” The National Science Foundation awarded $240,055 to CSUCI for the project, titled “Collaborative Research: The AGEP California Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSI) Alliance to Increase Underrepresented Minority Faculty in STEM.” This effort is a collaboration between CSUCI, UC-Santa Barbara, UC-Merced, and CSU-Fresno that aims to develop and test a model for creating a more diverse STEM faculty that is broadly replicable at Hispanic-serving institutions across the nation. The model will focus on career mentoring and instructional trainings. Learn more about the program and award here. Issues: 115th Congress, Education, Local Issues
07.05.2018	Fullerton, CA – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) today took part in a site visit of a Southern California facility that is housing immigrant children who have been separated from their parents due to President Trump’s inhumane and callous immigration policies. The non-profit shelter, which receives funding from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of Refugee Resettlement, is currently home to 16 immigrant children, ages 8 to 17, who have been separated from their parents. Brownley was joined by Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) to tour the facility and speak with staff from HHS and the shelter about the treatment of the children and efforts to reunite them with their parents. Brownley released the following statement: “Today, I witnessed the gut-wrenching sight of children who were cruelly separated from their parents by the President of the United States, through no fault of their own, and with no assurance if or when they will be reunited with their families. “While the State of California has regulations in place to ensure basic care and accommodations are provided to these children, and the caregivers within this particular facility were doing their best to help the children, there is no guarantee that children separated from their parents and housed in other states will receive the same treatment. “It is very apparent that President Trump and his administration still have no real plan for how to reunite these children, and the thousands of other children separated from their families. It is also very clear that the federal government, under his leadership, is doing an exceptionally poor job of coordinating the reunification process. At the facility I visited, some children have yet to be able to speak to their parents, and the parents of other children have already been deported — leaving these children scared, alone, and with little-to-no information regarding their future. “The President needs to end this humanitarian crisis that he willfully initiated. These children need to be reunited with their families immediately, and moving forward, we need to execute an immigration policy that actually reflects who we are as a nation and the values we uphold as Americans.” Issues: 115th Congress, Immigration
07.03.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) was named to the House-Senate conference committee for the National Defense Authorization Act for 2019. Conferees are responsible for resolving differences between the House and Senate-passed versions of the legislation before it is brought back to the chambers for a final vote. Brownley was selected by her colleagues because of her steady and consistent leadership on national defense issues. “As the proud representative of Naval Base Ventura County and Ventura County’s U.S. Coast Guard stations, I am focused on advancing our nation’s security interests and ensuring all members of our Armed Forces have the equipment and support they need to do their jobs effectively and safely. I want to thank my colleagues for entrusting me with this leadership role on one of the most important bills Congress will vote on this year. I look forward to working on a bipartisan basis with our Senate counterparts to ensure a strong conference agreement that reflects our shared priorities.” Issues: 115th Congress, Defense
06.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding House passage of the Fiscal Year 2019 Department of Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 6157): “As the proud representative of Naval Base Ventura County and the more than 19,000 personnel who work hard there every day to protect our nation, I am pleased that the House passed next year’s defense funding bill today. This legislation provides funding for a well-earned pay increase for military personnel and supports new and existing commands at the base, which is good for our local economy and our national security. In addition, the legislation prevents the Department of Defense from conducting a new or additional round of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC), something I have consistently fought against. In Congress, I will continue to fight to protect and support Naval Base Ventura County and ensure our Armed Forces have the resources they need.” Issues: 115th Congress, Defense, National Security
06.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley announced more than $12.3 million in new federal funding for U.S. Army Corps of Engineers projects in Ventura County at Channel Islands Harbor, Ventura Harbor, and the Port of Hueneme. “I have long fought alongside our local leaders for additional funds for Ventura County’s port and harbors, and I am pleased that our efforts have paid off once again,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am also thankful for the strong support that Ventura County projects have received from Col. Kirk Gibbs and David Van Dorpe at the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Los Angeles District Office. The Port of Hueneme, Channel Islands Harbor, and Ventura Harbor are critical engines of our local economy that play an essential role in fueling job growth in the region. This funding will help keep them open for business, which is good for Ventura County residents and businesses alike.” The U.S. Army Corps’ Work Plan released last week includes funds for dredging at Channel Islands Harbor, Ventura Harbor, and the Port of Hueneme, and “donor port” funds for the Port of Hueneme, pursuant to a law led by Congresswoman Brownley in 2016. Channel Islands Harbor The FY 2018 Corps’ Work Plan includes $6,400,000 for Channel Islands Harbor. This funding is on top of the $7,980,000 that was allocated in FY 2017 for the upcoming dredging taking place this year and an additional $400,000 from the FY 2017 work plan that was used for planning the jetty and breakwater project. “The County is so pleased that funds have been made available to do additional dredging work in the sand trap at Channel Islands Harbor,” said Lyn Krieger, Special Projects Manager for the Ventura County Harbor Department. “This funding amount will allow a level of work rivaling the historic dredging number in 2013. We have been working with the Army Corps of Engineers for many years and appreciate the designation of funds for this critical project, which serves not only the Harbor but the City of Port Hueneme and Naval Base Ventura County.” Ventura Harbor The FY 2018 Corps’ work plan also includes $5,163,000 for Ventura Harbor to support this year’s annual dredge. This is on top of the $800,000 that was included in last year’s work plan also for the dredge. Port of Hueneme The Corps’ work plan also provided $762,000 for the Port of Hueneme. Of those funds, $650,000 was awarded to complete an upcoming maintenance dredging project, which is scheduled to begin later this year at the same time as the planned harbor deepening project. The remaining $112,000 was awarded pursuant to donor port legislation that Brownley spearheaded the enactment of in 2016. Donor ports, so named because they contribute far more to the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund than they receive back, receive an additional allocation of funds. Brownley’s legislation, enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (P.L. 114-322), ensured the Port of Hueneme, along with the Port of San Diego and Port Everglades, received equitable treatment as donor ports. “We are grateful for Congresswoman Brownley’s help and the work of other federal partners for making sure we are included in the U.S. Army Corps’ work plan and are eligible for donor port funds,” said Mary Anne Rooney, President of the Oxnard Harbor District. “This critical funding will enable the Port to dredge its harbor, which in return allows the Port to continue generating over 13,633 jobs for the local community. It is a win-win as the dredged sand will be used as near-shore replenishment to help nourish our local beach ecosystem for years to come.” “The timing for this announcement couldn’t be better as we are moving forward with multiple infrastructure improvements at the Port,” said Kristin Decas, CEO & Port Director for the Port of Hueneme. “The Corps’ component enables the Port to deepen and maintain the federal channel, thereby making the Port’s deepening from 35 feet to 40 feet complete from entrance to docking. In addition, the Port for the second year has received its donor equity allocation, thanks to the leadership and tireless efforts of Congresswoman Julia Brownley who brought this funding and the TIGER funding back to Ventura County’s Port.” Issues: 115th Congress, Jobs, Economy, and Small Business, Local Issues, Transportation and Infrastructure
06.20.2018	Washington, D.C.— Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) joined House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) and 188 House Democrats in introducing the “Keep Families Together Act,” legislation that will end family separation at the U.S. border. This legislation is the House companion to the bill introduced by Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) earlier this month. “We must do everything in our power to end the immoral and inhumane Trump administration policy that is causing families to be torn apart at our borders,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “That is why I am proud to join my colleagues supporting the Keep Families Together Act, which would prevent the Department of Homeland Security from separating children from their families at the border. This goes against everything we stand for as Americans, and I will keep fighting to ensure this barbaric policy ends. I urge my colleagues across the aisle to join us and move quickly to pass this critical legislation before more families suffer and more children are lost within our broken immigration system. It is not only the moral thing to do – it is the American thing to do.” Learn more about the bill here. Issues: 115th Congress, Immigration
06.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) today announced the eight Ventura County students she nominated who have accepted appointments to attend U.S. service academies this fall. “I am so proud of these young people who have answered the call to serve our nation,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “As someone who grew up in a military family, I know the dedication that is required to serve our country. These students are some of the best and brightest Ventura County has to offer, and I know they will represent us well.” The students are as follows: Michael Aguilar, Foothill Technology High School, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Logan Beck, Oak Park High School, U.S. Air Force Academy Isaac Cho, Pacifica High School, U.S. Naval Academy Charlie Coughlin, Home School/Thomas Aquinas College, U.S. Military Academy Luca Fratianne, Newbury Park High School, U.S. Naval Academy Tyger Goslin, Moorpark High School/Naval Academy Preparatory School, U.S. Naval Academy Nathan Holloway, Thousand Oaks High School, U.S. Air Force Academy Nathaniel Steward, Adolfo Camarillo High School/UC Davis, U.S. Air Force Academy Brownley held a reception for the appointees and their families on Monday. Photos are available here. The rigorous nomination and appointment process began last fall with students submitting lengthy applications to Brownley’s office. The students were then interviewed by a panel of local alumni of the U.S service academies convened by Congresswoman Brownley. The panel then provided the Congresswoman recommendations for each student, and the Congresswoman nominated candidates to the service academies based on the panel’s recommendations. Each nominee then went through the academy application process and then a select group were offered appointments by the academies. The honor of attending a service academy comes with an obligation and commitment to serve in the U.S. military for a minimum of five years upon graduation. Issues: 115th Congress, Defense, Education
06.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member Julia Brownley (D-CA) gave the following opening statement at the Subcommittee’s hearing on burn pit exposure. Opening Statement as Prepared for Delivery Thank you Mr. Chairman. Every era of veterans has experienced some type of environmental, radiological, chemical, or biological hazard while on the battlefield. Most recently, Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom era servicemembers were exposed to airborne toxins – many of which we have yet to identify. We sent our servicemembers to fight abroad, and now, DOD and VA have a responsibility to properly address their healthcare needs when they come home. The DOD and VA must work together with clinicians and investigators to identify all veterans who may have been exposed to airborne hazards. This “need to know” has resulted in numerous VA-maintained registries. While today’s hearing is centered around only one of these registries, I urge today’s witnesses to consider whether the value of these registries would be vastly improved by consolidating them into one. One “Master Registry” would likely be easier for both veterans, physicians, and investigators to navigate. With that said, today’s hearing is focused in part on the Airborne Hazards and Open-air Burn Pit Registry. The exposure of post 9/11 era veterans stationed in Iraq and Afghanistan to airborne hazards because of the military’s use of open-air burn pits has affected an untold number of servicemembers and veterans. For this reason, in 2012 Congress required VA to establish the Open Burn Pit Registry. The Open Burn Pit Registry is an effort to identify and monitor the health effects of toxic airborne chemical and fumes on veterans exposed to these open-air burn pits. While, in its current state, it cannot be the basis of scientific research – it can help the VA to define research questions and allow the VA to update and track participants. However, it does have its limitations, as outlined by the National Academy of Sciences. As this registry is voluntary and based on self-reported information, investigators cannot link airborne hazards and long-term health effects. This is disappointing as this era of veterans need help now. One way the VA has attempted to advance research is through its War Related Injury and Illness Center Airborne Hazards Center of Excellence. By flagging veterans with particularly complex or unique symptoms or diagnoses that were exposed to airborne hazards for more complete evaluations, not only is VA capturing much needed data, but also ensuring they receive advanced clinical care through expertly prepared treatment plans. However, VA’s ability to advance this type of research is limited by DOD’s cooperation in efforts to identify servicemembers exposed to burn pits. That’s why it is both unfortunate and disappointing that the agency who will need to be a true partner is unwilling to participate in today’s discussion. Furthermore, until a fully interoperable electronic health record system is set up between the two agencies, VA will continue to be beholden to DOD’s willingness to cooperate. For this reason, it is of utmost importance that VA’s Electronic Health Records Modernization team is in direct communication with both VA clinicians and VA investigators, and I look forward to hearing more from the VA on this issue. Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding today’s hearing, and thank you to each of the witnesses for the work you have done to ensure these veterans are neither forgotten or overlooked. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
06.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement after the John S. McCain III, Daniel K. Akaka, and Samuel R. Johnson VA Maintaining Internal Systems and Strengthening Integrated Networks (VA MISSION) Act was signed into law. Rep. Brownley attended the White House signing ceremony today with fellow Members of Congress, Veterans Service Organizations, and veteran caregivers. “Today’s legislation is the culmination of more than a year of bipartisan work in the House and Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committees, and it is a major step forward that will make it easier for veterans to get the care they have earned and deserve,” said Rep. Brownley. “Consolidating the VA’s various community care programs will make it easier for veterans to access the care they need, and expanding resources for veteran caregivers will improve quality of life for our veterans who need it most. I’m proud that today’s bill also includes two pieces of my legislation, expanding telehealth care for veterans and bringing more accountability to the VA’s finances. I thank the bipartisan leadership of both Committees, and especially our Veterans Service Organizations for their tireless work on this legislation, and I look forward to the work ahead to ensure the VA has the resources it needs to continue providing world-class care to our nation’s veterans.” Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
05.31.2018	Point Mugu, CA – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) attended the official ceremony welcoming the MQ-4C Triton unmanned aircraft system to Naval Base Ventura County. Brownley has spearheaded Congressional efforts to fund research, development, and procurement of the Triton, which will have its west coast home at Point Mugu and support hundreds of jobs in Ventura County. “As Naval Base Ventura County’s representative in Congress, I am honored to participate in the ceremony for the arrival of the MQ-4C Triton unmanned aircraft at Point Mugu,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Funding for research, development, and procurement of the Triton has been a top priority for me, as it is an essential component of the Navy’s future intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities, and therefore a critical program for the continued strength of Naval Base Ventura County and our national security. When fully developed, this program will bring hundreds of jobs to Ventura County, bringing the added benefit of boosting our local economy. Today, we mark a critically important milestone in the Triton program’s development, and I look forward to the Navy bringing more of the Triton aircraft to Point Mugu. Ventura County is a wonderful place to live and to raise a family, and I look forward to welcoming the many new personnel and their families to our community.” Since coming to Congress, Brownley has worked with the House Appropriations and Armed Services Committees to ensure support for the Triton program. This unmanned aircraft system will provide the Navy with improved maritime intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance, as well as aid humanitarian and disaster relief activities across the globe. When fully operational, the Navy has estimated that the Triton program will support hundreds of jobs at Naval Base Ventura County. Issues: 115th Congress, Defense, Jobs, Economy, and Small Business, Local Issues
05.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding House passage of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (H.R. 5515): “It is an honor to represent Naval Base Ventura County and the more than 19,000 personnel who work hard there every day to protect our nation. This bill that passed today includes a well-earned 2.6% pay increase for military personnel and supports new and existing commands at the Base, including continued procurement of the MQ-4C Triton and the E-2D Hawkeye, which are critical assets important to our long-term national security. The bill authorizes more than $50 million for the Navy to move forward with construction on two new facilities at NBVC. In addition, the legislation prevents the Department of Defense from conducting an additional round of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC), something I have consistently fought for since coming to Congress. I will continue to fight to protect Naval Base Ventura County and ensure our Armed Forces have the resources they need.” Issues: 115th Congress, Defense
05.23.2018	Washington, D.C. — Today, the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity held a hearing on legislation to help veterans transition into civilian life, including the Reduce Unemployment for Veterans of All Ages Act, authored by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA). This bill would ensure that veterans with service-connected disabilities – regardless of age – can prepare for, find, and maintain meaningful careers. Brownley is co-chair of the House Democratic Caucus’s Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes Task Force, and this bill is part of the Task Force’s veterans jobs agenda. “Our returning heroes — especially those who come home with the wounds of war – made an enormous sacrifice in order to keep us safe,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “We need to ensure our veterans, regardless of age, have access to the resources they need to succeed in the 21st century economy. The Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Program provides critical job training, and my legislation would lift the arbitrary time limit on when veterans can receive assistance from this program. There was very productive discussion on the bill at the hearing, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to move this important legislation forward.” Currently, veterans with service-connected disabilities or other employment handicaps are able to receive career development services through the VA’s Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment program up to 12 years after they separate from the service. Sixty percent of veterans who are unemployed are over the age of 45, and the arbitrary 12-year limit means older veterans with disabilities aren’t able to receive the resources they may need for job market success. The Reduce Unemployment for Veterans of All Ages Act would lift the limit to ensure veterans have the flexibility to receive the support they have earned and deserve throughout their lifetime. This bill is supported by the American Legion, Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), and Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW). Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
05.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA), Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), and Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA) spearheaded an effort by 127 House Democrats to call on Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director Mick Mulvaney to uphold the Health Care Rights Law, also known as Section 1557 of the Affordable Care Act, which protects patients from discrimination in health care. In April, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Service proposed rolling back the anti-discrimination rules, allowing healthcare providers to deny care and discriminate against patients. This proposal – currently being reviewed by OMB – will put individuals’ lives and health in danger and would be especially harmful to women and LGBTQ individuals, who are more often the victims of discrimination. “Patients’ health care needs should always come first,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Rolling back the Health Care Rights Law would open the door for health care providers and insurance companies to deny individuals care based on their personal beliefs, which would threaten women and LGBTQ individuals across the nation. Discrimination has no place in health care, and the OMB must reject this harmful proposal immediately.” “No one should be denied health care because of who they are,” said Congressman Nadler. “In passing the Affordable Care Act, Congress was clear: insurance companies and health care providers may not discriminate against women or members of the LGBTQ+ community. The dangerous proposed rule undermines those critical protections and puts millions of lives at risk. OMB must reject it.” “Discrimination is wrong,” said Congresswoman DeGette. “Discrimination in health care treatment is unconscionable. And rolling back anti-discrimination rules in order to let providers and insurers deprive people of health care is an affront to what our country stands for: equality under law.” “Once again, this Administration is jeopardizing our most basic health care rights and putting the lives of the already vulnerable at further risk,” said Congresswoman Lee. “Make no mistake: this Health and Human Services proposal is a license for health care providers to discriminate against women and LGBTQ+ Americans. This proposal is not just hateful, it’s dangerous.” The letter was signed by Reps. Jerrold Nadler, Julia Brownley, Diana DeGette, Barbara Lee, Seth Moulton, Al Green, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Gwen Moore, Nanette Barragán, Yvette D. Clarke, Lois Frankel, Niki Tsongas, Jan Schakowsky, Bill Foster, Earl Blumenauer, Adam B. Schiff, Jackie Speier, Kathy Castor, Grace F. Napolitano, Anna G. Eshoo, Elizabeth H. Esty, Joseph P. Kennedy III, Mark Pocan, Raúl M. Grijalva, Frederica S. Wilson, Peter A. DeFazio, José E. Serrano, John Garamendi, Sean Patrick Maloney, Ted W. Lieu, Paul Tonko, Chellie Pingree, Donald M. Payne Jr., Kurt Schrader, Ben Ray Luján, Debbie Dingell, Theodore E. Deutch, David N. Cicilline, Nydia M. Velazquez, Doris Matsui, Katherine Clark, Anthony G. Brown, Rosa L. DeLauro, Eliot L. Engel, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Zoe Lofgren, Mark Takano, Keith Ellison, André Carson, Steve Cohen, Ruben Gallego, Scott H. Peters, Salud O. Carbajal, Lloyd Doggett, Jimmy Gomez, Peter Welch, Kathleen M. Rice, Alcee L. Hastings, Dina Titus, David E. Price, Alan Lowenthal, Suzanne Bonamici, Dan Kildee, Juan Vargas, Ruben J. Kihuen, Matt Cartwright, Eddie Bernice Johnson, John Yarmuth, Jerry McNerney, Mark DeSaulnier, Jamie Raskin, Raja Krishnamoorthi, Joseph Crowley, Betty McCollum, John Lewis, Brian Higgins, Pete Aguilar, Rick Larsen, Carol Shea-Porter, Pramila Jayapal, Charlie Crist, James P. McGovern, Ro Khanna, Jared Polis, Luis Gutiérrez, Bobby L. Rush, Mike Thompson, Alma S. Adams, Sander M. Levin, David Scott, Lisa Blunt Rochester, Judy Chu, John P. Sarbanes, William R. Keating, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Linda T. Sánchez, Raul Ruiz M.D., Joe Courtney, Michael E. Capuano, Suzan K. DelBene, Jared Huffman, Ami Bera, M.D., Adriano Espaillat, Tulsi Gabbard, Marcia L. Fudge, Gerald E. Connolly, Al Lawson, Carolyn Maloney, Colleen Hanabusa, Val Demings, Donald S. Beyer Jr., Marcy Kaptur, Brad Sherman, Robin L. Kelly, Gene Green, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Terri A. Sewell, Darren Soto, Marc Veasey, Adam Smith, Norma J. Torres, Mike Quigley, Karen Bass, Beto O’Rourke, J. Luis Correa, and Bobby Scott. The full text of the letter is available here and below. May 23, 2018 The Honorable Mick Mulvaney Director Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear Director Mulvaney: On Friday, April 17th, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) indicated that it is reviewing a proposed rule, titled “Nondiscrimination in Health Programs or Activities.” Given the Trump-Pence Administration’s record on women’s health and rights, and in light of recent actions specifically related to the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) Health Care Rights Law or Section 1557 of the ACA, OMB’s review of this proposal signals that the Trump-Pence Administration intends to roll back the first broad prohibition of sex discrimination in federal law. We urge you to reject a proposed rule that undermines these important protections. The Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) recent actions in regard to the Health Care Rights Law’s prohibition on sex discrimination raise serious concerns about the agency’s intent. Specifically, in Franciscan Alliance v. Azar, HHS refused to defend its final regulation interpreting and implementing the law’s sex discrimination prohibition.1 Moreover, HHS has removed language regarding sex stereotyping, gender identity and sexual orientation from the “Frequently Asked Questions” section of the HHS webpage about the Health Care Rights Law.2 This strongly suggests that HHS plans to weaken these critical protections. In drafting and enacting the Health Care Rights Law, members of the 111th Congress, including many of the signatories of this letter, clearly and unambiguously intended the Health Care Rights Law to prohibit sex discrimination in health care, including on the basis of termination of pregnancy, gender identity, and sexual orientation. Yet, even after passage of the statute, some health programs have continued to discriminate based on sex, leading to serious disparities in health care access and health insurance coverage. Some insurance companies, for example, continue to deny women comprehensive insurance coverage by barring insurance coverage of maternity care for an employee’s dependents.3 Shamefully, women have been sexually assaulted or harassed by health care providers.4 And further, people who are transgender also continue to experience discrimination when they try to access the most basic health services. One-third of transgender respondents in a 2015 survey reported that they “had at least one negative experience related to being transgender” when dealing with health providers in the past year.5 Eight percent of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and queer people report that a doctor or other health care provider refused to see them.6 The Health Care Rights Law protects people against these and other forms of discrimination. Crucially, it provides protections against discrimination based on one or a combination of prohibited reasons. For example, the Health Care Rights Law would protect a transgender individual who is denied care because of their HIV status or because English is not their first language. In light of the Administration’s recent policy changes intended to make it easier for health care providers –including insurance companies, hospitals, and doctors – to deny people health care because of the provider’s personal beliefs, we remain extremely concerned that the proposed rule may create a religious exemption to the Health Care Rights Law.7 Adding any type of religious exemption, or enforcing the Health Care Rights Law in a way that allows for a religious exemption, is antithetical to the purpose and language of the Health Care Rights Law and would undermine Congress’s lawmaking authority. The statute contains only one exception, “except otherwise provided” in Title I of the ACA.8 This plain language unambiguously bars application of any other exception. Allowing for a religious exemption would be an inappropriate administrative rewriting of unambiguous statutory language. As a former Member of Congress, and a staunch opponent of executive overreach in the last administration, we know you understand this concern. The Constitution is clear: only Congress, a democratically elected lawmaking body, may write the laws. We urge you to abandon any proposal that would erode the Health Care Rights Law’s important protection, undermine Congress’ sole lawmaking authority, and allow health care providers to discriminate against their patients. Sincerely, 1. 2016 WL 7638311, No. 7:16-cv-00108 (N.D. Tex. Dec. 31, 2016). 2. Section 1557: Frequently Asked Question, DEP’T OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVS. (2018), https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/section-1557/1557faqs/index.html. 3. NAT’L WOMEN’S LAW CENTER, Press Release, Victory in Sex Discrimination Complaints Brought by NWLC: After Investigation by HHS, Employers Change Policies (Jan. 26, 2017), https://nwlc.org/press-releases/victory-in-sex-discrimination-complaints-brought-by-nwlc-after-investigation-by-hhs-employers-change-policies/. 4. Jess Horwitz and Juliet Linderman, AP Investigation: #MeToo Has Little Impact on Medical World, N.Y. TIMES (Apr. 16, 2018), https://www.nytimes.com/aponline/2018/04/16/us/politics/ap-us-sexual-misconduct-doctors.html. 5. Sandy E. James et al., NAT’L CTR. FOR TRANSGENDER EQUALITY, The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey (Dec. 2016) at 9, available at http://www.transequality.org/sites/default/files/docs/usts/USTS%20Full%20Report%20-%20FINAL%201.6.17.pdf. 6. Shabab Ahmed Mirza & Caitlin Rooney, Discrimination Prevents LGBTQ People from Accessing Health Care, CTR. FOR AM. PROGRESS (Jan. 18, 2018), https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/lgbt/news/2018/01/18/445130/discrimination-prevents-lgbtq-people-accessing-health-care. 7. See, e.g., Exec. Order No. 13, 798, 82 Fed. Reg. 21,675 (May 4, 2017), Protecting Statutory Conscience Rights in Health Care; Delegations of Authority, 83 Fed. Reg. 3880 (proposed Jan. 26, 2018) (to be codified at 45 C.F.R. pt. 88) 8. 42 U.S.C. § 18116(a). Issues: 115th Congress, Civil Rights, Healthcare
05.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) released the following statement regarding the announcement that the California Transportation Commission has approved funding for the Rice Avenue Rail Safety project: “It is imperative that we do more to improve safety where roads cross railways, especially at crossings that have experienced multiple accidents, like the Rice Avenue crossing in Oxnard. I was so pleased to help provide the funding to get this project started, and I am happy to see it continue to move forward today. Not only will this project make the Rice Avenue crossing safer, but it will also improve the flow of goods and commerce from the Port of Hueneme and reduce congestion – so this is good for our local economy, too. Thank you to all of our partners at the federal, state, and local levels for their dedication to this project – especially Governor Brown, Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin, and Ventura County Transportation Commission Executive Director Darren Kettle.” Brownley helped secure a $1.5 million grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation in 2016 to support design of the project. As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Brownley has also worked to secure more funding for state and local transportation and improve grade crossing safety. The Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, which was signed into law in December 2015, included several amendments authored by Brownley to improve railway-highway grade crossing safety. Issues: 115th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
05.16.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement after House passage of the VA Maintaining Internal Systems and Strengthening Integrated Outside Networks (VA MISSION) Act: “I am pleased the House passed this bipartisan legislation, which takes a major step forward in expanding access to high-quality care for our nation’s veterans. Consolidating the community care programs will make it easier for veterans to access the care they need, and expanding resources for veteran caregivers will improve quality of life for our veterans who need it most. It is imperative that this legislation move quickly, as Acting VA Secretary Wilkie has stated that the Choice program will run out of funding by the end of this month – meaning some veterans could lose care in just a few short weeks if we don’t act. “With that said, I share my colleagues concerns about the budget caps and the need for a strong and fully staffed VA, and I also believe we need to re-align VA facilities on a continual basis – not through a protracted, one-time process – so I will continue to work on these issues moving forward.” Watch Brownley discuss the bill on the House floor here. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
05.11.2018	Port Hueneme, CA – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) spoke at the groundbreaking of the Port of Hueneme’s new Intermodal Infrastructure Project. Brownley helped secure a $1.5 million grant from the U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration (EDA) to fund this project, which will provide critical wharf and berth infrastructure improvements and bring new economic activity to Ventura County. “The Port of Hueneme plays a critical role in our region’s diverse economy,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “This project is a win for improving efficiency and safety at the Port, as well as creating and sustaining hundreds of jobs and increasing our area’s competitiveness in the global marketplace. I look forward to working with the Port of Hueneme as this project continues to develop.” “The first stage of this project is the Terminal Paving Improvement phase which will enable our customers to work more efficiently in loading and unloading their cargo,” said Oxnard Harbor District Board President Mary Anne Rooney. “Our slogan, We Make Cargo Move, is indicative of our reputation among Ports as one of the fastest through put ports in the nation. This ability has enabled us to specialize in cargos that require efficient service and quick throughput. This project will allow us to continue to meet the needs of existing and new customers. It will improve on-dock safety for all and reduce the wear and tear on the equipment utilized everyday by our customers and the Port.” – “In its entirety, this project supports over 560 jobs as well as generates $28 million in new business revenue, $5.8 million in local purchases, and $4.6 million in state and local taxes,” said Kristin Decas, Port of Hueneme CEO & Port Director. We are grateful for the various partnerships that have made this project come to fruition, including those with Congresswoman Julia Brownley, Will Marshall of the EDA, the cities of Oxnard and Port Hueneme, EDC-VC, and VCTC.” Since coming to Congress, Brownley has been a staunch advocate for the Port of Hueneme, helping to bring grants for infrastructure improvements, environmental infrastructure, and port security enhancements to Ventura County. In December 2014, Congresswoman Brownley expressed her strong support for the Port’s EDA grant application in a letter to the U.S. Department of Commerce. In addition to the $1.5 million grant, the Port is investing $2.32 million for a total project cost of $3.82 million. This project will provide long-term infrastructure enhancements that facilitate the efficient movement of cargo in the most environmentally responsible manner possible. These improvements provide critical upgrades to Port facilities that will maximize utility and operational capabilities to satisfy customer demands for safety, efficiency and environmental sustainability, and mitigate moderate seismic episodes. Issues: 115th Congress, Jobs, Economy, and Small Business, Transportation and Infrastructure
05.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement today on the VA Maintaining Internal Systems and Strengthening Integrated Outside Networks (VA MISSION) Act (H.R. 5674): “While I recognize this bill is not perfect, my mission on the Committee has always been to provide better access to higher quality care for our nation’s veterans, and this bill advances that goal in two very important ways. First, it consolidates the various care in the community programs, which will achieve a long-term goal of mine to make it easier for veterans to access the care they need. It also expands resources for caregivers who are so critical to improving outcomes and quality of life for veterans who need it most, which has also been a top priority of mine for several years. “With that said, I fully recognize that the bill’s approach to re-aligning facilities needs more work, and there are not enough checks and balances on those who have an ideological and wrong-footed agenda to privatize the VA. The goal is to provide the best care, which our veterans have earned and deserve, and that means finding the right balance between a strong, advanced, and appropriately resourced VA, and providing care in the community where that care is appropriate for the veteran’s healthcare needs. “Our nation’s veterans, and those who provide their care, can rest assured that I will continue to fight for world-class care for those who have served our nation.” Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
05.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding the President’s decision to reinstitute sanctions on Iran, unilaterally breaking the Iran nuclear agreement, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA): “While the Iran nuclear deal was not perfect, I believe it was the best possible mechanism to stop Iran from continuing to develop nuclear weapons. Achieving that goal is critical to the safety of the United States, our ally, Israel, and the entire world. This agreement was carefully negotiated with Russia, China, France, the United Kingdom, and Germany, and includes a rigorous inspection regime and the ability to snap back sanctions if there is evidence that Iran is not complying with the terms of the agreement. “The President’s decision today to unilaterally reapply sanctions to Iran – with no evidence that the Iranians have failed to comply with the terms of the deal thus far – will undermine our country’s credibility, destabilize the Middle East, and let Iran off the hook for their obligations under the deal. This crisis that President Trump has chosen to thrust us into – simply to score political points with his base – is reckless and has the potential to make the world far less safe.” Issues: 115th Congress, Defense
05.07.2018	Washington D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that Annie Sun, a senior at Newbury Park High School, has won the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for California’s 26th Congressional District. “The level of artistic talent from the Ventura County high school students participating in this year’s competition is truly inspiring,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “This is a great reminder that the arts and creativity play a critical role in young people’s lives and their educational success. Congratulations to everyone who participated, and thank you to the families, teachers, and community members who support these talented students.” “I’m so honored to receive this recognition,” said Sun. “I’m passionate about art because it inspires me to challenge myself and shows me that creativity is limitless.” Sun will be flown to Washington, D.C. where her artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol complex for one year. In addition, four honorable mentions were announced: Josh Welcher, a junior at Newbury Park High School Trinity Alvarado, a sophomore at Adolfo Camarillo High School Katelyn Mehner, a senior at Newbury Park High School Kaylie Pendleton, a junior at El Camino High School The artwork of the honorable mentions will be displayed in Brownley’s Thousand Oaks office. Started in 1982, the nationwide Congressional Art Competition is sponsored by the Members of the U.S. House of Representatives and is an opportunity to recognize and encourage student artistic talent across the country. The competition is open to all students in grades 9-12 in California’s 26th Congressional District. The winner was selected by a panel of local judges. Photos of the students and their art are available here. Issues: 115th Congress, Education
05.04.2018	Washington, D.C. – To celebrate National Bike Month, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) yesterday visited Giant Bicycles, a bike company in Newbury Park, and JRA Bikes & Brew, a local coffee and bike shop in Thousand Oaks. She met with employees and discussed the importance of investing in transportation infrastructure and the role of these businesses in the local economy. The U.S. bicycle industry is responsible for 770,000 jobs across the country and contributes $42 billion to our GDP. There are dozens of suppliers, manufacturers, and retailers in Ventura County. “It was great to meet with the staff at Giant Bicycles and JRA Bikes & Brew to discuss the bicycle industry’s role in Ventura County and what we can do to improve transportation infrastructure,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I have been a strong advocate for federal investments in bike and pedestrian infrastructure projects. Not only does this improve the environment and quality of life in local communities and mitigate the effects of traffic congestion, but it also helps our local economy.” “It was wonderful to have Congresswoman Brownley visit Giant,” said Allen Needle, Giant’s inside sales manager and sales operations manager. “She has worked tirelessly to create more places to bike and fought for more funding for bike friendly projects. We look forward to working with the Congresswoman to protect investment in bike infrastructure.” Photos from both tours are available here. Issues: 115th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
05.02.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) visited FOOD Share in Oxnard to discuss the local food bank’s role in addressing food insecurity here in Ventura County. FOOD Share serves 74,500 people every month and distributes 12 million pounds of food annually. During the visit, Brownley highlighted the draconian cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) included in the House Republican’s 2018 Farm Bill proposal, which will strain food banks and mean more people go hungry in Ventura County and across the country. Last year, 59,000 Ventura County residents participated in SNAP, equaling $97 million in food benefits. More than half of SNAP households have at least one child, 40% have a disability, and 30% have a senior citizen in the home. In April, the House Agriculture Committee passed a Republican-only Farm Bill with significant changes to SNAP that would cause more than 1 million low-income households — particularly low-income working families with children — to lose their benefits altogether and millions more to have their benefits reduced. “It is unacceptable that 1 in 6 people in Ventura County struggle with food insecurity,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Today, I had the opportunity to tour FOOD Share’s facility and discuss the important work they are doing to help make sure that no one here goes hungry. Unfortunately, it is clear that the Republican SNAP cuts will only make it that much harder for FOOD Share to serve our community and help families thrive. It is so disappointing that, instead of working with Democrats on a bipartisan agreement to advance our shared goals, House Republicans introduced a hyper-partisan proposal that has derailed the process and threatens millions of Americans facing food insecurity. We know that this proposal is dead on arrival in the Senate, so this ideological gamesmanship is pointless and the delay it is causing will hurt our growers. Republicans need to come to the table and hammer out a bipartisan agreement – that can actually pass the House and Senate – now.” Issues: 115th Congress, Agriculture
05.02.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member Julia Brownley (D-CA) and Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Ranking Member Annie Kuster (D-NH) requested that the Acting Secretary of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and the VA Inspector General investigate continued delays in finalizing a contract to implement a new VA electronic health record (EHR) system. These requests follow a recent report in Politico on numerous instances when personal friends of President Trump — who have no official role within the VA and who may have undisclosed conflicts of interest — have interfered with and undermined the Department’s acquisition of a new EHR system. According to these reports, this interference has “effectively delayed the agreement for months.” Brownley and Kuster have requested that Acting Secretary Robert Wilkie provide the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee with information on the status of the contract and that VA Inspector General Michael J. Missal investigate the report of inappropriate influence on the process by outside individuals. Brownley and Kuster were joined by Reps. Mark Takano (D-CA) and J. Luis Correa (D-CA) in signing both letters. “A new electronic health record system — that better connects with DOD health records — is imperative for improving care for our country’s veterans,” said Brownley. “Any delay in implementation is simply unacceptable, especially one that has been caused by inappropriate interference by personal friends of the President, whose qualifications and conflicts of interest are unclear. Caring for our veterans is too important to allow this to continue.” “The outdated and obsolete electronic health records (EHR) system used by the Department of Veterans Affairs desperately needs to be overhauled to improve care and services for veterans in New Hampshire and across the country,” said Kuster. “I’m disturbed by reports that individuals without any role at the VA may have hampered efforts to move forward with reforms that would update VA’s EHR system and allow full interoperability with the Department of Defense and community providers. These delays are unacceptable and we need to know what has caused them and how they will be resolved. Our veterans deserve seamless health care from the VA and its partners, and that goal simply cannot happen when the VA is using systems designed decades ago. We owe it to our veterans to ensure that the VA is operating at the highest possible level.” The full text of the letters and PDF copies are available below. May 2, 2018 The Honorable Robert Wilkie Acting Secretary U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Acting Secretary Wilkie: We write with concern regarding the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) continued delays in finalizing a contract with Cerner Corporation to implement a new commercial, off-the-shelf (COTS) electronic health record (EHR) that is fully interoperable with the U.S. Department of Defense. On April 30, 2018, Politico reported numerous instances of unofficial advisors to the President who have become involved in negotiations for VA’s EHR. Politico alleged that these unofficial advisors “effectively delayed the agreement for months.” As you know, former VA Secretary David Shulkin instituted a pause in contract negotiations with Cerner Corp. pending completion of an independent assessment by MITRE Corporation. That assessment was intended to provide an analysis of Cerner’s ability to effectively implement an interoperable EHR and to assist VA in developing a contract with Cerner that would ensure VA’s multi-billion dollar investment actually improved the delivery of veterans’ healthcare at the VA. VA reportedly received MITRE’s assessment and 51 recommendations on or about February 12, 2018. On March 15, 2018, VA updated their solicitation to reflect recommendations provided by MITRE. Unfortunately, it has been over two months since VA received MITRE Corp’s assessment and recommendations. While we were encouraged to see VA update their solicitation, the allegations reported by Politico are serious and compel us to request additional information on the following: An explanation for VA’s inability to execute a contract with Cerner between receipt of the MITRE assessment and former Secretary Shulkin’s dismissal. VA’s analysis of the 51 recommendations provided by MITRE and whether VA disagreed with any of the recommendations. If VA disagreed with a recommendation, please provide a detailed explanation for the disagreement. A detailed list of recommendations incorporated in the March 15th solicitation update. A timeline of meetings between VA officials and Cerner since receipt of MITRE’s assessment, including meeting participants and a brief summary of topics covered at each meeting. Remaining actions VA plans to take prior to executing a contract with Cerner, including an analysis as to why VA may believe those actions need to be completed prior to completing a contract with Cerner. Any concerns identified by the Office of General Counsel in executing a contract prior to the confirmation of a Secretary to replace former Secretary Shulkin. Modernization of the Department’s electronic health record is a shared priority between the VA and Congress. We are committed to preventing unnecessary delays such as those reported by Politico from hindering implementation of a modern EHR for the VA. The 9 million veterans enrolled in the VA deserve effective and efficient delivery of healthcare and a modern EHR is an important reform needed to accomplish that mission. Thank you for consideration of our request. Sincerely, PDF AVAILABLE HERE May 2, 2018 The Honorable Michael J. Missal Inspector General U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20420 Dear Inspector General Missal, We write to request the Inspector General’s office investigate attempts by outside, non-governmental individuals to influence the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)’s transition to a commercial off-the-shelf electronic health records (EHR) system. On April 30, 2018, Politico reported numerous instances of unofficial advisors to the President attempting to undermine the VA’s acquisition of a new EHR. The report also alleges that this interference has “effectively delayed the agreement for months.” The modernization of the VA’s health Information Technology (IT) infrastructure is one of the most critical initiatives for the future of VA healthcare. Limitations in the capacity of the VA’s existing IT systems, especially the lack of system interoperability, is one of the key reasons that the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) has placed VA healthcare on its High-Risk List. The VA has repeatedly failed to upgrade its electronic health record and it roughly 30-year-old outpatient scheduling system. For more than a decade, the VA and the Department of Defense have lacked an effective, efficient manner of exchanging patient health information through an EHR system. Former Secretary Shulkin’s commitment to modernizing VA’s IT infrastructure was supported by Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle in order to better deliver care to veterans. Simply put, updating the VA’s EHR is too important to the health and wellbeing of the 9 million veterans enrolled in VA healthcare for the process to be stymied by interference from outside political forces. The process must be completely transparent and accountable, while ensuring the highest standards of patient care and responsible use of taxpayer resources. We are concerned that unofficial, non-governmental advisors who are not required to disclose potential conflicts of interest may be exerting unaccountable influence over this process. As such, we request an investigation into whether non-governmental individuals have improperly attempted to impact the work of the VA’s Office of Information and Technology in this matter. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, PDF AVAILABLE HERE Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
05.01.2018	Washington D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that she is seeking a medically retired veteran for a two-year paid fellowship in her Thousand Oaks office. The person chosen for this fellowship will work with constituents who need help handling veterans-related casework and will act as a liaison between constituents and federal, state, and local agencies. “As co-chair of the House Democratic Caucus’s Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes Task Force, ensuring our veterans — especially those who come home with wounds of war — have the resources they need to succeed when they transition back to civilian life has been one of my highest priorities,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “That is why I am honored to be working with the Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program to help make sure that our returning heroes have access to the services and benefits they have earned and deserved.” The Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program was established by the U.S. House of Representatives to provide employment opportunities for wounded or disabled veterans within Member offices. For more information about the eligibility requirements and how to apply, visit USAJobs.gov and search “Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program.” You may also call Brownley’s office at (805) 379-1779 or visit JuliaBrownley.House.gov/Internships for more information. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
04.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today on passage in the U.S. House of Representatives of the Disaster Recovery Reform Act, which was included as part of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 4): “While Ventura County has faced heartbreaking challenges because of the Thomas Fire, we are on the road to recovering stronger than ever. I supported the Disaster Recovery Reform Act today to help us better prepare for and prevent future disasters, and improve the federal response when crises do arise. By focusing on the importance of pre-disaster planning and mitigation and incentivizing communities to rebuild better and smarter facilities, we can help save lives and reduce future costs. In fact, for every $1 spent on pre-disaster mitigation, we save between $4 and $8 in avoidable disaster recovery costs. My colleagues and I on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee have been working to get this bill through Congress for months. I am pleased that it passed today, and I will continue to work tirelessly to get it to the President’s desk, so we can help communities prepare for and prevent future disasters.” Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues
04.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 4), which authorizes critical funding for our nation’s aviation system and supports improved safety in our skies. As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) successfully fought for the legislation to also include provisions to better serve our nation’s veterans and curb human trafficking. “Ventura County’s airports are drivers of growth and prosperity in our region’s economy,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “The FAA reauthorization bill will support their operations and help spur commerce that keeps Ventura County strong. The bill also provides important consumer protections and improves safety for all who travel in our skies. It also includes provisions to continue the safe integration of unmanned aircraft into our national airspace – so this is win-win for my constituents.” “I am also pleased that the legislation includes several provisions I spearheaded to better serve our veterans and curb human trafficking, including improving veterans’ hiring preference at FAA, addressing travel barriers for veterans and other individuals with disabilities, and stopping human trafficking. We must do everything we can to repay the debt of gratitude that we owe to those who served. It is also incumbent upon us to ensure that our airlines and airports are not conduits for human trafficking.” Improving Travel for Veterans and Others With Disabilities As Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee, Brownley spearheaded efforts to include provisions that will improve travel for veterans and others with disabilities. The bill establishes a Select Subcommittee on air travel needs of passengers with disabilities and requires studies on airport accessibility best practices for individuals with disabilities and on cabin wheelchair restraint systems. Helping Veterans Succeed in the Job Market This bill includes Brownley’s amendment – based on her bill, the Federal Aviation Administration Veterans’ Preference Protection Act (H.R. 3007) – to help more veterans succeed in the job market after their service. While the FAA is legally required to give veterans’ preference in hiring decisions, FAA employees do not currently have legal protections to enforce those rights. Brownley’s amendment closes this loophole, allows veterans to compete for vacancies, and gives preference to military and veterans’ spouses. Preventing Human Trafficking Air travel is sadly a major pathway for the illegal trafficking of children and other victims of forced labor and the sex trade. Brownley’s amendment would help curb this insidious crime and save lives by requiring more airline personnel to be trained to identify possible victims of human trafficking and to ensure that they know how to properly report suspected trafficking to law enforcement. Issues: 115th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
04.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee, issued the following statement today regarding the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs nomination: “Our veterans deserve a strong and steady hand leading the VA. Sadly, the chaos that the White House has wrought throughout this process is a grave disservice to these returning heroes. Now that Admiral Jackson has withdrawn his name from consideration, the President must nominate an individual who has the vision, ability, and necessary leadership experience to achieve the VA’s core mission of providing high-quality and timely care for our nation’s veterans, absent any ideological bias.” Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
04.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) today announced two amendments that she has offered to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) authorization bill (H.R. 4) that would help address airplane noise in Thousand Oaks. The bill is being debated in the House of Representatives this week. “Since the FAA changed flight paths in the Southern California ‘Metroplex’ in 2017, residents throughout Southern California have complained of increased airplane noise, including my constituents in Thousand Oaks,” said Brownley. “While I have repeatedly asked the FAA to meet with and address the concerns of my constituents, they have been too slow to act. That is why I am offering these amendments to force the FAA to do more to address noise complaints in our community.” In 2017, the FAA completed implementation of the new Southern California (SoCal) Metroplex airspace redesign project, which includes new approach and departure procedures for airports throughout the area, including Los Angeles International Airport. The new consolidated flight paths cross over Ventura County with a different pattern than the prior flight paths. Since the new paths were implemented, many residents, especially those who live in neighborhoods with higher elevations, have expressed concerns about the increase in airplane noise. Upon hearing about these concerns, Congresswoman Brownley has repeatedly urged the FAA to meet with constituents to consider adjusting flight paths and altitudes to reduce noise on the ground. In Congress, Brownley has also been working with her colleagues on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and as a member of the Quiet Skies Caucus to address this issue. Last summer, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee approved FAA authorization legislation that included several provisions to address airplane noise, including a study of noise impacts in the SoCal Metroplex. The bill is on the House floor this week. In addition to the provisions already in the bill, Brownley is offering two new amendments to further address flight noise: Her first amendment builds on the noise study in the bill by requiring the FAA Administrator to review the findings and consider modifications to minimize the impact of aircraft noise on communities near airports and along approved flight paths. The Administrator will also be required to consider the impacts of aircraft noise on areas where higher ground elevations increase noise impacts. Her second amendment requires the FAA to measure actual noise levels in communities along flight paths, including areas of higher elevations, for all areas where the FAA has approved a Metroplex redesign in the past five years. Like the first amendment, this amendment requires the FAA to consider modifications to minimize the impact of aircraft noise on communities near airports and along approved flight paths. Finally, the amendment requires FAA to issue a public report on actual noise measurements on the ground and steps it plans to take to reduce noise levels. Brownley submitted these amendments to the House Rules Committee, which is scheduled to meet on Tuesday evening. The Rules Committee – which is controlled by House Republicans – will determine if Brownley’s amendments will be debated and voted on by the full House. Brownley is a member of the Quiet Skies Caucus and has been coordinating her amendments with others submitted to the Rules Committee by Quiet Skies Caucus members. In total, the Quiet Skies Caucus has submitted dozens of amendments to the bill. Issues: 115th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
04.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) last week urged her colleagues to increase funding for the Navy’s Test and Evaluation Support program, which provides institutional maintenance and operations support for research, development, test, and evaluation at the Navy’s major range and test facilities, which includes Naval Base Ventura County. Brownley wrote a letter to the Chairwoman and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, which oversees funding for the Department of Defense, urging them to increase support for the Navy’s Test and Evaluation Support program by $40 million in the FY 2019 funding process. “I am so proud to represent Naval Base Ventura County and the more than 19,000 personnel that work hard there every day to keep our nation safe and secure,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Supporting the Navy’s Test and Evaluation Support program is critical for maintaining our military’s technological advantage. I will continue to work to ensure our base and our entire Armed Forces have the resources needed to support their critical missions.” The full text of the letter is available here and below. April 9, 2018 The Honorable Kay Granger Chairwoman House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense H-405, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515-0001 The Honorable Peter Visclosky Ranking Member House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515-0001 Dear Chairwoman Granger and Ranking Member Visclosky: As you begin work on the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense Appropriations Act, I write to share my priorities for the bill, including robust support for our existing naval test ranges. As the proud representative of Naval Base Ventura County, I represent over 19,000 personnel that work hard every day to keep our nation secure. With 90 tenant commands, Naval Base Ventura County is a strategic asset to our national security, and will play an even greater role in our national defense as the Department of Defense continues to re-focus and shift attention towards the Asia-Pacific region. Naval Base Ventura County is also home to our Pacific Seabees, the United States Navy Construction Battalion (CB). Since World War II, the Seabees have built military bases, bulldozing and paving thousands of miles of roads and airstrips, which have been integral to the success of the U.S. armed forces in combat theaters world-wide. Our highly-skilled and specially trained Seabees can rapidly deploy and prepare for various overseas contingencies, including humanitarian assistance missions. Naval Base Ventura County — comprising a total of over 19,000 land acres, 125,000 square miles of instrumented sea range, 36,000 square miles of controlled overlying airspace, and airfield and test instrumentation at San Nicolas — provides the Navy with a diverse and expansive training area, helping prepare our sailors for a wide-variety of situations that they may encounter across the globe. As you know, the Navy’s Test and Evaluation Support program provides institutional maintenance and operations support for research, development, test, and evaluation at the Navy’s major range and test facilities, including Naval Base Ventura County. These facilities are critical components for maintaining our military’s technological advantage by fielding safe and effective military capabilities in support of our national defense. The base provides outdoor free space development and operational testing of airborne electronic warfare systems and tactics against shipboard and land based air defense systems. These ranges perform metric radar, multilateration and optical tracking of test objects; command, control, and destruct for range safety purposes; communications; frequency interference control and analysis; collection processing and display of telemetered data; real-time data processing and display; and the operation of a sub scale aerial target launch capability. Other test capabilities include sled tracks, measurement facility; propulsion, warhead, environmental, rocket motor, and other missile component test facilities; and gun ranges. I urge the Committee to provide more resources for the Navy’s Test and Evaluation (T&E) Support Program (PE 0605864N). Specifically, I request an the Subcommittee increase the account to $405.5 million, an increase of $40 million over the FY2018 Omnibus. Finally, I request the following report language be included: Report on DoD Target and Threat Systems The Committee recognizes that military capabilities of adversary nations continue to improve over time thus challenging the ability of the United States military to project power and protect its national interests throughout the world. In order to ensure thorough and realistic testing and evaluation of defense weapons systems and effective operational unit training, it is imperative that DoD continues to develop and maintain a sufficient inventory of realistic targets and threat systems. In support of that imperative, the Committee believes that the status and adequacy of target and threat systems programs need to be assessed. The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a review of the Department’s targets and threat systems in support of test and evaluation and training and shall identify recommended actions to address shortcomings in those systems. The review and recommendations shall address, but not be limited to, the following: (A) All airborne, seaborne, ground and undersea targets and target control systems used to support open air test and evaluation and warfighter training exercises. (B) All real and simulated threat systems used to support open air test and evaluation and warfighter training exercises. (C) The degree to which all of the above systems replicate both current and future threats. (D) The adequacy of target and threat systems inventories to meet current and future test and evaluation and training requirements. (E) The ability of the above systems to support effective testing and evaluation of future U.S. combat and weapon systems. (F) The ability of the above systems to support effective warfighter training against future threats. Not later than one year after the date of enactment, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a final report on the review and recommended actions to address all shortcomings in the abilities of DoD targets and threat systems to effectively support open air test and evaluation events and training exercises. I appreciate the Committee’s continued willingness to listen to the views of Members, including myself, who represent our proud military personnel at bases across the country. I look forward to working with you to ensure the FY2019 Defense Appropriations Act supports the critical missions of our armed forces, and maintains our solemn obligation to our servicemembers, veterans, and their families. Thank you for your work on these critical issues. Sincerely, JULIA BROWNLEY Member of Congress Issues: 115th Congress, Budget, Defense
04.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced her office is hosting a Service Academy Information Night on Thursday, May 24, at 6:30 p.m. in the Ventura High School Cafeteria (2 N. Catalina Street, Ventura, CA 93001) to help students and their families learn more about attending a service academy and the Congressional nomination process. Representatives from the U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and U.S. Coast Guard Academy will provide presentations on each of their institutions and will be available to answer questions. Congresswoman Brownley’s staff will also be on hand to answer questions regarding the application process for a Congressional nomination from her office. Applications for a Congressional nomination are due to her office no later than October 10, 2018. “Attending a service academy is a great honor,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I encourage all young people who are interested in serving their nation to come to one of the information nights and learn more about the opportunities the service academies can afford them.” For more information or to RSVP, visit JuliaBrownley.House.gov/Events or contact Congresswoman Brownley’s office at (805) 379-1779. Issues: 115th Congress, Education
04.17.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member Julia Brownley (D-CA) gave the following opening statement at the Subcommittee’s legislative hearing. Opening Statement as Prepared for Delivery Thank you, Chairman Wenstrup, Chairman Roe, and Ranking Member Walz – and thank you to all of today’s witnesses for participating in our legislative hearing. I am excited to discuss the legislation on today’s agenda. Each piece of legislation is in response to a serious issue or concern affecting our veterans’ health care. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses, addressing any concerns ahead of a future markup, and moving these important reforms forward. As a cosponsor of several of the bills before the Subcommittee today, I am proud of the work being done within this Committee and throughout this Congress to preserve and enhance the VA health care so many veterans utilize, value, and recommend. During my time on this Committee, I have made it a special priority to ensure women veterans have access to high-quality, gender-specific care in a safe and welcoming environment. I believe that two of the bills on today’s agenda will advance this goal. The Improving Oversight of Women Veterans’ Care Act of 2017 requires VA to practice oversight not only on its VA facilities, but also on the community care providers it contracts with in order to provide gender-specific health care to women when its facilities do not have the equipment or specialist necessary to care for these veterans. We need to do a better job tracking the quality of care provided to women veterans and conduct effective oversight to ensure they are well served no matter where they get their care. I am also excited to lend my support for Congressman Coffman’s legislation to require VA to ensure that the veterans peer counseling program includes enough peer counselors for women veterans. It is clear that peer-to peer-counseling is an effective way to reach veterans that may not be willing to submit to a formal mental health care treatment plan. Peer-to-peer counseling is meant to be sensitive to the specific culture of the military and how that culture affects a veterans’ experience. It is integral that veterans seeking peer-to-peer counseling are afforded an opportunity to speak with a peer they can relate to. And for many women veterans, their most relatable peer will be fellow women. I appreciate Congressman Coffman’s leadership on this issue, and look forward to further discussion on the merits of his legislation. Finally, I am eager to hear from the Ranking Member on the “VA Medicinal Cannabis Research Act of 2018.” I’ll leave it to the Ranking Member to discuss its merits; but I will say I am proud to cosponsor the legislation because I believe VA must continue to look at complementary and alternative treatments – such as cannabis – that can help veterans cope with the invisible wounds of war. I thank all of our colleagues for being here and for their work supporting veterans, and I look forward to the input and recommendations of our VSO partners. Mr. Chairman, thank you and I yield back. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
04.16.2018	Washington D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) announced that two pieces of legislation that she introduced to better serve the growing population of women veterans are gaining momentum with new support from the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA). IAVA has announced its endorsement of the Women Veterans Equal Access to Quality Care Act (H.R. 93) and the Building Supportive Networks for Women Veterans Act (H.R. 91). “More women are serving our nation in uniform than ever before, so it’s critical that the VA is prepared to meet the unique needs of female veterans,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am so pleased to see these important bills receive the support from so many of our Veterans Service Organizations, including mostly recently, IAVA. I remain committed to ensuring these two bills become law.” “IAVA applauds Congresswoman Brownley for her commitment to helping our nation’s veterans,” said IAVA Legislative Director Tom Porter. “In addition to cosponsoring the centerpiece of our groundbreaking She Who Borne The Battle campaign’s centerpiece, the Deborah Sampson Act, she has introduced important legislation to ensure that gender-specific services are available at every VA medical facility and to make permanent a program to provide retreat counselling for women veterans. Congress should act soon on all of these priorities to fill gaps in care for women vets.” The Women Veterans Equal Access to Quality Care Act directs the VA to ensure that gender-specific services, including mammograms, prenatal care, and pap smears, are continuously available at every VA medical center and community-based outpatient clinic. The Building Supportive Networks for Women Veterans Act permanently authorizes the VA’s pilot program offering counseling and support for women veterans in a retreat setting to build trust and develop peer support. In addition to IAVA, both bills are supported by the American Legion, AMVETS, Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), Veterans of Foreign Wars, and Fleet Reserve Association. H.R. 93 is also supported by the Vietnam Veterans of America and the Blinded Veterans Association (BVA). H.R. 93 is co-sponsored by Reps. Kuster, O’Halleran, Carson, Hastings, O’Rourke, Barragan, Lofgren, Moore, Tsongas, Thompson, Pingree, Lynch, Ruppersberger, Himes, Velazquez, Pascrell, Larsen, Lawson, Cartwright, DeFazio, and Schrader. H.R. 91 is co-sponsored by Reps. Takano, Kuster, Walorski, Higgins, Pingree, Rosen, Gonzalez-Colon, Correa, Costello, Sablan, Esty, Peters, Cleaver, and Pallone. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
04.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding U.S. airstrikes in Syria: “The murder of innocent men, women, and children using chemical weapons was a crime against humanity, for which President Bashar al-Assad must be held accountable. It is important that we continue to coordinate with allies, including England and France, to address this situation. Congress also must exercise its legal obligation to weigh in on any further action.” Issues: 115th Congress, Defense
04.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) announced nearly $329,000 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH) program to help veterans who are homeless in Ventura County find permanent housing solutions. “It is simply unacceptable that we have veterans living on the streets,” said Congresswoman Brownley, Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health. “This funding will help vulnerable veterans find housing, which will improve their quality of life and provide stability so they can get back into the workforce and onto the path of self-sufficiency. In Congress, I have been a strong advocate for HUD-VASH and other programs that help veterans who are homeless, and I will continue to work in Congress to bring an end to veteran homelessness in our country.” The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has awarded the Area Housing Authority of the County of Ventura $97,781 and the City of San Buenaventura Housing Authority $231,180 in funding as part of the HUD-VASH program, which combines rental assistance from HUD with case management and clinical services from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. “We are excited to receive our first VASH voucher allocation and appreciate the Congresswoman’s support in securing this much needed housing assistance for Ventura County veterans,” said Michael Nigh, Executive Director of the Area Housing Authority of the County of Ventura. “Even with the funds to assist with monthly rent, the challenge is locating private landlords with available rental units willing to participate. Our goal is to work with the Oxnard and San Buenaventura housing authorities, the Veterans Administration, the landlord community and the Ventura County Continuum of Care to best serve our local veterans with these vouchers.” “The HACSB anticipates investing these new VASH vouchers into the community to improve program performance and expand housing options available to homeless veterans,” said Denise Wise, Chief Executive Officer of the Housing Authority of the City of San Buenaventura (HACSB). “We hope this expansion of our partnership with the VA will result in an end to veterans’ homelessness in the City of Ventura.” As Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee, Congresswoman Brownley requested the Committee hold a hearing recently to discuss homelessness among veterans and how we can ensure that all veterans have access to safe and affordable housing. She has long supported the HUD-VASH program and has authored legislation to improve the program and other efforts to address veteran homelessness, including the: Homes for Veterans Act, which encourages landlords to rent to veterans who participate in the HUD-VASH voucher program; Helping Homeless Veterans Act, which reauthorizes and makes permanent assistance programs for homeless veterans; Homeless Veterans with Children Reintegration Act, which prioritizes veterans with dependent children for services under the Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program; Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Program Improvement Act, which ensures that veterans utilizing the HUD-VASH program are still eligible for job training and placement services; and Homeless Veteran Families Act, which aims to assist community agencies that help veterans who are homeless and have dependents with housing costs. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
04.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee passed H.R. 3288, which included legislation authored by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) to reauthorize the Southwest Border Regional Commission. The Southwest Border Regional Commission is a collaboration between federal and state representatives to foster local economic growth and infrastructure development in the border region. When established, the Commission will include a Federal Co-Chair and representatives from the States of Arizona, California, New Mexico, and Texas. “The southwest border region has unique challenges in terms of goods movement and economic development. By combining federal and state expertise, the Southwest Border Regional Commission will leverage public and private resources to promote economic development, infrastructure investment, and economic growth along the Southwest Border region,” said Brownley. “When policymakers work together, we can set our communities up to succeed in the 21st Century economy and remain competitive in an increasingly global economy. I am pleased to see my legislation move forward today, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to get it passed in the House.” In March, Brownley introduced the Southwest Border Regional Commission Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 5325). The Committee packaged the Brownley bill with legislation introduced by Congresswoman Ann Kuster to reauthorize the Northern Border Regional Commission and legislation introduced by Congressman Hank Johnson to reauthorize the Southeast Crescent Regional Commission. Issues: 115th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
04.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) today introduced the Reduce Unemployment for Veterans of All Ages Act, legislation to ensure that veterans with service-connected disabilities – regardless of age – can prepare for, find, and maintain meaningful careers. Brownley is co-chair of the House Democratic Caucus’s Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes Task Force, and this bill is the first plank of the Task Force’s veterans jobs agenda. Currently, veterans with service-connected disabilities or other employment handicaps are able to receive career development services through the VA’s Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment program up to 12 years after they separate from the service. Sixty percent of veterans who are unemployed are over the age of 45, and the arbitrary 12-year limit means older veterans with disabilities aren’t able to receive the resources they may need for job market success. This issue was raised during the Task Force’s November 2017 veteran forum, and the Reduce Unemployment for Veterans of All Ages Act would address it by lifting the limit to ensure veterans have the flexibility to receive the support they have earned and deserve throughout their lifetime. “We owe our veterans a great debt of gratitude for their service – especially those who come home with wounds of war,” said Brownley. “The Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Program provides critical job training, and there is no reason all veterans with service-connected disabilities shouldn’t be able to benefit from it. We need to ensure our returning heroes have the resources they need to succeed when they transition back to civilian life, and that includes the flexibility to receive career development support at any age.” This bill is supported by the American Legion, Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), and Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW). Original cosponsors of the bill include House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY), Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes Task Force Co-Chair Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Rep. Mark Takano (D-CA), Rep. Derek Kilmer (D-WA), and Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY). “Our veterans served their country and now it is our duty to now serve them,” said Crowley. “Congresswoman Brownley’s Reduce Unemployment for Veterans of All Ages Act will give our returning heroes the opportunity to seek meaningful employment and contribute their valuable skills and experiences to our communities.” “Our veterans have put their lives on the line to protect America’s freedoms,” said Sánchez. “Disabled veterans, especially, have paid a steep price serving our country. We must honor our service men and women by ensuring they have the support they need to successfully transition back to civilian life and their new careers. The Reduce Unemployment for Veterans of All Ages Act upholds our promise to continue supporting veterans long after they separate from service. I applaud Rep. Julia Brownley and the members of the Democratic Caucus Jobs for America Task Force for their tireless efforts to ensure our country continues to support all who serve and sacrifice for our country.” Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
04.09.2018	Washington, D.C. – On Saturday, April 21, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) will host a Student Town Hall on Gun Safety for Ventura County’s high school students to share their perspectives on gun violence. The event will take place from 10:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. at the Ventura County Office of Education (5100 Adolfo Road, Camarillo, CA 93012). Students will be required to bring their school ID and a release form signed by their parent/guardian to enter the event. Parents/guardians are also welcome to attend with their children, but the conversation will be focused on the students’ stories and questions. Those interested in attending are encouraged to RSVP at JuliaBrownley.House.gov/Events. “Our nation has faced far too many tragedies where guns were in the hands of those who shouldn’t have them, and it’s clear that Congress must do more to prevent this senseless gun violence,” said Brownley. “Since the horrific shooting in Parkland, Florida, we have seen an unprecedented wave of student-led activism around gun safety. These courageous young people have awakened our national conscience and are spurring action both locally and nationally. Students are pushing for change, and I want to hear from as many of them as possible.” For more information, visit JuliaBrownley.House.gov/Events or call Congresswoman Brownley’s office at (805) 379-1779. Issues: 115th Congress, Gun Safety
04.04.2018	Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) was named the Legislator of the Year by HillVets, a bipartisan veterans advocacy group, last week in recognition of her strong leadership as Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health and her efforts on behalf of veterans in Ventura County and nationwide. “I am honored to receive this recognition,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I asked to serve on the VA Committee as my very first assignment because of my passion for helping our veterans who have served our nation so bravely and honorably. It is our solemn duty to ensure that our veterans are getting the highest quality of services and benefits, from healthcare to education, when they return home. I will continue to fight for veterans in Ventura County, and across the nation, to make sure they are receiving the benefits and care they have earned and deserve.” As Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Health, Brownley has focused on improving veterans’ access to healthcare. Her bill to authorize 28 new VA medical facility leases, including one in Ventura County, was signed into law last year. Her bills to expand and make permanent the VA’s child care pilot program and to allow VA health professionals to practice telemedicine across state lines both passed the House last year as well. Brownley has also focused attention on the growing population of female veterans. Her legislation to require the VA to analyze the effectiveness of suicide prevention programs for women veterans, and legislation to require the VA to provide fertility counseling, in-vitro fertilization, and adoption assistance for veterans with service-connected reproductive challenges, were both signed into law in 2016. Congressman Brad Wenstrup (R-OH), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Health, was also named Legislator of the Year. Watch the Legislator of the Year video here. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
03.29.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs leadership: “I am thankful for Dr. Shulkin’s service to our nation’s veterans and the important progress we have been able to make working together over the past few years. With this change, I am deeply concerned by the significant turnover in senior VA leadership in recent years and the negative impact that this has had on the VA’s ability to succeed in its mission to serve veterans. Our veterans deserve a strong and steady hand leading the VA, not the chaos and in-fighting that we have seen in the past year between those who are committed to serving veterans and the ideologues who want to privatize the VA. I look forward to meeting with Admiral Jackson and discussing his qualifications to oversee the largest integrated health care system in the United States and his vision for how the VA will continue to succeed in its mission to provide high-quality care and timely benefits for our nation’s veterans.” Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
03.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) and Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA) spearheaded an effort by 104 House Members to call for the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to withdraw its proposed Refusal of Care rule. This rule would dramatically expand the ways in which the personal beliefs of healthcare providers can dictate access to care for patients — a discriminatory policy that would be especially harmful to women and LGBTQ individuals. The letter urges HHS to withdraw this proposal and instead focus on expanding and improving health care access and coverage for all Americans. “Patients’ needs must come first and foremost,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “This discriminatory proposal would allow personal beliefs to dictate whether a patient gets needed care, threatening women and LGBTQ individuals across the country. This is unacceptable, and HHS should withdraw this harmful and hateful proposed rule immediately.” “Every American – regardless of their gender, gender identity or sexual orientation – should be able to receive high quality health care,” said Congresswoman Lee. “I strongly oppose the Trump Administration’s efforts to roll back protections for patients. Simply put, health care providers shouldn’t have a license to discriminate.” The letter was signed by Reps. Julia Brownley, Barbara Lee, Suzan DelBene, Joe Crowley, Salud O. Carbajal, Grace F. Napolitano, Diana DeGette, Steve Cohen, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Adriano Espaillat, James P. McGovern, Lisa Blunt Rochester, Sean Patrick Maloney, Pramila Jayapal, Kathleen M. Rice, Mark Pocan, Nanette Barragán, Dina Titus, Scott H. Peters, Lois Frankel, Rosa L. DeLauro, Zoe Lofgren, Juan Vargas, Earl Blumenauer, Raúl M. Grijalva, Jerry McNerney, Brian Higgins, Alcee L. Hastings, Peter Welch, Gwen Moore, Frederica S. Wilson, Daniel T. Kildee, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Katherine Clark, Jan Schakowsky, Jackie Speier, Jerrold Nadler, John Lewis, Rick Larsen, David Scott, Wm. Lacy Clay, Kathy Castor, Betty McCollum, Mark Takano, Ro Khanna, Michael E. Capuano, Ted W. Lieu, Debbie Dingell, Mark DeSaulnier, Adam Smith, Peter A. DeFazio, Alan Lowenthal, Brendan F. Boyle, David N. Cicilline, Raja Krishnamoorthi, Carol Shea-Porter, Colleen Hanabusa, Eliot L. Engel, Bill Foster, Donald S. Beyer Jr., Chellie Pingree, Linda T. Sánchez, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Lloyd Doggett, John Yarmuth, Pete Aguilar, Kurt Schrader, Jared Huffman, Bennie G. Thompson, A. Donald McEachin, Alma S. Adams, Donald M. Payne, Jr., Ben Ray Luján, Joe Kennedy, Ami Bera, M.D., Paul Tonko, Nita M. Lowey, Adam Schiff, Bobby L. Rush, Carolyn B. Maloney, Seth Moulton, Judy Chu, Ruben Gallego, André Carson, Anna G. Eshoo, Karen Bass, Yvette D. Clarke, Niki Tsongas , Suzanne Bonamici, Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, Jared Polis, Jamie Raskin, Danny K. Davis, Gerald E. Connolly, William R. Keating, Keith Ellison, Luis Gutiérrez, David E. Price, John Sarbanes, Al Green, Charlie Crist, Tulsi Gabbard, Marc Veasey, and Gene Green. A companion comment letter is being led by Senator Patty Murray (D-WA). The full text of the letter is available here and below. March 27, 2018 The Honorable Alex M. Azar II Secretary Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue SW Washington, D.C. 20201 Dear Secretary Azar: We write with strong objections to the Department of Health and Human Services’ (“HHS” or the “Department”) proposed rule “Protecting Statutory Conscience Rights in Health Care; Delegations of Authority,” which attempts to dramatically expand existing harmful refusal laws in ways that are intended to encourage health care providers and institutions to discriminate against patients. We call on the Department to withdraw the proposed rule in its entirety. Not only would the proposed rule go beyond Congressional intent, it would also create uncertainty and confusion about rights and obligations under existing federal civil rights laws. This rule seeks to expand the ways in which religious and moral objections can dictate access to care for patients, exacerbating health disparities and existing barriers to care and services for vulnerable populations. It is the Administration’s latest attempt to prioritize ideology over the Department’s core mission to promote patient health and well-being – in this instance by rolling back health care access and rights for women, children, LGBTQ individuals, and other marginalized populations. The Proposed Rule Broadens the Scope of Refusal Laws Contrary to Congressional Intent The proposed rule attempts to expand existing law in dangerous new ways and goes beyond the intentions of Congress in the passage of the underlying statutes. The proposed rule takes the expansive refusal provisions that already threaten patient health – namely, the Weldon, Church, and Coats-Snowe Amendments, as well as two dozen other laws – and broadens and misinterprets them. For example, lead sponsor Senator Snowe stated that one of the primary purposes of the Coats-Snowe Amendment was to “make sure that women have access to quality health care with the strictest standards.” Yet, the proposed rule attempts to undermine the intent of the Amendment by expanding the scope of religious refusals. Furthermore, the legislative histories of the Church, Coats-Snowe, and Weldon Amendments suggest no intent to ignore or displace the nondiscrimination principles underpinning landmark civil rights laws and the balances they seek to strike. In contrast, the proposed rule fails to acknowledge the balance struck in laws such as Title VII of the Civil Rights Act and Section 1557 of the Affordable Care Act to respect religious beliefs while also ensuring access to vital information and services. Therefore, any efforts to interpret the Church, Coats-Snowe, and Weldon Amendments must be read to incorporate the protections contained in critical civil rights laws. The proposed rule not only fails to mention these key laws, but also fails to provide guidance for any covered entities on how to observe both the directives contained in the proposed rule and obligations under existing civil rights laws. In addition, the proposed rule attempts to combine terms already defined by Congress to expand religious refusals, contrary to congressional intent. Specifically, under the Coats and Weldon Amendments, “health care entity” is defined to encompass a limited and specific range of individuals and entities. Even though Congress clearly defines the term in both statutes, the proposed rule includes a far broader definition for “health care entity” that goes beyond either of the definitions in statute. The proposed definition also describes the list of potentially covered entities as “illustrative, not exhaustive,” leaving open the possibility to expand the definition even further. Such an attempt to expand the meaning of a statutory term Congress already took the time to define goes directly against Congressional intent. The Proposed Rule’s Attempt to Expand the Scope of Refusal Laws Exceeds the Department’s Authority The proposed rule suggests new definitions for a number of terms in ways that misconstrue their meaning in current law or practice and undermine definitions contained in laws that prohibit discrimination. For example, the proposed rule greatly expands the definition of “assist in the performance” of a program or activity to which an individual objects, expanding both the types of services that can be refused and the individuals who can refuse to provide those services. Specifically, the definition includes those participating “in any program or activity with an articulable connection to a procedure, health service, health program, or research activity….” “Articulable connection” is an exceptionally broad term that creates an irrationally tenuous connection to the procedure. Furthermore, it is not defined in the proposed rule, which could allow HHS’ Office for Civil Rights (OCR) to loosely interpret the already very vague term in a way that could even more significantly hamper the practice of medicine, research, and access to health care broadly. For example, a receptionist in a physician’s office could refuse to schedule appointments for activities he or she objects to, or an ambulance driver could refuse to transport a woman who needs care for a miscarriage, both by claiming that doing so would “assist[]in the performance” of such procedures. The proposed rule also defines “referral” in a way that has never been applied in statute or regulation and goes beyond the plain meaning of the term. The proposed rule defines “referral” to include the provision of “any information” by “any method” pertaining to health care that could help a person obtain the care they need, requiring only that the health care entity believe that the service they object to is a “possible outcome” of providing information. This means that refusal laws that were initially intended to narrowly exempt providers who object to providing a referral in the plain meaning of the word can now be exempted from providing any information to a patient that can be remotely connected to a procedure to which they object. This definition of referrals could hamper patients’ ability to get information they need for their care. The proposed rule omits critical statutory language from multiple laws it cites requiring that patients be informed of the provider’s refusal—undermining Congress’ deliberate use of language intended to include basic patient protections to mitigate the harm of refusals. Such a language change could even encourage providers to withhold necessary information from patients or leave patients unaware about their state of care. The proposed rule expands the universe of entities that can claim religious or moral exemptions, by expanding the definitions of “entity” and “health care entity”. The proposed rule adds “a plan sponsor, issuer, or third party administrator” to the definition of “health care entity.” It also contains a separate definition of “entity,” which includes any “person” defined in 1 U.S.C. 1, such as corporations, joint stock companies, a state, or any public agency or institution. These expansive definitions could provide cover for a number of new entities not to do their jobs. The new definitions could also mean entities not previously covered by refusal laws will have to accommodate their individual employee’s refusals to provide care or more broadly “assist” in any practice to which he or she is opposed. Under the proposed rule, all the newly covered entities would also be subject to burdensome new notice and compliance requirements. In short, the new definitions for a number of terms in the proposed rule exceed the Department’s authority and will undoubtedly compromise the health of patients, burden providers, and deny patients the protections Congress provided them. The Proposed Rule Conflicts with Federal Laws that Protect Patient Access to Care and the Constitution The proposed rule attempts to undermine federal laws enacted with the express purpose of protecting access to health care. Specifically, Section 1557 of the Affordable Care Act was intended to provide robust protection for women and LGBTQ individuals. As the cornerstone of Congress’ nondiscrimination requirement in health care, Section 1557 holds that a patient cannot be refused care because of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or disability. The proposed rule attempts to undermine Section 1557 and seeks to entrench discrimination against women and LGBTQ individuals in health care. In addition, the proposed rule fails to acknowledge the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act (“EMTALA”). EMTALA requires hospitals that have a Medicare provider agreement and an emergency room or department to provide to anyone requesting treatment an appropriate medical screening to determine whether an emergency medical condition exists, and to stabilize the condition or, if medically warranted, to transfer the person to another facility. Instead, this proposed rule attempts to protect providers who seek to turn away patients based on personal belief, greatly endangering patient lives. This could result in patients in emergency circumstances not receiving necessary care, a clear violation of EMTALA. Congressional intent clearly does not support the undermining of EMTALA’s protections for patients. Furthermore, the proposed rule violates the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment of the Constitution. The Establishment Clause mandates that when considering a religious exemption, the Department adequately account for the burdens that any exemption may impose on non-beneficiaries. It also prohibits exemptions that materially harm any third party. It is clear that the proposed rule does not adequately account for the significant harm it would cause patients, and thus, it would violate the constitutional do-no-harm principle. The Proposed Rule Reaches Further than the 2008 Rule The Department falsely claims the proposed rule is only a reinstatement of the rule promulgated by the Bush Administration in 2008 (“2008 rule”), a rule that was rescinded almost entirely by the Obama Administration. Even if this proposed rule was merely a reinstatement of the 2008 rule, the proposed rule would be dangerous. The 2008 rule was the subject of widespread opposition, including from 28 U.S. Senators, 131 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, Commissioners on the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, 14 state attorneys general, and 27 state medical societies, including the American Medical Association, American Hospital Association, National Association of Community Health Centers, and American College of Emergency Physicians. But, the proposed rule reaches much further than the 2008 rule. When compared to the 2008 rule, the proposed rule seeks to allow more individuals and more entities to refuse care to patients as well as allow more services to be refused. The proposed rule also forces more entities to allow their employees to refuse care, imposes additional, unnecessary notice and compliance requirements, and invites states to further expand religious refusal laws. The Proposed Rule Twists OCR’s Authority in Ways that Will Diminish OCR’s Ability to Address the Types of Discrimination that Congress Enacted Laws, Created Institutions, and Appropriated Funding to Combat By issuing the proposed rule, the Department is attempting to use OCR’s limited resources in order to affirmatively allow institutions, insurance companies, and almost anyone involved in patient care to use their personal beliefs to deny patients health care and to disregard the full suite of nondiscrimination laws that OCR is charged with enforcing. The Department is appropriating nondiscrimination laws and principles in a way that protects those who seek to discriminate by attempting to expand the scope and enforcement of federal refusal laws, rather than using the funding appropriated by Congress to combat discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or disability in health care. By taking the language of civil rights laws and regulations out of context and by excerpting portions of the law while disregarding others, the proposed rule creates a regulatory scheme that is not only unnecessary and affirmatively harmful, but is utterly unreasonable and irrational when comparing the proposed rule to Congressional intent and the statutory scheme of our nation’s nondiscrimination laws. The proposed rule’s attempts to expand refusals to provide care will come at the expense of devoting resources to OCR’s mission of targeting well documented ongoing discrimination in health care. This effort to divert OCR precious and limited resources away from enforcing the nation’s nondiscrimination laws in health care will have real consequences for people who are currently facing discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or disability in health care settings. OCR should commit to full and robust enforcement of Section 1557 of the Affordable Care Act, which provides critical protections for women and LGBTQ patients across the country. Instead, the proposed rule seeks to de-prioritize the needs of people who require protection from discrimination and instead provide a pretext to attack the rights, health care, and equality of women and LGBTQ individuals. The proposed rule indicates a fundamental misunderstanding of OCR’s role in combatting discrimination in health care. The Department should operate under the policy that a patient’s health must always come first. Instead, through this proposed rule, HHS and the Trump Administration are allowing ideology, not medical needs, to dictate health care access. The Proposed Rule Ignores the Core Function of the Department and Particularly Impacts Populations Already Facing Barriers to Accessing Care The proposed rule reflects a fundamental misunderstanding of the mission of HHS to protect the health and well-being of all individuals. OCR was established with the express purpose of furthering HHS’s mission by enforcing federal laws that protect patients, prohibit discrimination, and address health disparities. The proposed rule attempts to enforce provisions that would have the opposite effect. By attempting to allow hospitals, providers, and anyone loosely involved in the provision of health care to determine a patient’s care based on their personal beliefs—not based on what is best for the patient—the proposed rule will harm those who already face barriers to care and prevent them from accessing the care and coverage they need. For many people who face barriers to care, including people of color, LGBTQ individuals, low-income children and families, people with disabilities, people facing language barriers, people living in provider shortage areas, and uninsured populations, finding another provider simply is not a viable option, and being refused care because of a provider’s or administrator’s personal beliefs can amount to having their health care dangerously delayed or even denied entirely. In ignoring these inevitable harms of the proposed rule, HHS is ignoring its mission. Women The proposed rule seeks to allow providers and health care entities to discriminate against women and deny them the care and information they need. Religious beliefs have already been used to deny access to services most often needed by women, such as abortion, sterilization, certain infertility treatments, and miscarriage management. Such refusals have serious health consequences for women and can result in infertility, infection, and even death. The rule could embolden refusals and lead to more women being turned away when seeking care. This discrimination disproportionately affects women of color who already face additional barriers to accessing reproductive health care. LGBTQ Individuals The proposed rule seeks to allow providers and health care institutions to refuse care to LGBTQ patients. This is particularly harmful given that LGBTQ individuals already face significant discrimination in health care settings. For example, a nationally representative survey by the Center for American Progress found that eight percent of LGBQ respondents and 29 percent of transgender respondents reported that a doctor or other health care provider had refused to see them in the past year because of their actual or perceived sexual orientation or because of their actual or perceived gender identity, respectively. A national survey of transgender adults by the National Center for Transgender Equality found 33 percent of respondents who saw a doctor during the past year were turned away or mistreated because of being transgender. The rates of discrimination for LGBTQ people of color, or LGBTQ individuals with disabilities, are even higher. The proposed rule’s sweeping language, and its troubling reliance on a case involving discrimination against a transgender patient, signal an attempt to expand refusal laws to transition-related care—ignoring not only the well-established consensus in the medical community that transition-related care is medically necessary, but also Congress’ clear intent to apply those laws to a limited set of procedures. We are also troubled by indications the Department intends the proposed rule to be interpreted even more broadly. For example, the proposed rule’s vague and sweeping language can encourage providers to refuse any care to an LGBTQ patient simply because of the provider’s personal disapproval of his or her patient’s sexuality or gender identity. Moreover, both readings are beyond the intent of the refusal laws. Individuals Receiving Care in Other Countries The proposed rule seeks to expand the definition of health care entities in a way that potentially covers global health providers, encouraging individuals working under global health programs funded by HHS to refuse critical care in international settings. In covering organizations that receive foreign aid funds through global health programs, the proposed rule extends the harm of refusals to vulnerable populations abroad. For example, in many of the countries where the Department implements global AIDS programs (PEPFAR), the populations served already face numerous barriers to care, including the broad and harmful refusal provision contained within the statute governing PEPFAR, and are therefore disproportionately impacted by the epidemic. The proposed rule opens up an additional front for discrimination against these populations by encouraging individual health care providers to deny the information and services they need. Such action undermines the purpose of global health programs, and the rights of those they intend to serve. This is particularly harmful in developing countries where many health systems are weak, there are shortages of available health care options and supplies, and individuals often travel long distances to obtain the services they need. Many of the individuals that encounter refusals will have nowhere else to go. The Breadth of the Proposed Rule has Far Reaching Implications The breadth of the proposed rule also has implications for those providing services and information in a wide range of areas including HIV, drug addiction, infertility, vaccinations, psychology, sexually transmitted infections, and end-of-life care, among others. For example, an oncologist working in a federally funded prostate cancer treatment program could withhold information from a patient about the option of extracting and freezing sperm before cancer treatment. The proposed rule dangerously stands in the way of the information patients need to make health care decisions for themselves and their families. Conclusion The proposed rule could dramatically expand the scope and applicability of refusals law in a way that contravenes congressional intent, exceeds authority, and promotes discrimination by health care providers and institutions. The proposed rule is so blatantly inconsistent with the statutory framework of our health care and nondiscrimination laws, the Constitution, and the very purpose of OCR, we see no other reasonable course but to withdraw the proposed rule. Therefore, we strongly urge the Department to halt all efforts in moving forward with this proposed rule and to withdraw it and instead focus efforts on promoting health care access and coverage as is the Department’s mission. Sincerely, Issues: 115th Congress, Civil Rights, Healthcare
03.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement regarding today’s vote on the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act (H.R. 1625): “The funding bill we passed today makes critical investments that will greatly benefit Ventura County. It includes a well-deserved pay raise for our servicemembers and supports Naval Base Ventura County. It also provides additional funds for disaster recovery, infrastructure, affordable housing, education, opioid treatment, and scientific research. “I am especially pleased with the significant increase in funding for veterans’ healthcare programs and with the inclusion of my legislation to support IVF and adoption services for veterans with service-connected reproductive challenges. The bill also doubles funding for Veterans Treatment Courts to help veterans get the support and resources they need, so they can avoid incarceration. These have been important priorities for me for many years, as well as for our community’s veterans. “Finally, this bill rejects extreme and divisive policy proposals from the President that threaten workers, women, our environment, and Ventura County families. “With the FY 2019 appropriations process already underway, I will keep fighting for our shared values, a more deliberative budget process, and for legislation that puts Ventura County’s priorities first.” Issues: 115th Congress, Budget
03.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – Last week, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) spearheaded an effort by more than 90 Members of Congress to call for continued support for Veterans Treatment Courts – locally driven programs that integrate community and VA resources and services to help veterans caught in the justice system who are struggling with mental health or substance abuse issues. In FY 2018, the House provided $10 million for Veterans Treatment Courts, and the letter urges the Appropriations Committee to provide the highest possible level of funding for FY 2019. “When veterans come home with the invisible wounds of war, they can sometimes end up on the wrong path,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “We owe our veterans a debt of gratitude for their service, and we need to do everything we can to help them get back on track to lead productive, fulfilling lives. Veterans Treatment Courts are an integral part of that process, and they need to be funded appropriately.” The letter was signed by Reps. Julia Brownley, Vicente Gonzalez, Mark DeSaulnier, Debbie Dingell, Tom O’Halleran, Eric Swalwell, Joyce Beatty, Ann McLane Kuster, Salud O. Carbajal, Josh Gottheimer, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Alma S. Adams, Barbara Comstock, Mike Thompson, Ted W. Lieu, Val Butler Demings, Anna G. Eshoo, Reuben J. Kihuen, Pramila Jayapal, Richard E. Neal, Jacky Rosen, Denny Heck, Charlie Crist, Jamie Raskin, Filemon Vela, James P. McGovern, Ro Khanna, Sean Patrick Maloney, Lois Frankel, J. Luis Correa, Earl Blumenauer, Scott H. Peters, Brendan F. Boyle, Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, Susan Davis, Ruben Gallego, Nanette Diaz Barragán, Beto O’Rourke, Al Lawson, Seth Moulton, Michael E. Capuano, Darren Soto, Ami Bera, Tulsi Gabbard, Tony Cárdenás, Anthony G. Brown, Kathleen M. Rice, Dave Loebsack, Carol Shea-Porter, Donald Norcross, Juan Vargas, Grace F. Napolitano, Adriano Espaillat, John K. Delaney, Bill Johnson, Norma J. Torres, Kyrsten Sinema, Robert A. Brady, Kathy Castor, Paul A. Gosar D.D.S., Yvette D. Clarke, James R. Langevin, G.K. Butterfield, Dianna DeGette, Peter A. DeFazio, André Carson, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Chellie Pingree, Sheila Jackson Lee, Bobby L. Rush, Terri A. Sewell, Collin C. Peterson, Gerald E. Connolly, Karen Bass, Keith Ellison, Adam Smith, Stephen F. Lynch, Timothy J. Walz, Linda T. Sánchez, Emanuel Cleaver, Albio Sires, Daniel W. Lipinski, William R. Keating, Alcee L. Hastings, Jan Schakowsky, Steve Cohen, Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan, Judy Chu, Madeleine Z. Bordallo, Ted Deutch, and Eddie Bernice Johnson. The full text of the letter can be found here and below: The Honorable John Culberson Chairman, Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science House Committee on Appropriations H-309 The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable José Serrano Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science House Committee on Appropriations 2354 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Culberson and Ranking Member Serrano: As you develop the Fiscal Year 2019 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations bill, we write to express our continued support for Veterans Treatment Courts. We are dedicated to serving the needs of our nation’s veterans, including those struggling with addiction and the invisible wounds of war. For many of these justice-involved veterans, Veterans Treatment Courts provide the resources they need to secure a strong future and begin their journey towards recovery. After nearly two decades of war in Afghanistan and Iraq, our nation’s heroes are returning home with the invisible wounds of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), traumatic brain injury (TBI) and related ailments. Research continues to draw a link between substance abuse and combat–related mental health struggles, and it is estimated that between 10% and 20% of soldiers deployed in Iraq or Afghanistan suffer from combat-related PTSD, TBI, clinical depression, or a substance use disorder. Instead of receiving the care and support they need to overcome mental health challenges or drug addiction, numerous veterans end up involved in our justice system. According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, roughly 180,000 people incarcerated in the United States are veterans. Veterans Treatment Courts are designed to provide an alternative path for veterans with substance abuse and mental health issues who find themselves in trouble with the law. These courts afford veterans with the opportunity to get the help they need while avoiding jail time. Since the first Veterans Treatment Courts began in 2008 in Buffalo, New York, over 300 Veterans Treatment Courts have been established across the country, with many more being planned. Studies have shown that specialized drug courts can lead to lower incarceration and recidivism rates. In fact, a five-year study from the National Institute of Justice found that drug court participants were significantly less likely than nonparticipants to relapse or later commit criminal acts. By keeping veterans out of prisons and focusing on rehabilitation and sobriety, these programs offer long-term solutions rather than a short-term focus on punishment. We respectfully urge your continued support for the appropriations necessary to meet the needs of justice-involved veterans. The House provided $10 million for Veterans Treatment Courts in Fiscal Year 2018. We strongly support this program, and urge the Committee to provide the highest possible level of funding. Sincerely, Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
03.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – On Saturday, April 14, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) will host a Passport Fair for Ventura County residents to make sure their passports are up to date for the summer travel season. Staff from the Los Angeles Passport Agency will be on hand to renew old passports and process first-time applications at the Passport Fair, which will take place from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Oxnard Family Circle, located at 2100 Outlet Center Drive, Oxnard, CA 93036. “As summer approaches, I want to make sure everyone in Ventura County who is considering traveling abroad can get their passports as easily as possible,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I encourage everyone to take advantage of this opportunity for convenient service from the Los Angeles Passport Agency.” Representatives from Brownley’s district office have urged anyone interested in attending to bring passport photos and proper documentation. They will also be at the Passport Fair to answer any questions. For more details, call Brownley’s district office at (805) 379-1779 or visit JuliaBrownley.House.gov/Events. Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues
03.09.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today ahead of Monday’s 90th anniversary of the St. Francis Dam disaster: “Ninety years ago Monday, the St. Francis Dam collapsed, setting off the second most deadly catastrophe in California state history. From the hundreds of victims who sadly lost their lives, to the heroic telephone operators and California Highway Patrol officers who tried to warn residents of the rushing waters, we recognize and honor the lives of those who were a part of this significant event in our region’s and our nation’s history. “Last year, the House of Representatives passed a bipartisan bill I co-authored to create a memorial to appropriately recognize this important part of our history. I am committed to working with my colleagues in the Senate, including Senators Feinstein and Harris, to get this bill to the President’s desk to commemorate the stories of local residents.” Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues
02.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding the Supreme Court’s decision not to hear the Trump administration’s challenge to a lower court ruling that is temporarily blocking the administration from ending the DACA program: “The Supreme Court’s decision today provides temporary relief for those who are living in fear of being callously and arbitrarily ripped away from their families, their jobs, and the only home they’ve ever known, and who are being used as a bargaining chip to advance President Trump’s extreme immigration agenda. While this temporary reprieve is welcome, Congress must pass legislation to provide permanent protection for our Dreamers. We need to fix our immigration system so that it not only protects American jobs, but recognizes the contributions of immigrants, from all walks of life and skill sets, to our economy, our culture, and our moral authority in the world as a country that welcomes and celebrates diversity. I will continue to work across the aisle to pass legislation to permanently resolve this issue.” Issues: 115th Congress, Immigration
02.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) toured ZPower, a company based in Camarillo that produces rechargeable silver-zinc microbatteries. She met with ZPower employees and saw firsthand the critical role local manufacturers play in our region’s economy as part of her “Julia at Your Job” series. Recently, Congresswoman Brownley sent a letter to the U.S Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), urging the agency to review ZPower’s request to allow hearing aid manufacturers that work with the VA to use silver-zinc rechargeable systems, which would make it easier for veterans to maintain their hearing aids at home. The VA was only allowing lithium ion rechargeable batteries that had to be replaced by the manufacturer. The VA recently granted the request, which will create the opportunity for silver-zinc rechargeable products to be offered to veterans across the nation. Hearing problems are the most prevalent service-connected disability among American veterans. “Local manufacturers are integral to Ventura County’s economy,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Innovative companies like ZPower are creating jobs that spur the growth that makes our economy strong. I am proud to fight for our local businesses, because when they succeed, Ventura County residents succeed. Additionally, ZPower’s breakthrough with the VA is especially important because hearing loss is a major issue among our veterans, and this will make it easier for them to manage their hearing care. This is win-win: good for veterans across the country and good for our local economy.” “At ZPower, we are proud to be part of the local economy here in Ventura County,” said Dr. Ross Dueber, President and CEO of ZPower. “We thank Congresswoman Brownley for taking the time today to recognize our contributions.” ZPower doubled the number of employees in 2017, employing more than 250 people in Camarillo. Photos from the tour are available here. Issues: 115th Congress, Jobs, Economy, and Small Business, Veterans' Affairs
02.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding President Trump’s infrastructure policy outline: “After more than a year in office, President Trump has finally released his ‘framework’ for infrastructure investment, and sadly, it leaves Ventura County behind. Investing in America’s crumbling infrastructure will create jobs and spur economic activity, but President Trump has failed to deliver on his promise of federal investments that will help Ventura County and our nation rebuild our roadways, railways, water systems, and other infrastructure. “First, President Trump doesn’t actually propose to make the necessary federal investments in infrastructure that we need in order to compete in the 21st Century economy. His plan simply shifts costs and responsibility onto state and local governments. Worse, the plan incentivizes the creation of toll roads and privatization of public infrastructure. Ventura County voters do not want toll roads, and since the County lacks a dedicated source of local transportation funds, our region would be left behind and see zero benefit from this proposal. We have already seen the disastrous effects of privatizing water infrastructure systems in other communities, and Ventura County doesn’t need for-profit private companies jacking up our water rates to pad their executive salaries and shareholder dividends. We need a reliable, safe, and affordable water supply for our homes, businesses, and agricultural community. “Second, the Trump framework proposes to limit environmental review and public input on projects, which does a disservice to our children and our community. The laws that protect our air, water, and public lands – and that allow the public to play a role in decision-making – are not what is causing our highways, roads, and bridges to deteriorate. It’s the fundamental lack of federal investment in our infrastructure. “As the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee considers serious legislation in this area, I will continue to fight for Ventura County’s priorities, including an infrastructure plan that actually invests in our community.” Issues: 115th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
02.09.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement regarding today’s vote on a continuing resolution: “Since being elected, I have worked very, very hard to vote our district. It isn’t always straightforward what would serve the greater good at home, both because no bill is perfect, and because Ventura County is rich in its diversity — politically, economically, and demographically. “The bill we considered this morning has funding that is important to our district. It provides more resources for our troops, our veterans, disaster relief, children’s healthcare, community health centers, and more. These are many of the issues I fight for everyday, and on its face, this is a good bipartisan bill. Under ordinary circumstances and in ordinary times, I would have wholeheartedly supported it. “However, these are not ordinary circumstances, and these are not ordinary times. For the last two years, President Trump has threatened many of the very principles upon which our nation was built, and upon which it continues to thrive. We exist and succeed because we welcome with open arms people from all over the world and from all walks of life, and invite them enthusiastically to pursue the American Dream, knowing that our democracy, our culture, and our economy will be stronger when they do. But President Trump has led a two-year assault on all that we hold dear, and all that binds us together, from one generation to another. “President Trump has denigrated people with disabilities, Muslims, the African-American community, women, and the LGBTQ community, among others, with unprecedented intensity. But he has reserved some of his most cruel attacks for immigrants, suggesting that they are all gang members, drug dealers, or rapists. “When he ended the Deferred Action program, for the sole purpose of using Dreamers as hostages in future negotiations, I simply could not go along. Dreamers are young people, hopeful people, and hardworking people. They define what it is to be American and are American — no different than my own two children. “So I voted for our district today — because diversity is what makes Ventura County strong and our nation strong.” Issues: 115th Congress, Budget
02.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement regarding today’s vote on the Republican majority’s fifth continuing resolution: “The Republican leadership’s fourth continuing resolution expires in two days, and they still refuse to negotiate a bipartisan agreement to address our nation’s pressing priorities. As I have said time and again, these short-term funding bills hurt our national security, hurt U.S. economic growth, hurt our veterans, and hurt working families across the nation who are looking for certainty and leadership. Despite asking repeatedly for ‘more time’ to negotiate with Democrats, Speaker Ryan has refused to come to the table, and has instead insisted on unilaterally passing the fifth continuing resolution of the year, kicking the can down the road once more. I remain – as I have for months – committed to reaching a bipartisan agreement on our budget priorities.” Issues: 115th Congress, Budget
01.30.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today after President Donald Trump’s first State of the Union address: “I was so honored tonight that Sergeant Major (Ret.) John Canley of Oxnard joined me as my guest at the State of the Union. Just yesterday, a bill I authored was signed into law, making him eligible to receive the prestigious Medal of Honor for his courageous and life-saving actions during the Vietnam War’s Tet Offensive – which began 50 years ago today. “Tonight, we looked back on President Trump’s first year in office, and sadly, it has been a string of broken promises to America’s working families. “He promised that he would invest $1 trillion to rebuild and modernize our aging infrastructure. One year later, he made clear tonight that he has no real plan. What we do know is that he wants to privatize public infrastructure, which will make projects more expensive for Ventura County taxpayers and cost working families through tolls and fees, while enriching President Trump’s developer buddies. “The President pledged to improve veterans’ access to healthcare. One year later, while he bragged about how many people he has fired, he has yet to nominate individuals to serve in VA’s most important leadership roles, including Undersecretary for Health and Undersecretary for Benefits, and there are nearly 50,000 open positions at VA hospitals nationwide that need to be filled. “Finally, the President promised to ‘work something out’ for DREAMers here in Ventura County and across the country. One year later, he has manufactured a crisis with his arbitrary March deadline and is using DREAMers as pawns in his extreme agenda that tramples over the very foundation of our nation’s history. “Tonight, President Trump again spoke about bipartisanship and working together, but his actions have demonstrated the opposite. His continued broken promises add up to an extreme agenda that has transferred trillions from working families to the richest 1%, ripped away healthcare from millions of struggling families, rolled back decades of protections for clean air and water, and left young people — striving to build a better life for their families — dangling as part of a cruel and inhumane negotiating tactic straight out of ‘Art of the Deal.’ “That being said, I am not deterred. I am going to keep fighting for what working families in Ventura County really need – a strong economy, trusted law enforcement, a coherent national security agenda, and an unwavering belief in the values our nation was founded on.” Issues: 115th Congress, Immigration, Transportation and Infrastructure, Veterans' Affairs
01.29.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, legislation authored by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) was signed into law, bringing 28-year Marine veteran Sergeant Major (Ret.) John Canley of Oxnard one step closer to receiving the prestigious Medal of Honor. During the early days of the Tet Offensive during the Vietnam War, then-Gunnery Sergeant Canley’s commander was gravely wounded. Canley took control of his company, and over the ensuing days, saved the lives of many Marines and sailors and exhibited exceptional bravery and courage. For his extraordinary heroism, Canley received the Navy Cross, as well as two Bronze Stars and a Purple Heart. In 2014, one of Sergeant Major Canley’s fellow servicemembers contacted Congresswoman Brownley’s office to request that she recommend that Canley’s medal be upgraded to the Medal of Honor – the highest military award given by the U.S. government. Last month, after several years of review by the U.S. Marine Corps and the Department of Defense, Secretary of Defense Mattis sent Congresswoman Brownley a letter stating that he agreed that Canley’s actions merit award of the Medal of Honor, but that Congress would need to pass legislation to waive the five-year time limit on giving the award. Congresswoman Brownley authored legislation to waive the time limit, and it was signed into law today. Sergeant Major Canley is in Washington, D.C., this week to attend the State of the Union as the Congresswoman’s guest. “I am very pleased that the President signed my bill into law, making Sergeant Major Canley eligible to receive the Medal of Honor,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “He is a true American hero and a shining example of the kind of gallantry and humility that makes our Armed Forces the best military in the world. It is my great honor that he will be attending the State of the Union with me tomorrow – 50 years to the day of the start of the Tet Offensive, where his bravery and courage saved many lives. I strongly urge the President to heed Defense Secretary Mattis’s recommendation that this award be bestowed to honor Sergeant Major Canley’s dedication to our nation and his fellow man.” “This honor is for all of the Marines with whom I served,” said Sergeant Major Canley. “They are an inspiration to me to this day. I also want to thank Congresswoman Brownley and her staff, especially Laura Sether, for their effort and work to make this happen.” More information about Sergeant Major Canley is available here. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
01.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding her support for a Congressional Review Act resolution to reverse the FCC’s recent actions undermining net neutrality: “FCC Chairman Ajit Pai’s decision in December to roll back net neutrality protections was incredibly concerning. I’m proud to sign on as an original co-sponsor supporting the Congressional resolution to reverse this action, so that the net neutrality protections put in place by President Obama are restored. Rather than ping ponging back and forth from one Administration to another, Congress should pass legislation to lay down permanent rules of the road for industry, while ensuring that net neutrality continues to inspire innovation, create jobs, protect free speech, and enable the advancement of civil rights.” Issues: 115th Congress, Civil Rights, Jobs, Economy, and Small Business
01.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement regarding today’s vote on a three-week continuing resolution: “The Republican leadership has had many, many opportunities to govern responsibly, but has failed time and time again. These constant short-term funding bills are hurting our military – as the Defense Secretary and the Navy Secretary themselves both said last week. These short patches are also bad for our economy, bad for healthcare programs, and bad for our veterans. This constant uncertainty is no way to govern. Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell are using children’s healthcare as a bargaining chip, failing to fund community health centers that those children rely on every day, and refusing to adequately fund our military and domestic programs, like infrastructure and education. Finally, they are leaving our Dreamers – their lives, their jobs, and their families – up in the air, based on an arbitrary, capricious, and deeply cynical deadline fabricated by the President. “Working together in a bipartisan manner – which we desperately need – means actually negotiating with both parties to solve these problems. So far, that has not happened. We need to end this shutdown, but this continuing resolution kicks the can down the road yet again. There are only six legislative days before it expires again. It doesn’t solve our problems and will continue to inflict harm on our country and my constituents. Therefore, I cannot support it.” Issues: 115th Congress, Budget
01.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding the shutdown of the federal government: “Make no mistake, this shutdown is President Trump’s shutdown. “The President of the United States purposely and knowingly forced a shutdown through a combination of incompetence, inexperience, and spite. When you are the head of the ruling party that needs to pass important legislation with both the majority and the minority party, as is necessary to advance the country’s budget, you need to negotiate in good faith with both parties. That should be obvious to anyone who has taken high school civics. “But the President did the opposite. As if the Apprentice never ended, the President seems to have orchestrated a shutdown, on the anniversary of his presidency, simply for ratings, attention, and the havoc it would wreak on the country. He brought in Members of Congress from both parties, together and separately, put them in front of TV cameras, suggested he was working in good faith and that an agreement was close, and then hours or days later, would do a complete about face. Repeatedly. And then, hours before the deadline, the President, Speaker Ryan, and Majority Leader McConnell put a bill on the floor, with zero input from Democrats, and told us to take it or leave it. That’s not leadership, and it’s not governing. It’s extortion – threatening to cause pain and suffering on the American people, poor children, and our military if their demands weren’t met. For the sake of our country and the strength of our democracy, it simply could not stand. “Now that we are here, we simply must insist that President Trump and Republican leadership sit down with Democrats and hammer out a deal that represents the values of the American people, through the representatives of the American people. “In Ventura County, that means long-term and critical funding for our military. It also means long-term and critical funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program and community health centers, funding for wildfire relief and mitigation, funding for our veterans, funding to address the opioid addiction crisis, and funding for other important priorities that support our national security and our economic security. And yes, it means a humane, fair, and expedited resolution to the status of the Dreamers in our community whose lives are being treated like pawns in a chess game. Enough is enough. “Mr. President, I stand ready to work around the clock to negotiate a fair, reasonable, bipartisan agreement that addresses the needs of my district and the needs of the country. I hope you will join me.” Issues: 115th Congress, Budget
01.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today after a vote in the U.S. House of Representatives on H.R. 195: “It’s been 3 ½ months since the fiscal year began, and Congress still has not reached bipartisan agreement on appropriations legislation. This is not responsible governing. For months, Democrats have stood ready and eager to hammer out a bipartisan, long-term funding agreement, but Republican leadership insisted on this ‘go-it-alone’ strategy that ignores many pressing priorities – where there is actually bipartisan consensus. “Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle want to eliminate the sequester and adjust the budget caps to adequately fund our military and our veterans, as well as support critical domestic programs that grow our economy and help middle-class families. Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle want to fund healthcare for children, the community health centers program, and the special diabetes program, as well as prevent devastating cuts to our hospitals. Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle want to protect DREAMERs. Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle want to provide disaster relief for those impacted by the Thomas Fire and other disasters. However, Speaker Ryan refuses to allow the House to vote on a bill that accomplishes these shared priorities. “Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell were willing to do anything to pass legislation that gave trillions to the rich and massive corporations. However, when it comes to important priorities, like national defense, infrastructure, and education, they continue to kick the can down the road, and even worse, prevent the House and Senate from even voting on bipartisan priorities. Another funding patch is bad for Naval Base Ventura County, bad for middle-class families in California, and bad for our nation. I simply will not participate in this charade. It’s time for Republican leadership to do the hard work of governing.” Issues: 115th Congress, Budget
01.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, a bill authored by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) heads to the President’s desk for signature, bringing Sergeant Major (Ret.) John Canley of Oxnard one step closer to receiving the prestigious Medal of Honor. Sergeant Major Canley served as a Marine for 28 years, including service during the Vietnam War. His actions as Company Commander of Alpha Company, 1st Battalion, 1st Marine Regiment, during the early days of the Tet Offensive in Hue City, Vietnam, saved the lives of many Marines and sailors. In 1968, during the Battle of Hue, his commanding officer was gravely wounded, so then-Gunnery Sergeant Canley took immediate command of his company, directing several counter attacks over many days, advancing the war strategically, and saving many American lives. More than a dozen eyewitness statements corroborate this account. Additionally, he spent part of every year from 1965 to 1970 on the front lines in battle in Vietnam, a choice he made despite having the opportunity to take an administrative position. For his extraordinary heroism, Canley received the Navy Cross, as well as two Bronze Stars and a Purple Heart. In 2014, John Ligato, who served as a Private First Class with Sergeant Major Canley, contacted Congresswoman Brownley’s office to request that she recommend that his medal be upgraded to the Medal of Honor – the highest military award given by the U.S. government. Last month, after several years of review by the U.S. Marine Corps and the Department of Defense, Secretary of Defense Mattis sent Congresswoman Brownley a letter stating that “after giving the nomination careful consideration, I agree that then-Gunnery Sergeant Canley’s actions merit award of the Medal of Honor.” Secretary Mattis noted, however, that under federal law, the Medal of Honor must be awarded “within five years after the date of the act or service justifying the award.” To waive this requirement, Congress must pass legislation, so Brownley got to work on getting a bill through the House and Senate. After working closely with House Leadership and House Committee Chairmen, the House passed a bill on December 21, 2017, waiving the time limit for Sergeant Major Canley. Since then, Brownley has been working with Senators Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris to get the bill through the Senate. It passed the Senate today and now heads to the President’s desk for signature. Once the legislation waiving the time limit is enacted, it will still be up to President Trump to decide whether Canley will actually receive the award. “Sergeant Major Canley truly exemplifies the kind of courage and bravery for which this honor is awarded,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “His valorous actions and unwavering dedication to his fellow servicemembers is the reason so many of the men who support his nomination are alive today to testify on his behalf. His incredible gallantry and selflessness is an inspiration to us all. I am so grateful to all of my colleagues in the House and Senate, on both sides of the aisle, for helping expedite this bill, especially Senators Feinstein and Harris and House and Senate leadership. This is a great demonstration of Congress’s ability to work in a bipartisan manner when it comes to a truly just cause. I hope that starting the year on this note will set the tone for 2018, and the work that we can accomplish together to move our nation forward this year.” “I want to profusely thank Congresswoman Brownley for her continued work helping me with this honor,” said Sergeant Major Canley. “The credit for this award really should go to all the young Marines in Vietnam who inspired me every day. Most of them didn’t receive any recognition, but they were the foundation of every battle in the Vietnam War.” What Sergeant Major Canley’s Fellow Servicemembers Say About His Bravery: “The sheer cumulative effect of Gunny Canley’s actions and deeds over this continued period rank with the acts of America’s greatest heroes from the Revolutionary War to this present day,” said Ligato. “This man is the epitome of A Marine Warrior.” “I spent nine months in the St. Alban hospital, required numerous surgeries and am disabled, but, I would have died if [Canley] had not risked his life for mine,” said Pat Fraleigh. “This was not the first time I saw Gunny Canley act heroically. At Cen Thien he not only carried Marines to safety, but also exposed himself to enemy fire. … He was always leading and attacking the enemy and always standing up and encouraging us.” “One man in front of our position was hit and we were being kept down from incoming fire. As the Lieutenant was calling in fire support, Gunny [Canley] directed fire on the enemy then at risk to himself he got up and ran to the injured man, picked him up, and carried him to safety, all the time while taking fire,” said Paul D. Patterson. “[Canley] was a man who inspired men, he was a Marine’s Marine. There was not place that [Canley] would ask us to go that we would not follow.” “The leadership [and] cool under fire bravery that Gunny Canley showed throughout this horrendous battle has inspired me to this day,” said Gary E. Eichler. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
01.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – On Thursday, February 1, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) will host a Veterans Claims Expo to assist Ventura County veterans with pending claims with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. VA representatives will be on hand for one-on-one meetings from 9:00 AM to 12:00 PM at the Boys and Girls Club of Camarillo, located at 1500 Temple Avenue, Camarillo, CA 93010. “Serving Ventura County’s veterans continues to be one of my top priorities in Congress,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “That is why I am working to ensure that local veterans and their families have the opportunity to directly work with the VA to expedite their claims so that those who served our nation get the benefits they have earned and deserve.” This service is free, but space is limited and appointments are required. To schedule an appointment, call (805) 379-1779. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
01.09.2018	Washington, D.C. – On Thursday, January 25, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) will host a Veterans Community Meeting to discuss the new Oxnard VA clinic, which was authorized when her legislation was signed into law last year. Regional VA leadership will be on hand to discuss the new clinic and give local veterans an opportunity to ask questions and give input as the process moves forward. The event is taking place from 4:00 PM – 5:30 PM at Oxnard Family Circle, located at 2100 Outlet Center Drive, Oxnard, CA 93036. “When I first came to Congress, the local VA clinic was approximately 6,000 sq. ft. and did not have nearly enough healthcare providers to meet the needs of our local veterans,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I made it my mission to expand the facility, so that veterans would be able to receive more healthcare services closer to home. Since then, we have successfully fought to expand the clinic by three times its original size and significantly increase the number of healthcare professionals.” “The interim clinic was a step forward, but I continued to fight in Congress for legislation to authorize a facility that will meet the needs of Ventura County veterans. My bill to authorize a new VA Community Clinic in our area was recently signed into law. This new clinic will be 41,000 sq. ft. – nearly seven times the size of the clinic when I came to Congress — and will add additional specialty care services here in our community, so Ventura County’s veterans do not have to travel so far for services. Opening the new facility will be a multi-year process, and I want to ensure that every veteran in our community has an opportunity to provide input to the VA.” To RSVP, visit JuliaBrownley.House.gov/RSVP or call Congresswoman Brownley’s office at (805) 379-1779. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
01.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) today issued the following statement regarding the Trump Administration’s decision to end Temporary Protected Status for Salvadorans: “The Trump Administration’s decision today to revoke legal status for an estimated 200,000 Salvadorans is just another example of why it is critically necessary for Congress to move forward on humane and comprehensive immigration reform. Many Salvadorans fled their country in 2001 after it was devastated by two earthquakes, and they have since lived and worked legally in the United States for nearly two decades. They have put down roots here, started families, bought homes, and contributed to the U.S. economy. Forcing them to go back to a nation that is ill-equipped for their return is heartless and could potentially destabilize the region, as well as disrupt our own economy. “Just like our Dreamers, these families are deeply integrated into the fabric of America. It is long past time that we pass comprehensive immigration reform that reflects our shared values as a nation, especially the importance of keeping families and communities together. We need a more humane immigration system that promotes economic competitiveness, recognizes our strength as a nation founded by and built by immigrants, recognizes our role as humanitarian leaders in the world, and provides for effective border security and consistent enforcement of our laws.” Washington, D.C. – La congresista Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) emitió hoy el siguiente comunicado con respecto a la decisión de la administración del Presidente Trump de cancelar el Estatus de Protección Temporal (TPS, por sus siglas en ingles) para salvadoreños: “La decisión de la administración Trump de revocar el estatus legal de aproximadamente 200,000 salvadoreños es solo otro ejemplo de por qué es críticamente necesario que el Congreso avance una reforma migratoria comprensiva y humana. Muchos salvadoreños huyeron su país en 2001 después de que fue destruido por dos terremotos mortales, y desde entonces han vivido y trabajado legalmente en los Estados Unidos por más de dos décadas. Han hecho raíces aquí, han criado familias, han comprado casas y han contribuido a la economía de los EE. UU. Obligarlos a regresar a una nación que está mal equipada para el regreso de estas personas es cruel y podría potencialmente desestabilizar la región, y también impactar negativamente nuestra propia economía nacional. “Al igual que nuestros Soñadores (los Dreamers), estas familias están profundamente integradas en nuestro país. Ya es hora de que aprobemos una reforma migratoria comprensiva que refleje nuestros valores comunes como una nación, especialmente la importancia de mantener a las familias y comunidades unidas. Necesitamos un sistema de inmigración más humano que promueva una economía competitiva, reconoce nuestra fortaleza como una nación fundada y construida por inmigrantes, reconoce nuestro papel como líder humanitaria mundial, y proporciona una seguridad fronteriza efectiva y la ejecución consistente de nuestras leyes.” Issues: 115th Congress, Immigration
01.02.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today following FEMA’s announcement of Public Assistance programs for the Thomas Fire and continued review of Individual Assistance: “I am pleased that Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen came to Ventura today to see firsthand the damage to our area and the immense loss that so many of our friends and neighbors are facing due to the Thomas Fire. “I am also pleased that President Trump has finally approved some of Governor Brown’s request for FEMA disaster recovery assistance for Ventura County to help our community rebuild. Specifically, Public Assistance has been approved to help with damage to state and local public infrastructure. Under certain circumstances, private nonprofit organizations are also eligible to apply. FEMA Hazard Mitigation Assistance has also been approved, which will help to address hazards posed by debris and the potential for mudslides. “Unfortunately, the President has not yet approved Individual Assistance. As I expressed to Secretary Nielsen in our meeting today, I strongly agree with Governor Brown that the threshold for Individual Assistance has been met, and I will continue to work with the President, and federal, state, and local officials, to ensure a full review of Ventura County’s eligibility is completed. Our community needs additional resources as we recover from this horrible fire, which has left many families without a home, destroyed numerous businesses, and left many workers without jobs or income to support their families.” Read more about FEMA Public Assistance. Read more about Hazard Mitigation Assistance and the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. Read the Federal Disaster Declaration Fact Sheet. Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues
12.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) today announced that Sophia Taylor and Abigail Creech, students at Rancho Campana High School in Camarillo, have won the 2017 Congressional App Challenge for California’s 26th Congressional District. Taylor and Creech developed Connect Me, an app designed to help people who are experiencing domestic violence, suicidal thoughts, eating disorders, and other difficult situations by connecting them with talk and text hotlines, community resources, and reminders to improve their physical and mental health. “I want to congratulate Sophia and Abigail for their excellent work developing this new app,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “These young women have shown us the positive impact that can come from creative thinking, hard work, and technological know-how. I also want to commend all of the students who participated in the Congressional App Challenge this year. Science and technology fields are the industries of the future. These students’ submissions demonstrate how innovative the young people of Ventura County are and the many ways in which technology can help better our community.” The Congressional App Challenge is a competition organized by Members of Congress across the country for K-12 students to create their own software applications and gain experience with computer coding. Submissions from students across Ventura County were judged by a panel of experts, including Dr. Ramon Flores, President of the Ventura County Office of Education; Mike Pettit, Chief Information Officer for Ventura County; Philip Hampton, Interim Director of Education Partnerships at California State University Channel Islands; Irene Yang, an app developer and computer science student at California State University Channel Islands; and biomedical engineer Shannon Gillespie McComb. “I had so much fun participating in this competition,” said Taylor. “I had the opportunity to use my computer science and coding skills and develop an app to help people. I was so thrilled when I heard that the app had won.” “Rancho Campana High School is extremely proud of Abigail Creech and Sophia Taylor for winning the Congressional App Challenge for their app, ConnectMe,” said Karen Kikuchi, a computer science teacher at Rancho Campana High School in Camarillo. “Abigail and Sophia are students in my Programming I class, and I challenged the entire class to enter the competition. It was amazing to witness the students’ ideas, creativity, innovation, collaboration, and teamwork – these were natural products of the Congressional App Challenge. This wasn’t just another assignment to them. Students took ownership of their app on its purpose and how it interacted with the user. I am grateful to the competition as it made my curriculum relevant to my students.” “All submissions demonstrated creativity, critical thinking, collaboration, and communication,” said Dr. Flores. “The most rewarding aspect of the Congressional App Challenge was seeing the students apply their coding skills to solve problems relevant to their school environments. Regardless of the outcome, the real winners are the students who would benefit by using these apps.” As the winning submission, Taylor and Creech’s app will be featured in the U.S. Capitol Building and on the website of the U.S. House of Representatives. The students will also receive $250 in Amazon Web Services credits to support their next technology project. Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues
12.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today after the vote in the U.S. House of Representatives on disaster relief assistance: “I am pleased that, after working with my California colleagues on both sides of the aisle for the last few weeks, the disaster assistance and tax relief legislation passed by the House today included eligibility for Southern California’s fires. While the President must still issue a Major Disaster Declaration, this is a critical first step to providing desperately needed aid to all those impacted by the Thomas Fire. I will continue to work tirelessly until my constituents get what they need to rebuild and recover.” Congresswoman Brownley sent a letter to President Trump today urging him to take swift action on Governor Brown’s request last night for a Presidential Major Disaster Declaration for the wildfires affecting Southern California – including and especially the Thomas Fire in Ventura County. Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues
12.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today after the House vote on the Republican tax bill: “Our country needs to update its tax system so more middle-class families and small businesses can get ahead. Sadly, the partisan tax bill we voted on today was a missed opportunity to achieve real, bipartisan reform that accomplishes those goals and simplifies the tax code. “This bill raises taxes on 86 million middle-class households and will be especially painful here in California, where nearly 5.5 million taxpayers will see a tax increase. The legislation cuts back on the very popular state and local tax deductions that working families count on and puts limits on which kinds of disasters qualify for the property loss deduction that helps many in our state rebuild after terrible events, like wildfires and floods. “More than 80 percent of the benefits in this bill go to the richest 1% of Americans, and to make matters worse, they pay for this windfall for the wealthy by exploding the debt by at least $1.5 trillion and sticking our grandchildren with the bill. Republicans are already talking about using this added debt as an excuse to cut Social Security and Medicare. “Finally, this bill rips health insurance away from 13 million Americans and will raise healthcare premiums across the board, when we should be working to expand coverage and bring down costs. “This tax bill is wrong for my constituents and wrong for America.” Issues: 115th Congress, Budget, Tax Policy
12.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today following the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) vote to undermine the principle of net neutrality: “The actions taken today by FCC Chairman Ajit Pai to undermine net neutrality are deeply troubling and have been taken without properly considering public opinion on the matter. The open internet has been a catalyst for economic growth, job creation, the free exchange of information, and myriad innovations that have bettered society and accelerated social and economic equality. I am committed to ensuring that the internet is affordable and accessible for all Americans, and net neutrality is essential to achieve that. The vote taken by the FCC is not the end of this fight. It’s time for Congress to pass legislation that will make sure our internet remains free, fair, and open, with clear, consistent rules on net neutrality that protect consumers.” Issues: 115th Congress
12.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today on the House vote to allow anyone authorized to carry a concealed weapon in another state to be able to bring it into California: “I am unequivocally opposed to concealed carry reciprocity. Many states do not have proper background checks in place to prevent criminals and the mentally-ill from purchasing firearms or obtaining a concealed carry permit. Furthermore, some states give permits to individuals convicted of violent misdemeanors or without any background checks altogether. I simply cannot support legislation that will put California residents in danger.” Issues: 115th Congress, Gun Safety, Gun Violence Prevention
12.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today on the House vote to go to conference with the Senate on the Republican tax bill: “I firmly believe that we need to overhaul the U.S. tax code. Tax reform that makes the system fairer for middle-class families, helps small businesses, and encourages entrepreneurship and innovation is long overdue. Unfortunately, if you look at the House and Senate bills, they don’t achieve these goals. “While there are differences between the two bills that Republicans are trying to work out, nonpartisan economists have already shown that when you add the different provisions up, the Ryan-McConnell plan raises taxes on millions of middle-class families. To make matters worse, the Senate version also undermines our healthcare system, driving up premiums for working families – all to give a kick-back to wealthy donors, Washington special interests, and corporations that ship jobs overseas. “I want middle-class families and small businesses to get a tax cut, so I will keep fighting for real tax reform.” Issues: 115th Congress, Budget
11.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA), co-chair of the House Democratic Caucus Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes Task Force, led a forum with Members of Congress and experts on how the federal government can help ensure veterans have the resources and opportunities they need to start their own businesses. “We need to ensure veterans find a good job as they transition back to civilian life, and for many former servicemembers that means running their own small business,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Veterans are great candidates to become entrepreneurs. Our service branches instill leadership, a strong work ethic, and grace under pressure – all skills required to be successful as a small business owner. But for many veterans, starting a business from scratch can be daunting and requires significant financial investment. I am going to keep working with my colleagues to ensure the federal government is doing all it can to help.” As part of the House Democratic Caucus Jobs for America effort, the Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes Task Force is focused on developing legislation and resources so veterans can better use the skills and leadership they developed in the military to succeed in the American economy and support themselves and their families. Today’s forum featured representatives from the National Military Spouse Network, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Disabled American Veterans, and a veteran small business owner. Congresswoman Brownley has introduced legislation to help veterans achieve the dream of small business ownership, including the Start Up in a Day Act and the bipartisan Veteran Entrepreneurs Act. “America’s veterans have sacrificed for our country. Now it’s time that we work even harder for them. Veterans deserve the opportunity to develop the appropriate skills training to help them transition into meaningful civilian jobs,” said Chairman of the Democratic Caucus Joe Crowley. “I look forward to hearing from Congresswoman Brownley on how to best provide for our veterans and our country.” “Veterans return home trained with incredible leadership and technical skills that are highly sought after by employers. The Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes Task Force is working to help harness those skills so that veterans can transition into civilian life prepared for success,” said Vice Chair Linda Sánchez. “I look forward to working closely with Congresswoman Brownley, Co-Chair of the Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes Task Force, to ensure that U.S. servicemembers returning home from the battlefield have the support they need to achieve their goals – whether it’s opening a business or starting a new career.” For more information on the Jobs for America Task Forces, please visit: www.Dems.gov/JobsForAmerica. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
11.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today on passage of a resolution requiring anti-harassment training for all Members and employees of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Everyone has the right to work in a safe environment free from harassment, abuse, and intimidation. Mandating anti-harassment training for all Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, as well as all staff and interns, is an important first step to ensure a climate of respect in our workplace. However, Congress must make changes to create additional accountability and transparency in how it handles any and all complaints about harassment or discrimination and to guarantee justice for all victims. Congress should be a national leader and role model for protections for individuals at workplaces across the country. I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that is the case.” Issues: 115th Congress, Civil Rights
11.28.2017	Veteran Entrepreneurs Act Provides Tax Credit, Reduces Financial Barriers for Veterans Opening Small Businesses Washington, D.C. — Today, Representatives Claudia Tenney (NY-22) and Julia Brownley (CA-26) introduced the Veteran Entrepreneurs Act. This bill will help veterans achieve the American Dream of opening a small business by reducing barriers often in the way of starting a business. The Veteran Entrepreneurs Act will reduce both the financial and regulatory burden involved in starting a franchise. Cutting red tape and creating a tax credit to cover 25 percent of initial franchisee fees will go a long way in helping veterans open their own small businesses and succeed in the economy after their service to our nation. “Veterans have served our country with honor and distinction, and it is our duty to ensure that they can thrive in a good job once they’ve transitioned back to civilian life,” said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. “For many former servicemembers, that means running their own small business. I am proud to co-author bipartisan legislation with Congresswoman Tenney to make it easier for veterans to open their own businesses so they can have a better opportunity to support themselves and their families.” “With thousands of veterans transitioning out of the military annually, this bill will ease their transition to the private sector by empowering veterans to use their unique skills and expertise to open a new small business. When our veterans come home from selflessly serving our nation, they should be afforded every opportunity to use these skills to positively contribute to our local communities. This bill will encourage entrepreneurship among our veterans while creating jobs and growth in our local communities,” said Congresswoman Claudia Tenney. “I’m honored to work across the aisle with my colleague Congresswoman Brownley to help ensure our veterans have the opportunities they need to thrive.” At a roundtable discussion earlier this month, Reps. Tenney and Brownley spoke with veteran business owners about the struggle they faced while working to open their businesses. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
11.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced more than $6.1 million in federal grant funding for Ventura County and the cities of Oxnard and Ventura for community development, homelessness, and housing programs. “It is essential that we invest in Ventura County so that it remains a vibrant and diverse place for everyone who lives here,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “These grants will better enable Ventura County to help vulnerable families and individuals improve their quality of life and ensure the fabric of our community remains strong.” The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded Ventura County $1,620,399 as part of the Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) program, $140,556 as part of the Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) homelessness program, and $478,782 as part of the HOME affordable housing program. “These funds give us the ability to enhance essential services to our low-income residents, and help to meet the basic needs of housing, food and supportive services for the homeless and elderly populations within our communities,” said Ventura County Executive Officer Mike Powers. “We – along with our Entitlement Area partner communities of Santa Paula, Port Hueneme, Ojai, Fillmore and Moorpark – are grateful to Congresswoman Brownley and the Department of Housing and Urban Development for this grant funding.” HUD has also awarded the City of Oxnard $2,183,330 as part of the CDBG program, $198,164 as part of the ESG program, and $532,053 as part of the HOME program. “The City of Oxnard is grateful for Congresswoman Julia Brownley’s support of the CDBG program,” said Oxnard City Manager Greg Nyhoff. “This money is vital to our efforts to assist homeless, seniors and youth and to provide other quality of life services and infrastructure improvements for our residents.” Finally, HUD has awarded the City of Ventura $673,678 as part of the CDBG program and $275,750 as part of the HOME program. “CDBG funding is a major asset in ensuring the availability of important programs and services for Ventura’s youth, seniors, families and underserved population,” said Ventura City Manager Mark Watkins. “The impact of this funding will help to enhance the quality of life, and for that we are grateful to Congresswoman Brownley and her support of the CDBG program.” The announcement today comes on the heels of Congresswoman Brownley’s announcement last month of $1.3 million from HUD for Camarillo, Simi Valley, and Thousand Oaks as part of the CDBG program. Issues: 115th Congress, Affordable Housing, Local Issues
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brad Wenstrup (R-OH) and Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, introduced the Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Program Improvement Act of 2017 to fight veteran homelessness by strengthening job training programs for our warfighters who have returned home. Currently, homeless veterans are eligible for job training and placement services under the Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Program (HVRP). However, if a veteran is also eligible for assistance under the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program, Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF), or Native American Housing Assistance, the VA considers them to be no longer “homeless”, thereby restricting access to HVRP. In doing so, a veteran is denied access to a program that will help them re-enter the workforce and get them back on their feet. The Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Program Improvement Act would clarify that veterans eligible for the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program, Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF), or Native American Housing Assistance are also eligible for HVRP assistance. This legislation would also reauthorize the HVRP program for five years, along with programs that are designed for female homeless veterans and homeless veterans with children. “Veterans have served our nation with honor and distinction, and we must do more to help them re-enter the workforce and thrive when they transition back to civilian life,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “To break the cycle of veteran homelessness, veterans must have the tools they need to support themselves and their families. I am honored to join Congressman Wenstrup to introduce this legislation to strengthen job training programs for homeless and recently homeless veterans, and to help those who have struggled to find employment get back on their feet.” “Too often, when our men and women in uniform return home after their service to this country, finding a job and assimilating back into civilian life proves fraught with challenges,” said Congressman Wenstrup. “Strengthening job training programs to empower our veterans with career and job opportunities that provide similar comradery and meaning as their service provided them is the least we can do, after all they have done for us. Full text of the legislation is available here. Organizations in Support: Easterseals: “Easterseals affiliates located in Cincinnati and across the country are helping homeless veterans reconnect to their communities and find meaningful employment through the Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Program,” said Maynard Friesz, Easterseals’ Assistant Vice President of Government Relations. “Easterseals applauds Representatives Wenstrup and Brownley for their bipartisan leadership to help veterans by extending this proven employment program.” National Coalition for Homeless Veterans: “The high-quality employment obtained through HVRP allows formerly homeless veterans to re-enter the workforce, support themselves and their families, and stay stably housed long-term,” said Kathryn Monet, CEO of the National Coalition for Homeless Veterans. “We thank Representatives Wenstrup and Brownley for recognizing that rapid access to housing should never prevent a recently homeless veteran from accessing job training and other employment services. Their bill makes needed changes to allow the HVRP program to integrate much more meaningfully into housing-first oriented community systems to end veteran homelessness.” Background: The Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Program (HVRP) provides services to assist in reintegrating homeless veterans into meaningful employment and to help address the complex problems facing homeless veterans. Funds are awarded on a competitive basis to eligible applicants such as state and local Workforce Investment Boards; public agencies; for-profit/commercial entities; and non-profit organizations, including faith based and community based organizations. The program is “employment focused” and veterans receive the employment and training services they need to re-enter the labor force. For more information on HVRP, please click here. ### Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today on passage of the House Republican tax bill: “We need to reform the federal tax code to reduce the tax burden on working families and small businesses, incentivize innovation, and spur real job growth. Unfortunately, the tax bill that House Republicans passed today doesn’t do that. “Instead, this scam gives a massive tax cut to the very wealthy and large corporations that outsource jobs at the expense of seniors, veterans, parents, homeowners, students, and middle-class families. The truth is that millions of Americans will see tax increases if this bill becomes law. It’s especially bad here in California, where 28 percent of taxpayers – mostly middle-class families – will see their taxes go up. “This bill also adds another $1.5 trillion, plus the added interest payments, to the national debt – endangering Medicare and Social Security for our seniors and sticking our children and grandchildren with the bill. “Unfortunately, the Senate version of the bill is even worse. It is going to drive up healthcare premiums for working families and would be even more costly for California’s middle-class families because it also ends the property tax deduction. “As this process continues to move forward, I will keep fighting for a better deal for Californians and working families across the country because we simply cannot allow this tax bill to become law.” Issues: 115th Congress, Tax Policy
11.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today on passage in the U.S. House of Representatives of the conference agreement for the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018: “It is an honor to represent Naval Base Ventura County and its more than 19,000 active duty and civilian personnel, all of whom have bravely dedicated themselves to safeguarding our nation’s security. The legislation passed today will help ensure the continued operation of our base and other military installations around the globe, as well as provide a well-earned pay raise for active duty military personnel. “Today’s bill also continues support for programs that are critical for Naval Base Ventura County’s role in our country’s long-term national security, including the MQ-4C Triton and the E-2D Hawkeye. The first Triton was delivered to Point Mugu last week, the west coast home for this next-generation unmanned aircraft. “I am pleased to see this bill pass today and will continue to fight to protect Naval Base Ventura County and ensure our entire Armed Forces have the resources they need.” Issues: 115th Congress, Defense
11.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement regarding the delivery of the first operational MQ-4C Triton Unmanned Aerial System to Point Mugu: “The delivery of the first Triton marks a huge milestone for the Navy. Point Mugu will be the west coast home for this next-generation unmanned aircraft – a testament to Naval Base Ventura County’s essential role for our country’s long-term national security. The Triton program also brings with it hundreds of jobs at our base, further strengthening our local economy. I am so proud to represent Naval Base Ventura County and the more than 19,000 active duty and civilian personnel who work there. I also look forward to welcoming all the new personnel and their families who will come to Ventura County to work on the Triton program in years to come.” Congresswoman Brownley has long spearheaded the Congressional effort to fund and support development of the Triton program. The Triton will provide the Navy with improved maritime intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance, and will also be capable of aiding humanitarian and disaster relief activities across the globe. Issues: 115th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
11.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding the mark up of the VA Asset and Infrastructure Review (AIR) Act in the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee: “We need to make sure we’re consistently investing in the VA to build the innovative, 21st Century agency that will serve a new generation of veterans. I firmly believe that we need a process for the VA to address aging infrastructure and close facilities that are outdated or are no longer serving veterans’ needs. “However, I have serious concerns about the process being put forth in this bill. Our veterans’ needs change over time, and the VA must have the flexibility to respond to that in a nimble fashion. A continuous, ongoing effort to review and update infrastructure would be more responsive to this dynamic. “Furthermore, closing outdated facilities is only one half of the equation. We also need to ensure that when a facility closes, the VA has a plan for serving veterans in that area going forward – whether that’s a smaller facility or relocating a facility. To help address this, I introduced an amendment to the bill today to break down the bureaucratic barriers we face when authorizing new VA medical facility leases. I was pleased that Chairman Roe committed to working with me to address this issue once and for all. It is essential that we bring renewed attention to this critical health care issue for veterans, and find a bipartisan way forward.” Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
11.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House approved a bill that will allow U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) health professionals to practice telemedicine across state borders and care for more of America’s veterans. The bill, H.R. 2123, the Veterans E-Health and Telemedicine Support (VETS) Act of 2017, introduced by U.S. Representatives Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA) and Julia Brownley (D-CA) allows VA doctors to practice telemedicine across state lines. Rep. Thompson, father of a staff sergeant in the U.S. Army, said: “I am pleased the House passed this bill today to allow our servicemen and women greater access to care – especially those in rural areas. As our nation celebrates Veterans Day this weekend, it is particularly meaningful and sends a message that we put our veterans first. This bill will ensure that our veterans receive timely health care no matter where they live. I thank Rep. Brownley, Chairman Roe, and Ranking Member Walz for their support of the VETS Act.” House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Brownley said: “The passage of our bill in the House today marks a major step toward our goal of expanding the VA’s ability to provide better, more accessible care to our veterans – including right in their own homes. New technologies provide us with better ways to provide care for veterans and tailor it to their unique needs, and we need to capitalize on that innovation. I thank Congressman Thompson for his leadership on this bipartisan effort, and I look forward to working with our Senate counterparts to get this bill signed into law.” House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Chairman Phil Roe, M.D., said: “As chairman and a physician, I know firsthand the value that telemedicine can play in increasing access to quality health care, particularly for veterans in rural areas. I thank Rep. Thompson for his leadership on this important legislation that will allow VA medical providers to practice across state lines.” House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Ranking Member Tim Walz said: “Ensuring each and every one of our nation’s veterans, no matter where they call home, can access high quality and timely health care is and will always be one of the highest priorities of this committee. The Veterans E-Health and Telemedicine Support (VETS) Act is a commonsense, bipartisan piece of legislation that would make it easier for VA doctors to provide telehealth treatment to veterans across state lines. This bill is just another example of the great work our committee members are doing to improve the lives of veterans and I offer my sincere gratitude to Representatives Brownley and Thompson for their leadership on this bill.” VETS ACT AT A GLANCE The bill introduced by U.S. Reps. Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson and Julia Brownley would do three things: Create a VA state licensure exemption to allow VA-credentialed health care professionals to work across state borders to perform telemedicine without having to obtain a new license in that state. Expand the definition of exempt health care professionals to include VA doctors. Remove the location requirement to allow for care regardless of where the health care professional or patient is located. The VETS Act is endorsed by the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), Coalition for Health IT Now, Disabled American Veterans, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Association of the United States Navy, American Medical Association, American Telemedicine Association, American Psychological Association, American Psychiatric Association, National Alliance on Mental Illness, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, the Fleet Reserve Association, Brain Injury Association of America, the Retired Enlisted Association, Lung Cancer Alliance, The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s Research, United Spinal Association, and the American College of Radiology. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
11.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding the so-called CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act (H.R. 3922): “House Republicans are willing to add $1.5 trillion to the national debt in order to fund tax cuts that predominantly benefit the wealthiest 1%. Yet, when it comes to providing healthcare to low-income children and keeping community health centers and hospitals open, Paul Ryan demands we pay for it by taking money from seniors. These priorities are completely out of whack. This bill presents false choices, pitting the needs of poor children against other public health programs. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities has also warned that this bill could result in up to 688,000 families losing health insurance altogether.” “I firmly support reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program, community health centers program, assistance for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and protecting our hospitals from devastating funding cuts. However, in the process, we do not have to gut other essential public health programs, throw families off of health insurance, or divert Medicare funds. “Time is of the essence. I look forward to negotiating a better, bipartisan deal with our Senate colleagues to fund these important programs.” Issues: 115th Congress, Healthcare
11.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding introduction of the House Republicans’ tax cut bill: “Republicans tout that they want to help middle-class families, but the tax cut bill they unveiled yesterday clearly shows that what they really care about is putting billionaires first. “Their giveaway to the rich eliminates deductions that are critical for middle-class families in California, including the state and local income tax deduction, the medical expense deduction, the student loan interest deduction, and the dependent care credit. They also limit the property tax deduction and the mortgage interest deduction for future homebuyers. “The message this bill sends to middle-class Americans is loud and clear: If you want to go to school to better your education, you have a child in daycare, you are buying a home for your family for the first time, or you have major medical expenses from cancer or other life-threatening conditions, Republicans don’t care. “This windfall for the 1% also forces our country deeper into debt – putting more pressure on Medicare and Social Security and sticking our grandchildren with the bill. Despite Republicans’ claims, most reasonable economists say that tax cuts funded by adding to the deficit are not the path to economic growth. “We know a scam when we see one. Americans deserve a better deal – one that will help working class families instead of special interests. Speaker Ryan needs to scrap this plan so that we can work on a bipartisan bill that actually reforms the tax code and helps middle-class families.” ### Issues: 115th Congress, Tax Policy
11.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs passed a bill co-authored by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) and Congressman Glenn “GT” Thompson (R-PA) to expand access to telemedicine for veterans in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) healthcare system. “We must continue to leverage new technologies that will allow us to provide better and more convenient care for our veterans,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “The capability to provide care to veterans right in their own homes exists, but archaic rules stand in the way. Committee passage of our legislation today brings us one step closer to having telehealth services more widely available, no matter the veteran’s physical location. I thank the Committee for their support, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House to pass this bill and get it to the President’s desk.” The Veterans E-Health and Telemedicine Support (VETS) Act will allow VA health professionals to practice telemedicine across state borders. Currently, VA doctors can only provide telehealth treatment across state lines if the veteran and the doctor are both located in federal facilities, making it difficult for veterans to access telemedicine services from their own homes. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
11.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) today welcomed the start of Covered California’s health insurance open enrollment for 2018, and urged Ventura County families to make sure they are covered. “People have probably heard a lot about possible changes to the health insurance market over the past few months, but it’s very important for everyone to know that California’s health insurance market is up and running,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “If you receive your health insurance through Covered California, the open enrollment period is happening now, and it’s critical that everyone gets covered. Whether it’s accessing preventative health exams and prescription drugs, or dealing with a serious, unexpected accident or illness, health insurance protects you and your family.” Congresswoman Brownley is encouraging her constituents to visit CoveredCA.com, California’s health insurance marketplace, to shop for a new plan or to explore options for renewing existing coverage. The open enrollment period starts today and goes until January 31, 2018. Covered California offers a variety of plans, and many enrollees qualify for financial assistance. As of June 2016, more than 1.2 million Californians received some level of financial help and qualified enrollees got an average subsidy of $300 per month toward their policy. Individuals in need of assistance are also encouraged to contact Covered California to locate a local enrollment center or county enrollment office, speak with a certified enroller, or find an enrollment event near them. More information can be found at CoveredCA.com or by calling 1-800-300-1506. Constituents can also call Congresswoman Brownley’s office at (805) 379-1779 for further assistance. Issues: 115th Congress, Healthcare
10.31.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced two federal grants totaling more than $350,000 for California Lutheran University to support underrepresented students at both the K-12 and post-baccalaureate levels. California Lutheran University will receive $125,348 from the U.S. Department of Education as part of the Jacob K. Javits Gifted and Talented Students Education Program, which helps elementary and secondary schools identify gifted and talented students and meet their special educational needs, with a focus on students who are economically disadvantaged, have limited English proficiency, or have a disability. The Department of Education anticipates this grant will be funded for five years, totaling more than $625,000. “Every student deserves to be challenged in a rigorous learning environment and to have the opportunity to reach their full potential,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased that Cal Lutheran is receiving this funding, because it will give local students – especially those who are all too often left behind – the chance to harness their abilities and get on the path for higher education success.” “This grant will enable us to study how to identify giftedness in marginalized student populations such as African-Americans, English learners and students with autism spectrum disorder and to develop better ways to serve them,” said project director Melissa Spence, an assistant professor in Cal Lutheran’s Graduate School of Education who spent 10 years working as a special education teacher for students with autism. “We need to do a better job of meeting the needs of these underserved students so they can thrive and go on to college and graduate.” California Lutheran University will also receive $232,263 from the U.S. Department of Education as part of the Ronald E. McNair Post-Baccalaureate Achievement Program, which provides funding to higher education institutions for projects that specifically help underrepresented college students pursue doctoral studies. This grant program is one of eight federal TRIO programs designed to ensure that students traditionally underrepresented in postsecondary education receive the support and assistance they need to succeed in college and beyond. The Department of Education anticipates this grant will be funded for five years, totaling more than $1.16 million. “These funds will help create stronger pipelines to graduate school for young people who are typically underrepresented in these programs,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Scholars and researchers are tackling the big questions and major challenges of our time. It is important that we promote a diversity of perspectives and backgrounds in advanced fields.” “This $1.16 million McNair grant will enable us to provide high-potential students who are traditionally underrepresented in graduate schools with research programs and scholarly activities that will prepare them for earning doctorates,” said project director Haco Hoang, a professor of political science at Cal Lutheran. “Today, many highly-valued careers require graduate degrees and we must help students from disadvantaged segments of society realize their potential by eliminating barriers to their academic success. We all benefit when there is a diversity of people and ideas at the highest levels.” Issues: 115th Congress, Education
10.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding House and Senate Republicans’ Joint Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2018: “Budgets are statements about our values. This budget resolution will harm seniors, veterans, children, and working families – all to pave the way for tax cuts that give 80% of the benefits to the top 1%. Meanwhile, the House and Senate GOP have thrown out even the pretense of caring about fiscal responsibility, voting to add another $1.5 trillion to the national debt, the burden of which will fall heavily on our children. “Instead of exploding the national debt to benefit the top 1%, we should be taking real actions to boost our economy, like investing in education, job training, and rebuilding our crumbling national infrastructure, and taking bipartisan steps to lower our national debt. “The values and priorities of the GOP are wrong for the economy, wrong for the hardworking men and women of our country, and wrong for our children.” Issues: 115th Congress, Budget
10.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – As part of Domestic Violence Awareness Month, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) today introduced the “Protect Victims of Crime Act” – legislation to increase the yearly cap on the U visa program, created to protect victims of crime, from 10,000 to 40,000. This will enable more survivors of serious crimes, like domestic abuse or sexual assault, to come forward without fear of deportation to help law enforcement investigate or prosecute criminals. “We must do everything we can to help survivors of domestic abuse and victims of other serious crimes in finding safe haven, while aiding law enforcement in getting criminals off the street,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Unfortunately, there are too many heartbreaking stories of individuals who want to report their abuser to the police or speak up about a crime, but are afraid that doing so could result in their own deportation. This legislation will enable more victims and witnesses of crimes to safely come forward.” One individual who would benefit from this bill is Maria, a farmworker who lives in Oxnard, California. In 2014, she was a victim of domestic violence. Maria filed the appropriate police reports, and with her children, was able to leave her abuser. At the same time, she applied for a U visa with the help of a community-based organization. Three years later, she is still waiting for her application to be processed. She states that with each passing day, she is losing hope that she will be able to obtain a U visa and live fear-free in Ventura County. The U visa was originally created as part of the bipartisan Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act in 2000. The victim of a qualifying criminal activity – which includes domestic violence and sexual assault – who aids law enforcement in the investigation and prosecution of the crime may apply for the visa. The visa is valid for four years, and U visa holders can eventually apply for legal permanent residency. Current law caps U visas at 10,000 each year. In fiscal year 2016, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services received 35,044 petitions for the 10,000 visas available. The cap was reached three months into the fiscal year on January 4, 2016. As of June 2017, 103,045 victims and witnesses to crimes were still waiting for approval because of the cap. A 2011 surveyfound that 46 percent of U visa recipients were victims of domestic violence. Brownley’s bill is cosponsored by Representatives Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Grace Meng (D-NY), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Jared Polis (D-CO), Adam Schiff (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Norma Torres (D-CA), Juan Vargas (D-CA), and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL). It is also supported by the National Network to End Domestic Violence, National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Casa de Esperanza, Asian Pacific Institute on Gender-Based Violence, and California Partnership to End Domestic Violence. “Undocumented victims of gender-based violence are among the most vulnerable, and the mechanisms we have to help them are often insufficient to help them come out of the shadows and report to law enforcement,” said Ruth Glenn, Executive Director of the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence. “We stand with Representative Brownley in her efforts to provide further protections and supports for survivors of violence who seek safety by increasing the number of U-Visas available annually to reflect the actual need.” “The U visa provides essential protections for survivors of domestic violence and other crimes, and the current near decade-long backlog to receive a visa is unconscionable,” said Kathy Moore, Executive Director of the California Partnership to End Domestic Violence. “By increasing the annual cap, the Protect Victims of Crime Act will provide more survivors with relief from fear of deportation and a safe and stable foundation for themselves and their families.” Issues: 115th Congress, Immigration
10.24.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representatives Mike Coffman (R-CO) and Julia Brownley (D-CA) introduced H.R. 4099, the “Homeless Veteran Families Act.” The bill aims to assist community agencies that help homeless veterans with dependents, with housing costs – thus helping keep families together. The Veterans Affairs’ (VA) Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem (GPD) Program is offered annually by the VA’s Health Care for Homeless Veterans Program to fund community agencies providing services to homeless veterans. H.R. 4099 would provide the VA Secretary with the authority to reimburse GPD providers at a 50% rate for the costs of housing minor dependent(s) of homeless veterans while the veteran receives services from the grant recipient. “As a nation, we have a sacred responsibility to help those who served in uniform,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “It is simply unacceptable that we have veterans and their families living out on the street. I am proud to lead this bipartisan legislation, alongside Congressman Coffman, to provide more resources for community-based efforts that serve homeless veterans and their children.” Currently, the VA does not have the statutory authority to provide the reimbursements for the costs of services for minor dependents of homeless veterans. This in turn makes the GPD provider pay out of pocket for those services. As a result, some homeless shelters actually give preference to non-veteran homeless families because under the HHS program they do get a per diem for the minor dependent(s). A Government Accountability Office (GAO) report found that this led to a financial disincentive for providers and in turn, limited housing for veterans and their children. This disproportionately affects the female veteran population. “As a Marine combat veteran, I take pride in being able to help those who have served our nation,” said Congressman Coffman. “The bipartisan ‘Homeless Veteran Families Act’ ensures we can offer homeless veterans and their children a safe shelter during their times of hardship and keep families together.” The bill received support from the National Coalition for Homeless Veterans. “Veterans who are homeless with their children have access to permanent housing supports through VA, but the affordable housing crisis our country is facing has lengthened the time it takes them to find appropriate housing with that support. They should not have to stay outside or in unsustainable situations during that period if we can offer them short term bridge housing to get themselves and their families off the street quickly,” said Kathryn Monet, the CEO of the National Coalition for Homeless Veterans. “The bill proposed by Representatives Coffman and Brownley would provide transitional housing programs funding and flexibility from the VA to provide this critical housing resource to homeless veterans and their families.” The following Veterans Service Organizations also support this bill: The American Legion, The Wounded Warrior Project, Disabled American Veterans, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Got Your 6, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Military Order of the Purple Heart, and American Veterans (AMVETS). H.R. 4099 will now be referred to the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, on which Coffman and Brownley currently are members. Issues: 115th Congress, Affordable Housing, Veterans' Affairs
10.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs held a hearing on legislation to improve veterans’ access to quality care, including a bill to update the Veterans Choice Program and the Veterans E-Health and Telemedicine Support (VETS) Act, a bill co-authored by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) and Congressman Glenn “GT” Thompson (R-PA) to expand access to telemedicine at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. “Our top priority must be to provide veterans with the best care possible, as timely as possible,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “That means a modern and innovative VA, care in the community when it makes the most sense for veterans, and leveraging the rapid advancement of technology in all aspects of healthcare delivery. I look forward to continuing to work together with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure the VA healthcare system best serves our nation’s veterans.” Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
10.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding the President’s decision not to recertify Iran’s compliance with the nuclear deal, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA): “While the Iran nuclear deal was not perfect, it was the best mechanism, painstakingly negotiated by the United States, Russia, China, France, the United Kingdom, and Germany, to stop Iran from continuing to develop nuclear weapons. This agreement is critical not only to the safety of our ally, Israel, but also to halting a potential nuclear arms race in the Middle East. It included a rigorous inspection regime, the ability to automatically force sanctions back on Iran in the case of its failure to comply with the agreement, and came with the legitimacy and full force of the support of the President of the United States. “It is universally agreed – including by President Trump’s Defense Secretary, Secretary of State, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff – that the Iranians have complied with the terms of the agreement thus far. It is clear that the agreement significantly reduced Iran’s ability to acquire nuclear weapons, which inarguably has made the United States and the world safer. “President Trump’s unilateral move to decertify Iran’s compliance with the agreement – with no evidence whatsoever – not only diminishes America’s leadership in the world, destabilizes the Middle East, and makes Israel less safe, but it also makes it significantly more difficult for any country to trust that an agreement with the United States, especially with respect to nuclear nonproliferation, is legitimate. “While Congress must continue to use every tool available to halt Iran’s support of terrorism, we also must uphold this agreement, despite this very reckless action by President Trump.” Issues: 115th Congress, Defense
10.10.2017	Washington, D.C. – On Saturday, October 14, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) will host a “HACK-A-THON” for students interested in coding or creating their own apps for the Congressional App Challenge. The Congressional App Challenge is a competition for all students in California’s 26th Congressional District to create their own software applications. The “HACK-A-THON” will take place from 9:00 AM to 12:00 PM at Pacifica High School (600 E. Gonzales Road, Oxnard, CA 93036). Participants will learn about computer programming from industry experts and receive assistance producing their apps for the Congressional App Challenge. Students of all coding experiences are welcome. “The fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) are rapidly growing, presenting new innovation opportunities for young people across our nation,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “We should do more to increase participation in these fields for tomorrow’s innovators. The Congressional App Challenge and my upcoming ‘HACK-A-THON’ are fantastic opportunities for them to learn more about computer programming and apply it to the real world by creating an app that helps their community.” The event is open to all students, but space is limited. For more information or to RSVP, please contact Talin Sardarbegians at (805) 379-1779 or talin.sardarbegians@mail.house.gov. More information about the Congressional App Challenge, as well as how to register, can be found here. Final submissions are due by Wednesday, November 1, 2017. Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues
10.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced more than $1.3 million in federal grant funding for the cities of Camarillo, Simi Valley, and Thousand Oaks for community development programs. “Investing in our communities is essential to keeping Ventura County strong, vibrant, and diverse,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “These grants will support critical investments our cities will make to support the most vulnerable among us, in keeping with Ventura County’s commitment to improving the quality of life for all our residents.” The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has awarded $255,107 to the City of Camarillo, $547,246 to the City of Simi Valley, and $557,958 to the City of Thousand Oaks as part of the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. “The City of Camarillo is grateful for Congresswoman Brownley’s support of the CDBG program,” said Camarillo City Manager Dave Norman. “This money is vital to our efforts to fund needed social service programs for seniors and the homeless, as well as preserving affordable housing in the community.” “Simi Valley has a range of housing and community development needs,” said Simi Valley City Manager Eric Levitt. “CDBG funds help address the myriad of needs identified during the public outreach process. Recognizing the national objectives of these funding programs and specific program regulations, the City of Simi Valley intends to use these funds to coordinate programs, services, and projects to create decent and suitable living environments to benefit low- and moderate-income households and those with special needs.” “The city is pleased to receive an entitlement from CDBG this year,” said Mayor of Thousand Oaks Claudia Bill-de la Peña. “This money will go to support public and social service grants to help low income residents, seniors and families in Thousand Oaks. We are grateful to Congresswoman Brownley for supporting level funding especially as this program was proposed for elimination this year.” Issues: 115th Congress, Affordable Housing, Local Issues
10.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding the House Republicans’ FY 2018 budget resolution: “Congress should be focused on policies that create jobs, help middle-class families, and lift seniors and children out of poverty. Unfortunately, the House Republicans’ budget proposal does the exact opposite. It breaks faith with our seniors who have spent a lifetime paying into Social Security and Medicare, and guts Medicaid funds, which are the primary source of support for nursing home care for low-income seniors and people with disabilities. Their budget reduces funding for education, cuts veterans’ benefits, and reduces investment in infrastructure and other job-creating programs – all in order to line the pockets of the top one percent with a trillion dollar tax cut, while using fantasy, and disproven, trickle-down economics to try to justify it. “Instead of pushing a budget that serves only the wealthy special interests, House Republicans must get serious about working with Democrats to pass another bipartisan budget agreement that lowers our debt and deficits, keeps our promise to America’s seniors, and promotes better jobs and economic opportunities for all Americans.” Issues: 115th Congress, Budget
09.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that Jim and Cathi Nye of Ventura County will be recognized in Washington, D.C., by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute as 2017 Angels in Adoption Awardees for their outstanding work and advocacy on adoption and foster care issues. Brownley nominated the Nyes for this honor. “Jim and Cathi Nye stepped up when foster youth in our community needed it the most,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “They have been some of the most compelling voices in Ventura County speaking up on behalf of our foster youth here. I cannot be more proud to see them recognized for their efforts.” In 2000, while working as a special education teacher, Cathi was notified that one of her students, John, would be transferred from his foster care group home to one elsewhere in the county, moving him away from the only community he had ever known. Cathi and her husband, Jim, decided to go above and beyond to help John. They became his legal guardians and eventually adopted him as well as Frances, with whom he lived in the group home, so they could have a stable, loving home together. Since then, Cathi and Jim have been staunch advocates for foster youth and adoption issues. John and Frances both have cerebral palsy and initially entered the foster care system due to their families’ inability to care for their disabilities. Cathi Nye currently is a principal with the Ventura County Office of Education, serving in that position for the last 16 years. Before that she was a special education teacher with the Ventura Unified School District. Jim currently works as an In-Home Supportive Services care provider for persons with disabilities and medical issues. Before that, he served as a special education teacher in Ventura County for 10 years. The Angels in Adoption program is the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute’s signature public awareness event that shines a spotlight on the unspoken heroes in our communities who have worked to enrich the lives of foster children and orphans in the United States and abroad. Angels in Adoption Awardees are invited to Washington, D.C., for a gala and awards ceremony where they are recognized for their achievements. They also meet with their Congressional representatives to discuss adoption and foster care issues and ways to improve child welfare overall, as well as barriers to achieving that goal. Photos of the Congresswoman and the Nye family are available here. Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues
09.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health held a legislative hearing to discuss a bill introduced by Subcommittee Ranking Member Julia Brownley (D-CA), the Women Veterans Equal Access to Quality Care Act (H.R. 93). “As more and more women join our Armed Forces and return home, we need to make sure the VA is adequately prepared to meet their healthcare needs,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “As the number of women veterans continues to grow, this bill will ensure that the VA keeps pace by making gender-specific services available at each of its medical centers and community clinics. There was a very productive discussion on the bill at the hearing, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to move this legislation forward.” Brownley introduced the Women Veterans Equal Access to Quality Care Act (H.R. 93) at the start of the 115th Congress. The bill directs the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to ensure that gender-specific services, like mammograms, prenatal care, and pap smears, are continuously available at every VA medical center and community-based outpatient clinic. It also directs VA to hire an adequate number of healthcare providers and support staff to provide those services. In 2016, almost 10 percent of the total veteran population – over 2 million veterans – were women, and the VA projects that this percentage will continue to rise. Since 2001, more American women have served our country in uniform than ever before. In fact, nearly 280,000 women have served in Iraq and Afghanistan, and through their service, have earned the full range of healthcare services provided by the VA. Congresswoman Brownley’s legislation received support from the American Legion, AMVETS, Vietnam Veterans of America, the Blinded Veterans Association (BVA), Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the Fleet Reserve Association. Watch Congresswoman Brownley discuss the bill during today’s hearing. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
09.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) issued the following statement today after House passage of the Department of Veterans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act of 2017, which extends critical veterans programs through September 2019, including the VA’s child care pilot program, women veterans retreats pilot program, and support services for homeless veterans: “I am happy the House passed bipartisan legislation extending critical veterans programs. Whether it’s ensuring veterans have access to child care when they have VA appointments, to providing mental health services tailored to the unique needs of women veterans, to putting roofs over the heads of those who are homeless, these VA programs are essential parts of our sacred commitment to care for those who served our nation. Today’s vote is a testament to the success, effectiveness, and popularity of these programs, and I will continue fighting to make them permanent so that every veteran gets the care they have earned and deserve.” Congresswoman Brownley has been spearheading the effort in Congress to secure the future of important veterans programs, including introducing legislation in January to make permanent the VA’s pilot program on retreats for women veterans (H.R. 91), to expand and make permanent the VA’s child care pilot program (H.R. 95), and to make permanent several homeless veterans assistance programs (H.R. 104). H.R. 91 passed the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee in May, and H.R. 95 passed the full House in July. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
09.22.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced more than $350,000 in federal grant funding for two local health centers to increase access to substance abuse and mental health services. “We must continue to do more to address the drug abuse and mental health issues afflicting too many individuals in our communities,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “That is why I am pleased to see additional funding go to two Ventura County health centers that will help expand their reach and improve access to care for those who are in need.” The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has awarded $175,701 to Clinicas Del Camino Real, Inc. and $175,700 to the Ventura County Health Care Agency as part of the Access Increases in Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services (AIMS) program. According to HRSA, AIMS funding supports the expansion of access to mental health services, and substance abuse services focusing on the treatment, prevention, and awareness of opioid abuse. “Clinicas del Camino Real, Inc. is pleased to have received funds to increase access to mental health services,” said Lucrecia Campos-Juarez, Clinicas del Camino Real’s Director of Mental Health Services. “Providing school-based mental health services is a crucial aspect of our Mental Health Department and these funds will allow us to hire an additional school-based provider as well as provide substance abuse awareness trainings at school sites and at our clinic locations. Additional funds will be used to train Clinicas mental health and primary care staff on substance abuse awareness, trauma-informed care, and suicide prevention.” “We are pleased to receive these funds to support our work to increase access to mental health and awareness for opioid abuse prevention,” said Dr. Theresa Cho, Medical Director for Quality, Performance Improvement, and Patient Safety at the Ventura County Health Care Agency’s Ambulatory Care Administration. “These funds will be used toward tablet devices that will use a standardized method for gathering information from patients regarding substance abuse risk. Based on this information, medical providers will be able to direct patients toward brief intervention or referral for treatment as needed. We will provide outreach for opioid abuse prevention and treatment. Funds will also support the purchase of naloxone for opioid overdose emergency response and a part-time licensed clinical social worker to facilitate 12-step treatment and individualized counseling.” Issues: 115th Congress, Healthcare
09.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding H.R. 3354, the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act: “I voted against this bill because it does not reflect the values of Ventura County residents. It defunds Planned Parenthood, Title X family planning, and teen pregnancy prevention programs. It cuts investments in infrastructure, local law enforcement, education programs, our national parks, and enforcement of clean air and clean water rules. It also fails to fund opioid addiction treatment programs, which we know are critical to saving lives. This wrong-headed bill does not invest in our future and contains dangerous policy riders that will undermine public health. Rather than wasting time on a bill that has zero chance of becoming law, we should be focused on passing a real, bipartisan budget agreement that reflects our priorities as a nation. I stand ready to work together, and I hope Republicans will join me.” Issues: 115th Congress, Budget, Local Issues
09.13.2017	Washington, D.C. ­– Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) announced that she will serve as co-chair of the Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes Task Force, which the House Democratic Caucus has established to develop a jobs and economic agenda to ensure America’s veterans succeed in the job market after their service to our nation. This initiative is part of the Caucus’s Jobs for America Task Forces, a unified effort to craft a legislative agenda that will benefit hardworking Americans and middle-class families. The Caucus selected Congresswoman Brownley to co-chair the task force based on her ongoing leadership on veterans’ issues. “I am proud to lead this task force that will make good on our nation’s promise to our men and women in uniform that the skills they learn while serving will position them for good-paying jobs when they return to civilian life,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Whether it is highlighting the critical skills that our servicemembers develop during their time in the military or encouraging states to make it easier for veterans to apply their military training toward professional licenses, we must provide wraparound support and services that help veterans get jobs after their service. We also must focus on the military families who serve alongside their family member in uniform and can sometimes have their own careers uprooted, but who don’t always get the attention they deserve.” The Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes Task Force will build on the strengths of our military and the skills of our returning veterans to grow our economy and create new jobs. The focus will include ensuring the talents our veterans developed while serving can transition into the civilian job market and be harnessed for success. The Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes Task Force is one of five Democratic Caucus Jobs for America Task Forces aimed at identifying opportunities and solutions for American workers in five key areas: Rebuilding America, Jobs With Dignity, Access to Jobs, New Economy, and Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes. In the coming months, co-chairs of each task force will meet with business and labor leaders, issue experts, and American workers to develop policy goals and solutions that will benefit all Americans. The effort was launched by the House Democratic Caucus. “Our returning heroes deserve our respect and admiration, as well as the opportunity to transition back into their communities knowing they have access to secure, well-paying, and stable jobs that value their military experience,” said House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY). “Congresswoman Brownley is committed to helping our nation’s veterans and I’m grateful for her leadership on this critical task force.” For more information on the House Democratic Caucus’s Jobs for America Task Forces, please visit: www.dems.gov/jobsforamerica Watch the Congresswoman’s remarks at the announcement press conference here. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
09.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced more than $3.7 million in federal grant funding for Camarillo Airport to expand aircraft parking, which will better enable it to support Ventura County’s robust local economy. “The Camarillo Airport plays an essential role in our region’s economy as a hub for commerce,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased that Ventura County is receiving this funding, because infrastructure improvements at the airport are essential for local aviation businesses and other companies to thrive.” Camarillo Airport will receive $3,755,942 from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to support the construction of a 16,700 square yard north east apron to provide aircraft parking for users of the airport. “The development of new hangars at the Camarillo airport has been part of the Airport Master Plan for many years, and we are excited to receive grant funds that will assist us in developing the necessary infrastructure associated with this project,” said Todd McNamee, Director of Airports for Ventura County. “Currently, there is a five year wait for County storage hangars and this project will help accommodate a good portion of that demand. This grant, and others like it, is attributable to Congresswoman Julia Brownley’s leadership in Congress on the House Aviation Subcommittee and reflects her commitment to her constituents in Ventura County.” As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Aviation, Congresswoman Brownley works closely with Ventura County officials to support the general aviation airports in Camarillo and Oxnard, which together generate $300 million in economic value annually and support 2,500 local jobs. In 2013, President Obama signed into law legislation that included a provision spearheaded by Congresswoman Brownley to transfer land at Camarillo Airport that was part of the former Oxnard Air Force Base to the County of Ventura. The transfer of the land back to the County will spur business development at the airport, which is an important economic driver for Ventura County. Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues, Transportation and Infrastructure
09.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved an amendment offered by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) to increase federal funding for veterans’ treatment courts. Brownley offered her amendment to the FY 2018 appropriations bill (H.R. 3354) to increase funding for these courts from $7 million to $10 million. Veterans’ treatment courts are locally driven programs that integrate community and VA resources and services to help veterans caught in the justice system who are struggling with mental health or substance abuse issues. “Many of our veterans come home carrying the invisible wounds of war, and these mental health issues can severely impact their lives and sometimes lead them down the wrong path,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Instead of focusing on punishment, we must do our best to help them get back on track to lead productive, fulfilling lives. I am pleased the House has approved this amendment to give more funding to veterans’ treatment courts to help veterans get a second chance.” Background: Local veterans’ treatment courts have been established nationwide to increase the likelihood of success in rehabilitating and reducing recidivism among justice-involved veterans by linking them with services, benefits, and program providers such as the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Service Organizations, and volunteer veteran mentors. There are currently more than 300 of these courts across the country serving over 13,000 veterans, including more than 100 veterans in Ventura County. One in five veterans returning from Afghanistan and Iraq suffers from PTSD, and one in six veterans who served in either Operation Enduring Freedom or Operation Iraqi Freedom suffers from substance abuse. Among those who meet the criteria for PTSD or depression, only a third seek treatment. About 60 to 80 percent of justice-involved veterans had a substance use disorder prior to their incarceration and 25 to 40 percent were suffering from a mental health disorder. Since she was first elected, Congresswoman Brownley has advocated to increase federal funding for veterans’ treatment courts. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
09.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced a nearly $330,000 federal grant for California Lutheran University to continue its efforts to help prepare underserved high school students for postsecondary degrees in math or science and eventually to enter those areas as a career. “Math and science fields are going to continue to be a critical part of the U.S. economy, and ensuring that all young people have the opportunity to succeed in these fields is paramount,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am thrilled that Cal Lutheran received funding to continue its program preparing first-generation college students to pursue 21st Century careers.” California Lutheran University will receive $329,274 from the Department of Education to support its Upward Bound Math and Science Center. The Center helps local high school students in communities including Oxnard, Fillmore, and Santa Paula strengthen their math and science skills and prepare for a degree and career in the math and science fields. The Upward Bound program focuses on students from low-income families and first-generation college attendees. “This will enable us to continue our 27-year effort to prepare low-income young people to enter the STEM fields as the first generation in their families to attend college,” said Cal Lutheran President Chris Kimball. “Hundreds of students will benefit from this $1.65 million grant over the next five years and they will help fill the country’s critical need for scientists and engineers.” Learn more about the Upward Bound Math and Science program here. Learn more about the Cal Lutheran Math and Science program here. Issues: 115th Congress, Education
09.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding H.R. 601: “I am pleased that Congress has moved swiftly to put people ahead of politics to address pressing priorities, including providing critical funding for disaster recovery and relief efforts, lifting the looming debt ceiling, and ensuring that our government continues to work for the American people. “From the fires ravaging California, to Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, to crises we have yet to foresee, it is imperative that federal disaster programs have the funds they need to help our fellow Americans in times of need. We also must ensure that our government continues its critical operations and is able to fulfill its financial obligations. Politics cannot get in the way of Social Security checks going out, bills being paid, and the basic functions of our government remaining open. “Now that these must-pass items are heading to the President’s desk for signature, we should turn our attention to other critical legislation, including protecting our DREAMers and reauthorizing the Children’s Health Insurance Program and the Federal Aviation Administration.” Issues: 115th Congress, Budget
09.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) reintroduced the Biliteracy Education Seal and Teaching (BEST) Act. The bill establishes a federal grant program to help states establish a Biliteracy Seal program that encourages and recognizes high school students who achieve proficiency in English and a second language, and that better enables these young people to compete in the global workforce. “With back-to-school season underway, it is an important time to be focused on setting up America’s young people to succeed,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “We all know how much being proficient in a second language can give you a leg up in today’s globalized, competitive economy. Students in other countries are receiving strong multilingual educations, and America must do more to ensure our young people can compete. Helping states nationwide adopt a Biliteracy Seal program will better prepare our children to succeed in the global workforce and sends a clear signal that our nation is seriously committed to this endeavor.” California’s State Seal of Biliteracy program was first established in 2011 when legislation sponsored by then-Assemblywoman Brownley was signed into law. Since then, over 146,000 students from California have graduated with this seal. In the 2015-2016 school year, 843 schools across 291 school districts in California participated in the program. The program has also been replicated in 26 states and the District of Columbia, which have each approved and established their own statewide Biliteracy Seal programs. The BEST Act is cosponsored by Representatives Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), and Rick Nolan (D-MN). It is also supported by the California Association for Bilingual Education, California School Board Association, Californians Together, Early Edge, the National Council for Languages and International Studies, and Unidos Us. “California has recognized the talents and gifts of over 146,000 graduating seniors who speak English and over 30 other languages by granting them the State Seal of Biliteracy,” said Shelly Spiegel-Coleman, Executive Director of Californians Together. “These students are a valuable resource to our state and nation. The BEST Act will encourage states across this nation to join California and 26 other states in valuing multilingual students who will be our future teachers, doctors, lawyers, and business and community leaders.” “The success and growth of the Seal of Biliteracy in 27 states and the District of Columbia demonstrates that over half of our nation recognizes how important and enriching it is to be proficient in English and another language,” said Jan Gustafson-Corea, CEO of the California Association for Bilingual Education. “Communicating and performing academically in more than one language opens doorways of opportunity for our students, and offers our nation broader opportunities for global success, national security, and economic growth. Let’s provide this opportunity for all students in all 50 states!” Issues: 115th Congress, Education
09.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding the President’s decision to end the DACA program: “The President’s decision to end the DACA program – effectively ripping the rug out from under nearly 800,000 young people who have been vetted and passed background checks – is heartless and irresponsible. These DREAMers came to America as minors, through no fault of their own. President Trump told them they could ‘rest easy.’ But now he has thrown them into six more months of limbo and uncertainty, turning them into political pawns. “This decision isn’t just cruel – it is also harmful to our economy and our security. Removing DACA workers from the economy will lead to an estimated $11.6 billion annual loss in GDP for the state of California alone. Ending the DACA program also means deporting those who have chosen to sacrifice for our nation as members of our Armed Forces. It is disheartening to say to a young person who volunteers to fight for our country that they are not welcome here anymore. “This is not the end of the fight. House Republicans must allow a vote on legislation to protect these young people because they are valuable assets to our nation. We cannot turn our backs on them.” Issues: 115th Congress, Immigration
09.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – On Saturday, September 23, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) will host a workshop for eligible legal permanent residents who are interested in applying for U.S. citizenship. Volunteers will be on hand at the U.S. Citizenship Workshop to assist individuals with the naturalization application, fee waiver assistance, and the filing process. The workshop is taking place from 10:00 AM to 4:00 PM at United Farm Workers, 920 South A Street, Oxnard, CA 93030. Applicants must be legal permanent residents for at least five years, or three years if married to a U.S. citizen. “America is a great nation because of its diversity,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “It was founded by immigrants, and our history and heritage is rich because of the countless contributions of the immigrant community. All of us share a common desire to achieve the American Dream. For some Ventura County residents, that means being active participants in our nation’s democratic process by the rights granted to us as United States citizens. I welcome all eligible legal permanent residents who live in Ventura County to attend the workshop and learn more about the honor and privilege of becoming a U.S. citizen.” This service is free, but space is limited and appointments are required. Representatives from Brownley’s district office urge anyone interested in attending the workshop to schedule an appointment by calling (805) 379-1779. Issues: 115th Congress, Immigration
09.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced a $300,000 federal grant for the City of Ventura to replace outdated water meters, which will help save water and better meet future demand. “Reliable access to water is essential for our families and our community,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am so happy to see the City of Ventura receive this funding because making better use of technology to monitor and conserve water is a smart way to improve sustainability, make water delivery more efficient, and prepare for future drought conditions.” The City of Ventura will receive $300,000 from the U.S. Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Reclamation to support the City’s project to replace more than 10,000 manually read water meters with advanced meters that will automatically relay data on water usage to customers and the city. The project is expected to save 245 acre-feet of water annually. “We are very grateful to receive this grant,” said City of Ventura Mayor Erik Nasarenko. “This funding supports Ventura’s ongoing conservation efforts and allows us to be even better stewards of water.” Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues
08.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced nearly $216,000 in federal grant funding for the Ventura County Air Pollution Control District to fight air pollution in the region. “Clean air is essential to the health of both our families and our environment,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am so pleased Ventura County is receiving this funding, because programs like this are critical for monitoring air quality and ensuring the region is taking the steps necessary to protect our community’s well-being for current and future generations.” The Ventura County Air Pollution Control District will receive $215,946 from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to support planning, evaluation, and other activities to protect and improve local air quality. “Ventura County Air Pollution Control District is very grateful that Congress has continued to authorize this EPA funding to help support our successful program to improve air quality in the county with the goal of meeting state and federal ambient air quality standards,” said Mike Villegas, Ventura County Air Pollution Control District Executive Officer. “This funding is important and helps local businesses from having to bear the entire cost of Ventura County’s air quality programs.” Issues: 115th Congress, Energy and Environment, Environmental Protection, Local Issues
08.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced more than $527,000 in Department of Education grants to two educational organizations that provide support services for underserved students in Ventura County that are preparing for college or are already enrolled in a local college or university. The Ventura County Community College District and LULAC National Educational Service Centers (LNESC) each received a competitive federal grant to implement Upward Bound programs – projects that help students from low-income families and first-generation college attendees. “All young people should have the opportunity to pursue a high-quality education,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Upward Bound is a critical program for students from working families who want to go to college and further their educations. I am so pleased to see these two educational organizations receive funds to serve our students and help them achieve the American Dream.” The Ventura County Community College District received $263,937 for a program at Oxnard College, and LULAC National Educational Service Centers received $263,938. “We are honored to receive an Upward Bound grant which will enable us to continue to prepare high school students for college and build a college-going culture in our community,” said Oxnard College President Cynthia Azari. “The Upward Bound Program focus at Oxnard College is to prepare first-generation students, beginning in the ninth grade, for success in college by providing tutoring, academic advising, tours, mentoring and other support services,” said Oxnard College Vice President of Student Development Oscar Cobian. “With its emphasis on individualized counseling and assistance in everything from academic tutoring to personal counseling and financial aid assistance, Upward Bound programs are essential to ensuring Hispanic students have equal opportunities to higher-education,” said LNESC Executive Director Richard Roybal. “By not only retaining funding for the existing programs but also increasing our federal awards, the Department of Education is demonstrating its confidence in LNESC’s ability to provide quality educational programming to some of the highest need communities around the country.” Learn more about Upward Bound here. Issues: 115th Congress, Education
08.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced her office is hosting a series of four service academy information nights throughout Ventura County this fall to help high school students and their families learn more about attending a military service academy and the Congressional nomination application process. The schedule for the information nights is as follows: Thousand Oaks High School Performing Arts Center on August 30 at 6:00 PM Pacifica High School Cafeteria (Oxnard) on September 12 at 6:00 PM Foothill Technology High School Cafeteria (Ventura) on September 14 at 6:00 PM Adolfo Camarillo High School Library on September 27 at 6:00 PM Representatives from the U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and U.S. Coast Guard Academy will provide presentations on each of their institutions and then will be available to answer questions. Congresswoman Brownley’s staff will also be on hand to answer questions regarding the application process for a Congressional nomination from her office. Applications for a Congressional nomination are due to her office no later than October 23, 2017. “Attending a service academy is a great honor,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I encourage all young people who are interested in serving their nation to come to one of the information nights and learn more about the opportunities the service academies can afford them.” For more information, contact Congresswoman Brownley’s office at (805) 379-1779. Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues
08.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, September 12, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) will host an event for Ventura County residents to get help with federal tax issues they haven’t been able to resolve with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Staff from the Taxpayer Advocate Service – an independent organization within the IRS that protects taxpayer rights – will be on hand to assist Ventura County residents with ongoing tax problems at an IRS Problem Solving Day, which will take place from 12:00 PM to 4:00 PM at Brownley’s district office at 223 E. Thousand Oaks Blvd., Suite 220, Thousand Oaks, CA 91360. “As your Congresswoman, I am here to serve you. My office is available to help all of my constituents with federal agencies like the IRS,” said Brownley. “If you are having a tax issue you haven’t been able to resolve on your own, I urge you to make an appointment to receive one-on-one guidance and direction on the next steps needed to help resolve it.” This service is free, but space is limited and appointments are required. Representatives from Brownley’s district office urge anyone interested in attending to schedule an appointment by calling (805) 379-1779. Issues: 115th Congress, Financial Services, Local Issues
08.17.2017	Thousand Oaks, CA – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, hosted a roundtable discussion with female veterans and active-duty servicemembers from throughout Ventura County to discuss the needs and challenges of the increasing population of women veterans. “More than 2 million of America’s 22 million veterans are women. As the number of women using VA care continues to increase, we must provide solutions to address their unique needs,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “That is why I will continue to work to ensure that more gender-specific services and resources – like gynecology, mammograms, and prenatal care – are available at the VA. We must also make sure that VA provides improved access to other resources, like child care assistance and education and employment services. Today’s roundtable gave me a chance to hear directly from female veterans and servicemembers in Ventura County and get their input on what Congress can do to ensure the VA better serves them.” The topics discussed during the roundtable spanned a wide range of issues from VA healthcare services to finding ways to better help female servicemembers transition to civilian life. The roundtable also featured Dr. Chaitra Hardison, a senior behavioral scientist at the non-profit RAND Corporation, who presented her research findings on the types of skills veterans gain in the military and how to market those abilities to employers. “Veterans have so many skills they can offer civilian employers—from technical expertise to leadership and attention to detail,” said Dr. Hardison. “It was an honor to join Congresswoman Brownley and this group of women to discuss how female servicemembers and veterans can communicate with civilian employers about the competencies they developed during their military careers.” “As female veterans, our experiences can often be entirely unique from our male colleagues,” said Jean Halsell, a veteran who served for 26 years in the United States Air Force. “It was great to discuss these issues today and continue building a sisterhood with other women who have also served in uniform and live in the area.” During the 115th Congress, Representative Brownley has introduced several pieces of legislation to address the needs of female veterans, including: The Veterans Access to Child Care Act (H.R. 95), which provides access to child care for eligible veterans nationwide while they are seeking care at the VA. H.R. 95 passed the House of Representatives on July 28. The Building Supportive Networks for Women Veterans (H.R. 91), which expands and makes permanent the VA pilot program for counseling in retreat settings for women veterans. H.R. 91 passed the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee on June 28. The Women Veterans Equal Access to Quality Care Act (H.R. 93), which directs the VA to ensure that gender-specific services are continuously available at every VA medical center and community-based outpatient clinic. Photos from the event are available here. Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues, Veterans' Affairs
08.10.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement today regarding the ongoing situation with North Korea: “I am deeply concerned about the increasing tensions with North Korea. While the threats posed by a nuclear-armed North Korea are real, President Trump’s belligerent and careless tone is making a bad situation much worse, putting American lives and the lives of our allies in South Korea and Japan at risk. Those advising President Trump need to impress upon him the very serious and real-world consequences of his reckless rhetoric.” Issues: 115th Congress, National Security
08.10.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) toured three Ventura County businesses today to see firsthand the critical role local companies play in our region’s economy. She met with business leaders and employees and discussed the importance of creating good-paying jobs and ensuring workers have the skills they need to succeed in their careers. “Local companies and manufacturers are a vital part of our region’s economy,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “The American people deserve a better economic deal, and that starts with doing more to spur domestic manufacturing and to help local businesses like the ones I visited today thrive. We also need to make sure our residents have the skills required for good-paying jobs. It is critical that we invest more in our workforce so that all Americans have the tools necessary to succeed in the 21st Century economy. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to move policies forward that support training and hiring in our area.” As part of her “Julia at Your Job” tour, the Congresswoman visited Delta Liquid Energy, a family-owned propane services company with a location in Santa Paula; Turbonetics, a turbochargers manufacturer headquartered in Moorpark; and Cooper Wiring, a power management products manufacturer with a facility in Camarillo. “As a fourth-generation, family-owned business, we are proud to be a part of this community,” said Bill Platz, President at Delta Liquid Energy. “It was great to have those contributions recognized today.” Photos from the tours are available here. Issues: 115th Congress, Jobs, Economy, and Small Business
07.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act (H.R. 95), legislation introduced by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) to make it easier for veterans to receive healthcare. This bill makes permanent the VA’s Child Care Pilot Program and expands it so that qualified veterans who are primary caretakers have a convenient, cost-free option for child care when they have VA medical appointments. “We owe our nation’s veterans a great debt for their service to our country, and that includes ensuring they receive the care they need and deserve,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “The lack of affordable and convenient child care is a major barrier for veterans trying to make their appointments at VA facilities. This is especially problematic for women veterans, who are more often the primary caretakers of young children. The VA’s Child Care Pilot Program has been a major success story, so making it permanent and expanding it nationwide is simply commonsense.” “I want to thank Congressman Brian Higgins for his steadfast support of this bill, and my bipartisan colleagues on the VA Committee who have backed this proposal every step of the way. Today the House sent a clear message: better access to child care means to better access to health care. I am pleased to see this bill advance to the Senate, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to get this to the President’s desk.” Currently, the Child Care Pilot Program offers free child care for qualified veterans using VA healthcare services at a limited number of participating sites around the country and has cared for over 10,000 children. Congress has reauthorized this popular pilot program three times, but it is set to expire on October 1, 2017. The Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act would make the pilot program permanent and expand it to include every VA facility in the nation. According to a VA Satisfaction Survey of veterans who have used the pilot program, a majority responded that without the available child care they would have brought their children to their appointment or cancelled their appointment altogether. This legislation is supported by Disabled American Veterans (DAV), the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Paralyzed Veterans of America, AMVETS, Easterseals, and the Fleet Reserve Association. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
07.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Members of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee (HVAC) announced a bipartisan agreement to authorize 28 VA medical facility leases that have been awaiting approval for years, including a new 41,000-square foot clinic in Oxnard—an effort long spearheaded by HVAC Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Julia Brownley (D-CA). The bill also shores up an additional six months of funding for Veterans Choice, a program that allows some veterans to receive care outside the VA that was created in the wake of the Phoenix wait-time scandal. The House and Senate are each slated to take up the legislation before departing for the August District Work Period. Brownley welcomed the bipartisan agreement: “This is a huge win for Ventura County’s veterans. This new lease represents a five-fold increase, since 2013, in the space available for additional providers, expanded services, and specialty care. It’s been an honor to work with local veterans, veteran advocates, and service organizations to deliver this win, and I am excited to be able to announce this great step forward for our community.” “I am so pleased that this bipartisan agreement includes my bill, taking us one step closer to breaking a logjam that has stood in the way of better VA care in communities across the country. The demand for VA healthcare is increasing, and many veterans face long wait times because outdated facilities are too small to accommodate the growing number of veterans seeking care. The leases authorized by this bill are located in 17 states with an estimated 11.8 million veterans who have been waiting years for improved access to care. I urge my colleagues to move this bill forward so we can better meet our veterans’ healthcare needs.” “I am also happy to see agreement on the Choice program. In the short-term, Congress must shore up funding for the Choice program so that veterans’ medical appointments aren’t canceled. In the long-term, Congress must consolidate the various programs that enable veterans to receive care outside of the VA into a single, unified system that is simple for both veterans to use and for providers who want to participate.” The leases have been held up for several years because of a bureaucratic dispute over whether new VA leases should require duplicative cost offsets from other VA programs. Congress must specifically authorize medical facility leases with yearly rental costs of over $1 million, and for many years, did so routinely. However, in 2012, the Congressional Budget Office began assessing the cost of all VA clinics based on the life of the lease rather than the annual cost. This made it difficult to gain authorization, because some in Congress were demanding additional cost offsets before the facilities could move forward. Brownley has long been a champion for fixing this bureaucratic dispute and authorizing the backlogged leases. Most recently, Brownley spearheaded bipartisan letters to the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee and the Trump Administration urging approval of the leases. Additionally, Brownley testified before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs on this issue in February 2017, and for several years, she has also been advocating for standalone legislation to authorize the leases (H.R. 90). In addition to pushing for approval of the 28 backlogged leases, Brownley introduced the Build a Better VA Act (H.R. 94), which provides a permanent fix for this problem by allowing major medical facility leases to be authorized by a Committee resolution rather than via legislation. This would bring the process in line with the one used for other federal facilities and avoid the need for additional offsets. When complete, the new Oxnard VA clinic will improve access to primary care, mental health services, and specialty care in a modern space, making it more convenient for veterans living in the region to access care closer to home, instead of having to commute to the Sepulveda or West Los Angeles veterans’ healthcare facilities. The other leases that have been held up by this bureaucratic dispute that are in this legislation include: Ann Arbor, MI – Outpatient Clinic Birmingham, AL – Outpatient Mental Health Clinic Boston, MA – Research Charleston, SC – Research Corpus Christi, TX – Replacement Outpatient Clinic Daytona Beach, FL – Outpatient Clinic Denver, CO – Chief Business Office Purchased Care Fredericksburg, VA – Outpatient Clinic Gainesville, FL – Outpatient Clinic Gainesville, FL – Outpatient Mental Health Clinic Hampton Roads, VA – Outpatient Clinic Indianapolis, IN – Outpatient Clinic Jacksonville, FL – Replacement Outpatient Clinic Missoula, MT – Outpatient Clinic Northern Colorado, CO – Outpatient Clinic Ocala, FL – Outpatient Clinic Pike County, GA – Outpatient Clinic Pittsburgh, PA – Outpatient Clinic Portland, ME – Outpatient Clinic Raleigh, NC – Outpatient Clinic Rochester, NY – Replacement Outpatient Clinic, Phase II San Diego, CA – Research Santa Rosa, CA – Outpatient Clinic Tampa, FL – Replacement Mental Health Clinic Lakeland, Tampa, FL – Replacement Outpatient Clinic Terre Haute, IN – Replacement Outpatient Clinic Rapid City, SD – Replacement Outpatient Clinic Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
07.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment to an FY 2018 appropriations bill (H.R. 3219) offered by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) and Congresswoman Grace Napolitano (D-El Monte) that would ensure California’s ports and harbors receive a fair share of funds for port and harbor infrastructure. “Ventura County’s port and harbors contribute more than $1 billion annually to economic activity and are the source of thousands of jobs in our region,” said Brownley. “It is vitally important that we ensure appropriate and timely dredging and maintenance to keep them functioning at their peak. As a member of the Congressional Ports Caucus, I have worked to ensure adequate resources are provided for the on-going operations and maintenance of our waterways, and this amendment ensures those gains continue.” “This critically needed amendment requires the Army Corps to be more equitable in distributing harbor maintenance dollars so donor harbors, like the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, receive additional funding for harbor dredging, berth dredging, and environmental remediation,” said Napolitano. “Taxes collected at our harbors continue to be spent to improve other ports across the country, and our amendment will help remedy this unfairness.” “The Port of Hueneme is grateful for Congresswoman Brownley’s leadership and on-going work to ensure the Port of Hueneme receives its fair share of resources, which is critical for continued infrastructure development and for expanding business opportunities at the port,” said Kristin Decas, CEO of the Port of Hueneme. The Brownley-Napolitano amendment requires the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Office of Management and Budget to comply with Section 2102 of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014, which ensures equitable distribution of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF), including for the Great Lakes, donor ports, expanded uses, underserved harbors, and emerging harbors. The HMTF supports port and harbor dredging activities done by the Corps of Engineers. An identical amendment was adopted by the House last year. Issues: 115th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
07.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – On Saturday, July 29, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) will host an event for Ventura County residents to make sure their passports are up to date for the summer travel season. Staff from the Los Angeles Passport Agency will be on hand to renew old passports and receive submissions from first-time applicants at the Passport Fair, which will take place from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Grant R. Brimhall Library at 1401 E. Janss Road, Thousand Oaks, CA 91362. “The summer season is well underway, and I want to make sure everyone in Ventura County who is considering traveling abroad can get their passports as easily as possible,” said Brownley. “The State Department is expecting over 20 million passport applications this year alone, and over 45 million passports will expire between 2016 and 2018. This will mean longer processing times, for both regular and expedited passport requests.” Representatives from Brownley’s district office have urged anyone interested in attending to bring passport photos and proper documentation. They will also be at the Passport Fair to answer any questions. For more details, call Brownley’s district office at (805) 379-1779 or visit juliabrownley.house.gov. Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues
07.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee passed the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act (H.R. 95), legislation authored by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) that would make permanent the VA’s Child Care Pilot Program and expand it so that all veterans who are primary caretakers have a safe, reliable, and cost-free option for child care when they use VA healthcare. “We need to do everything we can to ensure veterans are able to get the care they have earned and deserve, and that includes ensuring that those seeking treatment at VA medical facilities don’t miss appointments because they don’t have access to safe and reliable child care,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “The lack of convenient and affordable child care presents a barrier for many veterans – including mothers, fathers, and grandparents – preventing them from making their appointments. Expanding the pilot program will address this issue nationwide so that our veterans, especially women veterans who are more often the primary caretaker, are able to get the care they need.” “I want to thank Representative Brian Higgins (D-NY) for championing this issue with me. His leadership and support have been instrumental in moving this bill forward.” Currently, the Child Care Pilot Program offers free child care for qualified veterans using VA healthcare services at a limited number of participating sites around the United States and has cared for over 10,000 children. Congress has reauthorized this popular pilot program three times, but it is set to expire on October 1, 2017. The Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act would make the pilot program permanent and expand it to include every VA facility in the nation. According to a VA Satisfaction Survey of veterans who have used the pilot program, a majority responded that without the available child care they would have brought their children to their appointment or cancelled their appointment altogether. This legislation is supported by Disabled American Veterans (DAV), the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Paralyzed Veterans of America, AMVETS, Easterseals, and the Fleet Reserve Association. Please see the Congresswoman’s remarks during the committee hearing here. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
07.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) released the following statement on passage in the U.S. House of Representatives of H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act for FY2018: “I am pleased to support today’s legislation authorizing critical funding for our nation’s Armed Forces, including U.S. military bases and installations here in Ventura County and around the world. “It is an honor to represent Naval Base Ventura County and its more than 19,000 active duty and civilian personnel who work hard each day to safeguard our country’s security. This bill authorizes funding for Naval Base Ventura County’s operations, ensures that our service members and their families receive the pay and benefits they have earned and deserve, and provides a well-warranted pay raise for active duty military personnel. “This legislation also continues Congressional support for the MQ-4C Triton—a next-generation unmanned aircraft—that will call Point Mugu its west-coast home. The Triton will not only provide improved maritime intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance, but will also be capable of aiding humanitarian and disaster relief activities across the globe. This bill also authorizes additional procurement of the E-2D Hawkeye, which will expand radar surveillance for a wider range of our naval fleet and better protect personnel and ships around the world. Finally, the bill includes language that rejects President Trump’s call for a new round of a Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC). “I will continue to fight to protect Naval Base Ventura County and work to ensure our base and our entire Armed Forces have the resources needed as this bill continues to move forward.” Earlier this year, Congresswoman Brownley outlined her priorities for the FY2018 defense authorization bill in a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee. Issues: 115th Congress, Defense
07.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, released the following statement on the introduction of the bipartisan Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017: “The original GI Bill and the Post 9/11 GI Bill were truly transformative, opening doorways of opportunity for our veterans to further their education after their service to our country. This new bipartisan legislation was crafted by our Committee in that same spirit and will be a valuable investment in our veterans and their families. “This new bill enhances and expands upon the prior laws to better enable current and future veterans to pursue quality higher education. The bill removes time restrictions for future recipients, so for the first time veterans will be able to use the benefit throughout their lifetime. It also expands eligibility for those in the Reserves and National Guard, which is especially important here in California, home to the largest number of selected reserve members in the country. The legislation also provides new benefits and programs to help our veterans transition into cutting-edge industries that are the future of our economy. “This bill is a huge step forward in fulfilling our duty to our veterans and their families. I am proud of what we accomplished with this bill, and I look forward to working with my colleagues and our nation’s veterans service organizations to move this bill forward.” Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
07.11.2017	Washington, D.C . – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement commending passage in the U.S. House of Representatives of H.R. 2156, legislation she co-sponsored that will establish a memorial for the 1928 Saint Francis Dam disaster: “The collapse of the Saint Francis Dam was one of the most catastrophic tragedies in our state’s history — second only to the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. This major historical event has remained in obscurity for far too long. From the victims who sadly lost their lives to the heroic telephone operators and California Highway Patrol officers who tried to warn residents of the rushing waters, this memorial will commemorate the stories of local residents for many generations to come. I am pleased the House has passed this bipartisan bill to recognize an important part of our history, and I look forward to working with Congressman Knight, as well as Senators Feinstein and Harris to see its passage through the Senate and ultimately ensure that this bill becomes law.” Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues
06.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee adopted two amendments offered by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), which would help to prevent human trafficking and enforce veterans’ hiring preference at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The amendments were adopted as part of the 21st Century Aviation Innovation, Reform, and Reauthorization Act (H.R. 2997). At Congresswoman Brownley’s request, the bill also includes language to improve travel for veterans with disabilities. “I am proud to lead the way on these amendments; whether it’s protecting veterans’ hiring preference or making air travel more accessible, we need to ensure that our laws protect the rights of veterans,” stated Brownley. “Additionally, we must do more to ensure that our railways, airways, and roadways are not conduits of human trafficking. I am pleased that the Committee has adopted these important provisions.” Improving Travel for Disabled Veterans As Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, Brownley spearheaded efforts this year to include language in the FAA reauthorization bill that will improve travel for disabled veterans and other individuals with disabilities. In May, Brownley and 13 of her colleagues sent a letter to the Committee requesting three provisions be included in the bill. Chairman Shuster agreed to include all three provisions in H.R. 2997: Section 541 establishes a Select Subcommittee on air travel needs of passengers with disabilities; Section 542 requires the Comptroller General to study and report back to Congress on airport accessibility best practices for individuals with disabilities, as well as training policies related to properly assisting passengers with disabilities; Section 543 requires a study on cabin wheelchair restraint systems. “I have met with many disabled veterans who have detailed the numerous problems that they have encountered using commercial air travel,” stated Brownley. “It is our responsibility to ensure that all people with disabilities are able to enjoy the benefits of air travel. I hope that these provisions will help to improve that experience and help to inform airport and airline policies in these areas.” Protecting Veterans’ Hiring Preference Last week, Congresswoman Brownley and Congressman Capuano introduced the Federal Aviation Administration Veterans’ Preference Protection Act (H.R. 3007), which would ensure that veterans’ hiring preference at the FAA is enforceable. Senators Hirono (D-HI), Moran (R-KS), Tester (D-MT), and Daines (R-MT) introduced identical legislation in the Senate (S. 1424). Today, Brownley offered this language as an amendment to H.R. 2997. While the FAA is legally required to give veterans’ preference in hiring decisions, FAA employees don’t have legal protections to enforce those rights. The FAA is exempt from the vast majority of federal civil service personnel provisions included in Title 5 of the U.S. Code. As a result of this loophole, the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) and the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit have concluded that although FAA employees enjoy veterans’ preference rights, FAA employees do not have access to any enforcement mechanisms. These mechanisms include jurisdictional appeals and remedial provisions, as well as hiring preferences for military spouses, spouses of disabled veterans, and survivors of veterans. The Federal Circuit Court considered this loophole to be a legislative oversight, but one that only Congress can remedy. “We must do everything we can to ensure veterans are able to smoothly transition back to the civilian workforce, but veterans’ hiring preference is meaningless if it cannot actually be enforced,” stated Brownley. “My amendment closes this loophole, allows veterans to compete for vacancies, and gives preference to military and veterans’ spouses.” Preventing Human Trafficking An estimated 20.9 million people are victims of forced labor, or human trafficking, globally – including an estimated 1.5 million victims in North America, the European Union, and other developed economies combined. In 2016, the U.S. National Human Trafficking Resource Center reported over 7,500 domestic human trafficking cases – a 37% increase over the previous year. The Center also received more than 26,000 calls to their tip hotline in 2016 – a 22% increase from 2015. Sadly, over 2,300 of those cases involved children. Congresswoman Brownley’s amendment would require additional airline personnel be trained to identify possible victims of human trafficking and to ensure that they know how to properly report suspected trafficking to law enforcement. “Air travel is unfortunately a major pathway for the illegal trafficking of children and other victims of forced labor. Flight attendants are not the only airline personnel who regularly interact with passengers. We need to ensure that airline workers, including gate agents and ticket counter agents, are also trained to be on the look-out for suspected human trafficking and know how to alert appropriate law enforcement authorities,” stated Brownley. “Alerting law enforcement in a timely manner could save the lives of victims, who may be too scared to speak up. The more people who are trained to look out for this insidious crime, the more victims we can protect.” Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
06.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Veterans Expanded Trucking Opportunities Act (H.R. 2547), legislation introduced by Congressman Rob Woodall (R-GA) and Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) that would make it easier for veterans to return to the civilian workforce by removing bureaucratic barriers to employment in the trucking industry. “We need to do more to ensure our veterans are able to successfully transition back to the civilian workforce and support their families when they come home,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “This bill helps fulfill the trucking industry’s need for skilled, capable drivers by removing bureaucratic barriers for our veterans who are qualified and ready to enter this field of work. I am pleased to see this bill advance to the Senate, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to get this to the President’s desk.” “Things are getting done in Washington on a variety of fronts, but none make me more proud than what we’re achieving across the aisle for our veterans,” said Congressman Woodall. “Just last week we saw the Veterans Accountability Act signed into law following enormous bipartisan support, and now this much more targeted measure to help our veterans quickly return to work has moved that much closer to becoming law as well. I’m proud to lead in this effort, and I’m grateful to Chairman Shuster, Rep. Brownley, and all my House colleagues for their support.” The trucking industry needs to hire new drivers in order to meet the demands of the economy and ensure the timely delivery of commercial goods. Veterans provide an ideal applicant pool with the qualities and experience to meet those needs. H.R. 2547 allows more veterans to enter this industry by making it easier and less costly to get the proper qualifying physical examinations they need. Section 5403 of the FAST Act, which Woodall and Brownley previously worked on together, allowed VA physicians to access the National Registry for Certified Medical Examiners (NRCME) to conduct DOT physicals. This allows veterans who want a commercial driver’s license (CDL) to go to their VA doctor, instead of having to find a private-sector physician, to fill out the necessary medical forms. H.R. 2547 expands the original law to allow other VA medical professionals to be eligible to participate in the program. It will now include advanced practice nurse, doctor of chiropractic, doctor of medicine, doctor of osteopathy, physician assistant, or other medical professional. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
06.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Committee on Veterans Affairs Ranking Member Tim Walz (D-MN) and Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member Julia Brownley (D-CA) released the following statement after Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Dr. David Shulkin announced that the VA will soon take steps to adopt the same electronic health record (EHR) system as the Department of Defense. “The decision to fully modernize the VA’s electronic health record is the right one and one I have been championing since my first days in Congress,” Rep. Walz said. “Bringing the VA’s EHR system into the 21st Century has been one of my highest priorities and I am proud of the work I have done to lay the groundwork making today’s accomplishment possible. The VA’s current EHR system is notoriously out-of-date and incompatible with the system used by Department of Defense to track the health of our active-duty and reserve forces. By adopting the same EHR system as DoD, interoperability between the Departments will be seamless and will help protect the health and wellbeing of millions of veterans across the country as a result. However, our work here is far from complete as it is expected to take years to fully modernize the VA’s EHR system through this plan. I look forward to working closely with Secretary Shulkin and my colleagues in Congress as we seek to fully modernize all information technology systems at the VA.” “I have said frequently that we cannot provide world class healthcare to our veterans without world class technology at the VA to serve them,” Rep Brownley said. “Integrating the VA’s health records system with the Department of Defense system is an important step in the right direction towards simplifying and improving our ability to deliver timely, quality healthcare to our nation’s veterans.” Issues: 115th Congress, Healthcare
06.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley released the following statement after President Donald Trump announced his decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Climate Agreement signed by 194 other countries: “President Trump’s decision to begin withdrawal from the Paris Climate Agreement is a disappointing retreat from American global leadership,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “If the President and his Administration won’t step up, then state and local governments, private industry, and individual citizens across the country must. The task of curbing climate change falls on all citizens of the world. We all must do our part to stop pollution, protect public health, and build a competitive 21st Century, clean energy economy.” Issues: 115th Congress, Energy, Energy and Environment, Environment, Environmental Protection
05.30.2017	Port Hueneme, CA – Congresswoman Julia Brownley will host a dedication ceremony officially naming the federal postal facility in Port Hueneme as the “U.S. Naval Construction Battalion ‘Seabees’ Fallen Heroes Post Office Building” in honor of the Seabees during their 75th Anniversary. Captain Chris Janke, Commanding Officer of Naval Base Ventura County, and Captain Mike Saum, Commodore of Naval Construction Group One, will also be in attendance. “In their 75 year history, the Seabees have served our great nation with their renowned “can-do” spirit. Our Seabees have fought on the frontlines to build bases, roadways, airstrips, and other essential infrastructure necessary for our troops – at home and around the world – to succeed in their missions. I am both humbled and honored to have led this effort to recognize and pay tribute to our fallen Seabees,” said Congresswoman Brownley. Congresswoman Brownley introduced H.R. 6138, legislation naming the postal facility during the 114th Congress. The bill was signed into law by President Obama on December 16, 2016. Brownley represents the west coast headquarters of the Seabees stationed at Naval Base Ventura County. Seabees have served in every major military conflict since 1942 and various major disaster relief/recovery and humanitarian assistance efforts throughout their history. Where: U.S. Post Office – Port Hueneme 560 E. Pleasant Valley Road Port Hueneme, CA 93041 When: Wednesday, May 31, 2017 at 12:30 PM PST Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
05.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley announced funding for several Ventura County projects through the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, including for Channel Islands Harbor, Ventura Harbor, and the Port of Hueneme. “In Congress, I have long fought side-by-side with local leaders for additional funds for Ventura County’s port and harbors, and I am pleased that our shared efforts have once again paid off,” stated Brownley. “The Port of Hueneme, Channel Islands Harbor, and Ventura Harbor are critical engines of our local economy, fueling job growth in the region, and keeping them open for business is essential to residents and businesses alike.” The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers completed maintenance dredging of Channel Islands Harbor and Ventura Harbor already this cycle, utilizing funds already budgeted in President Obama’s FY2017 budget request. However, Congress did not complete the FY2017 Omnibus Appropriations Act until early May 2017. The additional funding that Congress provided to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, above the budget request, is allocated through the Corps’ annual work plan. Channel Islands Harbor Through the efforts of Brownley and local leaders, the FY2017 Corps’ work plan added $400,000 for Channel Islands Harbor, which the Corps will use for planning work on long-needed jetty repairs. This funding is on top of the $7,980,000 that was utilized for dredging this cycle, bringing the total for FY2017 to $8,380,000. For FY2018, the budget proposes $6,400,000 for Channel Islands Harbor. “The County is so pleased that funds have been made available to do the design work to repair the jetty and breakwater,” said Lyn Krieger, Harbor Department Director. “We have been working with the Army Corps of Engineers for several years. They are faced with so many needs and still located money for this project.” Ventura Harbor Through the efforts of Brownley and local leaders, the FY2017 Corps’ work plan also added $800,000 for Ventura Harbor. Since dredging this cycle has already been completed, the added funds will be rolled-over to FY2018, which will ensure the Corps’ can award a contract for the next scheduled dredge on time. The additional funding for Ventura Harbor brings the total to $5,100,000 for FY2017. For FY2018, the budget proposes $5,163,000 for Ventura Harbor. “We are grateful to Congresswoman Brownley for her staunch advocacy for the Ventura Harbor,” said Oscar Peña, general manager of the Ventura Port District. “This funding will be critical to maintaining the harbor’s waterways open and continue to support the commercial and recreational boating interests, which are significant economic drivers in the region. We are also gratified with the administration’s request for FY2018 funding of $5.1 million for the Ventura Harbor.” Port of Hueneme Through the work of Brownley and port leaders, the Corps’ work plan also provided $778,000 for the Port of Hueneme. Of those funds $700,000 was awarded to complete an upcoming maintenance dredging project, which is scheduled to begin later this year. The maintenance dredge is scheduled to coincide with the planned harbor deepening project. The remaining $78,000 was awarded pursuant to Donor Port legislation that Brownley spearheaded last year. “This funding stream from the US Army Corps promises to enrich our community by advancing projects that will create jobs and nourish our local beach ecosystem. We extend our gratitude to federal, state, and local leadership for securing the Port’s place in the US Army Corps work plan,” said President of the Board Jason Hodge. “The timing for this announcement couldn’t be better as we just put our TIGER grant engineering bid on the street, a multi-million dollar project that will deepen the harbor alongside our wharves. The Corps’ component enables the Port to deepen and maintain the federal channel, thereby making the Port’s deepening from 35 feet to 40 feet complete from entrance to docking. In addition, the Port for the first time receives a donor equity allocation, a new legislative triumph for the Port. The leadership and tireless efforts of Congresswoman Julie Brownley brought this funding and the TIGER funding back to Ventura County’s Port, and we are truly grateful.” Brownley succeeded in passing legislation in 2016 that allowed the Port of Hueneme to receive a share of Donor Port funds annually. Donor Ports are those that contribute far more to the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund than they receive back. Brownley’s legislation ensured equity for the Port of Hueneme, along with the Port of San Diego and Port Everglades. Brownley’s Donor Port legislation was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (P.L. 114-322). Issues: 115th Congress, Local Issues
05.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that the U.S. Department of Education has awarded two grants to Cal Lutheran University totaling an estimated $3 million over five years through the Upward Bound Program, a federal TRIO program. “TRIO programs like the Upward Bound Program provide doorways of opportunity for low-income and first-generation college students in Ventura County,” said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. “I am thrilled to see California Lutheran University receive this funding that will help them continue their work of making the dream of attending college a reality for so many kids in our community.” “We are gratified to have been awarded what will amount to more than $3 million over the next five years in what was probably the toughest competition for TRIO Upward Bound funding to date,” said Sergio Galvez, senior director of Cal Lutheran’s TRIO Pre-University Programs. “This grant will enable us to continue the programs that have become part of the very fabric and culture of our campus for the last 36 years.” “We are thankful that we can carry on our work motivating and preparing low-income and potential first-generation college students in Oxnard and Los Angeles County to continue their education beyond high school,” said Cal Lutheran President Chris Kimball. “All of the nearly 300 high school students who graduated from our TRIO Upward Bound programs in the last three years enrolled in college, and we look forward to building on that success in the coming years.” The Upward Bound Program is a federal grant program that supports projects designed to provide students with the skills and tools they need to complete high school and pursue a college education. The TRIO programs, including the UB Program, provide resources and services to help traditionally underrepresented groups, including low-income individuals, first-generation college students, and individuals with disabilities, pursue a post-secondary education. In Congress, Congresswoman Brownley has been a strong advocate for TRIO programs and other federal education programs. Issues: 115th Congress, Education, Local Issues
05.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee passed the Veterans Expanded Trucking Opportunities Act (H.R. 2547), legislation introduced by Congressman Rob Woodall (R-GA) and Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA). “Increasing veterans’ access to jobs is vital and one of my top priorities,” said Rep. Brownley. “As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I constantly hear from industry about the need for new truck drivers, who are critical to moving goods and keeping our economy rolling. This bill will help address both these problems and I am pleased the Veterans Expanded Trucking Opportunities Act passed Committee. I look forward to working with my colleague, Mr. Woodall, to further advance the bill and get it to the President’s desk.” “The original VETOPPS Act was a direct response to a bureaucratic problem standing in the way of our veterans being able to quickly return to work and support their families,” said Rep. Woodall. “I was proud to lead in the effort that resulted in a solution becoming the law of the land, but when we see ways to improve upon the ways we’re serving veterans even further, we absolutely want to seize that opportunity. That’s what H.R. 2547 is all about, and I’m grateful to Chairman Shuster, Ranking Member DeFazio, Rep. Brownley, and my colleagues on this committee for their support.” The trucking industry faces a dire need for new drivers in order to meet the demands of the economy and flow of commercial goods. Veterans provide an ideal applicant pool with the qualities and experience to meet those needs. H.R. 2547 allows more veterans to enter this industry by making it easier and less costly to get the proper qualifying examinations they need. Section 5403 of the FAST Act, which Woodall and Brownley previously worked on together, allowed VA physicians to access the National Registry for Certified Medical Examiners (NRCME) to conduct DOT physicals. This allows veterans who want a commercial drivers’ license (CDL) to go to their VA doctor, instead of having to find a private-sector physician, to fill out the necessary medical forms. H.R. 2547 expands the original law to allow other VA medical professionals to be eligible to participate in the program. It will now include advanced practice nurse, doctor of chiropractic, doctor of medicine, doctor of osteopathy, physician assistant, or other medical professional. The bill was passed out of committee by voice vote. Issues: 115th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
05.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Julia Brownley met with U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin to discuss their shared priorities and goals to improve VA healthcare and other VA programs that support our nation’s veterans. “The Secretary and I had a very productive discussion on the priorities we hope to advance this year to address the pressing needs of our veterans,” said Rep. Brownley. “I am pleased that Secretary Shulkin shares my commitment to modernizing the VA, supporting the growing population of women veterans, and addressing the epidemic of veteran suicide. I look forward to working with Secretary Shulkin to make the VA a more modern, veteran-centric organization that will better serve veterans from all eras, including the more than two million women veterans nationwide.” Brownley and Shulkin specifically discussed: Providing IVF treatment for veterans with service-connected reproductive challenges, and ensuring they have reliable and consistent access to this service year-to-year Building local networks to ensure women veterans have access to needed care, and training providers as women’s health providers Dedicating needed resources to end veteran homelessness Implementation of Rep. Brownley’s Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act, which was signed into law in June 2016 Addressing VA’s capital infrastructure needs and building a 21st Century VA that can quickly adapt to changing demographics During the meeting, Brownley and Shulkin also discussed several bills that Brownley has introduced. Brownley released her full legislative agenda earlier this year, which can be found online here. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
05.22.2017	Washington, D.C. –Today there are more than 200,000 women serving in active duty and the number of women veterans continues to grow. Addressing the needs of our growing population of women veterans is one of my top priorities and I am proud to support the Deborah Sampson Act that will expand VA services for women veterans including mental healthcare and peer to peer support groups. We must continue to do everything we can to provide the care and support our nation’s male and female veterans have earned and deserve in service to our country! Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
05.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced NeighborWorks America, a public non-profit established by Congress, has awarded a $415,333 grant to Cabrillo Economic Development Corporation to foster community development and create more affordable housing in Ventura County. “Strong partnerships between public entities and local nonprofits like the one between NeighborWorks and Cabrillo Economic Development Corporation foster effective, innovative solutions that are key to addressing our nation’s affordable housing crisis,” said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. “I am pleased to see Cabrillo receive this well-deserved award that will allow them to continue to develop affordable housing options for families throughout Ventura County.” “This grant award from NeighborWorks America allows us to continue our important mission of building affordable housing, creating homeownership opportunities, and lifting up our more than 3,000 residents in Ventura County with educational resources and programs to improve their quality of life,” said Margarita De Escontrias, Chief Executive Officer of Cabrillo Economic Development Corporation. “This funding is not only critical to our existence as a nonprofit organization and to our direct beneficiaries, but it also validates our presence in the community to our constituents, partners, funders, lenders and investors. We are grateful to NeighborWorks America for believing in Cabrillo and partnering with us to create thriving communities.” Since 1978, NeighborWorks America has supported local solutions to community development and affordable housing in urban, suburban and rural communities across the nation by providing their network of more than 240 of the nation’s best community development organizations with financial and grant support, training, technical assistance, organizational assessments, technology tools and other services. In FY 2016, NeighborWorks America and the NeighborWorks network assisted over 360,000 families, developed 16,200 quality, affordable rental units, and preserved 12,700 affordable homes. Issues: 115th Congress, Affordable Housing
05.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Brownley (D-Westlake Village) has introduced a bill (H.R. 2524) that would transfer land from the Department of Homeland Security to Ventura County. The land, which is adjacent to Camarillo Airport, would be used for future airport development, providing opportunities for economic growth in Ventura County. “The Department of Homeland Security no longer uses this land, so it makes sense to transfer the parcel to Ventura County, which owns Camarillo Airport. The county can in turn use the land to help aviation businesses grow and expand, creating jobs and strengthening our diverse economy here in Ventura County,” said Rep. Julia Brownley. “This land transfer would directly benefit Ventura County businesses and residents by spurring business and commercial opportunities in the region.” The Camarillo and Oxnard airports contribute more than $300 million annually to the regional economy, supporting more than 2,500 jobs. Issues: 115th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
05.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee approved Congresswoman Julia Brownley’s Building Supportive Networks for Women Veterans Act (H.R. 91). “The VA needs to adapt to the complex and changing needs of our veterans, and that means ensuring there are specific programs and resources to support the growing population of women veterans,” said Rep. Brownley. “My bill will ensure that the VA’s highly successful women veteran’s retreat program continues and is expanded nation-wide. This pilot program has proven to be effective in creating strong support communities for women veterans in helping them cope with the invisible wounds of war.” The Building Supportive Networks for Women Veterans Act (H.R. 91) would permanently authorize an existing U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) pilot program that offers counseling and support retreat programs for women veterans who have recently separated from the military. Under this program, a total of 12 retreats were provided to hundreds of women veterans between 2011 and 2016, focusing on building trust and developing peer support in a therapeutic environment. Data from the VA has shown that many women who participated in these retreats have shown a significant decrease in stress and symptoms of PTSD, better coping mechanisms, and better overall psychological well-being. Eighty-Seven percent of participants scored higher on the Ryff Scale of Psychological Well Being immediately post-retreat, and eighty-four percent of participants showed a decrease in stress symptoms two months after their retreat. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
05.09.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) released the following statement after President Trump announced the firing of FBI Director James Comey: “The timing of President Trump’s firing of Director Comey is highly unusual and its implication is deeply disturbing. My Republican colleagues must put country first and work with Democrats to make sure the impartiality of the FBI is restored and the investigation of Russian interference in our political process is carried out without further obstruction or delay. We need a special prosecutor to take over the investigation, and we need one now. The very foundation of our democracy is at stake.” Issues: 115th Congress, Defense
05.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, Julia Brownley (D-CA), released the following statement about a provision of the House Republican’s healthcare bill that could hurt veterans and their families: “We have known for months that the GOP healthcare bill could strip roughly 7 million veterans of eligibility for healthcare tax credit assistance. Despite warnings from our veterans service organizations, and pleas from veterans across the country, President Trump and Speaker Ryan have recklessly forged ahead despite the consequences,” stated Brownley. “While I am deeply concerned about many aspects of this bill, the rush to put politics ahead of people, and the impact it could have on our veterans as a consequence, is simply shameful.” Language in the bill could deny tax credits to any individual who is “eligible” for other healthcare programs, like VA healthcare or TRICARE. This provision potentially denies 7 million veterans access to healthcare, because though they are technically eligible, they are not currently enrolled in VA healthcare. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
05.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley issued the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s announcement that it was moving forward with a rule to allow Argentine lemon’s to be imported into the United States: “Last week, President Trump spoke about his long-time friendship with Argentine President Mauricio Macri. Yesterday, President Trump threw the U.S. citrus industry — American growers and American workers – under the bus in order to deliver a favor to a personal friend. It is clear that Argentina does not have an inspection regime in place to prevent the spread of devastating, invasive pests and diseases. This decision will wreak havoc on American growers, and if pests and disease spread, it could result in the destruction of our domestic crops.” Issues: 115th Congress, Agriculture
04.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump and Argentine President Mauricio Macri’s press conference today at the White House: “President Trump should not sell American workers and American citrus growers down the river as a favor to the President of Argentina. Ventura County produces nearly half of the nation’s lemons. We cannot introduce devastating, industry-killing pests and diseases into the country. I urge the President to go back to the drawing board to make sure pests are kept out and that we protect American jobs and farming communities.” In today’s press conference, President Trump stated: “And it’s a great, great honor to have them here. He [Macri]’s been my friend for many years. We’ve known each other for long, prior to politics.” The full transcript is available below. Here is the full text of Trump’s remarks during his meeting with Macri, including Trump’s responses to questions from reporters: PRESIDENT TRUMP: First time in the Oval Office for the President and Mrs. Macri. And it’s a great, great honor to have them here. He’s been my friend for many years. We’ve known each other for long, prior to politics. And who would have thought this was going to happen — PRESIDENT MACRI: Nobody. PRESIDENT TRUMP: — for both of us. But he is a great, wonderful person, and he will be a great President of Argentina, I have absolutely no doubt. Absolutely no doubt. Q: Mr. Trump, what do you want to achieve with our country, with Argentina? PRESIDENT TRUMP: We’re just going to be great friends, better than ever before. And we’re off to a wonderful start, because I’ve known Mauricio for so many years, and I know the kind of person he is. He’s a great person and he’s a great leader. He will do a fantastic job for Argentina. And I feel very comfortable backing him, because they need certain things from the United States. I feel very comfortable backing him because I know what I’m backing. I’m backing a man who loves his people and loves his country. Q: If he’s such a good President, Mr. President, are you going to let the lemons — the Argentine lemons in, in your country? They are very good. People will love you if you let them in. PRESIDENT TRUMP: I know about all the lemons. And believe it or not, the lemon business is a big, big business. Q: Just say yes! (Laughter.) PRESIDENT TRUMP: But we are going to give that very serious consideration. One of the reasons he’s here is about lemons — (laughter) — and I’ll tell him about North Korea, and he’ll tell me about lemons. I think that we’re going to be very favorably disposed. We’re going to be talking. Q: What do you think about Venezuela, Mr. President? THE PRESIDENT: Venezuela is a mess. Venezuela is a mess. Q: Mr. President, on renegotiating NAFTA, tell me how you came about the decision — PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, I was going to terminate NAFTA as of two or three days from now. The President of Mexico, who I have a very, very good relationship, called me, and also the Prime Minister of Canada, who I have a very good relationship. And I like both of these gentlemen very much. They called me and they said, rather than terminating NAFTA, could you please renegotiate? I like them very much. I respect their countries very much. The relationship is very special. And I said, I will hold on the termination; let’s see if we can make it a fair deal. Because NAFTA has been a horrible deal for the United States. It’s been very good for Canada, it’s been very good for Mexico, but it’s been horrible for the United States. And if you check my campaign — any of my speeches — I said, I’ll either renegotiate or I’ll terminate. So they asked me to renegotiate — I will. And I think we’ll be successful in the renegotiation, which, frankly, would be good because it would be simpler. But we have to make a deal that’s fair for the United States. They understand that. And so I decided rather than terminating NAFTA, which would be a pretty big shock to the system, we will renegotiate. Now, if I’m unable to make a fair deal, if I’m unable to make a fair deal for the United States, meaning a fair deal for our workers and our companies, I will terminate NAFTA. But we’re going to give renegotiation a good, strong shot. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you very much. Q: What about Venezuela, Mr. President? Mr. President, about Venezuela, what is your position? PRESIDENT TRUMP: I’m very sad for Venezuela. I’m very sad to see what’s happened in Venezuela. Venezuela is a very sad situation. Issues: 115th Congress, Agriculture
04.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs (DAMA) approved Congresswoman Julia Brownley’s (D-Westlake Village) bill, the Protect Veterans from Financial Fraud Act (H.R. 105). “I am pleased to see my bill advance to the full committee to protect our veterans and their benefits from fraud and abuse. There are hundreds of cases each year where veterans have their benefits stolen by a fiduciary. My bill would better allow the VA to make these veterans whole and recover the benefits that they have earned, deserve, and rely on to make ends meet.” In 2016, the VA conducted nearly 1,500 misuse investigations of which 764 fiduciaries were removed based upon a finding of misuse of benefits. The Protect Veterans from Financial Fraud Act addresses a longstanding loophole that leaves out many of the most vulnerable veterans participating in Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Fiduciary Program from recovering their benefits in cases of fiduciary misuse and fraud. Specifically, it would protect veterans from financial fraud by ending the “10 or more rule” that restricts the VA from reissuing stolen benefits to a veteran unless the VA-appointed fiduciary manages VA benefits for ten or more veterans. The VA’s Fiduciary Program was established to protect veterans and other beneficiaries who — due to injury, disease, or age — are unable to manage their own financial affairs by appointing a fiduciary to assist with managing their benefit payments. In 2016, the Fiduciary Program served more than 230,000 veterans, survivors, and dependents. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
04.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Reps. Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (PA-05) and Julia Brownley (CA-26) introduced H.R. 2123, the Veterans E-Health and Telemedicine Support (VETS) Act of 2017. This bipartisan legislation would allow U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) health professionals to practice telemedicine across state borders if they are qualified and practice within the scope of their authorized federal duties. Currently, cumbersome location requirements can make it difficult for veterans – especially those struggling with mental health issues – to get the help they need and deserve. “When our service men and women are called to duty, they do so selflessly with only the country in mind,” Thompson said. “When they return home, it is our shared responsibility to be there for these heroes, by making lifesaving resources readily accessible. The VETS Act will eliminate multiple layers of bureaucracy, allowing our veterans to have greater access to mental and behavioral health services, especially in rural areas.” “As Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, I believe that we need to meet veterans where they are. The rapid growth of technology offers new possibilities for providing timely, quality healthcare that best suits veterans’ needs,” Brownley said. “The VA has seen tremendous growth and interest in telehealth, and we should continue to find new ways to connect veterans with the providers that they need, no matter their physical location. The VETS Act will empower veterans with more options and greater access to the care that they have earned and deserve.” Under current law, VA doctors can only provide telehealth treatment across state lines if the veteran and the doctor are located in federal facilities. The VETS Act of 2017 removes these barriers and allows the VA to provide treatment through physicians free of this restriction. Veterans will no longer be required to travel to a VA facility, but rather can receive telemedicine treatment from anywhere, including their home or a community center. A companion bill in the Senate was introduced by Senators Joni Ernst (R-IA) and Mazie Hirono (D-HI). VETS ACT AT A GLANCE The bill introduced by U.S. Reps. Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson and Julia Brownley would do three things: • Create a VA state licensure exemption to allow VA-credentialed health care professionals to work across state borders to perform telemedicine without having to obtain a new license in that state. • Expand the definition of exempt health care professionals to include VA doctors. • Remove the location requirement to allow for care regardless of where the health care professional or patient is located. In August 2016, the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health held a hearing about telemedicine in the VA. The VETS Act seeks to build on VA’s existing telemedicine program. In 2015, the VA conducted 2.14 million telehealth visits, reaching more than 677,000 veterans. From 2002 to mid-2016, the VA provided more than 2 million tele-mental health visits to over 389,400 veterans. According to a 2014 VA report, telehealth offered a number of benefits to veterans, including: a reduction in bed days of care by 59 percent; a reduction in hospital admission by 35 percent; an average savings of $2,000 per year per patient; an average patient satisfaction score of 94 percent; and an average patient satisfaction score of 88 percent for telehealth services. The VETS Act is endorsed by the American Legion, American Telemedicine Association, Coalition for Health IT Now, and Veterans of Foreign Wars. Issues: 115th Congress, Healthcare, Veterans' Affairs
04.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley, a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, released the following statement in response to a draft House Republican bill that would impose new GI Bill enrollment fees on servicemembers: “I am absolutely opposed to imposing new fees on servicemembers or veterans who want to access their GI Bill benefits. We should not cut one veterans’ benefit to pay for another, and our servicemembers, who have already sacrificed so much for our nation, should not be asked to pay more just to access the education benefits that they have earned.” “I am pleased that Chairman Roe has cancelled a planned hearing on this legislation. We need to go back to the drawing board and find a bipartisan path forward to improve veterans’ education benefits.” Issues: 115th Congress, Defense, Veterans' Affairs
04.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health passed two bills introduced by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village): the Building Supportive Networks for Women Veterans Act (H.R. 91) and the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act (H.R. 95). “I am pleased that my two bills helping our veterans passed the subcommittee today,” said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. “Whether it’s expanding access to child care, or creating opportunities for women veterans to bond and share their experiences, we must do more to support the growing population of women veterans. I look forward to continue working with my colleagues to move my bills forward.” The Building Supportive Networks for Women Veterans Act (H.R. 91) would permanently authorize an existing pilot program that offers counseling and support at retreats for women veterans who have recently separated from the military. Data from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has shown that many women who participated in these retreats have shown a decrease in stress and symptoms of PTSD, better coping mechanisms, and better overall psychological well-being. The Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act (H.R. 95) would make permanent the VA’s Child Care Pilot program and expand it, so that every veteran seeking treatment at VA medical facilities has access to safe and reliable child care. The lack of convenient and affordable child care has caused many veterans to miss appointments. Expanding the pilot program will address this issue on a national level. While women veterans are more often responsible for caring for their children, this bill will benefit veterans from all eras who are responsible for taking care of their own children or grandchildren. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
03.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health considered two bills introduced by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village): the Building Supportive Networks for Women Veterans Act (H.R. 91) and the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act (H.R. 95). “I am pleased that my bills to help improve VA care and provide support services for women veterans were considered at today’s hearing and that both bills have received bipartisan support,” said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. “Whether it’s expanding access to child care, or creating opportunities for women veterans to bond and share their experiences, we must do more to support the growing population of women veterans. I look forward to continue working with my colleagues to move my bills forward.” The Building Supportive Networks for Women Veterans Act (H.R. 91) would permanently authorize an existing pilot program that offers counseling and support at retreats for women veterans who have recently separated from the military. Data from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has shown that many women who participated in these retreats have shown a decrease in stress and symptoms of PTSD, better coping mechanisms, and better overall psychological well-being. The Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act (H.R. 95) would make permanent the VA’s Child Care Pilot program and expand it, so that every veteran seeking treatment at VA medical facilities has access to safe and reliable child care. The lack of convenient and affordable child care has caused many veterans to miss appointments. Expanding the pilot program will address this issue on a national level. While women veterans are more often responsible for caring for their children, this bill will benefit veterans from all eras who are responsible for taking care of their own children or grandchildren. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
03.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) released the following statement after House Republicans pulled H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act otherwise known as “TrumpCare,” from consideration in the U.S. House of Representatives: “This is a victory for the American people. They made their voices heard and said loud and clear: No to TrumpCare!‎ Eliminating healthcare for 24 million Americans is not progress. Eliminating coverage for prenatal care, maternity care, vaccinations, and cancer screening is not progress. Giving $600 billion in tax breaks to the richest Americans, while undermining the solvency of Medicare for everyone else, is not progress. Instead of going backwards, we need to move forward, and make affordable, quality healthcare a reality for everyone.” Issues: 115th Congress, Healthcare
03.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – Ranking Member Julia Brownley released the following statement in response to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Office of the Inspector General (VAOIG) report, entitled “Healthcare Inspection — Evaluation of the Veterans Health Administration — Veterans Crisis Line”: “I am disturbed that the Veterans Crisis Line continues to fall short of serving our veterans. This is simply unacceptable. When a veteran is in crisis, a call to the Veterans Crisis Line could make all the difference. I appreciate that Secretary Shulkin and Acting Under Secretary of Health Poonam Alaigh have taken steps to address the deficiencies identified in the VAOIG report with respect to management and operations of the crisis line. I urge them to implement the remaining recommendations as quickly as possible. A single veteran suicide is one too many. We owe our servicemembers and veterans nothing less than the best services possible.” Since 2013, Brownley has served as Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health. Brownley has spearheaded congressional efforts to address veteran suicide, including by authoring the Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act (P.L. 114-188) that passed Congress with overwhelming bipartisan support and was signed into law by President Obama on June 30, 2016. The law requires the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to identify the most effective programs and approaches in reducing suicide rates among female veterans. A 2015 report indicated that female veterans are six times more likely than non-veteran women to commit suicide. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
03.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved Congresswoman Julia Brownley’s (D-Westlake Village) amendment to H.R. 1367, a bill to improve the hiring and retention of VA employees. The Brownley amendment requires an analysis of succession planning at all VA medical facilities, in order to identify mission-critical positions, future needs, and strategies to close skill gaps. The Brownley amendment clarifies that the review must include all medical centers, outpatient clinics, domiciliary facilities, vet centers, and community-based outpatient clinics, like the Oxnard clinic. “In recent years, VA facilities in the Greater Los Angeles region, including the Oxnard CBOC, have experienced significant turnover of senior leadership. There is no doubt in my mind that this turnover has negatively impacted care. High-quality and consistent leadership at every VA facility is vital to ensure that our veterans get the best care possible. My amendment ensures that VA succession planning doesn’t overlook our local facilities,” said Brownley. Local community clinics are often the first point of access for veterans in the VA healthcare system. Brownley has long fought for adequate resources for these local clinics. Her amendment will ensure the VA has plans in place for future leadership changes, so that the VA continuously provides high-quality and consistent care to veterans. H.R. 1367 aims to improve the hiring and retention of VA employees. It would establish an executive management fellowship program and other career advancement and training programs. The bill also would establish a single recruiting database for potential employees to review open positions at the VA. Finally, the bill would direct the VA to collect important information on its ability to recruit, hire, and retain well-qualified employees. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
03.15.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee Chairmen Brad Wenstrup (R-OH) and Jack Bergman (R-MI), along with Ranking Members Julia Brownley (D-CA) and Ann Kuster (D-NH) released the following statements following introduction of the VA Prescription Drug Accountability Act: “Keeping pressure on the VA when it comes to combating the national prescription drug abuse epidemic is not a Democrat issue or Republican issue – it is an American issue,” said Wenstrup. “I’m pleased to cosponsor this bipartisan bill to close a loophole in VHA’s ability to effectively communicate with state prescription monitoring programs.” “Addiction doesn’t discriminate. It extends beyond cultural, racial, and socio-economic boundaries and impacts every part of our society—even those who have served and fought for this country,” said Bergman. “That’s why transparency and accountability are so essential in the VA’s internal monitoring and information sharing procedures. I’m proud to support this legislation that takes critical steps to improve those processes and protect our Veterans and their loved ones from the effects of opioid addiction.” “I co-sponsored the VA Prescription Drug Accountability Act because we need to improve VA’s internal monitoring, and information sharing practices, related to opioid prescription drugs,” said Brownley. “Increasing accountability and transparency will improve the quality of care at the VA and help prevent opioid addiction among veterans.” “The Department of Veterans Affairs is one of the largest prescribers of narcotics in the country and any effective national prescription drug monitoring program must include the VA,” said Kuster. “Last year, the data for hundreds of thousands of non-Veteran patients seen at the VA were not shared with PDMP programs due to a simple technical oversight, greatly reducing their effectiveness. We are in the grips of a national opioid addiction epidemic and this commonsense reform will help improve the monitoring of opioid prescription drugs, which have helped fuel this crisis.” Background: This bill, led by Rep. Kuster, would clarify current law to stipulate that the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) is required to disclose information to state controlled substance monitoring programs for anyone – veteran or non-veteran – who is prescribed these medications through VA. Under current law, when VHA providers prescribe a controlled substance, VHA is required to disclose that information to the appropriate state controlled substance monitoring program. Due to VistA’s inability to differentiate between dependents and other non-veterans, VHA is currently only transmitting data for veteran patients, leaving out approximately 10% of VHA’s patient population who are dependents or other non-veterans who meet certain qualifications to receive prescriptions from VHA. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
02.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley released the following statement in response to the release of the Department of Homeland Security’s memos that provides guidance based on President Trump’s executive order on immigration enforcement: “The new guidelines released by DHS, under the direction of President Trump’s Executive Order, show a willingness to pursue a cavalier immigration enforcement policy even at the cost of the safety and well-being of our communities, our democratic principles of justice, and basic human decency.” “Rather than demonizing and denigrating immigrants, and the fundamentals of our Constitution in the process, we should pass comprehensive immigration reform that will not only protect our borders, but uphold our values as a nation.” Issues: 115th Congress, Immigration
02.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Democratic lawmakers led by U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Alan Lowenthal (D-Calif.), Julia Brownley (D-Calif.), and John P. Sarbanes (D-Md.) introduced legislation today to end partisan gerrymandering and reform the nation’s patchwork redistricting system. The Redistricting Reform Act of 2016 (H.R. 1102), introduced by 47 House Democrats and supported by Common Cause, will require states to establish independent, multi-party citizen redistricting commissions to draw open and transparent statewide district maps after each decennial census. The bill is a component of the “By the People” Legislative Package advanced by the Democracy Reform Task Force. In many states, electoral maps are currently drawn behind closed doors to protect incumbent seats by whatever party holds a statewide majority. Sometimes this process is accelerated in order to swing the outcome of upcoming elections, or in other cases, the two major parties cut backroom deals to preserve the status quo and ensure years of noncompetitive elections. “The issue of redistricting reform is one that is central to our democracy,” said Lofgren. “Too often, politicians choose their voters instead of voters picking their elected officials. The Redistricting Reform Act fixes this by creating an apolitical redistricting process where politicians can be held accountable by their voters.” “For too long the political gerrymandering of our Congressional districts has undermined the public’s trust in our democratic system,” said Lowenthal. “To ensure every American’s right to fair representation, it is time for the political backroom’s influence on the ballot box to be severed. This bill would guarantee each citizen in every state the same ability to draw Congressional district boundaries without the influence and gamesmanship of politics.” “Now, more than ever before, we must restore the trust of the American people in our democracy and in the principle that every vote counts,” said Brownley. “Gerrymandering districts erodes the trust of the people and undermines democratic principles. Utilizing independent citizen redistricting commissions will result in a more transparent election process and more accountable representation.” “We must restore the public’s confidence in the way that Congressional districts are drawn,” said Sarbanes, Chair of the Democracy Reform Task Force. “That’s why I am committed to creating national, independent and objective standards for drawing Congressional districts on a nationwide scale. Rather than piecemeal reform on a state-by-state basis, implementing federal redistricting reform will ensure a more fair and impartial process for drawing Congressional districts.” Under the Redistricting Reform Act of 2016: Each state would be required to establish an independent, multi-party redistricting commission to draw Congressional district maps. Specific eligibility requirements ensure that members of the commissions cannot have certain conflicts of interests, such as lobbyists, political donors or party operatives, and must reflect the diversity of the state while operating transparently. The criteria for a redistricting plan developed by the independent commission provides that districts must: have equal population per representative, in accordance with the U.S. Constitution; comply with the Voting Rights Act of 1965; be geographically contiguous and compact, as well as have boundaries that minimize the division of any community of interest, municipality, county, or neighborhood. The commission must provide ample notice and opportunity for the public to provide input and engage in the redistricting process. Click here for the bill text and a summary of the legislation. Original cosponsors of the Redistricting Reform Act include U.S. Reps. Boyle (D-Pa.), Brown (D-Md.), Brownley (D-Calif.), Clay (D-Mo.), Cohen (D-Tenn.), S. Davis (D-Calif.), Delaney (D-Md.), DeFazio (D-Ore.), Dingell (D-Mich.), Ellison (D-Minn.), Eshoo (D-Calif.), Esty (D-Con.), Foster (D-Ill.), Garamendi (D-Calif.), Hastings (D-Fla.), Hoyer (D-Md.), E.B. Johnson (D-Texas), H. Johnson (D-Texas), Kaptur (D-Ohio), Larson (D-Conn.), Lawrence (D-Mich.), Lee (D-Calif.), Lieu (D-Calif.), Lowenthal (D-Calif.), Matsui (D-Calif.), Nadler (D-N.Y.), Norton (D-District of Columbia), O’Rourke (D-Texas), Pelosi (D-Calif.), Pingree (D-Maine), Quigley (D-Ill.), Raskin (D-Md.), T. Ryan (D-Ohio), Sarbanes (D-Md.), Schiff (D-Calif.), Shea-Porter (D-N.H.), Sherman (D-Calif.), Slaughter (D-N.Y.), Suozzi (D-N.Y.), Swalwell (D-Calif.), Takano (D-Calif.), Thompson (D-Calif.), Veasey (D-Texas), Welch (D-Vt.) , Yarmuth (D-Ky.). Issues: 115th Congress, Redistricting
02.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D – Oxnard) will be joined by Martha Zavala Perez, a Dreamer from Moorpark, who will be her guest during President Trump’s address to the Joint Session of Congress. Martha Zavala Perez was brought to the United States at the age of one by her parents from Mexicali, Mexico. She discovered her undocumented status when her parents were reluctant about allowing her to apply to colleges after she expressed a strong desire. Despite the risk and uncertainty that came with her status, Martha decided to attend Moorpark Community College and transferred to CSUCI after applying to be a Dreamer under DACA. She now holds a Bachelor’s degree from California State University Channel Islands and a Master’s degree from Pepperdine University. She is currently a Special Consultant to the Vice President for Student Affairs at CSUCI. She runs CSUCI’s Undocumented Student Services, which supports undocumented students in their pursuit of higher education. “President Trump’s cavalier attitude towards our immigrations policies profoundly hurts people like Martha and makes us lesser as a community and a nation. I want President Trump and everyone watching to see Martha Zavala Perez and know her story. I want them to see her incredible passion and commitment in serving our community. I want them to see the fear she faces every day of being ripped away from the only home she has ever known. I want them to see her and see the hearts of all our Dreamers.” said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. Martha Perez and Rep. Brownley are available for interviews. Please contact Darwin Pham if you are interested. Issues: 115th Congress, Education, Immigration
02.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Julia Brownley (D-CA) urged the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs to provide more resources for our Major Range and Test Facility Bases (MRTFB), including Naval Base Ventura County (NBVC), to address critical maintenance needs and repairs. “We must provide resources to address aging infrastructure on our bases which are critical to our national security. I am concerned that deferred maintenance at Naval Base Ventura County, and other Major Range and Test Facility Bases, is negatively impacting the Navy’s ability to conduct test and evaluation of critical new systems.” A report detailing the backlog of construction and maintenance needs at Major Range and Test Facility Bases, completed in March 2016, estimated the total cost of bringing these facilities from their current “poor” or “failing” grade up to “good” or “fair” condition is $1.2 billion. The needs at NBVC are over $62 million. Rep. Brownley also testified about the backlog of VA lease authorizations, which is delaying sorely needed care for veterans, as well as making In-Vitro Fertilization (IVF) and adoption services permanently available to veterans with service-connected reproductive disabilities. Text of Rep. Brownley’s remarks at the hearing: https://juliabrownley.house.gov/media-center/in-the-news/rep-brownley-testimony-before-the-house-appropriations-committee Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
02.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley released the following statement on the Senate’s confirmation of Betsy DeVos as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Education: “I am deeply disappointed that the Senate has confirmed Betsy DeVos as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Education. Despite the calls of millions of Americans who are worried about the future of our public education system on which our children rely, Senate Republicans have given this important job to someone who has no understanding of our education laws and policies. I hope that all of you, who called in and spoke out, stay engaged. I remain committed to ensuring every student receives the high-quality education that they deserve. I hope you all will join me to continue fighting for that promise.” Issues: 115th Congress, Education
02.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Brownley speaks out against President Trump’s immigration ban that undermines our national security and is an insult to our constitution. Issues: 115th Congress, Immigration
01.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley released the following statement after the swearing-in of President Donald Trump: “I’m disappointed that President Trump chose to continue the rhetoric of his campaign in his inauguration speech. Instead of a hopeful, positive vision for America, he chose a false and misleading characterization of our great nation. Instead of seeking that which unites us, he chose division and isolationism. Eventually, I hope, he will understand that the majority of Americans who did not support him, will not stand by a President who does not respect them.” “Thank you President Obama, First Lady Michelle Obama, Vice President Biden, and Dr. Jill Biden, for your untiring, hopeful, optimistic, and graceful leadership over the last eight years. Now more than ever, we need to continue to hear your voice and your vision for an inclusive, more democratic nation.” Issues: 115th Congress
01.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – All Americans should have access to quality, affordable healthcare coverage. Watch my speech on the House floor about my constituents, Judith and KC, and their struggle to find consistent, life-saving healthcare. Issues: 115th Congress, Healthcare, Speech
01.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement on the nomination of Dr. David Shulkin to serve as the next Secretary of Veterans Affairs: “I am pleased that the President-elect has selected a physician with extensive experience managing both private and public sector health care systems to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs. Providing consistent and strong leadership is essential to building and maintaining a 21st Century, veterans-focused VA. I will continue to partner with the VA, the veterans community, and my colleagues on the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee to improve the quality of VA health care and support our nation’s veterans.” BACKGROUND: Dr. Shulkin serves as the Under Secretary for Health for the Department of Veterans Affairs. He has served in that position since 2015. Congresswoman Brownley has served as the Ranking Member on the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health since 2013. Issues: 115th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
01.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) released the following statement on her vote supporting H.Res. 11, expressing concerns to UN Security Council Resolution 2334: “I strongly believe that a two-state solution is critical to peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians, and for economic stability and security in the region. I also agree with President Obama and Secretary Kerry that the current situation is unsustainable, and threatens the future of a Jewish and democratic Israel living in peace and security with a Palestinian state. My support of H. Res. 11 was based on my concerns with specific language in UN Security Council Resolution 2334, not my support for Prime Minister Netanyahu’s unhelpful settlement policies. As one of our strongest allies, I will continue to be a staunch supporter of Israel, and policies that will lead to sustainable peace in the region.” Issues: 115th Congress, National Security
01.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley announced 26 bills as part of her legislative agenda for the 115th Congress. The bills reflect the Congresswoman’s legislative priorities this term, which include better serving our nation’s heroes, investing in our infrastructure critical to growing our economy, and building stronger ladders of opportunity to lift up all Americans. “From fixing our crumbling infrastructure, to providing pathways to higher paying jobs, to improving healthcare for our veterans – I am ready to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to move Ventura County and the nation forward.” said Rep. Julia Brownley. Below is the list of bills on Rep. Julia Brownley’s legislative agenda for the 115th Congress: Better Serving Our Nation’s Heroes Improving VA Healthcare • The Veterans Healthcare Improvement Act – Require the Government Accountability Office to continue to verify the accuracy and adequacy of the Department of Veterans Affairs budget for medical care • The Expanding Care for Veterans Act – Expand research and education on, and delivery of, complementary and alternative medicine to veterans through the VA • The Build a Better VA Act – Streamline the lease authorization process for new VA healthcare facilities to provide more care to veterans • The Providing Veterans with Overdue Care Act – Authorize 24 log-jammed VA medical facility leases, including a proposed clinic in Oxnard, to provide much needed health care to underserved veterans • The Chiropractic Care Available to All Veterans Act – Phase in chiropractic care and services at all VA medical centers and improve the standard of care for veterans • The CHAMPVA Children’s Protection Act – Allow children eligible for VA medical care to continue coverage up to age 26 Addressing Veteran Homelessness • The Homes for Veterans Act – Encourage landlords to rent to homeless veterans who participate in the HUD-VASH voucher program • The Helping Homeless Veterans Act – Reauthorize and make permanent homeless veterans assistance programs • Homeless Veterans with Children Reintegration Act – Prioritize homeless veterans with dependent children for services under the Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program Providing Critical Healthcare Resources to Address Needs of Women Veterans • Women Veterans Equal Access to Quality Care Act – Ensure that gender-specific services are continuously available at every VA medical center and community-based outpatient clinic • Building Supportive Networks for Women Veterans‎ Act – Make permanent the VA’s successful pilot program providing retreats for women veterans coping with PTS and other wounds of war Providing Critical Resources for Our Nation’s Heroes • Help Hire Our Heroes – Reauthorize the Veterans Retraining Assistance Program to help unemployed veterans find jobs • The Protect Veterans from Financial Fraud Act – Ensure that every veteran participating in the VA Fiduciary Program can recover their benefits in cases of misuse and fraud • VOW to Hire Heroes Extension Act – Extend and improve the work opportunity tax credit for hiring long-term unemployed veterans • Veterans Access to Child Care Act – Expand and make permanent the VA’s popular Child Care Pilot program • TSA Loose Change Act —Direct unclaimed funds left at security checkpoints to non-profits that provide rest and recuperation for servicemembers at airports • Honoring Our Fallen TSA Officers Act – Ensure fallen TSA officers are eligible for the Public Safety Officer Benefits program Investing in Our Infrastructure and Economy • Support Local Transportation Act – Direct more federal transportation resources to local communities • Start up in a Day Act – Permanently authorize the SBA “Start up in a Day” program to eliminate red tape and help small businesses succeed • Veteran Small Business Access to Credit Act – Improve access to credit for veterans seeking to start or expand a small business • Mortgage Debt Tax Forgiveness Act – Make permanent the income tax exclusion for mortgage debt relief • Mortgage Insurance Tax Deduction Act – Make permanent the tax deduction for mortgage insurance premiums Building Ladders of Opportunity for All Americans • American Dream Employment Act – Permit Members of Congress to hire DREAMers • American Manufacturing Jobs for Students Act – Improve school counseling programs to help young people find skilled jobs in 21st Century manufacturing • Student Loan Repayment Assistance Act – Encourage businesses to offer student loan repayment plans • Amend the Code for Marriage Equality Act – Amends the federal code to ensure marriage equality by removing gender-specific definitions of spouse Issues: 115th Congress, Affordable Housing, Education, Transportation and Infrastructure, Veterans' Affairs
11.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Julia Brownley (D-CA) introduced the Honor Our National Guard Act in the U.S. House of Representatives, legislation that would prohibit the recoupment of bonuses given to National Guard members. Additionally, it would require the Department of Defense to repay those who have already returned their bonuses, as well as the penalties incurred, with interest. “We must keep the promises that we make and fully honor the service of our brave men and women in uniform. We need to give closure to the thousands of National Guard members and make whole those who have already been forced to repay their bonuses accepted in good faith. This bill ensures that we do just that, and restores our sacred oath to our servicemembers and veterans.” The Pentagon recently suspended bonus recollection efforts to assess the situation and establish a procedure to process the cases. However, this action provides only temporary relief. The Honor Our National Guard Act would provide permanent protection for National Guard members who accepted their bonuses in good faith and restore funds to those who have already been subject to repayment. The bill is endorsed by the National Guard Association of California. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
10.26.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) released the following statement on the Pentagon’s decision to temporarily suspend efforts to seek repayment of enlistment bonuses and benefits given to California National Guard members. “I am pleased that the Department of Defense responded to the outcry from citizens across our country to address this injustice against our servicemembers and veterans who have already given so much to our nation. While this would provide some relief to these individuals, we still must find a permanent solution to this issue and give closure for the thousands affected.” “Furthermore, we must make whole those who have already made payments, and enact accountability measures to make sure this never happens again. I intend to work with my colleagues in the House and the Department of Defense to find a permanent fix and to get to the bottom of the mismanagement that allowed this to occur.” Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
10.24.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (CA-26) released the following statement regarding recent reports that the Department of Defense is seeking repayment of enlistment bonuses from over 9,700 California National Guard servicemembers and veterans: “I am outraged that our servicemembers and veterans are being asked to repay bonuses and benefits promised to them when they answered the call to serve our nation. Our veterans were not responsible for the errors and mismanagement that occurred, and they should not be held financially responsible for the mistakes of others.” “We must keep the sacred promise that we made and fully honor the service of these veterans who served our country. I intend to introduce legislation as soon as Congress returns to waive repayment, and will work with my colleagues to ensure a full accounting of how this mismanagement occurred.” Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Veterans' Affairs
09.30.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Julia Brownley (CA-26) announced the enactment of her bill, the Veterans Medical Access Act, which was approved by Congress as part of the Fiscal Year 2017 Continuing Appropriations and Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Zika Response and Preparedness Act (H.R. 5325). The law was signed yesterday by President Obama. “Too often, blinded and catastrophically disabled veterans can’t afford the cost of travel to VA specialty rehabilitation centers, which means this important resource is out of reach for these veterans. I am thrilled Congress has passed this important legislation, and I thank Senator Tester for his leadership in the Senate, as well as the Blinded Veterans Association, Paralyzed Veterans of America, and Disabled American Veterans. This new law will ensure that all blinded and catastrophically disabled veterans have access to specialty rehabilitation services that are so vital for their quality of life and independence,” said Representative Julia Brownley. Currently, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is required to cover the cost of transportation for veterans requiring medical care for service-connected injuries. However, the VA does not provide travel reimbursement for non-service connected medical care. With only 13 specialty rehabilitation centers across the country, many veterans with limited mobility cannot afford the cost of travel to access this critical care. In addition, blinded and catastrophically disabled veterans without access to specialty rehabilitation centers are more likely to develop adverse health conditions and face higher medical costs. The language included in H.R. 5325 will extend VA travel benefits to veterans with vision impairment, spinal cord injury or disorder, or double or multiple amputations in connection with care provided through a special disabilities rehabilitation program of the VA. Rep. Brownley originally introduced the Veterans Medical Access Act in the 113th Congress and reintroduced it again in the 114th Congress. The House Veterans’ Affairs Committee held a hearing on Brownley’s bill on May 21st, 2013. Since that time, Brownley has continued to push for the bill to move forward. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
09.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Julia Brownley (D-CA) and Chellie Pingree (D-ME) introduced H.R. 6220, a bill that would authorize the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to move forward with 24 healthcare facility leases that are currently backlogged in Congress, including the proposed 47,200 square foot Oxnard Community Clinic. “Here in Ventura County and all across the country, there are veterans waiting for care. The proposed Oxnard Community Clinic would expand healthcare and specialty services that local veterans sorely need. I will continue to push for better services and more timely, quality healthcare closer to home for Ventura County veterans,” said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. Under current law, Congress must specifically authorize individual leases for VA medical facilities with average annual rental costs over $1 million. Beginning in 2012, the Congressional Budget Office began assessing the cost of all VA clinics based on the total cost over the life of the lease rather than the annual cost. House Republican leaders require additional upfront off-sets from other veterans programs to pay for these new veterans’ healthcare facilities, despite the fact that funds to pay for the facilities are already accounted for under the discretionary budget caps. This bureaucratic scoring dispute has led to a significant backlog in approval of much needed facilities, denying veterans equitable treatment. H.R. 6220 would authorize the 24 leases from FY2016 and FY2017 that have been caught in this bureaucratic roadblock. In 2015, Brownley introduced separate legislation, the Build a Better VA Act (H.R. 2914), which would provide a long-term fix that allows the House and Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committees to authorize new leases via committee resolution. This process is identical to the process for other federal facilities. Issues: 114th Congress, Seniors' Issues, Veterans' Affairs
09.28.2016	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Julia Brownley issued the following statement after the House passed the FY2017 Continuing Appropriations and Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Zika Response and Preparedness Act (H.R. 5325). The bill funds the Department of Veterans Affairs and military construction projects for upcoming year, provides funds to address the Zika crisis, and funds other government agencies at FY2016 levels through December 9, 2016. “I am pleased Congress passed this bill that includes funding critical to our nation’s veterans, and ensures they will continue to receive the healthcare and services that they need from the VA. It includes a critical provision to help wounded veterans pay for the cost of in-vitro fertilization (IVF) and adoption that I have long fought to pass. When a servicemember volunteers to serve our country in uniform and suffers an injury, they deserve our unwavering support, including help to start a family.” Issues: 114th Congress, Budget, Veterans' Affairs
09.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley announced that the U.S. Department of Education has awarded over $3.2 million in grants to local colleges and universities to support activities and programs to increase the number of Latino and low-income students in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Math) degree programs at Hispanic-Serving Institutions in Ventura County. The three institutions receiving these grants are the Ventura County Community College District ($1,199,230), California State University, Channel Islands ($1,199,297), and California Lutheran University ($855,132). “This funding will help institutions of higher education here in Ventura County develop and carry out programs that support Latino and low-income students pursuing STEM careers. We must prepare our students and equip them with the skills necessary to secure the jobs of the future,” said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. “We are proud to be one of the few private independent universities to receive these grants to serve our growing Latino population on campus,” said Cal Lutheran President Chris Kimball. “We’ve experienced a 77 percent increase in science majors over the past five years, and this grant will enable us to substantially increase services and support for these students.” “Oxnard College is one of the leading HSI colleges in the United States. Our Science, Technology, Education and Mathematics (STEM) programs and courses offer local access to the most affordable quality courses and programs anywhere,” said Dr. Bernard Luskin, Chancellor of the Ventura County Community College District. “This is an extraordinary honor for the University and a direct reflection of our campus’ commitment to expanding STEM opportunities for students in our community. I would like to highlight particular appreciation for Dr. Amanda Quintero and her continued exceptional efforts in leading our campus in these transformative initiatives,” said Dr. Erika D. Beck, President of CSU Channel Islands. The funding comes from the Department of Education’s Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSI) STEM Program, which provides funding to institutions to expand their capacity and carry out STEM initiatives that serve Latino and low-income students. For more information about the HSI STEM Program, visit: www2.ed.gov/programs/hsistem/index.html Issues: 114th Congress, Education, Local Issues
09.27.2016	Ventura, CA – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley announced a $1.6 million grant from the National Park Service (NPS) to the City of Ventura for the construction of the newly proposed Kellogg Park. The funding would cover landscaping, construction of the playground, open space, picnic areas, and fitness equipment. “I am pleased that the City of Ventura received this funding to help make Kellogg Park a reality,” said Rep. Brownley. “The new park will provide a much-needed community space for Ventura residents on the west-side of the city. It will also encourage recreational activities and exercise that is so important for the public health and vitality of the community.” “We are extremely pleased that this grant brings us that much closer to our goal of raising $4.3 million dollars to complete the Kellogg Park build. This is another example of the City working together with our partners to secure grant funding and provide space where families and children can play, relax and enjoy nature,” said City of Ventura Mayor Erik Nasarenko. “Westside Ventura residents have organized for years for more access to open green space and outdoor recreation in their neighborhood to tackle the health disparities impacting this disadvantaged community,” said Maricela Morales, Executive Director of CAUSE. “This major support from the National Park Service is bringing the community’s vision to life.” The grant comes from the NPS’ Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) which provides matching grants to state and local governments to acquire and develop public outdoor recreation areas and facilities. More information can be found here www.nps.gov/subjects/lwcf/stateside.htm. Between 1965 and 2014, the LWCF provided over 40,000 grants totaling more than $16.7 billion to acquire recreation lands with 75% of the total funds obligated going to locally sponsored projects that provide close-to-home recreation opportunities that are readily accessible to America’s youth, adults, senior citizens, and the physically or mentally challenged. Rep. Brownley has co-sponsored H.R. 1814, legislation that would permanently reauthorize the LCWF. Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues
09.21.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Julia Brownley (D-CA) urged congressional colleagues to address the bureaucratic roadblock that hinders Congress’ ability to authorize leases for new Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical facilities during the House Veterans Affairs’ Committee (HVAC) mark-up. The delay in authorizing leases prevents the VA from constructing or leasing much needed clinics and healthcare facilities or renovating outdated ones needed to serve veterans. HVAC Chairman Jeff Miller (R-FL) joined Rep. Brownley in her concerns and pledged to work together to find a solution during the meeting. Currently, there are 24 VA projects and facilities awaiting authorization across 15 different states potentially affecting thousands of veterans across the nation. The VA identified these 24 locations as communities in desperate need for the new facilities to ensure equal access to care for all veterans. One of the projects is a proposed new 47,200 square foot outpatient clinic in Oxnard that would allow the VA to expand its primary care and mental health services and provide new specialty healthcare services, such as optometry, audiology, and dermatology locally in Ventura County. “The delay in authorizing leasing new facilities hinders the VA’s capabilities to provide high-quality healthcare to our nation’s veterans,” said Rep. Julia Brownley. “With the increasing demand for VA healthcare, this results in many veterans facing long wait times when seeking care and crumbling infrastructure at outdated VA medical facilities that are too small with too few rooms and too few providers. I am frustrated, as are many veterans that this problem has not been resolved for several years and I hope we can bring renewed attention to this issue and find a bipartisan way forward.” Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Veterans' Affairs
09.09.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley announced that the Coast Guard has decided to make their current operating base at Naval Base Ventura County (NBVC) permanent. The Coast Guard move to NBVC is due to the previously announced closure of the Air Station Los Angeles facility at Los Angeles International Airport. (Please see the attached letter from the Coast Guard). The new facility, now known as the Coast Guard Forward Operating Base (FOB) Point Mugu, will include two mission-ready helicopter units, their crews, and support personnel. This move will allow the Coast Guard to sustain its air search-and-rescue operations and law enforcement activities along the Central California Coast. The move to NBVC will also provide the Coast Guard an option to expand as needed in the future. “I am pleased that, with the help of local stakeholders, we were able to shepherd this permanent move to Point Mugu. The Coast Guard’s decision further solidifies Naval Base Ventura County as a strategic asset to Ventura County, California, and the nation,” said Julia Brownley. “This new addition will bolster Coast Guard air presence locally and enhance public safety, law enforcement, and homeland security activities in the region.” Rep. Brownley spearheaded legislation in Congress last year that authorized the Coast Guard’s move to Point Mugu, as well as legislation that funded the needed facilities. Issues: 114th Congress, Defense, Local Issues
08.09.2016	Camarillo, CA – Today, Rep. Julia Brownley (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, led a local hearing in Camarillo to discuss the use of telemedicine within the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs healthcare system. Dr. Brad Wenstrup (R-OH), a subcommittee member, also attended the event. For the hearing, Ranking Member Brownley invited several witnesses to testify including: Dr. Kevin Galpin, the Acting Executive Director for Telehealth at the VHA accompanied by Dr. Scotte Hartronft, Chief of Staff of the VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System Dr. Herb Rogove, the President and Chief Executive Officer of C3O Telemedicine; and Mr. Zachary Walker, a U.S. Navy veteran and telemedicine patient “There is not a one-size-fits-all approach to providing health care to veterans,” said Rep. Brownley. “We must foster all avenues of ensuring quality, timely healthcare for our veterans. As technology continues to improve, the possibilities for providing health care are also rapidly changing. The VA has worked to expand access to telemedicine, but there is still more work to do to give the program greater visibility and to help them continue to innovate.” “With the support of Congress, we have an opportunity to shape the future and ensure that VA is leveraging cutting-edge technology to provide convenient, accessible, high-quality care to all Veterans,” stated Dr. Galpin in his testimony. “In 2015, the VA conducted 2.14 million telehealth visits, reaching more than 677,000 Veterans… including more than 20,000 telehealth visits that reached over 6,200 Veterans [in the greater Los Angeles area].” “My company was founded on the principle that no American citizen should be penalized for gaining access to best practice medical care because of geography or no access to certain specialty physicians,” stated Dr. Rogove. “Looking at the future, the VA Telehealth Model has a tremendous opportunity to…form public-private partnerships, as well as major health and academic systems to meet the current and expanding physician shortage.” Mr. Walker, describing his experience using telemedicine in Oxnard, stated: “Initially, I was reluctant because being seen by a doctor through a monitor was counterproductive to any medical experience I have had in the past.” He continued: “[However] I had a great experience with telemedicine. My appointment wait time was reduced from the normal two months to one week. My appointment started on time rather than the normal one hour lobby wait time…Telemedicine should be presented to veterans as an option for medical care, and not as a last resort.” Click here to view a video of the hearing. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
08.01.2016	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Julia Brownley released the following statement after the Obama Administration’s announcement that the number of homeless veterans has decreased by nearly half since 2010: “Providing a safe shelter for our veterans is part of our solemn duty – to care for those who’ve served our country in uniform. As a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I am proud of the work we have done to decrease the number of homeless veterans.” “While we have made progress, there are still thousands of veterans living without access to permanent and dependable housing. I will continue to work with my colleagues on the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, the VA, and veterans support groups to address the complex causes of homelessness and expand access to health care, education, and employment opportunities that our veterans deserve.” “I am pleased that we were able to secure over $110,000 for HUD-VASH grants earlier this year for Ventura County that would help homeless veterans in transition into safe and affordable housing.” Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
07.08.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Brownley released a statement on the shooting deaths of Philando Castile in Falcon Heights, Minnesota, Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and five police officers in Dallas, Texas: “I mourn the loss of Philando Castile and Alton Sterling. I mourn the loss of the five police officers killed in Dallas yesterday, and pray for a swift recovery of those who were wounded. We must come together as a nation, in the spirit of compassion and grace, to find solutions that will keep our communities and our families safe.” Issues: 114th Congress, Gun Safety
06.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Julia Brownley released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s deadlock on the U.S. v. Texas case that would halt the implementation of President Obama’s Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) program and the expansion of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA+) program: “I am disappointed that today’s deadlocked Supreme Court decision in U.S v.Texas blocks the President’s executive actions to protect hardworking immigrant families. Instead of providing work authorization and temporary legal status for 4 million parents of American citizens and legal residents, the Supreme Court has left in place broken immigration laws that are hampering our economic growth and tearing our communities apart.” Issues: 114th Congress, Immigration
06.21.2016	Washington, D.C. –The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs will have to look at whether its suicide prevention programs are meeting female veterans’ needs under a California-led bill that passed the House on Tuesday afternoon. The House OKd the Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act sponsored by Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) by a voice vote. The measure had already passed the Senate and now heads to President Obama. The VA already has to review its suicide prevention and mental health programs annually under the Clay Hunt SAV Act. The Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act requires the VA to produce separate data and statistics on female veterans. “The current rate of suicide among women veterans is heartbreaking and unacceptable,” Boxer said in a statement. Rep. Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) sponsored the House version of the billafter learning that the rate of suicide among female veterans increased by 40% between 2000 and 2010 . “The Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act will lead to a better understanding of the factors that contribute to the alarmingly high suicide rates among women veterans so that we can design more effective suicide prevention programs,” Brownley said in a statement. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
06.21.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act (S. 2487) with overwhelming bipartisan support. The legislation would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to identify the most effective programs and approaches in reducing suicide rates among female veterans. House passage of the bill sends it directly to President Obama for signing. Two weeks ago, the bill passed the Senate, with efforts led by U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), and Sherrod Brown (D-OH). Congresswoman Brownley authored the Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act (H.R. 2915) after VA researchers found that suicides among women veterans increased by 40 percent from 2000 to 2010, and that women veterans were nearly six times as likely as non-veteran women to commit suicide. When looking at women between the ages of 18 to 29, many of whom served in Iraq and Afghanistan, they are 12 times more likely than their non-veteran counterparts to commit suicide. The findings were based on data analyzed from 23 states that tracked over 174,000 veteran and non-veterans suicides over a ten-year period. “I’m so pleased this legislation is on its way to the President’s desk because it will save lives among our nation’s female veterans,” said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. “The Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act will lead to a better understanding of the factors that contribute to the alarmingly high suicide rates among women veterans so that we can design more effective suicide prevention programs.” “The current rate of suicide among women veterans is heartbreaking and unacceptable,” Senator Boxer said. “I am proud that the House and Senate have come together to pass this bipartisan bill to help ensure that female veterans get the mental health care and the support they need at the VA.” “Each day, we lose 22 veterans to suicide, and the suicide rate among our female veterans is higher than that of male veterans when compared to the general population,” said Senator Ernst. “One veteran’s life lost to suicide is too many, and we absolutely must do better for our veterans to ensure they have the quality and timely mental health care they need to transition back to civilian life. I am thankful to Representative Brownley for her work in the House, and encourage President Obama to quickly sign this important legislation into law.” The VA is already required to conduct annual evaluations of its suicide prevention and mental health programs under the Clay Hunt SAV Act. The Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act will require the VA to produce separate data and statistics on female veterans. The information will then be used to identify mental health and suicide prevention programs that are the most effective, and most preferred, among women veterans. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
06.15.2016	Oxnard, CA – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D – Westlake Village) is pleased to announce that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) awarded $113,700 to the City of San Buenaventura and the City of Oxnard to help homeless veterans transition into safe and affordable housing. The award will support 13 new housing vouchers that provide rental assistance for homeless veterans and will include access to supportive services. “The number of homeless veterans in Ventura County and across America is simply unacceptable,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “We have a moral obligation take care of all the men and women who have served in uniform. I am pleased that Ventura County veterans will continue to benefit from the HUD-VASH program, which is critical to eliminating veterans’ homelessness.” The City of San Buenaventura received a $60,564 award supporting 7 new HUD-VASH vouchers. The City of Oxnard received a $53,136 award supporting 6 new HUD-VASH vouchers. “We are excited at the opportunity to add seven more VASH vouchers to our agency for a total of 102 vouchers, which will allow us to expand our efforts toward housing homeless veterans. Working in partnership with the VA and local landlords, we strive to end veteran homelessness in Ventura,” said Denise Wise, Chief Executive Officer of the Housing Authority of the City of San Buenaventura. “Addressing the needs of homeless veterans is a top priority for our community,” said Arturo Casillas, Housing Director for the Oxnard Housing Authority. “The City of Oxnard is appreciative of Congresswoman Brownley’s continued support of the VASH program. Through collaborative efforts and the additional VASH vouchers the Oxnard Housing Authority expects to receive, we are closer to our shared goal of ending veteran homelessness throughout the region.” HUD-VASH works in reducing veteran homelessness by providing funding for both housing from HUD and supportive services such as healthcare, employment assistance, and counseling from VA that are essential for ending homelessness for tens of thousands of veterans nationwide. This month, HUD and VA announced nearly $38 million to help more than 5,200 homeless veterans find a permanent home. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
05.19.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) offered two amendments during a House Veterans’ Affairs Committee mark-up. The Brownley amendments would help veterans start families and improve health care services for catastrophically-disabled or blinded veterans. Brownley’s first amendment to the Fair Treatment for Families of Veterans Act (H.R. 4087) would have authorized the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide veterans — who have service-connected reproductive injuries — with coverage for up to three cycles of in vitro fertilization (IVF) and pay the cost for up to three domestic adoptions. Under a 1993 law, the VA is currently not allowed to help veterans pay for IVF or adoptions, even if their inability to start a family stems from an injury that the veteran sustained while serving in the Armed Forces. “As a mother, I know that there is no greater joy in life than having a family,” said Brownley. “The brave men and women who have served our country in uniform, and have been wounded in the line-of-duty, deserve that same opportunity to have children. No veteran should have to pay out of pocket for a service-connected disability.” The underlying bill, the Fair Treatment for Families of Veterans Act (H.R. 4087), would provide up to $20,000 to service-connected veterans who have lost the use of so-called creative organs. According to the American Society for Reproductive Medicine and the Paralyzed Veterans of America, the average cost of an IVF cycle is $12,500 and the cost of a domestic adoption can be as high as $40,000. Brownley’s amendment would have covered the full cost. Although her amendment was not adopted, Brownley has pledged to continue to fight for veterans who are ready to start families of their own. The bipartisan language of the Brownley amendment was supported by Senators Murray (D-WA) and Isakson (R-GA), as well as other Members of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee. Brownley’s second amendment would have authorized the VA to provide travel benefits to non-service connected catastrophically disabled and blinded veterans to access VA’s network of inpatient specialty rehabilitation centers. “Blinded and catastrophically-disabled veterans are already eligible for specialty rehabilitation services at these clinics, but many cannot afford the cost of the trip,” said Brownley. “This benefit would mean the world to aging veterans who lose their eyesight and need to learn the skills necessary to stay in their own home and to veterans who are paralyzed in an accident and need to re-learn basic life skills to remain independent.” Under current law, the VA covers travel costs for all veterans requiring medical care for service-connected injuries. However, VA does not provide travel reimbursement for blinded or catastrophically disabled non-service connected veterans requiring medical care. Because many of these veterans are low-income or living on very limited fixed budgets, they simply cannot afford the plane ticket to get to VA’s specialty rehabilitation clinics. Brownley’s amendment would have authorized the VA to pay for this travel. During the discussion, Chairman Miller voiced his concerns about the amendment. Congresswoman Brownley decided to withdraw the amendment to continue to seek bipartisan consensus on the language. Brownley’s original bill (H.R. 288) was supported by both the Blinded Veterans Association and Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA). In the letter dated January 13, 2015, PVA stated, “Your effort to expand VA’s beneficiary travel benefit to this population of severely disabled veterans will lead to an increasing number of catastrophically disabled veterans receiving quality, timely, comprehensive care, and result in long-term cost savings for the VA.” Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
05.19.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement regarding the Maloney Amendment to the FY17 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act (H.R. 4974): “What happened today in the House is a disgrace! 35 Republicans voted with Democrats to support the rights of the LGBT community. Then, from the dark corners of the room Speaker Ryan cajoled and harassed them until several secretly switched their votes to oppose equal rights. These actions bring shame on the institution and on our democracy.” The Maloney Amendment would have protected employees of federal contractors from discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. Issues: 114th Congress, Civil Rights
05.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to approve Congresswoman Julia Brownley’s (D-Westlake Village) amendment to H.R. 4641, a bill establishing an Inter-Agency Task Force on Best Practices for Pain Management. The Brownley amendment added the Office of Women’s Health to the inter-agency task force on pain management created under the bill. After Brownley’s amendment was included, the final bill passed the House in a vote of 412 to 4. “Opioid abuse among women has increased an alarming 400 percent in recent years, and my amendment would include experts on women’s health in the inter-agency task force, established by the bill, so that the unique pain management needs of women and girls can be addressed,” said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. “The Office of Women’s Health is uniquely qualified to ensure that the specialized needs of women and girls, who may be pregnant or nursing, are taken into account as the task force examines best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication.” The Office of Women’s Health at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has specialized expertise that will help the inter-agency pain management task force address the unique pain management needs of women who may be pregnant or nursing. This expertise of the Office of Women’s Health is desperately needed because opioid abuse among women has increased substantially in recent years. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the number of women who fall victim to an opioid-related fatality increased an alarming 400% from 1999 to 2010, totaling 48,000 women who have died during that span of time. During this decade, opioid abuse among women increased more than abuse of any other drug, including cocaine and heroin. The CDC reports that in 2010, 18 women per day died of a prescription painkiller overdose, accounting for nearly 7,000 women total. H.R. 4641 establishes a task force comprised of representatives of several key federal agencies, as well as physicians, hospitals, state medical boards, pain management professional organizations, the mental health treatment community, the addiction treatment and recovery community, pain advocacy groups, patient representatives, and other stakeholders. Issues: 114th Congress, Healthcare
05.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs (DAMA) approved Congresswoman Julia Brownley’s (D-Westlake Village) bill, the Protect Veterans from Financial Fraud Act (H.R. 2975). Brownley’s bill was approved as an amendment to the Fair Treatment for Families of Veterans Act (H.R. 4087). The Brownley language ensures that every veteran participating in Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Fiduciary Program can recover their benefits in cases of fiduciary misuse and fraud. Specifically, it would protect veterans from financial fraud by ending the “10 or more rule” that restricts the VA from reissuing stolen benefits to a veteran unless the VA-appointed fiduciary manages VA benefits for ten or more veterans. “While the VA rightly protects the benefits of certain veterans who are the victim of fraud, a longstanding loophole has left out many of our most vulnerable veterans,” said Brownley. “My bill will ensure that all veterans who are the victims of fraud by a VA-appointed trustee, receive the benefits they have earned and deserve, and rely on to make ends meet.” The VA’s Fiduciary Program was established to protect veterans and other beneficiaries who — due to injury, disease, or age — are unable to manage their own financial affairs. Under this program, if VA determines a veteran is unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Department will appoint a fiduciary to assist the veteran in managing benefit payments. In 2014, the Fiduciary Program served more than 172,800 veterans and their survivors. Most often, family members or friends serve as fiduciaries. According to VA, 80% of VA beneficiaries have a one-on-one relationship with their fiduciary. Unfortunately, not all veterans who have VA-appointed fiduciaries are treated equally under federal law. Under current law, if a fiduciary misuses a veteran’s benefits, the VA can remove the fiduciary, but it can only re-issue benefits to the veteran if the appointed fiduciary manages benefits for 10 or more veterans. The “10 or more” requirement leaves thousands of veterans unprotected and unable to recoup the benefits in cases of fiduciary abuse or fraud, which was committed at no fault of the veteran. In a hearing in June 2015, the VA expressed support for Brownley’s bill, which is also supported by the American Legion. Here is a link to letter of support from the American Legion. Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Veterans' Affairs
05.09.2016	Thousand Oaks, CA – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) hosted a discussion with community stakeholders on the status of veterans’ healthcare services and plans for immediate improvements at the VA Community-Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Oxnard. Brownley invited the new leadership of the VA Greater Los Angeles (GLA) Healthcare System to provide an update on their plans and strategies to reduce wait times and improve healthcare services at the Oxnard CBOC. The Department of Veterans Affairs provides primary care and mental health services to thousands of Ventura County veterans at the Oxnard CBOC. “The clinic must reach its full potential as soon as possible so that Ventura County veterans can receive high-quality health care, including additional specialty care services, closer to home in a timely manner,” said Brownley. “Since coming to VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System in February, I have worked closely with Congresswoman Brownley who raised concerns about wait times at the Oxnard CBOC the first time that we met,” said Ann Brown, Medical Center Director of the VA GLA Healthcare System. “I thank Congresswoman Brownley for convening today’s discussion so that we could present a plan to ensure the Oxnard clinic is fully staffed and able to meet the needs of Ventura County Veterans.” Also, participating in the discussion was Richard Robinson, the Executive Director of Ambulatory Care and CBOCs at the VA GLA Healthcare System. This new position was created to guarantee greater oversight to the VA clinics in the GLA Healthcare System that includes the Oxnard CBOC. As the Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, Congresswoman Brownley has been working to ensure that Ventura County veterans are receiving the care that they have earned and deserve by expanding the Oxnard CBOC and shepherding authorization and funding for the new 47,000 sq. ft. community clinic through Congress. Brownley was pivotal in last December’s expansion of the CBOC at University Drive, which should have expanded access to healthcare and driven down wait times, but has had difficulty recruiting and retaining health care providers, negatively impacting wait times. Brownley will continue to provide the oversight necessary to ensure that veterans’ concerns about the Oxnard CBOC are heard and addressed by the new leadership of the VA GLA Healthcare System. Issues: 114th Congress, Healthcare, Local Issues, Veterans' Affairs
05.02.2016	Thousand Oaks, CA – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D – Westlake Village) and the Port of Hueneme Board of Harbor Commissioners announced the launch of Phase II of the Port’s Grid-Based Shore Power Project. Brownley secured a $500,000 grant for this project that will significantly reduce diesel emissions from refrigerated cargo vessels. “The Port of Hueneme is an essential economic driver to our region and I am proud to have worked with community stakeholders and port leaders to support the grant for Phase II of the Shore Power Project,” said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. “This project is a win for improving our environment, growing our local economy, and increasing the competitiveness of the port in the international marketplace.” “This grant provided the funding necessary to complete this vital Grid-Based Shore Power System and ensure that emissions will be reduced at the Port,” said Kristin Decas, CEO and Port Director at the Port of Hueneme. “We extend our gratitude to Congresswoman Brownley for her leadership and support.” According to the Port of Hueneme Board of Harbor Commissioners, Phase II will complete the Port’s Grid-Based Shore Power System that will allow refrigerated cargo vessels, called “reefer vessels,” to run their auxiliary marine engines on shore power instead of diesel fuel. The project is anticipated to dramatically reduce greenhouse gas emissions. “The Port of Hueneme is critical to the economic health of Ventura County and Southern California,” said Brownley in a letter to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency supporting the grant request for the Phase II Shore Power Infrastructure Project. Since coming to Congress, Brownley has been a staunch advocate for the Port of Hueneme, helping to bring in grants for infrastructure improvements, environmental infrastructure, and port security enhancements to ensure the future viability of the Port as a regional economic engine and job creator. Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Transportation and Infrastructure
05.02.2016	Thousand Oaks, CA – On Monday, May 9, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) will host a discussion with community stakeholders on the status of veterans’ healthcare services and plans for immediate improvements at the VA Community-Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Oxnard. Brownley has invited the new leadership of the VA Greater LA Healthcare System to provide an update on their plans and strategies to reduce wait times and improve healthcare services. “I look forward to a frank and productive conversation with the VA Greater Los Angeles leadership, and our local veterans and veteran advocates, to discuss measures being taken to quickly reach full utilization of our Oxnard Community Clinic,” said Brownley. “It’s critically important that this clinic reach its full potential as soon as possible so that Ventura County veterans can receive more and better care locally, and in a timely manner.” As the Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, Congresswoman Brownley wants to ensure that Ventura County veterans are receiving the care that they have earned and deserve. Who: Congresswoman Julia Brownley Leadership of VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System Where: Ventura County Community Foundation 4001 Mission Oaks Boulevard Camarillo, CA 93012 When: Monday, May 9, 2016 1:30 p.m. – 3 p.m. PT Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Veterans' Affairs
04.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) released the following statement regarding the final Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General review of improper handling of veterans’ claims: “I appreciate the OIG’s work to further investigate allegations of inappropriate shredding of veterans’ claims documents, which were originally raised with respect to the Los Angeles VARO,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I appreciate the VA’s swift action to implement the OIG’s additional recommendations to prevent improper document handling, so that every veteran’s claim is handled correctly and our veterans receive the benefits that they have earned and deserve.” In July 2015, Representatives Brownley and Ruiz called for the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee to hold a hearing about allegations of mishandling of veterans’ claims at the Veterans Benefits Administration Los Angeles Regional Office. Press release from July 10, 2015 attached. The final reports issued: VAOIG Report – Review of Claims-Related Documents Pending Destruction at VA Regional Offices VAOIG Report – Review of Alleged Shredding of Claims-Related Evidence at VARO Los Angeles, California. Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Veterans' Affairs
04.07.2016	Thousand Oaks, CA – On Thursday, April 7th, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) presented Sgt. Emmet Cullen, a local high school teacher, with the Bronze Star Medal that he earned during his service in Iraq. Sergeant Emmet Cullen, now a Buena High School social studies teacher, received the Bronze Star with Valor for his exceptional actions in protecting his platoon and saving the lives of fellow servicemembers during his deployment in Mosul, Iraq in 2006. The office of Congresswoman Julia Brownley worked with the United States Army to properly recognize Sergeant Cullen and obtain for him this award for his heroism and distinguished leadership and service to our nation. The Bronze Star with a “V” for valor is the fourth highest military honor. According to the U.S. Army, only 2,460 servicemembers in the United States Army have received this award for their service in Operation Iraqi Freedom. “Sergeant Cullen is a true American hero for his distinguished service to our nation in battle, and for continuing that service to his community as a high school teacher in Ventura County,” said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. “I am honored to have helped ensure that he received his Bronze Star with Valor for his heroic service during Operation Iraqi Freedom.” “Thank you Congresswoman Julia Brownley, for your offices outstanding service in helping to process this award through the Department of the Army some nine years after it was initially lost,” said Sergeant Cullen. “An extra special thanks to the Congresswoman for coming to Buena High School to highlight and bear witness to our many award winning programs! It means so much to me to be able to gather here with my family, friends, colleagues, and of course the students of Buena High School. I began my teaching career with this year’s graduating class of seniors as a young-faced and frightened student teacher not five years ago. Imagine that, a decorated combat veteran afraid of a class of 8th graders?” “Emmet is so humble, he quietly goes about his day fighting for his students,” said Bobbi Powers, principal of Buena High School. “We are fortunate to have him as a teacher, and all are so proud of his service to our country and to share this special recognition with him.” Here is the narrative that accompanied the award submission describing Sgt. Cullen’s actions that led to him receiving the Bronze Star with Valor. Issues: 114th Congress, Education, Local Issues, Veterans' Affairs
03.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) hosted an event with the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Administrator Sarah E.Feinberg to announce a $1.5 million grant for the Rice Avenue rail safety project. They were joined by other local officials to discuss this grant to the state of California to fund the design of a bridge to carry vehicular traffic on Rice Avenue over railroad tracks. Congresswoman Brownley supported this grant through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Railroad Safety Grants for the Safe Transportation of Energy Products (STEP) by Rail Program. In October 2015, Congresswoman Brownley wrote a letter to FRA requesting funds for the Rice Avenue railway-highway grade crossing improvement project. This grant will be used for project design. “In recent years, we have seen multiple accidents at this busy intersection, including the tragic 2015 Metrolink derailment. Today’s grant announcement will get the process started in moving the Rice Avenue grade-separation project forward, not only to improve safety at the Rice Avenue rail crossing, but also allow the smoother flow of goods from the Port of Hueneme,” said Brownley. “The safest crossing is one that doesn’t exist, and through Congresswoman Brownley’s efforts in fighting for this grant, we are closer to closing a crossing where thousands of trains and cars pass each other every day,” said FRA Administrator Sarah E. Feinberg. “By separating Rice Avenue from the tracks below, we will increase safety for both rail passengers and drivers and increase Los Angeles’ transportation system reliability.” “Congresswoman Brownley, you were instrumental in getting this $1.5 million. This is great news for the farms, port commerce and commuters because the safe movement of goods and people is priority one,” said Carrie Bowen, Caltrans District 7 Director. “We look forward to developing this project.” “Everyone recognizes that safety is not a destination, it is a continual journey,” said Keith Millhouse, Chair of the Ventura County Transportation Commission. “I would like to thank Congresswoman Brownley for continuing to get things done. This grant is another example of the Congresswoman’s accomplishments.” The Department of Transportation grant provides funds for the design of a six-lane bridge on Rice Avenue in Oxnard, over the Union Pacific Railroad tracks and State Route 34. This new design will improve safety at the heavily travelled intersection. According to FRA, the annual train traffic through the project area includes: 1,820 Metrolink commuter trains, 3,120 Amtrak intercity trains and 4,368 Union Pacific trains. Rice Avenue is also a primary truck route to the Port of Hueneme with average daily traffic of 35,000 vehicles. As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Brownley has worked to secure more funding for state and local transportation. The Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, which was signed into law in December 2015, included several amendments authored by Brownley to improve railway-highway grade crossing safety. Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Transportation and Infrastructure
03.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Saturday, March 19, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) will host an Income Tax Assistance Workshop in Oxnard. This free service is available to individuals who earned less than $54,000 in 2015. Representatives with the Office of the Taxpayer Advocate and Brownley staff will also be available to answer questions. “Tax season has arrived and I want to offer an opportunity to assist Ventura County residents in preparing their 2015 tax forms,” said Brownley. “In particular, I want to ensure that working families in Ventura County are aware of tax credits and deductions that they may be eligible to claim, especially the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC).” Space is limited and appointments are required. For more information or to schedule an appointment, please call Congresswoman Brownley’s office at (805) 379-1779. What: Income Tax Assistance Workshop When: Saturday, March 19 11:00AM – 3:00PM Where: City of Oxnard Multi-Service Center, Room 21 1500 Camino del Sol Oxnard, CA Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Tax Policy
03.08.2016	Thousand Oaks, CA – On Thursday, March 10, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) will host a roundtable with female veterans and key community stakeholders to discuss the unique experiences they have faced returning to civilian life and accessing VA healthcare and other benefits. As part of Congresswoman Brownley’s ongoing support of veterans’ issues, and in conjunction with Women’s History Month, she has invited a group of female veterans to hear their concerns, so she can ensure that they have the tools and support they need. This discussion is an opportunity to hear from female veterans from Ventura County about their experiences using VA benefits and services, and what services would improve their everyday lives. This intergenerational group of women will discuss many issues that may include: services they receive at the VA Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Oxnard, access to childcare, GI bill benefits, and how the VA is addressing gender specific concerns. As the Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, Brownley introduced legislation, the Female Veterans Suicide Prevention Act (H.R. 2915), which was passed by the House of Representatives with overwhelming bipartisan support. H.R. 2915 would require the VA to identify mental health and suicide prevention programs that are the most effective and result in the best outcomes among at-risk women veterans. Brownley has also introduced the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act (H.R. 1948), legislation to make permanent VA’s Child Care Pilot program and to expand it so that every veteran seeking treatment at VA medical facilities can have access to safe and reliable child care. What: Female Veterans Roundtable with Congresswoman Brownley Where: Camarillo Public Library – Community Room 4101 E. Las Posas Road Camarillo, CA 93010 When: Thursday, March 10, 2016 1:30PM – 2:30PM PST Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Veterans' Affairs
03.03.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, March 9, Rep. Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) will host a town hall event in Oak Park. The town hall will allow constituents, advocates and homeowners to discuss the final report on the Rim of the Valley Corridor Special Resources Study which examined the possibility of expanding the boundary of Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (SMMNRA) to include the Rim of the Valley. The report recommends a significant expansion of the existing recreation area, and has been delivered to Congress and the public. Congressman Adam Schiff, who authored the original study authorization legislation, will also join the discussion, and representatives from the National Park Service will provide an overview of the study recommendations. TOWN HALL IN OAK PARK (HOSTED BY REP. BROWNLEY, WITH REP. SCHIFF AS GUEST) WHEN: Wednesday, March 9, 2016 7:00-8:30PM WHERE: Oak Park High School, Room G-9 899 N. Kanan Road Oak Park, CA 91377 Issues: 114th Congress, Energy and Environment, Local Issues
02.25.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, is pleased to announce that the full committee approved H.R. 4590, legislation that would authorize a new 47,000 square foot, VA-run Community Clinic in Ventura County. Since coming to Congress, Brownley has advocated for a standalone, VA run clinic that would better serve Ventura County veterans, closer to home. While the project was included in the President’s FY2016 and FY2017 budgets, authorization by the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee is a critically important next step. “Since I joined the VA committee just after being elected in 2012, I made it my mission to improve the care Ventura County veterans were receiving,” said Brownley. “One clear need was a larger, VA run facility, that would allow Ventura County veterans to access more care, closer to home. I am extremely pleased with the authorization from the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, and am proud that we have passed yet another crucial milestone in achieving our goal.” “As a Vietnam veteran and someone who relies on the VA for healthcare services, I can say that traveling to and from the West Los Angeles and Sepulveda facilities for medical services is difficult and challenging,” said Richard Camacho, President of the Vietnam Veterans of Ventura County. “It should not be a burden to a veteran to travel such long distances to receive such basic healthcare needs. The proposal to bring a standalone, VA-run clinic to Oxnard and closer to home will make for much easier access to quality care for many veterans throughout the region.” “Since day one, Congresswoman Brownley has worked to bring necessary care to our veterans, who have been underserved for so long. It is through her tireless efforts that we see real progress being made here in Ventura County,” said Jenn Zimmerman, a Navy veteran. “I know firsthand the importance of having specialized and specific care available to veterans here in Ventura County. Having local access to services will not only benefit me as a mother and professionally, but other veterans in similar situations.” “Having spent years working with local veterans, I understand the need for local healthcare including specialized services like audiology, optometry and cardiology as well as physical therapy and continued mental health services,” said Mike McManus, Veterans Services Officer for the County of Ventura. “Congresswoman Brownley has championed veteran’s health concerns and is making the VA’s promise of care a reality here in Ventura County. I am glad to see this proposal moving forward.” Although the Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Oxnard has almost tripled in size since Brownley was elected to Congress, the new Oxnard Community Clinic would offer expanded primary care and mental health services, as well as optometry, audiology, physical medicine and rehabilitation services, and dermatology in a state-of-the-art, energy-efficient VA-run health care facility. This lease would allow the VA to offer new services and expand existing services to keep pace with the needs of the increasing veteran population in Ventura County and along the central coast. This project would allow for easier access to care for veterans who currently must commute to the Sepulveda Ambulatory Care Center or West Los Angeles VA Medical Center for treatment. Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Veterans' Affairs
02.18.2016	Washington, D.C. – President Obama today signed the bipartisan Research Excellence and Advancements for Dyslexia Act (READ Act) (H.R. 3033) into law. The READ Act was introduced by Reps. Lamar Smith (R-Texas) and Julia Brownley (D-Calif.) who are co-chairs of the bipartisan Congressional Dyslexia Caucus. The Caucus is comprised of over 100 Members of Congress and is dedicated to increasing public awareness about dyslexia and ensuring all students have equal educational opportunities. Dyslexia affects an estimated 8.5 million school children and one in six Americans in some form. The READ Act supports important research to further our understanding of dyslexia, including better methods for early detection and teacher training. The final version of the READ Act passed the House and Senate earlier this month, sending the bill to the President for his signature. Chairman Smith: “Today we can help millions of Americans have a brighter and more prosperous future. Despite the prevalence of dyslexia, many Americans remain undiagnosed, untreated and silently struggle at school or work. We need to enable those with dyslexia to achieve their maximum potential. I am glad that the House and Senate were able to work together and send the president a good bipartisan bill to help accomplish this goal.” Rep. Brownley: “I am proud to be the co-Chair of the Congressional Dyslexia Caucus, where I can help individuals like my daughter who live with dyslexia. The resounding bipartisan support for the bill demonstrates how many Americans are impacted by dyslexia, and underscores the need for more research and better evidence-based interventions for students with dyslexia. I thank the members of the Science Committee and Chairman Smith for their leadership on this important issue.” Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-La.) was a founding member and former co-chair of the Congressional Dyslexia Caucus. Sen. Cassidy: “Every child deserves the chance to reach their full potential. Unfortunately, many children who have dyslexia are never properly diagnosed and their school performance suffers through no fault of their own. This law will make dyslexia research and diagnosis a priority and give our children the tools they need to excel. When we invest in dyslexia research, we invest in our next generation of doctors, teachers, writers and engineers.” The READ Act requires the president’s annual budget request to Congress to include the Research in Disabilities Education program of the National Science Foundation (NSF). As amended, the bill requires the NSF to devote at least $2.5 million annually to dyslexia research, which would focus on best practices in the following areas: •Early identification of children and students with dyslexia •Professional development about dyslexia for teachers and administrators •Curricula development and evidence-based educational tools for children with dyslexia The READ Act authorizes dyslexia research projects using funds appropriated for the National Science Foundation. The bill would also authorize $2.5 million for research focused on other learning disabilities, including those which are also associated with dyslexia. Issues: 114th Congress, Education
02.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee adopted two amendments offered by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) to the Aviation Innovation, Reform and Reauthorization Act (AIRR Act/H.R. 4441). The bill will reauthorize Federal Aviation Administration programs, including the Airport Improvement Program, address aviation safety, improve the aircraft certification process, and privatize air traffic control services. Brownley’s amendments would increase penalties for amateur UAS (Unmanned Aerial Systems) operators who recklessly interfere with wildfire fighting and ensure training for airline workers to appropriately identify and report suspected human trafficking. “I am so pleased that the Committee adopted my amendments to improve wildfire fighting and to stop human trafficking,” said Rep. Julia Brownley. “While I have serious concerns about the impact the legislation will have on air traffic control services in Ventura County, as a Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I will work with my colleagues to advance the many bi-partisan provisions in the bill, and ensure Ventura County’s airports remain safe and secure.” The Brownley amendments to the FAA Reauthorization bill are as follows: Increase penalty for reckless UAS use that interferes with wildfire response: According to the U.S. Forest Service, firefighting suppression efforts were interrupted at least 18 times last year because of unauthorized UAS interference. In 10 of those events, aerial firefighting operations were delayed or halted. Twice, firefighting aircraft had to take evasive action to avoid a collision. This amendment would protect firefighters and help them control wildfires by increasing the maximum fine for the reckless use of an UAS. The fine for reckless UAS use in a wildfire would be increased from $1,100 to $25,000. Training to prevent human trafficking at airports: Human traffickers with global networks often use commercial flights to transport their victims. The amendment would require that frontline airline employees receive training on recognizing and responding to potential human trafficking cases. This would help ensure that suspicious behavior can be properly reported to and investigated by trained law enforcement officials. Ventura County is home to two general aviation airports in Camarillo and Oxnard. Congresswoman Brownley continues to work with local stakeholders to ensure local interests are taken into account as the FAA reauthorization bill moves forward. Ventura County’s airports contribute over $300 million annually to the local economy, including supporting local businesses, moving more than 70 tons of cargo, and supporting 2,500 local jobs. Issues: 114th Congress, Civil Rights, Defense
02.10.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congresswoman Julia Brownley’s (CA-26) Female Veterans Suicide Prevention Act (H.R. 2915) with overwhelming bipartisan support. H.R. 2915 would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to identify mental health and suicide prevention programs that are the most effective and result in the best outcomes among at-risk women veterans. “We can and we must do more to address the epidemic of suicide among our women veterans,” said Rep. Brownley. “We know that suicide can be prevented, but we need to work harder to understand the root causes. This bill is an important step forward toward that goal.” The suicide rate of women veterans is nearly six times higher than non-veteran women; and shockingly, for women ages 18-29, the risk of suicide is even higher at nearly 12 times the rate of non-veteran women. The VA is currently required to conduct annual evaluations of its suicide prevention and mental health programs under the Clay Hunt SAV Act. However, the VA does not know how well these programs are working for female veterans. Brownley’s bill would direct the VA to study which programs work best for male and female veterans. “Although women have been in combat situations for many decades, as the military opens its doors to women in any role, including combat units, we will see a rise in women returning with specific needs. For too long, a blind eye was turned to the concept of suicide due to military traumas, regardless of gender,” said Mary Bandini, Post Commander, VFW Post 10049. “As a combat veteran, that Congresswoman Brownley recognizes the problem, but moreover stands up to fight the inequality brings me great pride and hope.” The Female Veterans Suicide Prevention Act (H.R. 2915) passed the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee with bipartisan support in September, and is supported by the American Legion, the Military Order of the Purple Heart, Disabled American Veterans, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Service Women’s Action Network, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Paralyzed Veterans of America, and the Vietnam Veterans of America. Brownley introduced the legislation after the May 2015 release of a VA report analyzing data from 23 states and the Department’s Suicide Repository on more than 170,000 suicides over a 10-year period. The VA researchers found that suicides among women veterans increased by 40 percent from 2000 to 2010. In fact, women veterans are nearly six times as likely as non-veteran women to commit suicide. Last week, companion legislation to H.R. 2915 was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Boxer (D-CA), Ernst (R-IA), Blumenthal (D-CT) and Brown (D-OH). Representative Brownley is the Leading Democrat on the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health. Ensuring that America’s veterans receive the services and benefits that they have earned and deserve is her highest priority. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
02.10.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced $9.85 million in funding has been included in the President’s FY2017 budget request that will be made available to dredge Channel Islands Harbor and to replenish sand at Hueneme Beach. Funding will come from $7.98 million in President’s FY2017 budget request for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Additionally, the Navy is required to fund 19 percent of the total cost, bringing the total to $9.85 million. “Ensuring the channel remains open is critical to Ventura County’s economy,” said Brownley. “Despite the scarcity of funds available for smaller ports and harbors across the nation, I have been working closely with the Obama Administration, the Army Corps of Engineers, and the Navy, to ensure the channel remains navigable,” said Brownley. “These funds will also go to protect roads and homes at Hueneme Beach by replenishing much needed sand, which has been washed away even faster this year due to the strong El Nino currents.” “The effective action of Congresswoman Julia Brownley in Washington to ensure the public health and safety at Channel Islands Harbor and Hueneme Beach is significant for Ventura County. Ensuring a bi-annual dredge that is funded and on-time is critical for residents and businesses at Channel Islands Harbor and the community of Port Hueneme,” said Ventura County Supervisor Kathy Long. “We very much appreciate Congresswoman Brownley’s effective and consistent efforts on behalf of this important Harbor project. Dredging here helps Harbor businesses, but also protects the City of Port Hueneme beaches, as well as the Navy base,” said Lyn Kreiger, Director of the Ventura County Harbor Department. “This is good news. The people of Port Hueneme owe a debt of gratitude to Congresswoman Brownley, who has worked tirelessly to ensure adequate funding for the bi-annual dredge from her first day in office,” said Doug Breeze, Mayor of Port Hueneme. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers began dredging Channel Islands Harbor decades ago because erosion was threatening Navy installations at Port Hueneme and the dredging provided the sand to replenish what had washed away. This project has historically been funded 100 percent by the federal government with the Navy contributing 19 percent. Since coming to Congress, Brownley has worked closely with her colleagues, the Administration and local stakeholders to ensure funds for the bi-annual dredge of Channel Islands Harbor, which provides sand for Hueneme Beach. Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Transportation and Infrastructure
02.10.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced $11.6 million for the Ventura Harbor dredging project. The FY2016 U.S. Army Corps of Engineers work plan includes $7.33 million for the current project, which is already underway. The President’s FY2017 budget request includes $4.3 million for dredging Ventura Harbor next year. Due to this year’s unprecedented El Nino currents, more sand has built up at the Ventura Harbor entrance than would otherwise have occurred in a normal year, resulting in the temporary closure of the harbor. Throughout the year, Brownley has worked closely with the White House and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to ensure that funding for the annual dredge was included in the President’s original FY2016 budget. She also shepherded the funds through Congress, which passed as part of the FY2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act. The dredging contractor arrived at the harbor on Saturday, after delays due to weather and sea conditions. Today’s announcement of that total of $7.33 million for the current project is $2.5 million more than the President’s original FY2016 request. “Since coming to Congress, I have been working diligently with the Ventura Harbor Board of Commissioners to ensure sufficient funding for annual dredging of the Ventura Harbor, but more sand has built up at the Ventura Harbor entrance because of this year’s unprecedented El Nino currents,” said Brownley. “I am so pleased that our efforts have been successful in securing additional funds for the current dredge, which will ensure the channel remains navigable and protect Ventura Harbor’s estimated $246 million total economic activity in our region.” “The Ventura Port District is thrilled to learn that the FY2016 work plan includes additional funds for the current dredging for Ventura Harbor, and that the President’s FY2017 budget includes $4.3 million for the FY2017 dredging effort. These funds will enable the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to perform a complete dredging of the Ventura Harbor entrance channel area and will therefore have a very positive effect on the commercial and boating interests that are dependent on that entrance channel. We are grateful for all the efforts made by Rep. Brownley in support of Ventura Harbor,” said Ventura Port District General Manager, Oscar Peña. “The City of Ventura is thrilled to learn that additional funds for the dredging effort in the Ventura Port District have been included in the FY2016 work plan, and that funding is also included in the President’s FY2017 budget for next year’s dredge. Not only is the Ventura Harbor enjoyed by recreational boaters, but it is also is an important economic driver as a source of jobs and helps contribute to the vitality of Ventura. It is also the gateway to the Channel Islands, a part of the National Park Service,” said Ventura Mayor Erik Nasarenko. Ventura Harbor is the homeport for the U.S. National Park Service, providing access to the Channel Islands National Park System. The park’s mainland visitor center receives 300,000 visitors annually with 30,000 visitors traveling to the islands and another 60,000 use park waters. Ventura Harbor also services the largest squid fishing fleet on the West Coast with revenues of $50 million. Its commercial and recreational fishing directly employ 600 crew members, truck drivers, and laborers with an additional 300 employees in nearby processing facilities. A recent economic study indicated that Ventura Harbor has a total economic impact of $246 million. Issues: 114th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
12.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) voted to pass the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill. The bipartisan bill was approved in a vote of 316 to 113. “Today, I voted for the bipartisan Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act. Not only does the Omnibus prevent another government shutdown, but it also makes critical investments in key Ventura County priorities, like our veterans, Naval Base Ventura County, our local schools, local law enforcement, and agriculture programs,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “While the bill is not perfect, it is overall a big win for Ventura County’s families and for our country.” “I am especially pleased with the increased funding for VA healthcare, including additional funds that will allow facilities like the VA-run Oxnard community clinic to move forward. As Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, I have been working with the VA to improve healthcare for veterans in Ventura County and increase the availability of specialty care in our local community.” The bill’s investments in priorities include the following: National Defense: Provides an increase for defense programs that will improve military readiness, increase health research for TBI, invest in military housing and schools, and provides a 1.3% pay increase for our troops. Veterans: Provides a robust increase in funds for veterans programs to improve VA health care and medical services. Increases funds for the Caregiver Program, for mobile Vet Centers, and medical and prosthetics research. Homeland Security: Increases funds for Customs and Border Protection, the Coast Guard, and other critical homeland security priorities, and provides $50 million in new funds to help state and local law enforcement counter violent extremism and prepare for and respond to terrorist attacks. Renewable Energy: Provides a major boost to renewable energy by extending the wind Production Tax Credit for five years (through 2019), and extending the solar Investment Tax Credit for five years (through 2021), while phasing both credits down somewhat over time. Extending the solar tax credit is estimated to create 61,000 jobs in 2017 alone. It is also estimated that the wind industry will grow to over 100,000 jobs over four years with the renewed wind tax credit. Energy Efficiency and Clean Energy R&D: Provides an 8 percent increase over 2015 for R&D activities in the pursuit of new clean energy and energy efficiency technologies. Education: The bill restores the $2.5 billion cut in education that the GOP had proposed and also makes critical additional investments of $1.4 billion above 2015, in such areas as Title I that serves 24 million at-risk students. Early Learning: Investing in Head Start produces results – and this bill invests nearly $400 million more than the House GOP bill and nearly $600 million more than 2015 in this vital initiative. The bill also provides $250 million for Preschool Development Grants, assisting 18 states across the country. Medical Research: Medical research at NIH has been underfunded for the last several years. This bill provides $900 million more than the House GOP bill and $2 billion more than 2015 for this life-saving research. Infrastructure: The popular TIGER grants are being used across the country to repair infrastructure and contribute to economic growth. The House GOP bill had slashed TIGER grants by 80 percent, killing jobs, but this bill restores the funding to the 2015 level of $500 million. Law Enforcement: The bill provides $187 million for COPS hiring grants, $7 million above the 2015 level and $187 million above the House GOP bill, which had eliminated the hiring grants. The bill also provides $80 million for the Community Policing Initiative, including $22.5 million for body-worn cameras and $15 million for Byrne Criminal Justice Innovation grants, an increase over the House bill. Agriculture: Provides increased funding for pest and disease research programs, as well as for food and nutrition programs. The measure also does not include many divisive riders that would have had damaging impacts on America’s women, consumers, workers, and children. The damaging “poison pill” riders that were removed from the final bill include: Riders that would have limited women’s access to the full range of comprehensive health care services, including by defunding Planned Parenthood. Riders that would have gutted the Dodd-Frank provisions that hold big Wall Street banks accountable. Riders that would have undermined the Clean Water Act and the Clean Air Act, jeopardizing the health of our children and working families. Riders that would have blocked moving forward on addressing climate change and reducing damaging carbon emissions. Riders that would have blocked protections that allow workers to form unions and help them save for retirement. Finally, the Omnibus includes several other important provisions: Reauthorizes the key James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, making the Health Program permanent and reauthorizing the Victims Compensation Fund for five years; Delays the so-called “Cadillac” tax, a tax on employer-provided health plans worth over a certain threshold, for two years – from 2018 to 2020; and Reauthorizes the Land and Conservation Fund, which is one of our country’s most successful outdoor recreation and conservation programs and which expired on September 30th. Issues: 114th Congress, Budget, Veterans' Affairs
12.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Earlier today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) voted to support passage of the tax extenders package. The bipartisan legislation was approved in a vote of 318 to 109. “I supported the tax extenders package because it includes important relief for working families and the middle-class, by improving the child and earned income tax credits, which are critical to keeping children out of poverty,” stated Congresswoman Brownley. “The legislation would also provide certainty for individuals and businesses to invest, create jobs, and further improve Ventura County’s economy. I’m especially proud of the provisions I championed to make the research and development tax credit permanent while giving start-ups the ability to use the tax credit when they need it most.” Congresswoman Brownley previously authored and championed the Innovation, Research, and Manufacturing Act (H.R. 1536), legislation to permanently extend the research and development tax credit and to permit start-ups to utilize the credit as a refundable credit. The legislation approved by the House today includes those provisions. The House-approved tax measure also includes individual income tax provisions to improve and make permanent the child tax credit, the American Opportunity Credit, the earned income tax credit (EITC), the deduction for elementary and secondary school teachers, incentives for charitable giving, and the deduction of state and local taxes. The bill also extends certain business and energy tax credits. Issues: 114th Congress, Jobs, Economy, and Small Business
12.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House passed the surface transportation conference agreement, which included a number of priorities and amendments championed by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), which will invest in our highway, transit, and rail systems, creating jobs and growing Ventura County’s economy. “As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, growing Ventura County’s economy and ensuring that our highways and transit systems are safe and efficient are among my top priorities in Congress,” said Brownley. “I am pleased that the final conference agreement contains many Ventura County priorities I have been advocating for, including funding to improve safety at highway-railway crossings, and a new freight and goods-movement program that is essential to making the infrastructure investments necessary to keep our economy strong.” The five-year authorization bill will provide California with more than $19.4 billion in highway funds and more than $6.8 billion for transit systems through the formula funding programs. California is also expected to do well under the competitive grant programs, like the new freight program championed by Brownley and the Port of Hueneme, and the restoration of the bus discretionary program sought by Brownley and Ventura County’s transit agencies. Brownley also fought hard to include additional funds for the railway-highway grade crossing program in the bill, securing an increase in funds, which will provide California with nearly $82 million exclusively for railway-highway grade crossing safety improvements. These projects are also eligible under the highway safety and freight programs. The five-year surface transportation bill that passed the House also includes several amendments, which were spearheaded by Brownley: In response to the three separate grade crossing accidents in Ventura County since January, Brownley included language ensuring that railway-highway grade crossings are explicitly eligible under the Surface Transportation Program (STP), funds that flow directly to local governments for local priorities. The Brownley language – adopted in the Committee mark-up – will ensure that state and local governments can use STP funds for railway crossing safety upgrades, including better signals and signage, and where necessary construct a grade separation. The bill creates a new freight program – with both formula and discretionary funds — for goods movement projects, which will help with the safe and efficient flow of commerce along critical freight corridors, helping businesses to create efficiencies and jobs in our community. Brownley spearheaded an amendment, adopted in Committee that permits states to add ports, like the Port of Hueneme, to the National Multimodal Freight Network. Brownley also spearheaded a provision to allow VA doctors to complete medical exams for veterans who apply for a Commercial Driver’s License (CDL), which will cut bureaucratic red tape and make it easier for veterans to get jobs and return to work as they transition back to civilian life. The Conference committee included Brownley’s amendment to the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015 (H.R. 749), legislation that passed the House in March. The amendment would require each state to develop a grade crossing action plan. These state action plans would be required to identify specific solutions for improving safety at rail-highway crossings, including grade crossing closures or grade separations. Furthermore, the Brownley amendment would direct states to focus safety resources on crossings that have experienced recent accidents or multiple accidents, or those crossings that are at high risk for accidents. Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Transportation and Infrastructure
11.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement on her vote on H.R. 4038, the American SAFE Act: “Throughout my career, I have been a staunch advocate for welcoming refugees into the United States. In Congress, I have consistently fought for more funding for humanitarian aid, more visas, and more attention to the plight of families in war-torn countries around the world – whether in Central America, Iraq, Afghanistan, or Syria – who seek refuge in America. I have also called for President Obama to extend humanitarian parole to the Syrian families who have approved immigrant visa petitions and who have passed initial State and Homeland Security Department screening, so that they can come to the United States without further delay. “At the same time, in the shadow of 9/11 and the recent terrorist attacks in Paris and Beirut, I also understand the concerns of many Americans who worry about admitting refugees into the country without the most rigorous vetting and security checks possible. It is my strong belief that these programs may not continue at all, much less be expanded, if the American people are not convinced that our intelligence agencies are doing everything they possibly can to protect our national security. “Under current law, the Department of Homeland Security, Department of Defense, and our national security agencies already complete in-depth background checks on refugees – taking on average 18 to 24 months. The bill recently considered by the House (H.R. 4038) does not add any new agencies to the review process. It simply requires the existing agencies who review applications to certify that our laws have been followed and that the refugees do not pose a national security risk to our country. It is my strong belief that strengthening the security in the United States Refugee Admissions Program will lead to our being able to bring more refugees to the United States, not less. “While I understand that there are very strong feelings on both sides of this issue, I am confident that the American people and Congress will continue to hold true to our history as a nation built by and strengthened by immigrants who want to come here to build a better life for their families. I remain steadfastly committed to that ideal, and taking the steps I believe are necessary to lead us closer to it.” Issues: 114th Congress, Defense
11.05.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House passed a six-year surface transportation bill, which included a number of priorities and amendments championed by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), which will invest in our highways and transit systems, creating jobs and growing Ventura County’s economy. “Growing Ventura County’s economy and ensuring that our highways and transit systems are safe and efficient are among my top priorities in Congress,” said Brownley. “I am pleased that the House-passed surface transportation bill contains many of our community’s priorities, including funding to improve safety at highway-railway crossings, a new freight and goods-movement program to ensure our ports and job creators are able to efficiently move goods. I asked to serve on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee because I wanted to be part of a team that gets things done.” The six-year authorization bill will provide California with more than $22.7 billion in highway funds and more than $6.7 billion for transit systems through the formula funding programs. California is also expected to do well under the competitive grant programs, like the new freight program championed by Brownley and the Port of Hueneme, and the restoration of the bus discretionary program sought by Brownley and Ventura County’s transit agencies. Brownley also fought hard to include additional funds for the railway-highway grade crossing program in the bill, securing an increase in funds, which will provide California with nearly $100 million for railway-highway grade crossing safety improvements. The six-year surface transportation bill that passed the House also includes several amendments, which were spearheaded by Brownley: In response to the three separate grade crossing accidents in Ventura County since January, Brownley included language ensuring that railway-highway grade crossings are explicitly eligible under the Surface Transportation Program (STP), funds that flow directly to local governments for local priorities. The Brownley language – adopted in the Committee mark-up – will ensure that state and local governments can use STP funds for railway crossing safety upgrades, including better signals and signage, and where necessary construct a grade separation. The bill creates a new competitive freight program for goods movement projects, which will help with the safe and efficient flow of commerce along critical freight corridors, helping businesses to create efficiencies and jobs in our community. Brownley spearheaded an amendment, adopted in Committee that permits states to add ports, like the Port of Hueneme, to the National Multimodal Freight Network. Brownley also spearheaded a provision to allow VA doctors to complete medical exams for veterans who apply for a Commercial Driver’s License (CDL), which will cut bureaucratic red tape and make it easier for veterans to get jobs and return to work as they transition back to civilian life. Last month at the full committee markup, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee approved these key provisions, which were led by Brownley. Now that the House has approved the Brownley provisions, the bill heads to a joint House-Senate conference committee. The conference committee is expected to also incorporate the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015 (H.R. 749), legislation that passed the House in March. That bill includes a Brownley-led amendment that would require each state to develop a grade crossing action plan. These state action plans would be required to identify specific solutions for improving safety at rail-highway crossings, including grade crossing closures or grade separations. Furthermore, the Brownley amendment would direct states to focus safety resources on crossings that have experienced recent accidents or multiple accidents, or those crossings that are at high risk for accidents. Issues: 114th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
10.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that the Port of Hueneme will receive a $12.3 million Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant from the Department of Transportation (DOT). “This is a big win for the Port of Hueneme. As one of the crown jewels of Ventura County, the economic impact of the Port on our local economy cannot be overstated,” said Brownley. “This grant will allow the Port to bring in new business, which will bring more jobs to our community. I’m so pleased to have been able to advocate for the Port, and congratulate the port commissioners, and CEO and Port Director Kristin Decas, for their hard work on behalf of the Port of Hueneme.” “I cannot thank Congresswoman Brownley enough for her tireless work advocating on behalf of the Port,” said Port of Hueneme Chief Executive Officer and Port Director Kristin Decas. “The Port of Hueneme is an important gateway to the Pacific, providing thousands of jobs, building resiliency into the supply chain, and this grant will ensure that we can continue to grow, expand, and move goods efficiently for our customers.” “I thank Congresswoman Brownley for her tireless efforts on behalf of the Port of Hueneme, including her help in securing this crucial TIGER grant,” said President of the Oxnard Harbor District Jess Herrera. “This grant is critical to the long-term strength of the Port and its continued contribution to our local economy.” The TIGER grant for the Port of Hueneme will be used for the intermodal improvements, including the deepening and strengthening of the wharfs and berths, modernizing cargo infrastructure, and on-dock rail improvements. The grant is a critical component of the Port’s Intermodal Improvement Project which will allow for larger-capacity vessels, increased cold storage and cargo handling capability to support increased agricultural imports and exports, and on-dock rail that will allow for efficient transfer of cargo. The region will prosper from the Project’s comprehensive creation of economic development opportunities, new jobs and intermodal efficiencies. In Fiscal Year 2015, there were 625 applicants, requesting $10 billion. However, DOT only has $500 million to award, making the grants extremely competitive. As the only deep water port between Los Angeles and San Francisco, the Port of Hueneme is critical to the West Coast’s trade infrastructure. In 2013, the Port was responsible for 5,939 jobs. Brownley has been a strong advocate for the Port of Hueneme and Ventura County’s transportation infrastructure in Congress, and was selected in January to serve on the highly sought after House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Transportation and Infrastructure
10.23.2015	Washington, DC – On Thursday, October 22, 2015, the Department of Veterans Affairs published their proposed Master Plan for the West Los Angeles Campus. The plan will be open for public comment through December 7, 2015. In response, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) released the following statement: “Many veterans in Ventura County and across Southern California rely on the West Los Angeles Medical Center campus for healthcare and affordable housing, so it is crucial that veterans’ voices are heard on this major proposal,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I encourage Ventura County veterans, their families, and veteran stakeholders in our community to weigh in, as well as share their comments with my office. It is with your input that I can best advocate for your interests and views regarding the campus design.” Brownley is a strong supporter of modernizing and improving the 388-acre West Los Angeles VA Campus, which contains a full-service VA hospital, long-term care units, mental health facilities, medical research and physician training programs, a veterans’ cemetery, parks and open spaces, numerous historical buildings, and housing for homeless veterans. Individuals who wish to comment on the proposal can visit: https://www.regulations.gov/#!submitComment;D=VA-2015-VACO-0001-0251. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
10.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee approved the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 (H.R. 3763), a six-year bill to authorize highway and transit programs across the United States. Several amendments to benefit Ventura County and authored by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) were approved by the Committee. “We must ensure the United States continues to be a world leader in innovation and job growth, and keeping our infrastructure in a state-of-good-repair is essential to our success,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “While the bill is not perfect, it includes critical investments in California’s highway and transit systems, along with several priorities benefiting Ventura County. I look forward to working with my colleagues to make further improvements as the legislation moves forward.” Brownley worked with Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-Ore) and Chairman Bill Shuster (R-Pa) to incorporate her priorities for Ventura County into the bipartisan Managers amendment: In response to the three separate grade crossing accidents in Ventura County since January, Brownley included language to ensure that railway-highway grade crossing are explicitly authorized under the Surface Transportation Program (STP). This amendment will ensure that state and local governments can use STP funds for railway crossing safety upgrades, including better signals and signage, and where necessary construct grade separation projects. To ensure that the Port of Hueneme can be included in the National Multimodal Freight Network, Brownley added a provision to permit states to add ports to the network. This will help ensure that California ports, like the Port of Hueneme, are able to plug into critical railway networks and transport goods across our region and our nation. Brownley also worked with colleagues to include a provision that will permit VA doctors to complete medical exams for veterans who apply for a Commercial Drivers’ License (CDL), which will cut bureaucratic red tape and make it easier for veterans to get jobs and return to work as they transition back to civilian life. The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee approved the bill this afternoon. The House Ways and Means Committee must now act on a financing title before the legislation moves to the House floor. The Senate passed its version of the legislation, the DRIVE Act (H.R. 22) on July 30, 2015. For more information about the bill, go to: https://transportation.house.gov/strr-act/ Issues: 114th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
10.06.2015	Oxnard, CA. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that The Abundant Table in Oxnard will receive nearly $100,000 from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to increase access to locally-grown produce for low-income communities throughout Ventura County. “As a former school board member, and a mother of two, I know first-hand the critical role that proper nutrition plays in the success of our children, families, and communities,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased to announce that The Abundant Table will receive this much-needed funding to expand access to locally-grown produce to low-income communities across Ventura County.” “We thank Congresswoman Brownley for her continued support of the Farmers Market Promotion Program in Congress, and for being an advocate for increasing access to locally-grown fruit and vegetables,” said the Rev. Nicole Janelle, the Executive Director of The Abundant Table. “This crucial funding will allow The Abundant Table to build upon its longstanding Farm to School efforts, ensuring that our children are not only eating healthily at school, but that our County’s most marginalized families are also able to eat healthily at home.” The Abundant Table will receive a $99,997 grant from the USDA’s Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 Farmers Market Promotion Program (FMPP), which aims to increase domestic consumption of, and access to, locally and regionally produced agricultural products, as well as to develop new market opportunities for farm and ranch operations serving local markets. This grant will allow The Abundant Table to increase the number of low-income families able to purchase weekly Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) boxes from an expanded number of CSA sites in low-access areas of the county; establish at least three schools participating in monthly pop-up stands; increase the amount and variety of culturally-appropriate fruits and vegetables through CSA and farm-to-school programs; and increase English-learning community awareness of and access to local, seasonal produce by enhancing infrastructure for increased consumption of locally grown produce to low-access and low-income communities; developing new marketing and promotional materials for outreach to schools, faith-based, and farmworker communities; and piloting a new school pop-up farm stand at Title 1 schools in partnership with Ventura County Farm to School Collaborative. In Congress, Brownley is a strong supporter of the FMPP program. Read the full list of FY2015 grantees here: https://www.ams.usda.gov/services/grants/fmpp/awards. Issues: 114th Congress, Agriculture, Local Issues
10.01.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) released the following statement after learning of an arson attack on the Thousand Oaks Planned Parenthood clinic last night: “I was deeply troubled to learn that for the second time in two months, the Planned Parenthood clinic in Thousand Oaks has been the target of criminals and cowards who seek to intimidate healthcare workers and deny women their constitutionally-protected rights. For over 100 years, Planned Parenthood has been a trusted provider of reproductive and preventative healthcare services for both women and men. These acts of vandalism and arson are just the latest examples of the extreme right’s attacks on women’s healthcare and cannot be tolerated. I will continue to work tirelessly to support and protect a woman’s right to choose, and I call on my colleagues in Congress, and leaders in our community, to denounce these deplorable actions.” Issues: 114th Congress, Healthcare, Local Issues
09.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that California State University, Channel Islands (CSUCI) and the Ventura County Community College District (VCCCD) will receive federal grants from the Department of Education’s Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions Program. “I am so pleased to announce Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions grants for the Ventura County Community College District and Cal State Channel Islands,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am committed to ensuring that no student is priced out of a college education and am pleased that these important educational institutions in Ventura County will have additional funds to increase opportunities for Ventura County’s diverse student body.” “This highly competitive grant enables CI to enhance and expand our curricular, co-curricular and professional development programs while infusing High-Impact Practices. The ultimate goal of this infusion of funds will be to increase both our retention and graduation rates with specific focus on our most at-risk students,” said Dr. Richard. R. Rush, President of California State University, Channel Islands. “The entire Oxnard College community is excited about the potential that this grant provides to develop a regional approach to building educational opportunities for high-need, low-income students. In partnership with regional high schools and California State University, Channel Islands, integrated learning experiences establish across all academic programs at Oxnard College,” said James M. Limbaugh, Ph. D., Interim President at Oxnard College. “When combined with expanded student support services, we expect an increase in college preparedness and successful transfer to four-year universities and/or career placement. We are grateful for the continuing support of Congresswoman Julia Brownley and her staff, whose advocacy played a key role in our securing this grant to expand educational attainment initiatives for the students of our community.” The Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions Program provides grants to assist Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSI) to expand educational opportunities for, and improve the attainment of, Hispanic students. These grants also enable HSIs to expand and enhance their academic offerings, program quality, and institutional stability. CSUCI was awarded $525,000, to implement Project OLAS (Optimizing Learning, Achievement, and Success), which is focused on curricular, co-curricular, and professional developments, as well as developing a university culture in high-minority high school communities. VCCCD was awarded $649,017 to implement Project Adelante, which focuses on creating a higher education pipeline for first-generation, underrepresented, and low-income students, as well as improving college readiness. In Congress, Brownley has been a strong supporter of funding for the Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions Program. Issues: 114th Congress, Education
09.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) and Congressman Brian Higgins (D-N.Y.) led a bipartisan letter to House Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Jeff Miller (R-Fla) and Ranking Member Corrine Brown (D-Fla) urging them to reauthorize the VA Child Care Pilot program before it expires at the end of 2015. “The results of the VA Child Care Pilot Program clearly indicate that many veterans with children need access to childcare in order to access the high quality VA healthcare they have earned and deserve,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “It’s also clear, where women veterans used the service at a rate four times their population among the veteran population at large, that this service would especially benefit our growing population of women veterans and their families. It’s for these reasons that I have introduced legislation to expand the program nationwide and have called for the pilot program to be reauthorized before it expires.” “Our veterans go to battle for this country and when they return home access to quality care for their children while they attend necessary medical appointments should not be a battle,” said Congressman Higgins. “So we are seeking continuation and expansion of programs that ensure the availability of child care is not an obstacle to veterans getting the quality healthcare they need and deserve.” Congresswoman Brownley has led efforts to increase veterans’ access to the VA child care program. This spring, she introduced the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act (H.R. 1948), legislation to make permanent VA’s Child Care Pilot program and to expand it so that every veteran seeking treatment at VA medical facilities can have access to safe and reliable child care. As the number of women veterans grows, programs like the VA Child Care pilot will play an important role in ensuring that the delivery of VA healthcare services to the many mothers who are enrolled. The program has also benefited many male veterans, including fathers and grandfathers who are caretakers for small children. The VA Child Care Pilot program was first authorized through the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 to provide assistance to qualified veterans for child care expenses incurred while receiving care at Veterans Health Administration (VHA) medical facilities at a small number of VA sites across the United States. In the 113th Congress, the program was reauthorized through the Department of Veterans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act of 2013. Unless Congress acts, authorization for the program will expire on December 31, 2015. A copy of the letter is attached to this release. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
09.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) has spearheaded a bipartisan effort in the U.S. House of Representatives to fund the Navy’s MQ-4C Triton Unmanned Aerial System (UAS). “The Triton program will bring hundreds of jobs to Ventura County, boosting our local economy and strengthening Naval Base Ventura County’s position as an essential component of our nation’s long-term strategic defense requirements,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Flight testing of the Triton continues to move forward, and it is vital that Congress continues to provide the Navy with the funding needed to ensure the program moves forward on time.” The House-passed Defense Appropriations bill supported the Navy’s request for four aircraft in Fiscal Year 2016. The Senate appropriations bill would only support two aircraft. This week, 25 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, led by Congresswoman Brownley, submitted a formal request to the House defense appropriations conferees to maintain the House position. In February 2014, the Department of the Navy announced that Naval Base Ventura County would be the West Coast home to the Triton. The program will initially have four officers and 43 enlisted personnel with an initial annual payroll of $3.7 million, but the workforce is expected to grow to 700 service members by 2020 and account for an estimated 2,400 new Ventura County residents, including family members. Since coming to Congress, Brownley has spearheaded efforts to fund and support the Triton program. A copy of the letter is attached to this release. Issues: 114th Congress, Defense
09.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act (H.R. 2915), written by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), was approved by the full House Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “As we commemorate Suicide Prevention Month this September, we will never forget the veterans whose lives have been tragically cut short, and their families. The Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act will help save the lives of women veterans, who are nearly six times as likely to commit suicide compared to non-veteran women. We can, and must, do more to address this crisis,” said Brownley. “My bill will ensure that we understand which mental health and suicide prevention programs work best for the growing number of our sisters, daughters, and mothers who have so bravely served our nation.” Brownley’s bill would require that VA’s evaluation of mental health care and suicide prevention programs include specific metrics on women veterans and that it require the VA to identify the programs that are the most effective, and have the highest satisfaction rates, among female veterans. A better understanding of which programs and practices are most effective will ensure the unique medical and physiological needs of women veterans and their families are addressed. The bill approved by the full House VA Committee also included language from legislation authored by Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (D-Ariz), which would ensure that veterans who served in the Special Forces or on classified missions are accommodated in VA mental health programs in settings where they can fully participate in counseling and therapy. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
09.16.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) reintroduced her bill, the Honoring Our Fallen TSA Officers Act, legislation that would amend federal law to ensure that Transportation Security Administration (TSA) employees killed in the line of duty receive the same death benefits that other federal law enforcement officers already receive. “Transportation Security Officers are often the first line of defense against threats to our aviation, railways, ports, and transportation systems,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Our nation should provide fallen TSA officers and their families with the same benefits made available to the families of other federal law enforcement officers killed in the line of duty, such as firefighters and police officers. It is the right thing to do.” “I fully support Congresswoman Brownley’s legislation. It is only right that the families of Transportation Security Officers who die in the line of duty be provided death benefits from the Public Safety Officer’s Benefits Program,” said Congressman Bennie G. Thompson (D-Miss.), Ranking Member on the House Committee on Homeland Security. “TSA Officers put themselves at risk every day to protect the flying public. Their families deserve the same death benefits that other federal officers receive when tragically killed in the line of duty. It’s time we do right by those who protect us every day,” said J. David Cox Sr., the National President of American Federation of Government Employees. Brownley first introduced this bill in the 113th Congress in response to the shooting death of Gerardo I. Hernandez at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), on Friday, November 1, 2013. In March, Congress passed a stand-alone provision in the FY2015 Homeland Security Appropriations Act to provide Public Safety Officer Benefits (PSOB) to Mr. Hernandez’s family. Brownley’s bill would ensure that all fallen TSA officers and their families receive PSOB benefits going forward. TSA is comprised of nearly 50,000 security officers, inspectors, air marshals, and managers who protect the nation’s transportation systems by screening for explosives at checkpoints in airports, inspecting rail cars, patrolling subways with law enforcement partners, and working to make all modes of transportation safe. Also, today, the House passed and sent to the President’s desk the “Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act of 2015” (H.R. 720). Congresswoman Brownley was an original co-sponsor of the bill, which would require TSA to develop airport security plans, enhance officer training, and improve interoperable communications capabilities at airports nation-wide. This legislation was developed in response to the 2013 tragedy at LAX. The text of the Honoring Our Fallen TSA Officers Act is attached to this release. Issues: 114th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
09.15.2015	Thousand Oaks, CA – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will award over $12.6 million in grants to local partners that serve homeless veterans in Ventura, Los Angeles, and Santa Barbara Counties. The grants are awarded under the VA’s Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program, which Brownley has championed in Congress. “As the Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, ending veteran homelessness is one of my top priorities in Congress,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased to announce these SSVF grants, which will support local organizations that provide supportive services to veterans and their families in our region.” SSVF grantees help provide housing stability for very low-income veteran families. By offering supportive services, groups with SSVF funding help ensure that veterans who receive housing assistance successfully transition into permanent housing. These flexible federal dollars can be used to help cover moving expenses, transportation costs, educational and vocational training and counseling, and furnish homes for veterans. Grantees must follow the housing first approach, which centers on permanently housing homeless veterans quickly without any conditions. Additionally, SSVF grantees must engage in outreach to find and serve veterans in need, provide veterans with case management, and assist them in obtaining VA and other public benefits. SSVF served 127,829 veterans in FY2014 and is on track to serve 135,000 veterans and their family members by the end of FY2015. Nationwide, the VA distributed approximately $300 million in SSVF grants for FY2016. The funding announced this week will support SSVF services in FY2016, which starts October 1, 2015, and ends September 30, 2016. In Congress, Brownley has been a champion of federal programs that aim to reduce veteran homelessness, including SSVF grants. The full list of SSVF grantees can be found here: https://www.va.gov/homeless/ssvf.asp. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
09.15.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, in a video statement, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D- Westlake Village) commemorated the beginning of Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs from September 15 to October 15. Full text of the video statement can be found below: “Hello, I’m Congresswoman Julia Brownley. “Each year from September 15th to October 15th, we gather as a nation to celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month and honor the history, culture, and contributions of the Latino community. “This month, we take a moment to recognize the Latino community’s role in shaping our nation. “From serving bravely in our armed forces, to owning a small business, to culturally enriching our nation in the fields of science, literature, and the arts, the Latino community is deeply woven into our region’s diverse economic and social fabric. “Like all Americans, Latino families aspire to own a home, save for their children’s education, and put aside enough money for a secure retirement. “In 2014, the Latino population in the United States reached an all-time high of over 55 million people, and the community continues to grow. “This vital diversity makes Ventura County a wonderful place to live and work, and it makes us stronger. “However, as a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants, the fact remains that we need comprehensive immigration reform that will fix our broken system. “As your Representative in Congress, I will continue to urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support a common-sense approach to comprehensive immigration reform that will strengthen our regional and national economies, and preserve families and communities across Ventura County. “So please join me in celebrating the heritage, culture, and contributions of the Latino community to our country. “Thank you so much, and happy Hispanic Heritage Month!” Issues: 114th Congress, Civil Rights, Immigration
09.05.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced a random-selection lottery for a limited number of tickets to attend an address by His Holiness Pope Francis before a joint session of the United States Congress on Thursday, September 24, 2015. Only constituents from California’s 26th Congressional District may participate in the lottery. Ticket holders will be able to view the address from the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol via televised broadcast. “I am very excited to be able to extend to my constituents the opportunity to participate in Pope Francis’s historic visit,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “While not all who request a ticket will receive one, I am committed to accommodating as many constituents as possible.” To participate, residents of California’s 26th Congressional District can fill out an online form, or call Congresswoman Brownley’s D.C. office at (202) 225-5811, by September 10, 2015. There is only one entry per person and each entry will be for two tickets. Tickets provide admission to the West Lawn for the simulcast of Pope Francis’s address. Congresswoman Brownley’s office will inform those who are selected by September 12, 2015. The complete rules of the lottery can be found with the online form to participate. Issues: 114th Congress
08.25.2015	Thousand Oaks, CA – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D – Westlake Village) announced that the Port of Hueneme will receive $1,472,625 from the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Economic Development Administration (EDA) for wharf and berth infrastructure improvements. “The Port of Hueneme is critical to our region’s diverse economy, and this grant will help to create and sustain jobs in the region,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Improving the wharf structures and deepening berth space will also help to accommodate larger ships, increasing the region’s importing and exporting capabilities.” “This grant award provides funding essential to the Port’s infrastructure modernization efforts,” said Kristin Decas, CEO and Port Director at the Port of Hueneme. “We extend our gratitude to Congresswoman Brownley for her leadership and support.” The project implements critical upgrades to the Port of Hueneme’s facilities, including wharf improvements, berth deepening and paving improvements, which will enhance the port’s asset utilization, increase productivity, respond to customer growth, support the growth of export and import cargo flows, reduce regional congestion, and create jobs throughout the region. Since coming to Congress, Brownley has been a champion for the Port of Hueneme, helping to bring in grants for infrastructure improvements, environmental infrastructure, and port security enhancements. In December 2014, Congresswoman Brownley contacted the Department of Commerce to express her strong support of the Port of Hueneme’s EDA grant application. The letter can be found here. Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Transportation and Infrastructure
08.18.2015	Thousand Oaks, CA. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that United Water Conservation District will receive $750,000 in funding to support the planning phase of the United Water Conservation District Multiple Species Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP). This grant is awarded through the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services’ Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund (CESCF), and partially funded through the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). “I am very pleased that United Water Conservation District will receive these critical funds to protect endangered species and ensure that local groundwater resources are maintained, which benefit agricultural and municipal entities,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “It is also important that Congress reauthorizes the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which helps local communities protect their natural areas and resources at no cost to the taxpayers.” “We thank Congresswoman Brownley for her continued support in Congress to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund,” said Mauricio E. Guardado, Jr., General Manager of the United Water Conservation District. “We are thrilled to receive this grant, which will support the planning phase of HCP and protect threatened and endangered species in the Santa Clara River while offsetting costs that would otherwise be burdened by our rate payers.” The draft HCP covers portions of the Santa Clara River watershed upstream and downstream of the Vern Freeman Diversion in Ventura County. It would implement a conservation program to benefit 11 threatened or endangered species, including construction of a fish passage facility for southern California steelhead and Pacific lamprey, while continuing to operate and maintain United’s Freeman Diversion facility to benefit regional groundwater resources, as well as municipal and agricultural entities that rely on water from the Santa Clara River. The LWCF, which is set to expire on September 30, 2015, has conserved iconic landscapes in every state and is responsible for more than 40,000 state and local outdoor recreation projects such as playgrounds, parks, refuges, and baseball fields. Congresswoman Brownley has been a strong advocate for the LWCF, and has cosponsored H.R. 1814, legislation to permanently reauthorize it. Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Transportation and Infrastructure
07.29.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that the Port of Hueneme received $532,000 through the Department of Homeland Security’s Fiscal Year 2015 Port Security Grant Program (PSGP). “The Port of Hueneme is vital to the economic well-being of Ventura County and Southern California,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased to announce that the Port of Hueneme will receive this critical homeland security funding to ensure safety and security at the Port.” “This funding comes at an important time as we continue to partner with our regional law enforcement teams to ramp up security and maximize the safety of the citizens we serve. We commend the hard work of Congresswoman Julia Brownley for her leadership and efforts to sustain and advance the federal port security grant program and make certain Ventura County receives the critical funding,” said Kristin Decas, CEO and Port Director. Jess Herrera, President of the Board of Harbor Commissioners, noted, “The Port is proud to be a recipient of $532,020 through the Port Security Grant Program administered by the Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency. These funds will enable our Port to invest in systems that enhance our capabilities to deter and respond to activities not in our best interest and allow us to provide a safer and more secure Port.” These funds will be used for additional enhancements to the Port’s geographic information system, security equipment enhancements for the Joint Operations Support Center, and for training and exercises for first responders at the Port. In 2013, Brownley offered an amendment to restore funds for port security grants, which had been eliminated in the FY2014 House Homeland Security Appropriations Act. Her amendment passed the House with bipartisan support, ensuring dedicated funding for port security would continue. Most recently, Brownley urged the Department of Homeland Security to approve the Port of Hueneme’s FY2015 PSGP application. Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Transportation and Infrastructure
07.29.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) released the following statement following her vote on the H.R. 3236, the Surface Transportation and Veterans Health Care Choice Improvement Act of 2015: “I am very pleased that my bill, the Veteran Continuity of Care Act, was incorporated into H.R. 3236. It will eliminate the unworkable 60-day limit on veterans care through the Choice Act. After talking with numerous veterans and veterans’ stakeholders across Ventura County, I took action to address this critical shortcoming in the Choice program. It simply makes no sense to force a veteran to change providers mid-stream while seeing a physician for maternal care, Hepatitis C, or cancer treatment. I am glad that the House voted to fix this problem. These and other improvements to the Choice Act are critically important, as are the transportation provisions that ensure construction jobs won’t idle during the summer construction season.” Issues: 114th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure, Veterans' Affairs
07.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act (H.R. 2915), legislation authored by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), was approved by the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health. Brownley serves as the Subcommittee’s Ranking Member. “Since coming to Congress, I have been working diligently to break down barriers preventing our veterans from receiving the care they need,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “My bill will ensure that the VA and Congress understand the unique mental health needs of female veterans, which is why I am so pleased to report that it was approved by the Subcommittee. I look forward to seeing this legislation continue to move forward.” The Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act (H.R. 2915) would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to evaluate suicide prevention and mental health programs with women-specific metrics to ensure VA and Congress have a deeper understanding of which programs and approaches work best for women veterans. Brownley introduced this bill in direct response to a recent report detailing the high rates of suicide among female veterans when compared to civilian women, which serves as a wake-up call and emphasizes the unique circumstances facing female veterans who have transitioned back into civilian life. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
07.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that the Santa Paula Fire Department (SPFD) received a two-year grant for $912,976, funded through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) program. “Our community includes areas at high-risk for wildfires,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “This grant will ensure that the Santa Paula Fire Department will be able to retain its five firefighters and have the deployment capabilities necessary to respond to emergencies, which will improve protection from fire and fire-related hazards.” “This grant ensures that the citizens of our community are provided quality service from the fire department and allows us to have a full complement of staff on each engine,” said Santa Paula Fire Chief Rick Araiza. “Without the support of Congresswoman Brownley, we could not have been successful.” SAFER grants were created to provide funding directly to fire departments and volunteer firefighter organizations to help increase or maintain the number of trained, “front line” firefighters available in local communities. Earlier this year, Congresswoman Brownley urged FEMA to review the SPFD’s SAFER grant application. In Congress, Congresswoman Brownley has also been a strong supporter of SAFER grants and other federal programs to aid emergency personnel and first responders. Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues
07.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that the U.S. Department of Education has awarded two grants to local universities through the federal TRIO Student Support Services Program (SSSP) for student counseling in the 2015-2016 school year. Specifically, California State University, Channel Islands (CSUCI) was awarded $220,000 and California Lutheran University (Cal Lutheran) was awarded $248,925. “In Ventura County, TRIO programs help ensure that low-income and first-generation college students can pursue higher education, and these grants also play a critical role in academic support and counseling,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I have met many students who grew up believing a college education was out of reach before they became involved with TRIO, which helped them achieve their goal of attending college. I am thrilled that Cal State Channel Islands and Cal Lutheran have the funding they need to continue to help young people achieve their dreams.” “This grant will enable Cal State Channel Islands to enrich the experience of low income, first generation, and students with disabilities and prepare them for a successful future,” said CSUCI President Dr. Richard R. Rush. “Cal Lutheran’s diverse student body has a great need for these programs and we are proud to have established a 25-year tradition of supporting our low-income and first-generation students as well as those with disabilities thanks to the TRIO grants,” said Cal Lutheran President Chris Kimball. “These programs work, and they show these student populations that they, too, can succeed and graduate with a degree from a private university.” TRIO SSSP is a federal outreach and student services program that is designed to promote and provide resources to students from disadvantaged backgrounds. Under TRIO, assistance is targeted to serve and assist low-income individuals, first-generation college students, and individuals with disabilities to progress through the academic pipeline from middle school to post-baccalaureate programs. According to the Department of Education, 160 CSUCI students will be served for the 2015-2020 funding cycle, with 70.5 percent of students at the university meeting the eligibility criteria for SSSP. Additionally, 200 Cal Lutheran students will be served by SSSP for the 2015-2020 grant cycle, with 72 percent of all Cal Lutheran students meeting the eligibility criteria. In Congress, Congresswoman Brownley has been a strong advocate for TRIO SSSP programs and other federal education programs. Issues: 114th Congress, Education, Local Issues
07.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, two bills authored by Congresswoman Brownley (D-Westlake Village)—the Build a Better VA Act and the Female Veterans Suicide Prevention Act–were discussed at a House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health legislative hearing. “Since coming to Congress, I have been working to identify ways that we can improve care for veterans and break down bureaucratic barriers that are harming veterans and delaying care,” said Congresswoman Brownley, who serves as the Subcommittee’s Ranking Member and presided over the hearing. “These bills offer solutions to address critical problems that are facing the VA, and if approved by the Committee, will ensure better care for our nation’s veterans.” The Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act (H.R. 2915) would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to evaluate suicide prevention and mental health programs with women-specific metrics to ensure VA and Congress have a deeper understanding of which programs and approaches work best for women veterans. Brownley introduced this bill in direct response to a recent report detailing the high rates of suicide among female veterans when compared to civilian women, which serves as a wake-up call and emphasizes the unique circumstances facing female veterans who have transitioned back into civilian life. The Build a Better VA Act (H.R. 2914) would fix bureaucratic barriers that are hindering Congress’ ability to authorize new VA facilities. These delays are harming veterans by exacerbating health care delays and preventing the modernization of healthcare infrastructure. The Build a Better VA Act would simplify the VA lease authorization process to harmonize it with existing General Services Administration (GSA) procedures for leasing other federal buildings. This new process will enable Congress to act quickly to approve leases for new VA medical facilities in underserved veteran communities across the United States. While not part of today’s hearing, Brownley has recently introduced two new bills, the Protect Veterans from Financial Fraud Act (H.R.2975) and the Veteran Continuity of Care Act (H.R. 2974). The Protect Veterans from Financial Fraud Act would ensure that veterans, whose benefits are stolen, are able to recoup the funds from the VA. Current federal law only allows the VA to reissue benefits when the VA is found to be to be negligent, or when the VA-appointed fiduciary manages benefits for nine or more additional veterans. Brownley’s bill would remove the “10 or more” requirement so that all veterans are equally protected under federal law. More than 80 percent of beneficiaries in VA’s fiduciary program have a one-to-one relationship with their fiduciary, because most veterans rely on family members or trusted friends. “In cases where a veteran’s benefits are stolen, VA should always do the right thing and reissue those funds to the veteran. My bill would eliminate the unnecessary legal barrier preventing VA from doing the right thing,” stated Brownley. The Veteran Continuity of Care Act would improve the quality of care for veterans using the Choice Program giving veterans the option to complete a course of treatment with a local community provider if the VA cannot provide care in a timely manner. Under the Veterans Choice, Access, and Accountability Act, if a veteran lives over 40 miles from the nearest VA facility, or faces an appointment wait time of more than 30 days, the VA can authorize the veteran to receive care in the community from an approved non-VA healthcare provider, but the VA can only authorize outside care for 60 days. Brownley’s bill would allow the VA to authorize medically-appropriate periods of care for the type of treatment or services that the veteran is seeking by removing the Choice Program’s 60-day limit for episodes of care. This legislation would ensure that veterans who need long-term care can continue to receive that care, uninterrupted. “It makes no sense to force a veteran to change providers mid-stream during a pregnancy or while receiving cancer treatment. My bill is a common-sense fix.” Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
07.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), along with Dr. Raul Ruiz (D-Palm Desert), called for the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee to hold a hearing about allegations of mishandling of veterans’ claims at the Veterans Benefits Administration Los Angeles Regional Office (LA VARO). “I am troubled by new allegations that the Los Angeles Regional Office mishandled veterans’ claims documentation,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I have asked for a hearing so that the Committee can get to the bottom of these allegations and ensure veterans’ benefits claims are handled and processed in a timely and appropriate manner.” Brownley learned that the VA Office of Inspector General (VAOIG) has substantiated an allegation that veterans’ paperwork was inappropriately discarded, and that the VAOIG had reason to believe that documents may have been shredded over some period of time at the LA VARO. The VAOIG is working on two reports, which are expected to be completed and released in August. The first report is expected to highlight issues with leadership, performance, quality, and training at the LA VARO. The second report is expected to address the improper shredding of documents by the LA VARO. The LA VARO is responsible for processing disability claims, pensions, and other benefits for veterans in Southern California. LA VARO handles benefits for 706,000 veterans in seven counties: Ventura, Los Angeles, San Bernardino, Riverside, Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo, and Kern counties. Congresswoman Brownley has reached out to VA Secretary Robert McDonald requesting his assistance to address these serious allegations. Read Brownley’s letters to Chairman Jeff Miller and to VA Secretary McDonald. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
07.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted on Congresswoman Julia Brownley’s (D-Westlake Village) Biliteracy Education Seal and Teaching (BEST) Act. During the 113th Congress, Brownley introduced the Biliteracy Education Seal and Teaching (BEST) Act to help states create or improve State Seal of Biliteracy programs that recognize high school students graduating with very high levels of proficiency in English and a second language. Brownley offered her bill as an amendment to H.R. 5, legislation to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act Reauthorization. “Getting a House vote on my bill was a very important first step, and I am pleased that we got 191 members to vote for it. Although it didn’t pass, we made progress, and I plan on reintroducing it as a stand-alone bill, and will continue to work to educate my colleagues about the Seal of Biliteracy until my bill becomes law,” said Congresswoman Brownley. As Chairwoman of the California Assembly Education Committee, Brownley authored the California State Assembly’s act that established the State Seal of Biliteracy which has been so successful in California, the first seal of its kind in the United States. In the 2013-2014 school year, over 24,000 high school seniors in 219 school districts across California participated in this program, earning their seals for achievement in 40 different languages. In Ventura County, 525 students in 14 high schools participated. Many other states, including New York, Illinois, and Washington, have acted to create their own Seal programs. Brownley’s amendment would build on that progress so more students in California and across the country can participate in this program. “As businesses look to expand into overseas markets and serve a wider range of customers, and as the world becomes increasingly interconnected, the demand for students with valuable language skills is increasing,” continued Brownley. “The BEST Act recognizes that fluency in a second language helps students compete in an increasingly global marketplace. The Seal helps employers, colleges, and universities distinguish talented applicants with valuable skills.” Issues: 114th Congress, Education
07.02.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement for Independence Day: “On the Fourth of July, people around our country celebrate the birth of our great nation. Since the penning of the Declaration of Independence in 1776, our government of, by, and for the people has undergone many trials and tribulations. From the recent tragedy in Charleston to the Supreme Court declaring marriage equality the law of the land, it has been shown that our nation is strongest when we remain committed to liberty, equality, and justice. “We especially take this moment to honor the brave men and women in uniform who fought for the freedoms that Americans hold dear and often take for granted. As the proud Representative of Naval Base Ventura County and roughly 40,000 veterans, I join in thanking them for their selfless sacrifices. “It is in this spirit that I wish California’s 26th Congressional District a happy, safe, and healthy Independence Day!” Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues
06.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has awarded a contract to STGI to operate a new, larger interim healthcare clinic in Oxnard. “Since coming to Congress, I have made expanding care to Ventura County’s veterans a top priority, including women’s health and mental health services,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “While I remain committed to seeing that the 48,000 square foot VA Oxnard Community Clinic outlined in the President’s FY2016 budget is completed, this new interim facility will provide local veterans with important and much-needed increased healthcare services that are closer to home in addition to nearly doubling the amount of space the VA has dedicated for veteran healthcare in Ventura County.” The new VA Interim Facility in Oxnard will consist of 18,000 square feet of new space for veterans’ healthcare, including a separate space for women’s health, fully supported tele-health, mental health, and primary care services. In the coming months, additional services may be announced as VA continues to work with STGI and the local community. Congresswoman Brownley has been a tireless advocate for ensuring that mental health and women’s health services were included at the new interim facility. In February 2014, as Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, Brownley held a field hearing in Ventura County on the importance of expanding mental health services to local veterans. Since that hearing, Brownley has worked with the VA and local veterans stakeholders to reduce wait times and increase the amount of veterans seen at the local VA Oxnard Community-Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC). Recently, Brownley attended a ribbon-cutting for an additional 4,000 square feet of space for mental health services at the VA Oxnard CBOC. While neither the CBOC expansion nor the interim facility serve as a replacement for the new 48, 000 square feet VA Oxnard Community Clinic outlined in the President’s FY2016 budget, Congresswoman Brownley looks forward to working with the VA as plans for the new interim facility in Oxnard move forward. Issues: 114th Congress, Healthcare, Veterans' Affairs
06.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D – Westlake Village) issued the following statement about the Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation (H.R. 1314): “I voted against the Trade Promotion Authority and Trade Adjustment Assistance bill because I do not believe that the strength and prosperity of the middle-class and working families should come after big corporations and the very wealthy. The closed manner in which trade agreements are being negotiated is unfortunate, inadequate, and ultimately bad for our democracy. I continue to be a supporter of trade that lifts the middle-class, grows the economy, protects the environment, and keeps the United States as a world leader for the values that we hold so dear. I will consider all future trade agreements with these criteria in mind.” Issues: 114th Congress, Jobs, Economy, and Small Business
06.11.2015	Washington. D.C. — Congresswoman Brownley announced that the Workforce Investment Board of Ventura County (WIB-VC) is one of 20 workforce development boards in the nation to receive a grant from the Department of Labor (DOL) “Linking to Employment Activities Pre-Release,” or LEAP initiative. Issues: 114th Congress, Jobs, Economy, and Small Business, Local Issues
06.11.2015	Washington. D.C. — The House of Representatives approved an amendment offered by Congresswoman Brownley to the FY2016 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Act (H.R. 2578) to increase funding for veterans treatment courts by $2.5 million. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
06.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Brownley took part in a ribbon-cutting at the VA Oxnard Community Based Outpatient Clinic expansion site. While this additional space will help improve services at the Oxnard CBOC in the short-term, Rep. Brownley is committed to working with VA Secretary Robert McDonald and local VA officials on a long-term plan to build a new 47,200 square-foot community clinic in Oxnard. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
06.05.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that the Workforce Investment Board of Ventura County (WIB-VC) is one of 20 workforce development boards in the nation to receive a grant from the Department of Labor (DOL) “Linking to Employment Activities Pre-Release,” or LEAP initiative. “I am very pleased that the Department of Labor has recognized the great work that the Workforce Investment Board of Ventura County does to connect employers with job-seekers in our region,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “These critical resources will help WIB-VC ensure that newly-released ex-offenders get a second chance, so that they can work hard and succeed in building a new life. Ensuring these individuals obtain useful job skills will also help prevent recidivism and crime in our communities.” “The Bridges 2 Work grant will enable us to create a specialized American Job Center inside the Todd Road Jail that will provide pre-release through post-release support to prepare for employment and training,” said Cheryl Moore, WIB-VC Executive Director. “WIB-VC commends the multi-agency collaboration on this initiative by the County of Ventura Human Services Agency-Community Services Department, Ventura County Sheriff’s Department, Ventura County Probation Department, and the Job Services Department-California Employment Development Department.” The LEAP initiative develops and operates satellite American Job Centers (AJCs) inside of correctional facilities to address employment barriers facing incarcerated individuals as they transition into the community and the workforce. The recently released person is “handed off” to their local Job Center, which provides follow-up and support during the critical period following their release. The DOL awarded 20 grants of approximately $500,000 to local workforce investment boards that have demonstrated partnerships with their county or municipal governments and their county, municipal, or regional correctional facilities. Issues: 114th Congress, Financial Services, Jobs, Economy, and Small Business
06.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) offered an amendment to the FY2016 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Act (H.R. 2578) that would increase funding for two Department of Justice programs. Brownley’s amendment would provide an additional $3 million for sexual assault victims assistance programs, authorized by the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). It would also provide an additional $3 million for the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force Program. “My amendment would have helped provide law enforcement and counseling resources to survivors of sexual assault and to the most vulnerable segment of our society, our precious children, who are at risk of online exploitation,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am disappointed that the Majority would not support my amendment to bolster these essential programs to protect women and children.” According to the Office on Violence Against Women, the Violence Against Women Act has led to significant improvements in the criminal and civil justice system and has lowered rates of assault and rape. Between 1993 and 2012, the number of individuals killed by an intimate partner declined by 37% for women and 63% for men, and annual rates of domestic violence dropped by 64% from 1993 to 2010. The Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force Program provides forensic, prevention, and investigative assistance to law enforcement professionals, educators, prosecutors, families, and others concerned about child victimization issues. In 2014 alone, 7,800 individuals were arrested and the Task Forces around the country conducted over 60,000 forensic investigations. Brownley’s amendment failed by a vote of 184 to 240. Watch Congresswoman Brownley’s remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x8yQ01TKcxI&feature=youtu.be Issues: 114th Congress, Civil Rights, Healthcare
06.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives approved an amendment offered by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) to the FY2016 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Act (H.R. 2578) to increase funding for veterans treatment courts by $2.5 million (50 percent). According to the National Center for PTSD, about 11-20% of veterans who served in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom have PTSD in a given year. Since 2005, the number of veterans diagnosed with PTSD has doubled. “Too often, instead of receiving the mental health services and support that they need, a growing number of veterans end up being incarcerated in our justice system,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “My amendment would provide increased funds for veterans treatment courts so that more veterans in trouble can get the resources they need to secure a strong future and to begin their journey towards recovery.” Since the Veterans Treatment Court program began in 2008 in Buffalo, New York, over 220 veteran treatment courts have been established across the United States. The Ventura County Veterans Treatment Court, which began as a pilot program in November 2010, is designed to give veterans with mental health and substance abuse issues who find themselves in trouble with the law an opportunity to get the help they need, as an alternative to jail time. Veterans who choose to participate in the veterans treatment court program must agree to enter a guilty plea and make regular court appearances, participate in treatment and counseling sessions, and undergo regular substance abuse testing. Watch Congresswoman Brownley’s remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PqI227bngjI Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
05.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement for Memorial Day: “Every Memorial Day, we come together to pay homage to the brave men and women who tragically lost their lives while serving in our armed forces, in conflicts both at home and abroad. I join communities across Ventura County in honoring, remembering, and celebrating the lives of these brave men and women who gave the ultimate sacrifice to our nation. We are reminded every day of their selflessness and dedication to protecting and preserving the freedoms that we hold so dear as Americans. As the daughter, sister, and niece of men who served, I remain committed to ensuring that all veterans and servicemembers receive the recognition, as well as the benefits and care, that they have earned and deserve. We have a moral imperative to do so.” Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Veterans' Affairs
05.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) reintroduced the VOW to Hire Heroes Extension Act, which would expand and extend the work opportunity tax credit (WOTC) for companies that hire veterans through December 31, 2018 and allow qualified tax-exempt organizations to make a credit available against payroll taxes for hiring a veteran. “When our servicemembers return to the civilian workforce, we must help them find good-paying jobs and connect them to businesses,” said Brownley. “The VOW to Hire Heroes Extension Act would help unemployed and service-connected disabled veterans find work and encourage business to hire these veterans.” “These tax credits have provided jobs to veterans and must be extended,” U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) said. “The VOW to Hire Heroes Act has encouraged the hiring of veterans in Connecticut and throughout the country, and has helped to grow businesses nationwide. This legislation will allow employers to take advantage of these tax credits that benefit both our veterans and our economy. I urge my colleagues to continue their support for our veterans by supporting this legislation, which will create more good jobs and grow our economy as well as provide our returning servicemen and women with a clearer path to employment.” Originally introduced by Brownley on October 31, 2013, the VOW to Hire Heroes Extension Act would allow businesses a tax credit for hiring unemployed and service-connected disabled veterans. Improving and extending the work opportunity tax credit (WOTC) incentivizes workplace diversity, facilitates access to good jobs for veterans, helps veterans move towards self-sufficiency, and allows participating employers to reduce their income tax liability. Under the existing WOTC, employers claim about $1 billion in tax credits each year, making the tax credit a win-win for both business and veterans. The WOTC is a Federal tax credit available to employers who hire and retain individuals from certain target groups who have consistently faced significant barriers to employment – including unemployed and service-connected disabled veterans. The House version of the bill, sponsored by Brownley, can be found here: LINK. Blumenthal is carrying the Senate version of the legislation. Issues: 114th Congress, Jobs, Economy, and Small Business, Veterans' Affairs
05.08.2015	Thousand Oaks, CA – On Thursday, May 7, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that Jessica Han, an 11th grade student at Newbury Park High School, was the 26th Congressional District’s winner in the 2015 Congressional Art Competition. “Every year, I am increasingly impressed by the level of artistic talent that Ventura County high school students possess,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I firmly believe that the arts and sciences serve as a forum for expression, promote communication and imagination, as well as the development of cognitive and critical thinking skills. The Congressional Arts Competition is yet another way to allow young artists throughout Ventura County to express their creativity.” Congresswoman Brownley added, “I would also like to thank the families, teachers, and community members who support these talented students, as well as the critically important area of arts and arts education.” Ms. Han’s artwork will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol complex for one full calendar year. In addition, four honorable mentions were announced, whose artworks will be displayed, with their permission, in Congresswoman Brownley’s Thousand Oaks district office. They are: Alexandra Pourvali, 11th grade at La Reina High School Ernesto Armbrocio, 12th grade at Newbury Park High School Gabriella Alghini, 9th grade at La Reina High School Reece Knupp, 10th grade Oaks Christian High School Started in 1982, the nationwide Congressional Art Competition is sponsored by the Members of the U.S. House of Representatives and is an opportunity to recognize and encourage student artistic talent across the country. Pictured in the photograph from left to right are: Alexandria Pourvali, Ernesto Armbrocio, Congresswoman Brownley, Jessica Han, and the mother of Gabriella Alghini. Not pictured is Reece Knupp. Issues: 114th Congress, Education
04.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), with House Veterans’ Affairs Committee Ranking Member Corrine Brown (D-Fla.), Raul Ruiz (D-Palm Desert), Mark Takano (D-Calif.), Kathleen Rice (D-N.Y.), Annie Kuster (D-N.H.), Dina Titus (D-Nev.), Jerry McNerney (D-Calif.), and Tim Walz (D-Minn.), introduced the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act, legislation which would expand and make permanent the VA’s popular Child Care Pilot program. “It is paramount that this country supports women and families, and veterans. We have both a moral obligation and an economic imperative to do so,” said Brownley. “My bill would provide all veterans in need of VA health care, who are primary caretakers, access to child care while also allowing VA facilities the flexibility to ensure that these programs meet local needs. Making this important program permanent will remove an important barrier to enabling our veterans to receive the care that they have earned and deserve.” “Veterans love child care,” said Brown. “It is impossible to say how many appointments have been saved because safe, on-site drop off child care is available. Veterans say it makes a huge difference so, clearly, we need to make this program available VA-wide.” “Over the last several years we have seen how successful the pilot child-care programs have been in helping break down barriers between veterans, both men and women, and their health care. DAV has long supported Congress making this program permanent, and applauds Congresswoman Brownley’s efforts to enhance veterans’ access to VA health care, vocational rehabilitation, education and supported employment services,” said DAV National Commander Ron Hope. Created in 2011 with the passage of the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (PL 111-163), the Child Care Pilot program has served over 10,000 children. It currently offers free child-care for veterans using Veterans Health Administration healthcare services at a limited number of participating VA sites around the United States, but the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act would ensure that every VA facility provides child care. According to a VA Satisfaction Survey of veterans who have used the pilot program, a majority responded that without the available child care they would have brought their children to their appointment or cancelled their appointment altogether. During the first three years of the pilot program, 44 percent of users were mothers or stepmothers, 32 percent were fathers or stepfathers, and 24 percent were grandparents or legal guardians. The VA Child Care Pilot program is set to expire on December 31, 2015 unless Congress takes action to extend the program. The text of the bill can be found here: LINK. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
04.16.2015	Camarillo, CA – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that the Camarillo Airport will receive over $300,000 from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for critical infrastructure improvement projects. “The Camarillo Airport is a vital economic driver in our region,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased to see the FAA continue to recognize this fact by providing much-needed funding for crucial infrastructure improvement projects at our local airports, which will help ensure the vitality of Ventura County’s diverse economy.” “The FAA grant funds are necessary to provide a safe and well-maintained airport facility for our flying public,” said Todd McNamee, Ventura County Director of Airports. “The County thanks Congresswoman Brownley and her staff for their efforts to help make these funds available. Congresswoman Brownley recognizes the benefit of having such assets in the County and we very much appreciate her continued support.” Camarillo Airport will receive $310,500 from the FAA to rehabilitate 20,000 square yards of the existing west and central hangar apron pavements that have reached the end of their useful lives. As a new member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Aviation, Congresswoman Brownley is working closely with Ventura County officials to support the general aviation airports in Camarillo and Oxnard in the FAA reauthorization bill. Throughout her time in Congress, Congresswoman Brownley has been a tireless champion for Ventura County’s airports. In 2013, she successfully fought to protect the staffed tower at Camarillo Airport and the contract tower at Oxnard Airport from closure due to sequestration cuts. In 2014, Congresswoman Brownley announced over $600,000 in federal funding for apron pavement rehabilitation at both Camarillo and Oxnard airports. Issues: 114th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
03.27.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement on the passage of the Medicare Access and Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act (H.R. 2): “The House-passed permanent ‘Doc Fix’ will ensure that millions of children and tens of thousands of low-income families have access to healthcare, and that seniors who rely on Medicare have access to their doctors. While Republican attempts to further erode a woman’s right to choose had no place in this legislation, I do believe the spirit of bipartisanship that allowed this bill to pass the House shows a way forward toward addressing our nation’s many challenges,” said Brownley. In addition to providing a permanent “Doc Fix” to the SGR, H.R. 2 includes many provisions to improve health care programs vital for seniors, children, and low-income families, including: A 2-year extension of CHIP, which serves more than 36,000 low-income children in California, $7 billion in critical funding for community health centers which serve underserved communities, A 2-year extension of the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program, and Almost $750 million for training more urgently-needed nurses and physicians through Teaching Health Centers, Community Health Centers, and the National Public Health Service Corps. Issues: 114th Congress, Healthcare, Seniors' Issues
03.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – In response to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs announcement that it will modify the calculation of the so-called 40-mile rule, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) and Congressman Pete Visclosky (IN-01) released the following statement: “I am pleased that the VA is making adjustments to the way that the 40-mile rule is calculated. However, I believe there is still more the VA can do to expand the Veterans Choice Program so more veterans can access care closer to home. That’s the goal, and that’s what I will continue to fight for,” said Brownley. “Our nation’s veterans deserve convenient access to the quality medical care that they have earned. Yesterday’s VA announcement is a positive step in the right direction but it’s clear that more needs to be done,” said Visclosky. Last summer, Congress passed and the President signed the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (P.L. 113-46). Among other provisions, the law established a Veterans Choice Program to expand access to non-VA healthcare for veterans residing more than 40 miles from a VA facility, for those who face long wait times for a VA medical appointment, and for those who face a significant barrier in accessing VA care. In November 2014, the VA issued an Interim Final Rule for the implementation of the Veterans Choice Program. Brownley, Visclosky, and several House and Senate members have expressed concern that the VA’s strict interpretation of the 40 mile rule is limiting eligibility for the program. Under the Interim Final Rule, the 40 mile distance is measured from a veteran’s residence to the nearest VA medical facility, even if that facility cannot provide the care that the veteran needs. Furthermore, it ignores travel times, which vary widely across the country, and it measures the distance as a direct line, rather than the actual route a veteran would travel to access the VA facility. Yesterday’s VA announcement corrects the rule to account for the actual route of travel, but does not address the other issues. Currently, many veterans have to travel distances that significantly exceed 40 miles in order to access certain specialty care or inpatient services, because the smaller Community-Based Outpatient Clinic or VA facility near their home offers only limited medical services. The Brownley-Visclosky letter urged VA Secretary Robert McDonald to use the authority provided under the Choice Act to take into account travel time and to ensure that the VA considers whether the facility being measured actually offers the health care service that the veteran needs. The Brownley-Visclosky letter can be found here: LINK Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
03.25.2015	Washington, D.C. —The House of Representatives approved an amendment authored by Congresswoman Brownley to the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015 (H.R. 749) that would require states to develop rail-highway grade crossing safety plans. Issues: 114th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
03.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) reintroduced the Innovation, Research, and Manufacturing Act, which would expand and make permanent the research and development tax credit. “It is critical that Ventura County remains on the cutting-edge of innovation, and my bill will help business, both big and small, by allowing them to take advantage of R&D tax credits and make investments in new technologies,” said Brownley. Research and Development (R&D) is critical in advancing technology, growing a business, and diversifying a product line. The credit benefits businesses both large and small that spend money for R&D for new products. The bill is intended to help businesses grow and expand, creating jobs here in the United States. Specifically, it would: Increase the existing credit by 50% to spur additional job creation, Make the credit a permanent part of the tax code to provide certainty for businesses, and Allow qualified small businesses a credit against payroll taxes. “Recent research on the Ventura County economy shows that our 30,000 jobs in manufacturing – or some 11 percent of industry employment – generate 26 percent of the county’s economic output. What’s most interesting about that productivity is how much it in Ventura County is driven by research and development. Where we excel, both here and across America, is in design and innovation. For that to continue, businesses need to be confident that their R&D investments today will be treated for tax purposes the same tomorrow. The IRMA Act not only makes that assurance, but helps businesses large and small get a greater return on their R&D investments,” said Bruce Stenslie, President and CEO of the Economic Development Collaborative – Ventura County (EDC-VC). “The Small Business Council of America applauds Congresswomen Julia Brownley’s introducing the Innovation, Research, and Manufacturing Act, which will be beneficial for small business. Small businesses throughout the United States are lucky to have Congresswomen Brownley fighting for them in Congress,” said Small Business Council of America Board Member Neil Carrey. “I am proud to represent a community in Congress that is home to innovative businesses, such as biotech and precision-edge manufacturing, which help make Ventura County a great place to live and work,” Brownley said. “I know that my bill will help position our regional, state, and national economies to be competitive in the 21st century.” Issues: 114th Congress, Jobs, Economy, and Small Business
03.06.2015	Oxnard, CA — Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that the Child Development Resources of Ventura County, Inc. (CDR) will receive a discretionary grant from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for over $1 million to expand access to their Early Head Start-Child Care Partnership Program (EHS-CCP). “As a strong supporter of Early Head Start programs, I am pleased to announce this grant to the Child Development Resources of Ventura County,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “With these new resources, CDR will be able to create and expand comprehensive, high-quality early learning systems to serve families with young children in Ventura County.” “Child Development Resources of Ventura County, Inc. (CDR) is so pleased to be one of 31 California agencies to receive the Early Head Start Child Care Partnership grants. These funds will allow CDR to expand our Early Head Start work and build upon the successes with our local partners. We appreciate Congresswoman Brownley’s support for our grant application and her ongoing support of CDR, and early child care and education,” said Don Henniger, CDR’s Chief Executive Officer. Since its founding in 1980, CDR has developed and maintained a distinguished reputation for excellence in providing services to low-income families in the Head Start and Early Head Start programs. Among the many benefits Early Head Start programs provide are comprehensive services for children, families and teachers including: • health, developmental, and behavioral screening, • high-quality health, safety, and nutrition standards, • increased professional development opportunities for teachers, and • increased parent engagement opportunities. CDR operates 28 Head Start/State Preschool Centers and 43 home child care sites across Ventura County. 1,228 families are served by CDR Head Start Programs, and 361 families are served by its Early Head Start programs. CDR will be receiving $1,048,676 from HHS. Issues: 114th Congress, Education, Local Issues
03.05.2015	Washington, D.C. – In response to last week’s Metrolink crash, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) and House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) are urging the California Department of Transportation (CALTRANS) and the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) to prioritize funding for the Ventura County Transportation Commission’s (VCTC) proposed Rice Avenue crossing improvement project. “As members of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, we are working diligently to get more funding to state and local transportation planners to address transportation needs. However, as you know, we are prohibited from earmarking funds for specific projects. Therefore, we urge CALTRANS and the CPUC to make safety improvements at the Rice Avenue intersection and other rail-highway crossings along the corridor a top state priority,” wrote Brownley and DeFazio. According to the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), between 2006 and 2014, the State of California received over $142 million intended specifically for highway-rail grade crossing improvements (Section 130), but has only obligated $99.9 million, meaning the state has over $42 million in unobligated federal money on the table. In a letter dated March 2, Brownley and DeFazio requested that these unobligated funds be provided to address the immediate safety concerns at Rice Avenue in Oxnard and other rail-highway crossings along the corridor. In California, the grade crossings selected for Section 130 funding is done by the California Public Utilities Commission, based on their hazard reduction potential. The CPUC annually provides the updated priority list of projects to Caltrans, which is responsible for obligation and oversight of the funding as well as developing contracts with the local agencies and monitoring construction. A copy of the Brownley-DeFazio letter can be found here: LINK Issues: 114th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
03.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives approved an amendment authored by Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) to the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015 (H.R. 749) that would require states to develop rail-highway grade crossing safety plans. “As a nation, we must do more to address rail-highway grade crossing safety, and address the increasing backlog of safety improvement projects nationwide,” said Brownley. “We must also ensure that federal funds are prioritized to address safety improvements at the most dangerous crossings and crossings that have experienced multiple accidents, like the Rice Avenue crossing in Oxnard.” Brownley’s amendment would require each state to develop a grade crossing action plan. These state action plans would be required to identify specific solutions for improving safety at rail-highway crossings, including grade crossing closures or grade separations. Furthermore, her amendment would direct states to focus safety resources on crossings that have experienced recent grade crossing accidents or multiple accidents, or those crossings that are at high risk for accidents. Nationally, the Federal Railroad Administration estimates that there were 2,087 accidents at railroad crossings in 2013 – with 251 fatalities and 929 injuries. In 2014, Congress invested $220 million in the Railway-Highway Crossings Program. Yet, under Title 49, only 10 states are required by federal law to have action plans, prioritizing rail-highway safety improvements. “It is critically important for Congress to ensure that federal dollars for passenger rail infrastructure improvements are used wisely,” Brownley said. “My amendment would get at the heart of this issue – requiring every state to have specific plans in place that will both ensure the wise use of taxpayer dollars and address rail-highway grade crossing safety in a systematic way.” The text of Brownley’s amendment can be found here: LINK Brownley’s House floor remarks on her amendment can be viewed here: LINK Issues: 114th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
03.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) and Congressman Pete Visclosky (IN-01), together with 50 members of the U.S. House of Representatives urged Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald to improve veterans’ access to medical care under the Veterans Choice program. Last August, Congress passed and the President signed the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (P.L. 113-46). Among other provisions, the law established a Veterans Choice Program to expand access to non-VA healthcare for veterans residing more than 40 miles from a VA facility, for those who face long wait times for a VA medical appointment, and for those who face a significant barrier in accessing VA care. In November 2014, the VA issued an Interim Final Rule for the implementation of the Veterans Choice Program. Brownley, Visclosky, and several House and Senate members have expressed concern that the VA’s strict interpretation of the 40 mile rule is limiting eligibility for the program. Under the Interim Final Rule, the 40 mile distance is measured from a veteran’s residence to the nearest VA medical facility, even if that facility cannot provide the care that the veteran needs. Furthermore, it ignores travel times, which vary widely across the country, and it measures the distance as a direct line, rather than the actual route a veteran would travel to access the VA facility. “When Congress passed the Veterans Choice program, we intended the program to be widely available to ensure that all veterans receive timely access to medical appointments. I am hopeful that the Secretary will work with us to ensure that veterans who want to seek healthcare outside the VA through the Choice Program, or VA’s other non-VA care authorities, can do so,” said Brownley. “Honoring our nation’s veterans by improving their access to medical care – whether it is reducing waiting times, increasing the options available, or decreasing the time and distance to medical facilities all without compromising quality – is quite simply the right thing to do. We strongly encourage the VA to take a more reasonable approach to geographic-based eligibility criteria for the Veterans Choice Program,” said Visclosky. Currently, many veterans have to travel distances that significantly exceed 40 miles in order to access certain specialty care or inpatient services, because the smaller Community-Based Outpatient Clinic or VA facility near their home offers only limited medical services. The Brownley-Visclosky letter urges VA Secretary Robert McDonald to use the authority provided under the Choice Act to take into account travel time and to ensure that the VA considers whether the facility being measured actually offers the health care service that the veteran needs. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
03.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement on Women’s History Month: “This March marks the 28th anniversary of Women’s History Month, a time when we come together to honor and celebrate the extraordinary lives, achievements, and triumphs of women throughout American history. These leaders have inspired my work in Congress and serve as important role models for young girls and boys across our nation. “Women have been at the forefront of progress throughout our nation’s history, committing their lives to ensuring equality for all Americans, and the voices of women who have fought for equal rights in the face of adversity are still with us today. Today, we have 104 women serving in the United States Congress; the first time in history that number has passed the 100 mark. “Yet, despite the immense strides forward, women still face many challenges today. Women still earn 77 cents for every dollar that their male counterparts earn in the workplace, and the median annual earnings of a woman are nearly 22 percent less than those of their male colleagues. And with women being the sole or primary breadwinners in 40 percent of U.S. households with children, it is imperative that Congress passes legislation to raise the federal minimum wage, which it hasn’t done since 2007. Every woman deserves the chance to build a better life for her family – closing the pay gap and raising the minimum wage will provide that opportunity, because when women succeed, America succeeds. “As a working mother, I also believe it is imperative that all women are treated equally and receive fair compensation. That is why I support the Paycheck Fairness Act to improve federal laws that protect workers from gender-based discrimination in the workplace. “Although there remains much work to be done to ensure equal treatment for all, Women’s History Month allows us to reflect on what we have accomplished and to thank the great American women who have blazed a trail for others to follow. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle as we pick up the torch and continue to fight for equal rights.” Issues: 114th Congress, Civil Rights
02.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement on her votes for the short-term funding bills for the Department of Homeland Security: “It is absolutely irresponsible to threaten a shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security. While I believe Speaker Boehner must allow the House to vote on the bipartisan, Senate-passed, full-year bill, I voted for the short-term bills because I could not in good conscience stand by while House Republicans play a dangerous political game with our national security.” Issues: 114th Congress, Defense
02.24.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement on this morning’s Metrolink accident: “My thoughts and prayers go out to the passengers and crew on the Metrolink train (VC Line 102) that was involved in a collision this morning in Oxnard. I have been in touch with federal, state, and local agencies responsible for coordinating the accident investigation, and I will continue to monitor the investigation closely. Clearly, there are many unanswered questions that must be addressed. “The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is sending a go-team to investigate this accident. The Federal Railroad Administration, Amtrak, and other responsible and responding agencies are coordinating with the NTSB lead investigators. “For information on loved ones, a special phone number has been made available, at 1- 877-248-8381. “Updated information on the incident, road closures near the incident, and hospital contact information be found on the Ventura County Emergency Information page at https://vcemergency.com. “If you need additional assistance, please call my office at (805) 379-1779.” Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Transportation and Infrastructure
02.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) and her colleagues attended the White House signing ceremony for the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act, which passed the Senate and House with overwhelming bipartisan support. “Every day, an estimated 22 veterans take their own lives,” said Brownley. “The Clay Hunt SAV Act will improve VA mental health programs and help stop these preventable tragedies. As Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, improving access to high-quality mental health services is one of my highest priorities.” The Clay Hunt Act will: Require annual third-party evaluations of VA’s mental health care and suicide prevention programs, Create a centralized website with resources and information for veterans about the range of mental health services available from the VA, and Require collaboration on suicide prevention efforts between VA and non-profit mental health organizations. “This law will improve suicide prevention and mental health resources for veterans and their family members,” Brownley said. “We must do all that we can to ensure that our servicemembers and veterans receive quality mental health counseling to address PTSD, depression, and other associated health issues.” Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
02.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement celebrating Black History Month: “This year marks the 50th anniversary of the march from Selma to Montgomery, a landmark event in the Civil Rights Movement. As Black History Month commences, we remember the heroic efforts of those who took part in marches, and the countless others who struggled against great adversity to ensure equality for all. “Our nation has come a long way towards equality for all citizens. However, we still have a long way to go to ensure equal voting rights and equal treatment and protections under the law. That is why, in keeping with the spirit and vision of those who so boldly marched in Selma and those who march today, I will continue the fight for the principles and values of equality that we cherish as a nation. “In celebration of Black History Month, I join in recognizing the many contributions that African Americans have made to our community and our great nation both past and present.” Issues: 114th Congress, Civil Rights
02.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, is pleased to announce that the President’s FY2016 budget request includes a new VA community clinic for Ventura County. “This new facility is critically important for Ventura County’s veterans to be able to receive as much care as possible, as close to home as possible,” said Brownley. “Because many of the over 50,000 veterans in Ventura County cannot make the long commute to the West Los Angeles VA Medical Center, I have been advocating for a larger facility closer to them. I am pleased that the FY2016 budget request includes this new community clinic, and I will continue to make it a top priority until the doors are open.” “I think the impact of this clinic will be life-changing for the veterans in Ventura County,” said Kim Evans, founder and director of the Ventura County Military Collaborative. “I can’t think of a better way for the Congresswoman to support the local community. The diversity of new services available at the community clinic will profoundly elevate the level of care for our veterans in need.” “I am pleased the VA is taking veterans’ services seriously and building the infrastructure necessary to meet the growing needs of Ventura County veterans,” said Mike McManus, USAF (ret.), Veteran Service Officer for the Ventura County Human Services Agency. “I thank Congresswoman Brownley for her hard work to improve health services for veterans in our community.” The project proposes to lease a new, approximately 47,200 net usable square feet (NUSF) outpatient clinic with 350 parking spaces to replace the existing VA contract clinic in Oxnard. The new facility would increase access to specialty services provided at the contract clinic and would reduce space, utilization, and veteran access gaps identified in the Strategic Capital Investment Planning (SCIP) process. This project would allow VA to expand its current primary care and mental health services, as well as provide much-needed new services such as optometry, audiology, PM&RS, and dermatology in a right-sized, state-of-the-art, energy-efficient health care facility. With this lease, VA would be able to offer new services and expand existing services to keep pace with the needs of the veteran enrollee population of the area. This project would allow for easier access to care for veterans living in Oxnard who currently must commute to the Sepulveda Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) or West Los Angeles VAMC for treatment. Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Veterans' Affairs
02.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) reintroduced the American Manufacturing Jobs for Students Act, legislation intended to provide career education and counseling about local manufacturing jobs for middle and high school students. “It is critical that we provide resources to help connect Ventura County’s students with 21st century careers, while helping local businesses find the high-skilled workforce they need from within their own communities,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “My bill will help bridge that gap, so that students who grow up here can be connected with exciting and innovative job opportunities close to home.” Brownley first introduced the American Manufacturing Jobs for Students Act in 2014 as part of a comprehensive package of Make It In America legislation led by Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) designed to both help students jumpstart their careers and strengthen America’s businesses. “Rep. Julia Brownley understands that a strong middle class begins with more Americans able to access manufacturing jobs that pay well and open doors of opportunity. She has been a leader in Congress when it comes to helping grow our manufacturing sector by introducing legislation that will encourage secondary school teachers and guidance counselors to connect students with career information and internship opportunities with local manufacturers. Rep. Brownley continues to be a tireless advocate for the interests of California families and is working to ensure that they have access to the kinds of economic opportunities that make the American Dream attainable,” said Democratic Whip Hoyer. Local business leaders also shared their support for the measure: “The American Manufacturing Jobs for Students Act is a fundamental acknowledgement by Congress that highlighting the opportunities and benefits of careers in manufacturing will positively affect student academic choices and ultimately serve to reinvigorate the national manufacturing workforce. These skilled employees drive the highly competitive and strategic economic manufacturing sector, and without a replacement generation – as we face today – the United States will certainly slide away from its central role on the world stage. We now know by direct experience in Ventura County, CA, that authentic exposure to local industry is a crucial and effective element in inspiring young people to make the right choices towards achieving careers in high technology manufacturing,” said William Pratt, Vice President of Operations and Director of Creative Design at Kinamed, Inc. in Camarillo. “Manufacturing is big in Ventura County and key to the long-term economic vitality of our region and many others in the nation. It also pays the highest average wages among industry sectors, yet these employers are having trouble finding qualified workers. Helping young people become acquainted with manufacturing careers is an important strategy to ensure we have a qualified workforce for this sector, and offers young people a fulfilling career that pays well,” said Bruce Stenslie, President of the Economic Development Collaborative-Ventura County. “In the U.S. alone, about 318,000 manufacturing jobs go unfilled due to a lack of skilled workers, and that number is growing as so many people employed in this industry are baby boomers who are retiring. Still, manufacturing is a very promising industry that is vital to the U.S. and global economy. It offers high-paying, clean technology careers. Efforts to help grow a local, qualified workforce are a win-win for young people seeking career paths, and local manufacturers who need qualified workers,” said Kathy Looman, Gene Haas Foundation administrator. Under current law, the Department of Education provides grants to elementary and secondary schools for student counseling services. The American Manufacturing Jobs for Students would encourage schools to provide career education about local manufacturing jobs and would support student engagement and professional relationships with local businesses through workplace visits and hands-on learning experiences. The bill text can be found here: LINK Issues: 114th Congress, Education
01.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) reintroduced the Help Hire Our Heroes Act, a bill that would restart the Veterans Retraining Assistance Program (VRAP). “In Ventura County and across the country, too many veterans are unemployed, and it is our duty to help them get the training they need to transition into high-skilled jobs and careers. The Veterans Retraining Assistance Program succeeded in helping many veterans retrain and find employment, and it should not have been allowed to lapse,” said Congresswoman Brownley. VRAP started in 2012 to provide training assistance to unemployed veterans between the ages of 35 and 60 who are no longer eligible for the GI Bill. It provided up to 12 months of training benefits at community colleges and technical schools in occupations that the Department of Labor has identified as “high demand.” During the 113th Congress, Brownley introduced legislation to keep the program going, but Speaker Boehner did not allow the bill to move forward. As a result of Congressional inaction, the VA was forced to end the program. VA stopped accepting new applications after October 1, 2013, and stopped paying benefits to enrolled veterans after March 31, 2014. The bill text can be found here: LINK Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
01.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) joined with 19 colleagues to file an amicus brief with the U.S. Supreme Court in the case of Arizona State Legislature v. Arizona Independent Redistricting Commission. “Districts drawn by incumbents to protect their jobs makes politicians less accountable to their constituents and more accountable to the special interests, which has eroded public trust and contributed to a deep and intractable dysfunction in Congress,” said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. “In California, we have experienced firsthand that a non-partisan, citizen-driven redistricting process is not only possible, but that its success makes it imperative for other states to follow our lead to ensure that our government is ‘of the people, for the people, by the people.’ The Supreme Court ruling in the case of Arizona State Legislature v. Arizona Independent Redistricting Commission could have far reaching consequences, undermining state laws in California, and in other states, that have adopted citizen redistricting commissions to eliminate partisan gerrymandering.” “Instead of politicians cherry-picking their voters, independent redistricting commissions give voters real choices in selecting their elected officials,” said Aaron Scherb, director of legislative affairs at Common Cause. “Independent redistricting commissions are a critical step to reduce polarization and increase civility in politics. Common Cause commends Congresswoman Brownley for signing an amicus brief in support of independent redistricting commissions, and we encourage the Supreme Court to uphold the ability of voters to say ‘no’ to partisan gerrymandering.” The amicus brief, submitted by a bipartisan group of Members of Congress, argues that Arizona’s use of an independent commission to adopt congressional districts is constitutional and authorized by 2 U.S.C. § 2a. First, the brief explains that Congress has broad and express constitutional authority to regulate the time, place, and manner of congressional elections, and that for more than a century, Congress has done so in a way that supports Arizona’s law here. Second, the brief argues that use of an independent commission for districting is consistent with, and supports, core principles of federalism reflected in the Constitution and the Elections Clause itself, which seeks to ensure a direct link between national representatives and the people. Third, the brief demonstrates that use of an independent commission is an important, democracy-promoting development that will help reduce negative effects of severe partisan gerrymandering. A copy of the amicus brief can be found here: LINK Issues: 114th Congress, Local Issues, Redistricting
01.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – The House Dyslexia Caucus today announced its 114th Congress leadership with Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Calif.) and Congressman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) serving as bipartisan co-chairs. “I am delighted to welcome Congressman Smith, who has been a leader in Congress on this important issue, as Caucus co-chair,” said Brownley. “As the mother of a daughter with dyslexia, I understand all too well the challenges that these uniquely talented and gifted individuals face. By bringing together individuals with dyslexia, community advocates, scientists, educators, and policymakers, the Caucus can play an important role in raising awareness about dyslexia, which affects millions of Americans. I hope the Caucus can help ensure that dyslexia is better understood and earlier identified, so that students are provided the necessary resources and accommodations to reach their full potential.” “I am pleased to lead this important caucus with my colleague, Congresswoman Brownley,” said Smith. “As a member of this caucus and chairman of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, I have realized the importance of continued dyslexia research as well as the need for early detection and intervention in our schools. My hope is that this caucus will continue to play a key role in educating our colleagues in Congress and the public about dyslexia. Changing the way we approach dyslexia – as possibility rather than disability – can enhance opportunities and brighten futures for millions.” Dyslexia is the most common learning disability in the United States, impacting Americans from all walks of life at all ages, including Members of Congress, their families, and thousands of their constituents. As many as one in five Americans struggle with dyslexia or other learning disorders. According to a November 2011 Government Accountability Office report (GAO-12-40), many students with learning and other disabilities, including dyslexia, are not receiving accommodations, such as extended testing time, required by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) when they take high stakes examinations such as the SAT, GRE, LSAT, or US Medical Licensing Examinations and others. The Dyslexia Caucus was founded as a bipartisan task force dedicated to increasing public awareness about dyslexia and ensuring equal educational opportunities to students with the disorder. Issues: 114th Congress, Education
01.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) was reelected as the ranking member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health. “I am honored that my colleagues have once again entrusted me with this important role, because it is imperative that we continue to reform the VA to ensure that all of our veterans receive the timely healthcare and benefits that they have earned and deserve,” said Brownley. Upon her election to Congress in 2012, Brownley asked to serve on the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee as her first committee assignment. During her first term, her Motion to Instruct Conferees on the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 was widely credited for getting the stalled conference committee back on track. Locally, Brownley spearheaded the expansion of the VA’s Oxnard Community-Based Outpatient Clinic, increased staffing at the clinic, and held a field hearing at CSU Channel Islands to bring attention to the need to expand VA services in Ventura County, including complementary and alternative medicine. Since coming to Congress, Brownley has also put constituent services first, helping Ventura County’s veterans recover nearly $2 million in retroactive VA benefits and more than $1.8 million in estimated monthly VA benefits going forward. In the 114th Congress, Brownley has pledged to continue her work for Ventura County veterans. The very first bill she introduced, the Veterans Healthcare Improvement Act, would help ensure adequate funding for veterans medical care. Brownley has also introduced the Veterans Medical Access Act, which would ensure blinded and catastrophically disabled veterans have better access to VA specialty rehabilitation services. Issues: 114th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
01.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) reintroduced the Expanding Care for Veterans Act, which would expand complementary and alternative medicine and mental health care options for our nation’s veterans. “We must continue to explore innovative and effective ways to provide our veterans with the mental and physical health care they need. There are many organizations, including in Ventura County, that are achieving very positive results using complementary and alternative medicine to treat mental and physical health issues,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “New therapies have helped many veterans manage post-traumatic stress disorder and symptoms associated with Traumatic Brain Injury, reduce dependence on medication for chronic pain, and improve their quality of life. We need to evaluate what works, and ensure that those treatments are available for all veterans who are in need.” “VA’s willingness to assess and accept alternative treatments is what’s called for to help meet the need for care,” said Mike McManus, USAF (ret), Veteran Service Officer, Ventura County Human Services Agency. “The VA should actively solicit data on the effectiveness of complementary and alternative therapies so they can provide access (contract, fee basis referral, etc.) for veterans needing mental health care. Alternative therapies in conjunction with VA provided care need to work in concert with one another to meet veterans’ needs. Our veterans have earned such care.” According to the National Institutes of Health’s National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine and National Institute on Drug Abuse, 44 percent of U.S. military personnel experience chronic pain after combat deployment, and 15 percent of U.S. military personnel use opioids after combat deployment. The Expanding Care for Veterans Act would: Expand research and education on, and delivery of, complementary and alternative medicine to veterans. Establish a program on integration of complementary and alternative medicine within Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers. Study the barriers encountered by veterans in receiving, and administrators and clinicians in providing, complementary and alternative medicine services furnished by the Department of Veterans Affairs. Establish a program on the use of wellness programs as a complementary approach to mental health care for veterans and family members of veterans. Complementary and alternative medicine is intended to enhance, reinforce, or replace traditional, mainstream therapies. For instance, in Ventura County, Reins of H.O.P.E., which works in partnership with the West Los Angeles VA Medical Center, runs an assisted psychotherapy program to improve mental health, self-esteem, communication skills, and interpersonal relationships. In the 113th Congress, Congresswoman Brownley brought the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health to Ventura County to highlight the need to expand complementary and alternative medicine in order to improve care for our veterans and reduce wait times for mental health visits. The bill text for the Expanding Care for Veterans Act is attached here: LINK Issues: 114th Congress, Healthcare, Veterans' Affairs
01.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) reintroduced the “Veterans Medical Access Act” (H.R. 288), which would ensure blinded and catastrophically disabled veterans have access to the healthcare they need. “Many blinded and catastrophically disabled veterans do not travel to VA’s specialty rehabilitation centers for care because, while they are eligible for specialty rehabilitation services, they cannot afford the travel costs associated with accessing this care,” said Brownley. “Because of the high cost of travel, too many blinded and catastrophically disabled veterans go without proper treatment, develop increasingly worse health conditions, and face even higher long-term medical costs.” “This bill will assist America’s blinded veterans in rehabilitation, leading to a more productive life,” said Glenn Minney, Director of Government Relations for the Blinded Veterans Association. “There’s been 157,000 blind and low-vision injuries over the past 12 years, and this is going to help the newly-blind as well as our aging veteran population.” “Those veterans with catastrophic disabilities have the greatest need for health care services and this legislation will ensure that travel does not remain a barrier to that care,” said Carl Blake, Associate Executive Director of Government Relations for the Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA). “This bill is a high priority for PVA’s members.” Currently, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is required to cover the cost of transportation for veterans requiring medical care for service-connected injuries. The Veterans Medical Access Act would extend these travel benefits to a veteran with vision impairment, a veteran with a spinal cord injury or disorder, or a veteran with double or multiple amputations whose travel is in connection with care provided through a special disabilities rehabilitation program of the VA. The bill text is attached here: LINK Issues: 114th Congress, Healthcare, Veterans' Affairs
01.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that she has secured a seat on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure (T&I). “As a California central coast community, Ventura County has unique transportation needs that not only impact our quality of life, but are vital to the region’s economic vitality. That’s why I fought so hard to be able to bring this unique perspective to the highly sought after Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure,” said Congresswoman Brownley. Ventura County’s diverse transportation infrastructure serves as a microcosm for the nation. With the only deep water port between Los Angeles and San Francisco, two small community airports, commuter and freight rail, a coast guard station, and both urban and rural highway and transit needs, Ventura County transportation needs are not only integral to the economic vitality of California’s 26th Congressional District – the port and harbors alone account for nearly $1 billion in economic impact in the region – but to the entire state of California. Since coming to Congress, Brownley has been a steadfast champion of the Port of Hueneme; secured the funds necessary to dredge the Channel Islands Harbor, Ventura Harbor, and to replenish the sand at Hueneme Beach; kept the towers open at the Camarillo and Oxnard airports; and authored legislation authorizing a land swap from the former Oxnard Air Force Base back to the county to encourage business development around Camarillo Airport. Her leadership on these issues played a large role in her successful bid to win a seat on the T&I Committee. Issues: 114th Congress, Transportation and Infrastructure
01.06.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) reintroduced the “Veterans Healthcare Improvement Act,” legislation to guarantee adequate resources for veterans’ healthcare benefits. “It is our duty to make certain that the Department of Veterans Affairs has the resources it needs to provide the healthcare our veterans earned and deserve,” said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. “This issue is of paramount importance to me, which is why the Veterans Healthcare Improvement Act was the first bill that I introduced in Congress.” Brownley’s bill would require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to continue to verify the accuracy and adequacy of the Department of Veterans Affairs budget for medical care. During the 113th Congress, the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee held a hearing on the bill, which was subsequently passed by the Committee as part of the Putting Veterans First Act. Issues: 114th Congress, Healthcare, Veterans' Affairs
12.23.2014	Thousand Oaks, CA – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement for the holidays: “As we gather with our families and friends to celebrate the holidays, let us thank the brave men and women in uniform for their valor and service. Our servicemembers are crucial to our community and are part of what makes Ventura County such a great place to live and work. “As the representative of the over 19,000 personnel who serve our country at Naval Base Ventura County – and a proud member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee – I want to take a moment to thank everyone who is serving in the armed forces for their selfless dedication to our country. They deserve our sincere gratitude for defending our country and our freedoms. Without their brave efforts, America would not have the liberties so many of us enjoy and often take for granted. Through their example, we remember that our nation is strongest when we work together to achieve common goals. And it is our solemn obligation to make sure that each servicemember and veteran receives all of the services and care they need when they return home. “So, from my family to yours, Happy Holidays and have a safe and healthy New Year.” Issues: 113th Congress, Local Issues, Veterans' Affairs
12.19.2014	Oxnard, CA – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) announced that the U.S. Navy will be establishing an Unmanned Carrier-Launched Airborne Surveillance and Strike (UCLASS) Fleet Integration Team (FIT) at Point Mugu. “I am proud to report that the UCLASS FIT will be based at Point Mugu, which is yet another example of Naval Base Ventura County’s increasing strategic importance for our nation’s 21st century defense posture,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I look forward to welcoming the UCLASS FIT personnel and their families to our community.” According to the Department of the Navy, the UCLASS FIT will support the Navy’s persistent, aircraft carrier-based intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, targeting, and strike requirements. The new command will be in place effective October 1, 2015, and will include 8 officers and 12 enlisted personnel. Its mission will be to plan, integrate, and execute the lines of effort required to establish the Initial Operational Capability of the UCLASS system and transition the program to Full Operational Capability. It will determine squadron requirements for manpower, training, maintenance, logistics, carrier integration, optimized fleet response plan, information technology, interoperability, security, and budget. The UCLASS FIT will also coordinate with facilities personnel to determine infrastructure and base operating support requirements, as well as determine associated fleet integration and support requirements for inclusion into the proper programs of record. Issues: 113th Congress, Defense, Local Issues
12.12.2014	Thousand Oaks, CA – In nearly two years since Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) took office, Brownley and her staff have successfully delivered more than $4.6 million in retroactive and estimated monthly federal benefits to constituents throughout Ventura County. Additionally, she helped secure more than $10 million in federal grants for local projects. “When I was elected to Congress, I was determined to provide the best constituent services possible,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “As I prepare to begin my second term in office, I will continue to strive to be Ventura County’s voice in Washington.” Below are highlights of Congresswoman Brownley’s constituent-centered approach to strengthening Ventura County’s economy and fighting for middle-class families. Received and responded to over 119,000 inquiries from constituents. Of those 119,000-plus inquiries, over 2,100 required Brownley to open cases and cut through bureaucratic red tape while advocating for constituents. Recovered nearly $2 million in retroactive VA benefits, plus more than $1.8 in estimated monthly VA benefits. Recovered over $300,000 in overdue Social Security benefits to Ventura County residents. Helped secure more than $10 million in federal grants, including $4.3 million for expanding local transit service; $1.8 million for security and infrastructure for the Port of Hueneme; $600,000 for maintenance and improvements for the Camarillo and Oxnard airports; $500,000 for carrier service incentives for Oxnard airport; $120,000 for Reins of HOPE in Ojai to expand access to complementary and alternative therapy for veterans; and $2.4 million to keep a local fire station open and staffed. “If you live in California’s 26th Congressional District and need my help with a federal agency, please don’t hesitate to contact my district offices,” Brownley said. “It is my honor to serve you as your advocate in Congress.” Issues: 113th Congress, Local Issues
12.12.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement regarding her vote on the Fiscal Year 2015 Continuing Resolution and Omnibus Appropriations Act: “I voted for the FY2015 funding bill because it would be irresponsible to shut down the federal government, which could send our economy back into recession. The last shutdown cost the economy $24 billion and furloughed 818,000 workers. While this bill is certainly flawed, I could not in good conscience support putting our fragile economic recovery, and the jobs in Ventura County that might be impacted by a shutdown, in jeopardy.” Issues: 113th Congress, Budget
12.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) participated in a House Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing: “Evaluating Federal and Community Efforts to Eliminate Veteran Homelessness.” During the hearing, Brownley focused on the links between female veterans’ homelessness and military sexual trauma (MST). During testimony before the committee, John Downing, CEO of Soldier On, noted that in his experience 100 percent of the female veterans who are homeless have experienced MST. He also noted that of all homeless veterans, approximately 25 percent are considered chronically homeless, and may never become self-sufficient, requiring a lifetime of intensive care. Brownley used her time during the hearing to hone in on these statistics. A video of the exchange is available here. As Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, Brownley has been particularly focused on issues facing female veterans, including MST. Earlier this year, Brownley offered a Motion to Instruct conferees on the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014, which led to the inclusion several provisions on MST in the final bill. Brownley has also urged Chairman Miller to hold a full committee hearing to focus more on issues facing female veterans. Issues: 113th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
12.05.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), issued the following statement regarding her vote on the NDAA: “My vote in favor of the 2015 NDAA was a vote to support the existing and new commands coming to NBVC and to support servicemembers. It was a vote to support reforms to the military justice system to better protect victims of military sexual assault. And it was a vote to prohibit a new BRAC round. “That being said, this bill is not perfect. Among other concerns, I’m opposed to reducing housing allowances for servicemembers and to the provision that increase co-pays for prescription drugs. “I am also concerned with the authorization to further fund our involvement in Syria. Congress must fully debate this issue, the White House must present a clear strategic objective, and risks must be accurately and fully presented to the American people as the 114th Congress considers further authorizations and appropriations.” Issues: 113th Congress, Defense, Local Issues
12.03.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), the ranking member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, presided over a hearing on the VA’s Caregiver Program. “As Ranking Member of the Health Subcommittee, I take seriously our responsibility to conduct oversight of Veterans Health Administration programs to ensure that they are working as intended: to improve the lives of veterans and their families,” Brownley said. During the hearing, Brownley inquired about how many veterans are eligible for the program, its cost-effectiveness, how it’s being researched and evaluated, and solutions for the program’s IT data management problems. Brownley asked how many veterans are eligible for the program, given the discrepancy between the VA’s and RAND’s numbers. She raised concerns throughout the hearing on the lack of research into the efficacy of programs that address caregiver issues such as depression, anxiety, and PTSD – research that would be helpful to inform the Subcommittee on a way forward with decisions of expansion as well as cost-benefit analysis concerns. Brownley, who is a member of the newly-formed ‘Hidden Heroes Congressional Caucus for Military and Veteran Caregivers’, called for a second hearing on the caregiver program to hear from Veterans Service Organizations about issues that they have raised about the existing program and the possibility of expanding the program to cover pre-9/11 veterans. “In my view, the Subcommittee should also explore the feasibility and costs associated with expanding the Caregiver Program to family caregivers of pre-9/11 veterans,” said Brownley. “Given the scope of the program, and the magnitude of the issue, I would ask that a follow-up hearing be held so that we may address other concerns that have been raised by the Veteran Service Organizations and other important stakeholders.” Background In 2010, Congress passed the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act, which established the Department of Veterans Affairs’ Family Caregiver Program. Approximately 5.5 million spouses, parents, children, and other loved ones serve as volunteer caregivers to America’s wounded veterans. They shoulder an enormous responsibility – bathing, feeding, and dressing, managing medication and injections, arranging for rehabilitation – all while many are raising a family. Military caregivers are often the only knowledgeable and trusted individuals available 24 hours a day to care for those suffering from the multiple visible and invisible wounds. Yet, despite the vital role they play in the recovery of those who have protected our nation’s freedom and security, their needs have remained largely overlooked. A recent RAND study commissioned by the Elizabeth Dole Foundation estimates that the services caregivers provide save our nation $13.6 billion annually, yet they too often pay a heavy price: suffering physical and emotional stress and illnesses; difficulty maintaining employment; financial, legal, and family strains; and isolation. Issues: 113th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
12.03.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), issued the following statement regarding the extension of the Iran nuclear negotiations: “While I support the diplomatic process, I am concerned that additional delays without further sanctions are allowing Iran to advance their nuclear weapons program without penalty. In 2013, I voted for more sanctions in order to put pressure on Iran, and I am looking forward to working with a bipartisan Congress to build new sanctions to ensure we get to an acceptable final agreement between now and the new deadline of June 30, 2015.” Issues: 113th Congress, Defense
11.21.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley, co-chair of the House E-2D Hawkeye Caucus, spearheaded a congressional support effort for the E-2D Advanced Hawkeye. “As co-chair of the E-2D Hawkeye Caucus and representative of Naval Base Ventura County, home to the E-2D Advanced Hawkeye training center, I am pleased to support this critical aircraft, which is a game changer for naval battle management command and control,” said Congresswoman Brownley. Brownley and her colleagues have urged the House and Senate Appropriations Committee support full funding of the FY15 President’s base budget for the E-2D Advanced Hawkeye, as well as the additional funding added by the House for a 5th E-2D aircraft in FY15. The additional aircraft was identified as a priority in the Navy’s Unfunded Priority List. E-2D is the Navy’s carrier-based Airborne Early Warning and Battle Management Command and Control (BMC2) system. The E-2D provides theater air and missile defense, synthesizing information from multiple sensors and disseminating actionable information to joint forces in a distributed, open-architecture environment. The E-2D program has achieved all major milestones on or ahead of schedule since program inception in 2003. In July 2014, the Navy, with Congress’ approval, initiated a five-year, fixed-price Multi-Year Procurement (MYP) for 25 E-2D aircraft. Issues: 113th Congress, Defense
11.19.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health, presided over a hearing that considered seven bills, including Brownley’s bill, the Expanding Care for Veterans Act (H.R. 4887). Brownley’s bill would expand complementary and alternative medicine and mental health care options for our nation’s veterans and received broad support from the Veterans Service Organizations (VSOs) that provided testimony to the Subcommittee. “I believe that we must find more and better ways to provide our veterans with the health care they need,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “There are many organizations throughout the country that are achieving very positive results using complementary and alternative medicine to treat mental health issues. My bill would require VA to do a better job of evaluating what works, and when it does, find a way to provide those therapies to our veterans who are in need.” The Expanding Care for Veterans Act would: Expand research and education on, and delivery of, complementary and alternative medicine to veterans; Establish a program on integration of complementary and alternative medicine within the Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers; Study the barriers encountered by veterans in receiving, and administrators and clinicians in providing, complementary and alternative medicine services furnished by the Department of Veterans Affairs; and Establish a program on the use of wellness programs as complementary approach to mental health care for veterans and family members of veterans. Complementary and alternative medicine is intended to enhance, reinforce, or replace traditional, mainstream therapies. For instance, in Ventura County, Reins of Hope’s assisted psychotherapy program to improve mental health, self-esteem, communication skills, and interpersonal relationships. On February 20, 2014, Congresswoman Brownley held a field hearing at CSU Channel Islands to bring attention to the need to expand complementary and alternative medicine, in order to improve care for our veterans and reduce wait times for mental health visits. Because of the successes highlighted at that hearing, and through subsequent VA contact with the program, VA has decided to expand services with Reins of H.O.P.E. “Throughout the 113th Congress, the VA Committee has held hearings at which we have heard from veterans about the need to expand complementary and alternative medicine in order to improve care for our veterans and reduce wait times for mental health visits,” Congresswoman Brownley said. “I am hopeful that my bill can move forward, and appreciate the support that many of the VSOs have shown for my bill.” Issues: 113th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
11.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) and her colleagues have spearheaded a letter to the House Armed Services Committee asking to retain language from the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to ensure continued state control of Modular Airborne Fire Fighting System (MAFFS) aircraft. The Department of Defense has proposed to shift MAFFS control to the federal government, which would prevent the governor from utilizing MAFFS to fight fires in California. Instead, the governors would need to request this aid from the DOD, potentially delaying critical firefighting air support and impacting the continuity of pay and benefits for MAFFS units. For more than 40 years, the MAFFS has been performing this mission under Title 32, which has provided needed flexibility for the states. Since coming to Congress, Brownley has been working with her colleagues from California, Colorado, and North Carolina, which also have MAFFS units, to retain state control. “In California, we know all too well the devastating effects of wildfires on our homes and businesses, and I strongly believe we must ensure that state governors retain the authority to utilize all available firefighting resources, including the MAFFS aircraft at Point Mugu,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Shifting control of MAFFS crews away from the state to the federal government may jeopardize California’s ability to quickly utilize these aircraft during fire seasons.” “Rep. Brownley knows just how critical our aerial firefighting assets are for California, especially Ventura County, which is home to four of the twenty largest fires in California history,” said Maj. Gen. David S. Baldwin, Adjutant General of the California National Guard. “Today’s action by Rep. Brownley shows she understands that California must have the freedom to fight all fires in a timely, effective manner if we are to successfully protect the health and safety of all Californians. We are grateful for her efforts.” Click here to read the full letter. Issues: 113th Congress, Local Issues
11.10.2014	Thousand Oaks, CA – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) issued the following statement for Veterans Day: “On this day, let us join our families, friends, and neighbors in showing our gratitude to our nation’s veterans for their valiant service to protect our freedoms and liberties both at home and abroad. “As a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I will continue to work tirelessly to ensure our servicemembers, our veterans, and their families receive the honor, care, and support they have earned and deserve. To each and every veteran who I have the honor of representing in Congress, I extend my sincerest appreciation for your service.” Issues: 113th Congress, Veterans' Affairs
11.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) has spearheaded a bipartisan effort in the U.S. House of Representatives to build support for procurement of the Navy’s MQ-4C Triton Unmanned Aerial System (UAS). “I am very pleased that flight testing of Triton is moving forward, and believe that it is critical that Congress support continued program development and procurement in Fiscal Year 2015,” said Brownley. “Ultimately, Naval Base Ventura County will be the west coast home for the Triton UAS, a testament to the critical importance of Naval Base Ventura County to our national security. The hundreds of jobs the Triton program is bringing with it will help boost our local economy and strengthen Naval Base Ventura County’s position as an essential component to our nation’s long-term strategic defense requirements. I look forward to welcoming the new personnel to our community, and will continue to work with a bipartisan group of members to ensure continued Congressional support for this important Navy program.” According to the Navy, Triton will fly approximately 2,000 hours over the next three years from NAS Patuxent River to support its operational deployment in 2017. Upon arrival in Ventura County, the Triton program will have an initial 4 officers and 43 enlisted sailors based at Naval Base Ventura County, a presence that is expected to grow to 700 servicemembers. According to the Navy’s draft environmental assessment released in February 2013, the county is expected to grow by nearly 2,400 new residents when including family members and support personnel as a result. The squadron, which will have a recovery element detachment, will act as support for the Triton Unmanned Aerial Surveillance unit. Four Tritons are scheduled to be based at Point Mugu, with marine reconnaissance and a maintenance center for the aircraft to be based there. Copies of Brownley’s letters to the House and Senate Appropriations Committees are linked below. Letter to House Appropriations Committee Letter to Senate Appropriations Committee Issues: 113th Congress, Defense
11.01.2014	Thousand Oaks, CA — One year ago today, on November 1, 2013, the first Transportation Security Administration (TSA) officer was tragically killed in the line of duty. This was the first such incident in the history of the TSA. Unfortunately, current law does not provide TSA officers with death benefits like those offered to firefighters, police officers, FBI agents, or state troopers. To remedy this inequity, Congresswoman Julia Brownley introduced the Honoring our Fallen TSA Officers Act (H.R. 4026). Brownley’s bill would amend federal law to provide for the eligibility of a TSA employee – who is performing official duties of the Administration, if those official duties are related to protecting the Nation’s transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce – to receive public safety officers’ death benefits. On March 28, 2014, Brownley participated in a House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security hearing at Los Angeles Airport (LAX) at which Administrator Pistole expressed support for Brownley’s bill. “It has been one year since the tragic death of Officer Hernandez, and yet, Congress has failed to pass legislation to correct the inequity in federal law that prevented the Hernandez family from qualifying for the Public Safety Officer Benefits program,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I call on Speaker Boehner to correct this injustice and bring my bill to the floor for a vote.” TSA is comprised of nearly 50,000 security officers, inspectors, air marshals, and managers who protect the nation’s transportation systems by screening for explosives at checkpoints in airports, inspecting rail cars, patrolling subways with law enforcement partners, and working to make all modes of transportation safe. TSA officers perform an important public duty, protecting Americans and the traveling public from threats to our aviation, rail, and transit systems. Issues: 113th Congress, Defense, Transportation and Infrastructure
10.28.2014	Oxnard, CA – Since being elected to Congress, Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) has been fighting for Naval Base Ventura County (NBVC). As part of her ongoing efforts, Brownley has contacted the House Armed Services Committee to reiterate priorities for the upcoming conference on the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for 2015. “Naval Base Ventura County is critical to our national security and is a critical economic engine in our community,” said Brownley. “As Congress works on the defense authorization and appropriations legislation, I will continue to fight for resources for the existing commands at Port Hueneme and Point Mugu, and will continue to work hard to bring new commands to the base, like the Triton, Fire Scout, and E-2D Advanced Hawkeye. I will also work with my colleagues on the Defense Communities Caucus to oppose any new round of a BRAC.” “Since coming to Congress, Julia has been a staunch advocate for Naval Base Ventura County. As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I appreciate her partnership and commitment to ensuring our Armed Forces are fully prepared to meet the national defense challenges facing our nation, as well as Julia’s steadfast commitment to our servicemembers, veterans, and their families,” said Congressman Adam Smith (D-Wash.). Brownley’s letter to House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon and Ranking Member Adam Smith is linked here. Earlier this year, Brownley submitted testimony to the House Armed Services Committee regarding Naval Base Ventura County and her priorities for NDAA for 2015. Issues: 113th Congress, Defense, Local Issues
10.14.2014	Oxnard, CA – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) and local officials celebrated the beginning of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers dredging of Channel Islands Harbor, which will provide sand to replenish Hueneme Beach. In March, Brownley announced that nearly $12 million would be made available for the project. “Since coming to Congress, I have worked tirelessly to advocate for the funding necessary to dredge Channel Islands Harbor, which provides desperately needed sand to Hueneme Beach. This was a team effort, as Supervisor Kathy Long, Supervisor John Zaragoza, Channel Islands Harbor director Lyn Krieger, and local elected officials from the City of Port Hueneme advocated tirelessly – side-by-side with me – to make this dredge possible. While we can and should celebrate this victory for our community, we must also remain vigilant to ensure future dredging occurs on-time and is sufficient to keep Channel Island Harbor navigable and provide adequate sand for our beaches,” said Brownley. “I am proud of the County’s collaboration and partnership with the Army Corps of Engineers and the effective advocacy of our Congressional Representative Julia Brownley that ensured the largest historical dredge of our Channel Islands Harbor Sand Trap. The efforts of all who invested their time and energy into making this a reality will celebrate as each grain of sand is transported to their rightful place,” said Ventura County Supervisor Kathy Long. “I am pleased to see that the dredging project is beginning. The City of Port Hueneme has suffered greatly with the erosion at Hueneme Beach. The sand trap at the Channel Island Harbor is almost to capacity. Moving the sand will be beneficial to all concerned and will improve safety and restore the beautiful scenery we enjoy. I would like to thank Congresswoman Julia Brownley, County Supervisor Kathy Long, and County Harbor Director Lyn Krieger for their hard work and diligence in obtaining the critically needed funds to dredge, and the many different agencies and departments who were involved and lastly our local State friends: the National Park Service and the Coast Guard. We thank you for the partnership and the good work,” said Ventura County Supervisor John Zaragoza. “We are very happy to have this massive dredging project underway, both to clear the entrance to Channel Islands Harbor, and to provide much-needed sand to Hueneme Beach and points south. I am so grateful to Congresswoman Brownley for all of her efforts on behalf of the Harbor and the City of Port Hueneme. This is the largest dredging project in the history of the Harbor, and badly needed. Without her work, I am not sure this would have happened,” said Lyn Krieger, Director of the Ventura County Harbor Department. Background The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers began dredging Channel Islands Harbor decades ago because erosion was threatening Navy installations at Port Hueneme and the dredging provided the sand to replenish what had washed away. This project has historically been funded 100 percent by the federal government with the Navy contributing 19 percent. However, due to inadequate federal funding in FY2013, the Corps was only able to dredge a fraction of the sand that it normally dredges. The next biannual dredge was not scheduled to occur until FY2015. However, Brownley worked with her House and Senate colleagues, including Senator Feinstein, to provide additional funds in the FY2014 Omnibus Appropriations legislation for the backlog of harbor maintenance projects across the nation. At Brownley’s request, the President allocated a portion of those funds for the Channel Islands Harbor dredging project. Funding will come from $4.4 million in the Army Corps of Engineers FY2014 Work Plan and $5.3 million in the White House’s FY2015 budget request. Additionally, the Navy committed to Congresswoman Brownley that it would fund its 19 percent of the total cost, bringing the total to nearly $12 million. Brownley also authored two amendments to the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) that are intended to ensure the Army Corps has sufficient funds to prevent this crisis from reoccurring. Brownley’s amendments passed the House with broad bipartisan support. The conference agreement includes several important provisions sought by Brownley: 1.) it increased authorization for the use of funds through the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) from 67% in fiscal year 2015 to 100% in fiscal year 2025; 2.) it included Brownley’s House-passed amendment to require the Army Corps of Engineers to consider Navy activities when assessing the operation and maintenance needs of ports and harbors; and 3.) it included Brownley’s House-passed amendment to require the Army Corps of Engineers to study and report to Congress within 270 days and biannually afterwards on the regional and local economic development benefits of harbor maintenance activities. Issues: 113th Congress, Jobs, Economy, and Small Business, Local Issues, Transportation and Infrastructure
10.14.2014	Thousand Oaks, CA – Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) has contacted Ventura County hospitals to urge them to fully prepare to respond to any suspected or confirmed cases of Ebola in our region. “As we have seen in Texas, dedicated front-line health care workers, like Nina Pham, are the first line of defense against the spread of Ebola in the United States and are also the most at-risk for exposure,” Brownley said. “In Congress, I will continue to advocate for a coordinated and fully-funded international response to this unprecedented epidemic, as well as for the necessary resources for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and National Institutes of Health (NIH) to control and research effective treatments for the disease. However, it is critically important that all hospitals in the U.S., and here in Ventura County, are prepared for any suspected or confirmed cases.” Brownley has requested additional information from the hospital administrators to ascertain the steps they have taken so far to prepare for possible Ebola cases, and to offer her office as a resource if the hospitals need assistance or information from federal agencies, like the CDC. The first death of an Ebola patient in the U.S. occurred on October 8, 2014. As the Ebola crisis in Sierra Leone, Guinea, and Liberia continues to grow, the likelihood of additional export cases to countries and continents outside West Africa will increase. “Stemming this outbreak at its source is the best way to limit the risk to the American public, and to restore political stability to the impacted countries,” said Brownley. “You can also count on my continued support for CDC and NIH work to ensure that the proper resources are available and safeguards are taken here at home.” Issues: 113th Congress, Healthcare
