03.05.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Sen. John Kennedy (R-La.) and U.S. Rep. Ralph Abraham have introduced the Income Verification Act to reduce fraud in taxpayer-funded government assistance programs by requiring states to use federal tax information to verify income eligibility for these programs. The Income Verification Act applies to Medicaid, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) and Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). In November, a report by Louisiana Legislative Auditor’s Office revealed that 82 of 100 Medicaid recipients in a random sample did not financially qualify for the program. The Legislative Auditor’s Office estimated that the state wasted as much as $85 million on ineligible Medicaid recipients. “Assistance fraud robs resources from people who are truly in need and insults the generosity of taxpayers who by and large want to help those down on their luck,” said Rep. Abraham. “Sadly, Louisiana has shown the nation exactly how to fail at administering at least one such program, Medicaid, by wasting at least $85 million - maybe more - on fraudulent payments, only checking eligibility years after the benefits were paid. Sen. Kennedy and I are working to fix such failures in the future by requiring that states verify eligibility for all assistance programs on the front end. This is common sense, but since that’s lacking within the government, we’re going to pass a law to require it.” “Taxpayer money should never be spent willy-nilly,” said Sen. Kennedy. “We owe it to hardworking Americans to be responsible with their taxes instead of using the funds as giveaways to people who don’t financially qualify for assistance. Right now, income verification for taxpayer-funded government assistance programs is optional. This legislation will make it a requirement. Unfortunately, Louisiana is a prime example of how badly we need this legislation. That’s why I introduced this legislation to require every state to use federal income tax data to determine eligibility for Medicaid programs, welfare and food stamps.” ###
03.01.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today announced $22,000 in federal funds for the City of Tallulah’s water system. The grant is funded by the US Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development program. It will fund the expenses for an engineering and environmental report required to correct the ongoing concerns with the water system’s infrastructure. “Many of our rural water systems need upgrading so that rural Louisianians can know that they always have access to safe, reliable drinking water. These federal funds will help Tallulah in the process to enhance its water system, and I appreciate the USDA for awarding the city with this grant,” Abraham said. The total cost of the engineering and environmental reports is $30,000. The city will cover the remaining $8,000. The water system serves 3,180 customers. ###
02.26.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-La., voted against a bill introduced by House Democrats to block President Trump's declaration of a national emergency to solve the crisis on the southern border. The bill ultimately passed. Abraham issued the following statement:"Let's be clear: The situation on the border is absolutely a national emergency. Today's vote to block the emergency declaration was just the latest Democratic effort to deny critical resources that we need to secure our border. I voted against it, and I'm hopeful that one day Democrats will decide that our national security is more important than scoring political points," Abraham said. ###
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-La., reintroduced legislation to help soybean farmers better access a program designed to offset losses caused by Chinese tariffs.The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced the Market Facilitation Program (MFP) last year that offers payments to farmers based on losses incurred by Chinese tariffs.Many soybean farmers in Louisiana were unable to participate in the program last year because they were unable to harvest their crops.Dr. Abraham’s bill would amend the MFP to allow payments to be based on “planted acres” instead of “harvested acres” for soybeans, which would allow many farmers unable to harvest their soybeans to participate in the tariff relief program.“For many Louisiana soybean farmers, an MFP payment could make or break their farms. Our farmers who have felt the impact of the Chinese tariffs and resulting market disruptions must be included in the relief program,” said Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Agriculture Committee.In an interview with This Week in Louisiana Agriculture, USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue urged Congress to support Dr. Abraham’s bill."I would encourage Congress to pass Dr. Abraham's bill. I think it really reaches out there,” said Sec. Perdue. “We live by acts of Congress… and we implement what Congress passes, and if they so choose, we'll be happy to execute and implement that."Background: Soybeans that typically are grown in the upper Midwest and shipped to the West Coast for export to China have, instead, been shipped down the Mississippi River to go to other markets. Storage elevators in Louisiana were full of out-of-state beans during last year’s harvest. Many Louisiana farmers faced an impossible choice of harvesting without a place to take their beans, or allowing them to die in the fields. Either way, they are currently unable to participate in the MFP, the very program designed to help soybean farmers through the trade disruptions.
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON -Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-La., voted against the government spending bill that passed the U.S. House of Representatives tonight. He supports President Trump's intent to declare a national emergency to help build a border wall.On the spending bill vote: "This bill limits the number of illegal immigrants we can detain and falls well short of adequate funding for a border wall. I couldn't vote for something that's going to dictate to the President whether or not he can protect our borders and keep our country safe."On a potential emergency declaration: "If President Trump needs to declare a national emergency to keep out the drugs and gangs, so be it because it's pretty clear that Democrats' only goal is to score political points with their radical open-borders base, even if it means sacrificing national security."
02.11.2019	WASHINGTON -Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, is pledging support for an effort to bypass House Democrat leadership to force a floor vote on the Born Alive Survivor Protection Act. Dr. Abraham is an original cosponsor of the Born Alive Survivor Protection Act, which says that any medical professional who fails to provide care to babies who survive abortions shall be subject to criminal penalties.“As a doctor, I cannot imagine how anyone calling themselves a medical professional could refuse care to a baby in medical need. I believe that most Americans reject the radical belief among many Democrats that a baby who survives an abortion does not deserve a chance to live. Life is precious, and I will do everything in my power to see that this bill becomes law,” Dr. Abraham said. Republican Whip Steve Scalise, R-La., and U.S. Rep. Ann Wagner, R-Mo., intend to introduce a discharge petition to force a vote on the bill. A discharge petition requires 218 signatures from members of Congress to move the bill to the floor for a vote. That process began last week.Background on the Born Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act: Requires that health care practitioners who are present at the live birth exercise skill, care, and diligence to preserve the life and health of the child—the same degree of care that would be offered to any other child born prematurely the same gestational age. After those efforts, the health care workers must transport and admit the child to a hospital. Requires health care practitioners and hospital employees to report violations to law enforcement authorities, reducing the number of born-alive abortions that go unreported. Penalizes the intentional killing of a born-alive child through fines or up to 5 years imprisonment. Gives the mother of the abortion survivor a civil cause of action and protection from prosecution, recognizing that women are the second victims of abortion and promoting the dignity of motherhood. ###
02.06.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, issued the following statement on President Trump's State of the Union address:"President Trump has a bold vision of how we can solve the challenges facing our country. There’s no shortage of what we can achieve if Democrats decide to work with Republicans to address border security, the cost of heath care, infrastructure and much more. My hope is they stop with the political stunts and obstruction, and choose to help us move this country forward," Abraham said. ###
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today announced that two health centers in Louisiana’s 5th Congressional District will receive more than $7 million in combined grant funding. “Community health centers play a vital role in the delivery of health care services for those who call rural Louisiana home. This money will go a long way in allowing these centers to continue to meet the health care needs of Opelousas, Winnfield and their surrounding areas,” Dr. Abraham said. The Southwest Louisiana Primary Health Care Center in Opelousas will receive a grant totaling about $3.2 million. The Winn Community Health Center in Winnfield will receive a grant in the amount of about $3.8 million. The grants were awarded by the Department of Health and Human Services. They are discretionary funds to be used to deliver health services. ###
02.04.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-La., has reintroduced bipartisan legislation aimed at combating the spread of Chronic Wasting Disease (CWD) within the deer population. The bill, HR 837, calls for the Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior to partner with the National Academies of Science to study and identify the ways CWD is transmitted between wild, captive and farmed cervids (deer, caribou, elk and moose). There is currently no live test, nor is there a cure. The only treatment for its spread is the complete depopulation of a deer herd if an animal is infected. It is not known whether the disease can spread to non-cervid wildlife, livestock or humans. CWD has been found in at least 25 states, including Mississippi, Texas and Arkansas. There have been no cases documented in Louisiana. “CWD can have a devastating effect on deer populations and, possibly, other animals. Mississippi confirmed new cases just last week, and I am concerned that it will eventually spread to Louisiana,” said Dr. Abraham, a former veterinarian. “My bill will bring the brightest minds in the country together to provide a comprehensive study that will help us understand how it spreads. It will be the first step in eradicating this disease and save our wildlife.” The bill has 10 original cosponsors: Glenn Thompson, R-Pa.; Paul Gosar, R-Ariz.; Tom Emmer, R-Minn.; Marc Veasey, D-Texas; Garret Graves, R-La.; Trent Kelly, R-Miss.; Greg Gianforte, R-Mont.; Mike Kelly, R-Pa.; Steve King, R-Iowa; and Sean Duffy, R-Wis. Outdoor groups are lining up to support the bill. “Chronic wasting disease threatens America’s hunting tradition and funding for conservation,” says Whit Fosburgh, president and CEO of the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership. “This legislation will provide solid scientific data so we can attack this disease head-on and protect herds across our nation. We want to thank Representatives Abraham and Veasey for their leadership and look forward to advancing this bill in the new Congress.” “The conservation community has largely recognized the need for reliable, and consistent data on CWD so that our nation’s wildlife management agencies can implement effective management strategies,” said Jeff Crane, Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation President. “CSF will continue to work with Congressman Abraham and other Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus Members on this legislation to ensure that these agencies have the best available information to continue their legacy of professional, science-based management.” “We commend and thank Congressman Abraham for the reintroduction of this important piece of legislation,” said Ed Carter, President of the Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies and Executive Director of Tennessee Wildlife Resources Agency. “We also applaud the congressman for enlisting the National Academies of Science, in partnership with the U.S. Geological Survey and U.S. Department of Agriculture, to provide critically important scientific information needed to manage this devastating disease and help protect our precious natural resources. Now that CWD has recently been documented in wild deer in my home state of Tennessee, the battle against this wildlife health issue is even more near and dear to me.” ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., is requesting that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo address concerns of agriculture producers that their seasonal guest workers have been unable to get work visas to enter the United States. Many farmers and others in the agriculture industry, like crawfish processors, rely on seasonal guest workers – or H2A visa holders – during busy parts of the year. These workers legally obtain entry into the United States, work for a few months, and then return to their native countries in the off-season. Dr. Abraham has received numerous concerns from Louisiana farmers and producers that their seasonal workers are having issues receiving visas. His letter asks that the administration investigate why that might be the case so that if a problem exists, it can be addressed.“Our producers need these seasonal workers to meet labor demands that would otherwise not be addressed. These H2A visa holders are immigrants who follow our laws and legally contribute to our economy, and we need to make sure they can continue to do their jobs,” Dr. Abraham said. President Donald Trump expressed his support for the H2A visa program during a speech to the American Farm Bureau Federation’s conference in New Orleans on Monday. “When we have proper security, people aren’t going to come, except for the people we want to come because we want to take people in to help our farmers,” Trump said during the speech. “We’re going to make that actually easier for them – to help the farmers. Because you need these people.” The letter can be found here. ###
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today voted against giving Speaker Nancy Pelosi authority to use the House of Representatives to argue in support of Obamacare in court. In December, a Texas federal judge ruled Obamacare unconstitutional. Democrats have sought to use the House of Representatives as a platform to defend Obamacare in an appeal. “Obamacare has proven to be a broken system, one that comes between patients and their doctors while doing nothing to control the rising cost of health care,” said Dr. Abraham. “This vote was all about politics and had nothing to do with fixing our broken health care system. Obamacare is not a law worth defending, and Nancy Pelosi certainly does not speak for me in these matters.” The vote was included in Title III of the Democrat Rules Package and “authorizes the Speaker, on behalf of the House, to intervene, otherwise appear, or take any other steps in Texas v. United States.” The same language was included in an earlier vote this week, making today’s vote duplicative and deceptive. Dr. Abraham has been a rural physician for more than 20 years and he has witnessed first-hand how Obamacare has failed patients. He is also one of 15 doctors in Congress and sits on the Doctors Caucus.
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, issued the following statement in response to President Trump's address to the nation regarding the urgent need for increased border security:"President Trump is on point and on target: This is both a humanitarian and national security crisis. Women and children are being harmed and killed daily by the human traffickers. More than 90 percent of the heroin and meth comes through the southern border, and these drugs are killing 300 Americans a week. Thousands of criminals, terrorists, and gang members have been arrested, but some slip through without a wall to stop them. Republicans and President Trump want to stop the madness taking place on the border. Why won’t the Democrats help? Walls work!" Dr. Abraham said.
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, voted against a spending bill that would fund the government because it did not have increased funding for border security."Most Republicans - including me - have been very clear that we need more funding for enhanced border security. The bill introduced today by the new Democrat majority failed to deliver the funds necessary to secure our country from the criminals and drugs that are flowing in from Mexico. I want to see the government opened, but it shouldn't come at the cost of our national security and the lives of fellow Americans," Dr. Abraham said.
12.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced today that the winner of the Congressional App Challenge for Louisiana’s Fifth District was Hurricane Wyatt created by Garrett Gray, Zachary Reddick, and Wyatt Wiggins from Delhi Charter School. Garrett, Zachary and Wyatt created their app after experiencing hurricane season in Louisiana and witnessing the confusion Hurricane Florence brought to the East Coast. The app walks through a scenario and presents the user with different choices to make in order to survive Hurricane Wyatt. Garrett served as the lead programmer, Wyatt created the video and Zach wrote the story line. “Garrett, Zachary and Wyatt put a tremendous amount of effort into this app, building game and its story line from scratch,” said Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. “Computer science and programming skills have become increasingly important in our world and I’m proud to see such skills being fostered and developed in Louisiana’s Fifth District.” Garrett, Zachary and Wyatt are sophomores at Delhi Charter School in Richland Parish, and part of the Delhi Charter Robotics Team. All three plan to attend college for computer science or programming. "We felt that at the American people needed to be more informed about disaster preparedness after recent events such as hurricanes Irma and Florence," said Garrett Gray, the lead programmer for the app. The The Congressional App Challenge is an annual contest held by the U.S. House of Representatives. Each participating member of Congress challenges students in their district to create and submit an app to solve a district specific issue. Winners of the Congressional App Challenge are invited to showcase their app to Members of Congress and members of the tech community at the #HouseOfCode reception in Washington, D.C. The winning apps will then be on display for the year in the U.S. Capitol and on the House.gov website. Each winning student will also be awarded $250 in AWS credits, donated by Amazon Web Services’ AWS Educate program.
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today voted for the government spending bill after Congressional leaders included $5.7 billion in funding for a wall along the US-Mexico border. Dr. Abraham had withheld his support for the spending bill, commonly called the CR for "continuing resolution," until Congressional leaders agreed to include the wall funding. “A border wall is vital to our national security to stem the flow of illegal immigrants, drug dealers, human traffickers and potential terrorists. The people have demanded it, and Republicans in Congress are working with President Trump to deliver it. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to approve this request to secure our border and keep our government open,” Dr. Abraham said. Dr. Abraham has been an ardent fighter for the border wall. He is also a cosponsor of H.R. 7059, the Build the Wall, Enforce the Law Act, introduced by House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy. ###
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today voted against a bill to overhaul the nation's criminal justice system. The House ultimately agreed to the Senate's changes.“The Senate took a reasonable House bill aimed at keeping ex-cons from committing new crimes, and twisted it into a criminal rights bill that dangerously lowers mandatory sentences then allows judges to ignore them, and allows for early releases from custody for child molesters and thousands of violent felons. We’ve seen the negative effects this kind of criminal rights activism is having in Louisiana, and I’d hate to inflict that mistake on communities elsewhere in our country,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today praised the US Department of Agriculture for proposing a new rule to crack down on the amount of food stamp waivers granted to able-bodied adults without dependents. Under current law, able-bodied adults without dependents are not supposed to be able to receive benefits from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) for more than three months during a three-year period, unless they’re pursing education or work training. However, many states waive this requirement, including Louisiana which granted a waiver for all 64 parishes. The new Farm Bill, which Dr. Abraham helped write, included language that allows the USDA to tighten and reduce those waivers. “I’m glad to see that the USDA is wasting no time in moving forward with the new authority we gave it to rein in these waivers. SNAP is not meant to be a lifestyle, and able-bodied adults should only be using the program when they fall on tough times. I want people to work and succeed, not become dependent on the government. This new rule brings accountability to the program and helps set people on the path to success,” Dr. Abraham said. President Trump is expected to sign the Farm Bill into law today (Thursday, Dec. 20). ###
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today voted for the Farm Bill Conference Report, which passed overwhelmingly in the House. It now heads to President Trump’s desk for a signature. “Agriculture is a critical part of the Louisiana economy, and our state’s farmers, ranchers and foresters deserve the stability and strong safety net that the Farm Bill provides. This bill preserves crop insurance, adjusts for low commodity prices, strengthens dairy price protections, and preserves the family farm. This is a good bill, and that’s why farmers across the country are celebrating its passage,” said Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Agriculture Committee and a member of the Farm Bill Conference Committee. The Farm Bill also deals with policy concerning the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). The House version of the bill, which Dr. Abraham supported, included work requirements for able-bodied adult SNAP beneficiaries, but the Senate’s version did not. Though the final version did not include work requirements, it did include 18 different policy changes aimed at reducing waste, fraud and abuse within the program. “I voted for the SNAP work requirements and job training included in the House bill because these changes would help people break the cycle of poverty. The Senate did not include these changes, nor would the Senators budge on their position during negotiations. When faced with a choice between leaving our farmers in limbo at the end of this Congress and allowing Nancy Pelosi to rewrite the Farm Bill next year, or passing a strong bill that didn’t go as far as I would have liked, that choice was clear,” Dr. Abraham said.
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D. R-Alto, today issued the following statement after the Trump Administration announced a new definition of “Waters of the United States (WOTUS)” to replace the failed Obama-era definition. The 2015 definition of WOTUS greatly increased the federal government’s power over private land owners by expanding the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ (Corps) regulatory control over bodies of water throughout the country. The Trump Administration’s rule reportedly takes a more common-sense approach to water use that seeks to promote clean water while protecting private citizens' land use rights. “Obama’s WOTUS simply went too far – a puddle of water that might run into a ditch that then might run into a stream or river is by no means a navigable waterway and should not be treated as such. I’m still reviewing the new rule, but I’m pleased with what I’ve seen so far. We all want clean water, and we can achieve that without handing over our land rights to the EPA,” Dr. Abraham said.
12.04.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D. R-Alto, today announced that nine projects in Louisiana’s 5th Congressional District will receive more than $27 million in combined loans and grants from the US Department of Agriculture Rural Development. The investments will help upgrade, install or construct nine water system projects in Caldwell, Grant, Jackson, Winn, Catahoula, La Salle, St. Landry and West Feliciana.“This funding provides these areas with the means to make necessary enhancements to their water systems that might not be possible otherwise,” said Dr. Abraham. “The people who live in our rural communities deserve access to safe, affordable and clean drinking water.” This funding comes as a part of a $1.2 billion investment by the USDA Rural Development to help rebuild and improve rural water infrastructure in 46 states. Investments are used for drinking water, storm water drainage and waste disposal systems for rural communities with 10,000 of fewer residents.East Columbia Water District, in Caldwell Parish, will receive $3.28 million to construct two ground water wells, a treatment plant, booster station, a 200,000-gallon ground storage tank, two miles of water mains, and replace the existing water meters with a drive-by radio-read meter system. West Grant Water Association, in Grant Parish, will receive $337,000 as continued funds for an original project to construct two new wells, an elevated storage tank and renovated pump stations. Two projects in Jackson Parish will receive a combined $2.3 million. The Village of North Hodge will receive $255,000 to complete various projects to bring their water system into compliance with the Louisiana Department of Health. The Village of Hodge will receive $2.1 million to restore their sewer collection system. The Hudson Gaars Mill Water Systems Inc., in Winn Parish, will receive $1.8 million to produce and treat its own water at lower costs. The Black River Water Inc., in Catahoula Parish, will receive $3.7 million to install one groundwater well and rehabilitate another two wells. The Belah-Fellowship Water System Inc., in La Salle Parish, will receive $4.1 million to refurbish a water treatment storage and distribution system. The Town of Melville, in St. Landry Parish, will receive $4.39 million for improvements to its water system by constructing or rehabilitating system components. Consolidated Waterworks No.13, in West Feliciana Parish, will receive $7.7 million to make upgrades to the water systems chemical feed equipment in wells to meet current industry standards. To learn more about these projects and other infrastructure projects funded through the USDA Rural Development Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant program, click here. ###
11.26.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-La., has introduced legislation to help soybean farmers better access a program designed to offset losses caused by Chinese tariffs. The US Department of Agriculture announced the Market Facilitation Program (MFP) earlier this year that offers payments to soybean farmers based on losses to their harvested acres incurred by Chinese tariffs. However, not all soybean farmers have access to this program. In Louisiana, for example, many soybean farmers have either harvested with nowhere to take their beans or been unable to harvest at all. Dr. Abraham’s bill, HR 7147, would amend the MFP to allow payments in some circumstances based on “planted acres” instead of “harvested acres.” This change will allow soybean farmers who could not take their crop to market the ability to still participate in the tariff relief program. “Louisiana soybean farmers cannot be left out of the MFP. The problem they are facing is not of their making, and they should not be forced to bear the heaviest burden caused by market disruptions,” said Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Agriculture Committee. “The USDA told our soybean farmers that it would have their backs during these trade negotiations, and this bill ensures that the USDA will be able to honor that commitment. Congress should do the right thing by these hard-working farmers and pass this bill.” Background: Soybeans that typically are grown in the Midwest and shipped to the West Coast for export to China have, instead, been shipped down the Mississippi River to go to other markets. Storage elevators in Louisiana are full of out-of-state beans. The result has been that many Louisiana farmers faced an impossible choice of harvesting without a place to take their beans, or allowing them to die in the fields because there's nowhere to take their beans. Either way, they are currently unable to participate in the MFP, the very program designed to help soybean farmers through the trade disruptions. The text of the bill can be found here. ###
10.23.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, has cosponsored a bill that would build a border wall along the U.S.-Mexican border. HR 7059, the “Build the Wall, Enforce the Law Act,” was introduced by House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy. It provides an appropriation to match President Trump’s funding request for a border wall and includes resources for technology and infrastructure necessary to support the all and border control operations. “As the caravan of more than 7,000 migrants makes its way unchecked through Central America, one thing is crystal clear: If we don’t defend our borders, no one will. That’s why I’ve cosponsored the ‘Build the Wall Act’ that will give our nation the ability to maintain the integrity of our borders. A border wall will keep the drug dealers, gang members and human traffickers out of our country and prevent thousands of people from pouring into the country for the courts to sort out later. I reject calls from the left to abolish ICE and open our borders because a nation without a border is no nation at all. We should vote on this bill the second Congress goes back into session,” Dr. Abraham said. Dr. Abraham has long been a supporter of building a border wall and enhancing our border security. In June, he voted to provide wall funding and other border security and immigration reforms by supporting the conservative “Securing America’s Future Act” authored by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte and House Committee on Homeland Security Chairman Mike McCaul. That bill was ultimately defeated. In addition to providing funding for a border wall, HR 7059 includes portions of House-passed legislation that will enhance border security including provisions to end funding for sanctuary cities, increase penalties for criminal aliens who illegally re-enter the United States, and prevent immigration and asylum benefits for criminal alien gang members. It also denounces calls to abolish ICE and expresses the sense of Congress that illegal immigrants should not be allowed to vote in American elections. ###
10.17.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today applauded President Donald Trump's decision to withdraw from the United Nations’ Universal Postal Union (UPU), an agreement that allowed Chinese competitors to take advantage of inequity within the international postage rate system. “American taxpayers have been subsidizing Chinese businesses through the UPU. Because of this agreement, it’s been cheaper to ship a package from China to the U.S. than across the street in Louisiana. By withdrawing, President Trump continues to put American businesses first and level the playing field against China’s unfair business tactics,” said Dr. Abraham.Dr. Abraham joined U.S. Sens. Bill Cassidy (R-La.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), and James Lankford (R-Okla.), and U.S. Rep. Kenny Marchant (R-Texas), in writing a letter in August urging Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to renegotiate terms of UPU.Dr. Abraham and Rep. Marchant authored legislation that would allow the Secretary of State to enter into agreements that require the Postal Service to prohibit preferential rates or fees for inbound international mail. Sen. Cassidy has a similar bill in the Senate called the ENDS Act.The U.N.’s Universal Postal Union (UPU) is a 144-year-old treaty that sets the fees each member country must pay for international postal service. The UPU uses a tiered system to establish rates and lists China – the second largest economy in the world – as a Tier III while categorizing the United States as a Tier I. As a result, the United States Postal Service’s (USPS) net losses on delivering international mail have doubled between 2012 - 2016, according to a 2017 report by the Government Accountability Office. ###
10.17.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today announced that eight projects in Louisiana’s 5th Congressional District will receive more than $1.12 million from the Delta Regional Authority (DRA), a federal economic development entity funded and authorized by Congress. The investments will help support eight projects in Ouachita, Rapides, Lincoln, LaSalle, Concordia and East Carroll parishes. “This is terrific news for cities and towns throughout my district and Louisiana. From infrastructure improvements to workforce development and new jobs, this funding will make a real difference in the lives of thousands of families in communities across our state,” said Dr. Abraham. “I appreciate the DRA for awarding these funds, and I look forward to continuing to work with all of our federal partners for more investments in the future.” The 5th District is the largest recipient of a wave of DRA investments in Louisiana. In total, the state will receive $2.6 million from the DRA to support 15 projects that will benefit a combined 11,580 families, provide training for 5,145 workers, and create or retain a combined 204 jobs. Combined total public and private funding for these projects totals more than $34.6 million. Projects in Monroe will receive a combined $540,000 for three projects. The DRA will invest $300,000 to build an access road to serve the Millhaven Industrial Park and a new manufacturing facility. It will create 40 jobs at a 1.25 million square foot plant that will build and distribute cartons. St. Francis Medical Center will receive $150,000 to help build a new helipad to improve emergency and health crisis response times. The University of Louisiana at Monroe will receive $90,000 to help train 125 workers on unmanned aerial systems that can be used by farmers, firefighters, law enforcement official and public utility companies. The Town of Vidalia will receive $200,000 to to extend natural gas and broadband connectivity lines to serve the Vidalia Industrial Park and Port Complex. The investments will support an international manufacturing business that will locate its first facility in the United States in Concordia Parish where it will produce spherical graphite used in lithium batteries in electric vehicles. This funding will support five new jobs and workforce training for 20 workers. The City of Grambling will receive $200,000 to upgrade its wastewater treatment plant, which serves about 1,157 families, a number of businesses and Grambling State University. The LaSalle General Hospital in Jena will receive $180,528 to help renovate the emergency room and admitting area to help the hospital keep up with its growth as a regional hospital. The Town of Lake Providence will receive $135,000 to help with sewer treatment improvements. The DRA funds will be used to upgrade the South Pond Sewer Treatment Facility, a 50-year-old pond that is deteriorating and could expose the town to unsafe and unsanitary conditions should it collapse. The investment will improve service for about 1,556 families. The Town of Ball will receive $100,000 to extend sewer lines to 12 existing homes and create access points for another 90 new homes that will be built in Rapides Parish. About 1,508 families will gain better service. To read more about these projects and the other projects funded in Louisiana, click here. ###
10.05.2018	WASHINGTON - America’s rice farmers can celebrate today after Iraq agreed to purchase a whopping 90,000 metric tons – or 200 million pounds – of rice from the United States, thanks in part to lobbying from Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, and other members of Congress. Dr. Abraham led a letter in September to U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Douglas Silliman urging his team to work with Iraq to buy American rice to satisfy a recent rice tender. Sens. John Boozman, R-Ark., and Tom Cotton, R-Ark., and Congressmen Clay Higgins, R-La., and Rick Crawford, R-Ark., joined Dr. Abraham on the letter.“Iraq is buying three times more rice than we requested in our letter, so I’m thrilled that this resulted in such a successful sale. A purchase of this great amount will have an immediate and strong impact on the American rice market, and this is certainly a testament to American rice producers, who grow the best rice in the world,” said Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Agriculture Committee.Louisiana is a top state for rice production. Louisiana producers harvested 2.7 billion pounds of rice worth $372.7 million in 2017, according to the LSU AgCenter.Dr. Abraham has led several letters to Iraq over the last few years advocating for US rice. The most recent success was in August when Iraq purchased 15,000 metric tons from the United States. ###
10.02.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today wrote to U.S. Department of Agriculture Sec. Sonny Perdue requesting that the USDA provide assistance to soybean farmers in finding places to store the current soybean harvest until it can be brought to market.Recent trade negotiations with China have disrupted usual shipping lanes for soybeans. Crops that had been going to West Coast ports are now heading down the Mississippi River to be shipped to South America, Europe and Africa. Additionally, soybean farmers have produced high yields, which have seen a negative impact from the recent wet weather.The result of those three combined factors is that storage silos are full, and local farmers are having problems finding places for their crops to be stored before they can be shipped. In his letter, Dr. Abraham called on the USDA to use whatever means necessary to assist farmers in storing or moving their crops. "Louisiana Agriculture Commissioner Mike Strain and I have been in contact with the USDA at the highest levels, and we have impressed upon them the need for urgent action by the USDA to fix this problem. Sec. Perdue has been very receptive to our calls for assistance, and I know he is working hard to find a solution," Dr. Abraham said.To view Dr. Abraham's letter to the USDA, click here. ###
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced today that the University of Louisiana at Monroe will receive a grant of about $123,000 from the U.S. Department of Education to help student-parents reach their goal of earning a college degree. The ULM TRIO Programs received the grant through the Child Care Access Means Parents In School (CCAMPIS) Program, which helps low-income parents pursue a college degree by providing access to campus-based childcare programs. The full amount of the grant is $122,626. “Going to school while raising kids is tough; I know because I’ve done it. The student-parents eligible for this program face added financial challenges, too. This grant is so important because it will help students from across Northeast Louisiana achieve their dreams of earning a college degree that they’ll use to get better jobs and make more money to help raise their families,” Dr. Abraham said.Dr. Abraham and his wife, Dianne, raised three small children while he commuted daily from Rayville to Shreveport for medical school.Student-parents are more than three times as likely to finish their degrees if they have access to childcare on campus, according to TRIO Programs Executive Director Catherine Estis. She said the grant will help fill funding gaps for student-parents who struggle to provide childcare and balance the demands of higher education. “ULM TRIO is thrilled for the impact this grant program will have on our student-parents and the community at large,” Estis said. “The services provided through the award might make the difference between graduating and not graduating for some student-parents.”Dr. Abraham has announced nearly $750,000 in federal funding for ULM in the last two months. He has previously announced a $352,500 grant to study obesity and diabetes research and a $275,000 grant for to purchase research equipment for the atmospheric sciences program. ###
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressmen Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, and Brian Babin, R-Texas, have created a bipartisan I-14 Caucus with the goal of expanding Interstate 14 through Central Louisiana This caucus provides members with a better way to collaborate and communicate with each other and local stakeholders to advance HR 6111, the bill Dr. Abraham cosponsored to expand I-14. It would bring existing highways into the I-14 corridor to connect communities from Midland, Texas, to Laurel, Miss.The bill also improves military readiness by connecting bases like Fort Polk and Camp Beauregard with quicker access to the deployment port in Beaumont, Texas. “Expanding I-14 would give many communities throughout Central Louisiana with direct interstate access, which will lead to more economic growth. This project is a great opportunity to enhance the state of Louisiana, and I look forward to continuing to work with Rep. Babin and other members of Congress to see that it gets done,” Dr. Abraham said. Babin added, “Our interstate highway system truly connects our nation from coast to coast and represents American ingenuity at its best, but as populations shift and new economic and military centers emerge, the need to strengthen those connections requires action.” HR 6111 would bring portions of LA 8, LA 28 and US 84 into the I-14 corridor. Community leaders from the CenLa Chamber of Commerce, Fort Polk and the England Air Authority have celebrated Dr. Abraham’s co-sponsorship of the bill and his continuing efforts to advance the project. Joining Dr. Abraham and Babin as charter members of the I-14 Caucus are U.S. Reps. Drew Ferguson, R-Ga.; Roger Williams, R-Texas; Mike Conaway, R-Texas; Bill Flores, R-Texas; Mike Johnson, R-La.; Gene Green, D-Texas; and John Carter, R-Texas. The bill is currently pending before the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. ###
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, released the following statement after the House broke for a recess before the House and Senate agreed on renewing the Farm Bill.“Sadly, America’s farmers have been caught up in the political games of the swamp. Each time we think we have an agreement, Sen. Stabenow and Senate Democrats move the goal posts, asking for ridiculous things like crop insurance for roof top gardens and other urban farm priorities. They have put at risk vital agriculture programs that rural America depends on all to tow the party line and delay as much legislative business as possible in hopes they’ll retake Congress in the midterm elections. The people should not have to suffer because of Washington’s political games,” said Dr. Abraham, a member of the Farm Bill Conference Committee and the House Agriculture Committee.The 39 programs currently at risk due delays from Democrats can be found here. ###
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today voted in favor of HR 6760, the Protecting Family and Small Business Tax Cuts Act, also known as Tax Cuts 2.0. The bill makes permanent the tax cuts for middle-class families and small businesses that have resulted in the lowest unemployment in decades, bigger paychecks, more investments and retirement savings and historic optimism from consumers. “Tax reform has already yielded incredible results for our hard-working families and the American economy. This bill makes these tax cuts permanent so that the people can keep more of the money that they earned. I believe that people and families – not the government – are the best stewards of the money they earned, and they deserve to spend their money as they see fit,” Dr. Abraham said. The non-partisan Tax Foundation’s analysis of this bill found that it will benefit the economy and result in 1.5 million new jobs, higher wages, and an increased GDP. Some of the reforms that will benefit middle class families that Tax Reform 2.0 makes permanent include: Lower tax rates A doubled Child Tax Credit Establishing Paid Family Leave Tax Credit Elimination of the Alternative Minimum Tax for nearly 96 percent of those who paid it last year Doubled exemption from the Death Tax Tax Reform 2.0 also locks in the first-ever 20 percent deduction for pass-through business income, a provision that is driving Main Street optimism. It also makes permanent reforms that led to more retirement savings and investments. ###
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, issued the following statement about his vote against the spending bill that passed the U.S. House of Representatives today. “It’s like ‘Groundhog Day’ around here: The Senate drags its feet on appropriations bills, Democrats demand more domestic spending in exchange for votes, deficits grow, conservative priorities like defunding Planned Parenthood fall by the wayside, and the House goes along with all of it. Congress once again kicked the can down the road by passing another catch-all bill full of bloated spending instead of hearing individual agency bills separately. People are fed up with it, and so I am,” Dr. Abraham said. The House did not have an opportunity to consider separately spending for the Department of Health and Human Services. The Republican-controlled House missed the opportunity to: Gut funding for abortion-provider Planned Parenthood, which has received more than $1.3 billion in federal funds from 2013-2015. Stop the National Institutes of Health from funding research that uses fetal tissue from abortions. Reform numerous other funding streams being tapped by abortion organizations. Codify the Conscience Protection Act, which shields medical professionals from being forced to perform abortions. “Planned Parenthood is spending $20 million this year to elect pro-abortion candidates. Why on Earth would this Congress keep sending them money?” Dr. Abraham said. Another problem with the bill is that members could not vote on spending for the Department of Defense separately. Its funding was included in this bill along with the problematic HHS appropriations as well as appropriations for the Departments of Labor and Education. Dr. Abraham voted for the Department of Defense appropriations as a stand-alone bill this summer before the Senate combined it with the other bills. He has also previously voted for the Bipartisan Budget Act and the National Defense Authorization Act that included the resources necessary to rebuild our depleted military. ###
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today gave a speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to honor the life and service of Ruston resident Adolf "Wes" Wesselhoeft.Wesselhoeft was born in the United States to German immigrants. During World War II, he and his family were moved to a German internment camp, similar to those of Japanese and Italian Americans. Wesselhoeft's family was eventually traded to the Germans for American POWs, and they survived Allied bombings after being sent to Germany.Despite these challenges, Wesselhoeft returned to the United States at his earliest possible opportunity and promptly joined the Air Force. He served for 22 years and flew bombers during the Vietnam War where he was exposed to Agent Orange. He is now legally blind.Dr. Abraham met Wesselhoeft at an event at the Chennault Aviation Museum and wanted to share his incredible story with the rest of the country."Wes represents the best of America, a patriot who never gave up on his country. His service to his country, as well as the horrors he and his family suffered in Germany, will never be forgotten. America is better because of people like Wes, those willing to give up everything to serve the American cause," Dr. Abraham said during his speech.Wesselhoeft and his wife, Shirley, came to Washington to visit with Dr. Abraham before the speech and watched it live from the House gallery.About 11,000 German Americans lived in these internment camps. Wesselhoeft said he hopes the National Park Service will recognize German internment camps in the same way it has done for Japanese and Italian internment camps."I really appreciate what Dr. Abraham said. I hope Congress will do more to recognize German internment," Wesselhoeft said. "We aren't asking for reparations; we just want history to recognize what happened."Dr. Abraham's speech can be viewed here.His remarks as prepared for delivery are below:Mr. Speaker I rise today to recognize the incredible life of Lt. Col. Adolf “Wes” Wesselhoeft, who, as a child, was one of 11,000 German-Americans placed in internment camps during World War II. Wes was born to German immigrants in Chicago in 1936. When he was seven, his family packed what few things they could and were taken to Crystal City, Texas to a detainment camp built there for German, Japanese and Italian immigrants. Just a year later, in 1944, his family packed up once again and was sent to New York City to board the S.S. Gripsholm. The S.S. Gripsholm headed to Portugal where the Wesselhoeft family and 633 other German expatriates and repatriates were exchanged for American prisoners of war and then sent back to Germany. Once back in Germany, Wes and his family lived in the town of Hamburg with his grandparents. Unfortunately, Hamburg was the center of Allied bombings during World War II. Wes has vivid memories from the bombings, seeking shelter in bunkers with his family. Despite these experiences, Wes remained a true American patriot, and he was committed to coming home to the United States. After the war ended, Wes and his family moved to Konstanz where he finished school and worked manual labor jobs to save money for a return to America. He stayed in touch with the American Consulate in Stuttgart, riding his bike two days each way to meet with them until finally in 1958 the Consulate informed him he could return home. He bought the cheapest passage back to the United States. Upon arriving in New York, he went straight to a recruiting office to enlist in the Air Force. Wes served 22 years in the Air Force and flew EC1221Rs and B52s during the Vietnam War. During his service, he was exposed to Agent Orange. He is now legally blind. Wes, and his wife Shirley, now live in Ruston, Louisiana, where I proudly represent them in Congress. Wes represents the best of America, a patriot who never gave up on his country. His service to his country, as well as the horrors he and his family suffered in Germany, will never be forgotten. America is better because of people like Wes, those willing to give up everything to serve the American cause. Thank you, I yield back. ###
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today celebrated news that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has canceled a contract that allowed a company to use federal funds to buy and sell human fetal tissue. Advanced Bioscience Resources (ABR) was awarded a $15,900 contract by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in July to acquire “fresh human fetal tissue” to use as research specimens. ABR obtained the contract despite its admission to Congress in 2016 that the company bought fetal tissue from abortion clinics for just $60 per aborted fetus and then sold the child’s individual body parts separately for a large profit. Dr. Abraham, who is opposed to abortion and the selling of human fetal tissue, and 84 other members of Congress wrote to FDA Commissioner Dr. Scott Gottlieb earlier this month urging him to cancel the contract with ABR.HHS officials announced Tuesday evening that it was canceling the contract and plans to conduct a review of all research involving all fetal tissue to ensure that the research is consistent with federal laws that prohibit the buying and selling of human fetal tissue. “This company admitted to Congress that it was buying and selling human fetal tissue for profit. There’s simply no reason why taxpayer money should be used to facilitate such a disgusting and immoral enterprise. HHS was right to end this contract, and I look forward to seeing the results of its review so that we can know for certain that none of our federal dollars are going toward this kind of activity,” Dr. Abraham said.HHS’ full statement on its decision to cancel the contract is as follows:“After a recent review of a contract between Advanced Bioscience Resources, Inc. and the Food and Drug Administration to provide human fetal tissue to develop testing protocols, HHS was not sufficiently assured that the contract included the appropriate protections applicable to fetal tissue research or met all other procurement requirements. As a result, that contract has been terminated, and HHS is now conducting an audit of all acquisitions involving human fetal tissue to ensure conformity with procurement and human fetal tissue research laws and regulations. In addition, HHS has initiated a comprehensive review of all research involving fetal tissue to ensure consistency with statutes and regulations governing such research, and to ensure the adequacy of procedures and oversight of this research in light of the serious regulatory, moral, and ethical considerations involved. Finally, HHS is continuing to review whether adequate alternatives exist to the use of human fetal tissue in HHS funded research and will ensure that efforts to develop such alternatives are funded and accelerated.” To read Dr. Abraham’s letter to the FDA, click here. ###
09.24.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today announced that the University of Louisiana at Monroe has won a $352,500 grant to study diabetes and obesity. The grant is funded by the Department of Health and Hospitals and is awarded by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive Kidney Diseases. Louisiana had the sixth highest rate of obesity and the fourth highest rate of diabetes in the United States in 2017. Researchers at ULM hope to use this funding to improve therapies for treating obesity and diabetes, which will lead to a healthier Louisiana. “As a physician who has practiced medicine in the delta for more than 20 years, I can tell you from first-hand experience that diabetes and obesity continue to be major problems in our region and Louisiana as a whole. I’m excited that ULM will be leading the way to discover how we can better treat these patients, reduce the number of people living with these conditions, and make Louisiana a healthier state,” said Dr. Abraham, a member of both the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology and the House Doctor’s Caucus. Researchers at ULM hope to answer what molecular pathways and genes are involved in causing the onset of insulin resistance in body tissues. They will study the pathways to disease in obese and diabetic patients to discover how to research and development better treatments. “Research is one of the most potent teaching classrooms we can give students who truly want to understand how their field of study operates. By awarding us this funding, this will allow us to push as the boundaries of what is known in the field, and hopefully yield novel information,” said ULM biologist Matthew Talbert. “This funding will improve our ability to inspire and grow future scientists and physician scientists. As someone who joined the faculty at ULM primarily because I saw an unrivaled opportunity to be a mentor, I am honored and very thankful for this federal funding.” This is the second major scientific research grant Dr. Abraham has announced for ULM in the last two months. ULM previously has received $275,000 for its Atmospheric Sciences research program. ###
09.17.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today announced that law enforcement agencies in West Carroll and Washington Parishes will receive $128,000 to purchase new police cars. Both grants come from the US Department of Agriculture’s Community Facilities Grant Program. “Our law enforcement officers do so much to keep our communities safe, so it is important that they have the resources they need to keep up their good work. I appreciate Sec. Sonny Perdue and the USDA for awarding these funds to West Carroll and Washington Parishes,” Dr. Abraham said. The West Carroll Parish Law Enforcement District will receive about $53,000 to purchase two new police cars and equipment. The grant will cover most of the $71,000 project. The law enforcement district will cover the rest, about $17,700. The Town of Franklinton will receive $75,000 to purchase two new police cars and equipment. It will cover the entire cost of the project. ###
09.12.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today announced that the airports in Ruston and West Carroll Parish will benefit from more than $300,000 in federal funding from the Federal Aviation Administration. “Healthy airports play a huge role in the economic development of our cities and towns in rural Louisiana. Ruston is growing at a remarkable rate, and extending the runway will help the airport keep up with that progress. Additionally, Oak Grove will benefit by having a more efficient airport. These investments will help both communities,” Dr. Abraham said.The Ruston Regional Airport will receive about $250,000 for the first phase of a runway extension project. The airport’s goal is to extend the runway to 6,000 feet to help it better meet the operational needs of the planes who use the airport."We are very excited about this grant, which will allow us to start the design phase for a much-needed runway extension that will enhance our city and Louisiana Tech University. I want to personally thank Ralph Abraham, his staff and the entire congressional delegation for their work in securing this grant. We look forward to continuing to grow our great city and university," said Ruston Mayor Ronny Walker. The Kelly-Dumas Airport near Oak Grove in West Carroll Parish will receive $49,500 for the first phase of a project to build a taxiway. The taxiway will be 550 feet and will eliminate the need for planes to back-taxi on the runway. “Rural airports are a tremendous economic asset to our communities. Enough cannot be said about the leadership of the Kelly-Dumas Airport for constantly searching and fighting for every federal dollar they can find to make our airport one of the best rural airports in the Northeast Louisiana Delta,” said Oak Grove Mayor Adam Holland. “We thank Congressman Abraham and all of the Louisiana Congressional Delegation for their support in helping the airport reach its goals.” ###
09.05.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, doubled down on his support for reforming the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) during a hearing of Farm Bill Conference Committee members today on Capitol Hill.Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, is one of the final negotiators on the 2018 Farm Bill, which sets agriculture policy for the next five years. Conference committees resolve difference between the House and Senate versions of a bill. The House bill, which Dr. Abraham supported, includes SNAP reforms while the Senate's does not. The issue is one of the main topics of discussion during the conference committee's negotiations.In the House version of the bill, able-bodied adults would be required to work, enroll in school or a job training program, or volunteer for 20 hours a week to keep SNAP benefits. Children, the elderly, caretakers of young children, and those with mental and physical disabilities would be exempt from the new requirements."With labor demands at near record highs, our work-eligible population currently on the sidelines needs some encouragement to get into the game," Dr. Abraham said during his remarks. "We’re asking that adults, who have no mental or physical disability or small children to care for, meet the taxpayer halfway by working, going to school or volunteering for 20 hours a week. It’s a reasonable request that gets people to work and will lessen their dependence on welfare."Work/educational requirements for SNAP recipients enjoys overwhelming bipartisan support from Americans with 87 percent in favor of such requirements.Dr. Abraham also outlined his support for other agriculture policy included in the Farm Bill including expanding broadband Internet in rural America, additional support for small dairy producers, crop insurance protections, and preserving the family farm.Dr. Abraham's full remarks as prepared for delivery can be found below:Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the opportunity to serve on this important Farm Bill Conference Committee. Farming has always been a part of my life, and I am honored to serve as a voice for Louisiana agriculture on this committee. The Farm Bill is the most important bill that we will write to provide our farmers, foresters and ranchers with the stability and support they need to plan for long-term success. Food security is national security. That’s why I call our famers America’s thin green line, and it’s why we must get this bill right. With labor demands at near record highs, our work-eligible population currently on the sidelines needs some encouragement to get into the game. We’re asking that adults, who have no mental or physical disability or small children to care for, meet the taxpayer halfway by working, going to school or volunteering for 20 hours a week. It’s a reasonable request that gets people to work and will lessen their dependence on welfare. We successfully moved cotton away from Stax and into ARC and PLC, which has gone far to stop the decline of this commodity. Similarly, we’ve strengthened the Margin Protection Program to give our smaller dairies a more level playing field so they can have greater stability and a better opportunity to sell their milk. It is a priority of mine that these successes become permanent ag policy. Crop insurance must remain available and affordable for all our farmers as it provides a reliable safety net in times of disaster. A sudden death in a family can unravel a family-owned farm that’s been running for generations. We can fix this with this bill and preserve the family farm, a vital part of the fabric of rural America, and I support including nieces, nephews and first cousins in the definition of “actively engaged.” I support using RMA data as the best source of yield data. Finally, we must invest in new research and technology, like expanding broadband internet in unserved areas, opening new markets for wood and timber products, and expanding pilot programs for furrow irrigated rice, so that American agriculture always remains on the cutting edge of developments in the industry. I look forward to continuing our work on this conference committee and drafting the best bill possible for the American farmer. Thank you. I yield back. ###
08.27.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, issued the following statement in response to news of progress toward a new trade agreement between the United States and Mexico. “Louisiana exported $7.4 billion in agricultural and oil and gas products last year alone to Mexico, which is our state’s second-largest export market. It’s a relationship that is critically important to our state’s economy. I’m encouraged by news that we might have an even better trade deal in the works, and I’m looking forward to learning more details,”said Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Agriculture Committee. ###
08.27.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced today that the Winnsboro airport will receive more than $194,000 from the Department of Transportation (DOT) for airport enhancements. “Local airports are important to the economy of rural towns like Winnsboro. This money will improve the airport and help ensure that it remains open for business. I am proud that these federal dollars are being invested in Louisiana’s 5th District, and I appreciate the Department of Transportation for sending them our way,” Dr. Abraham said. The project will include three phases, the first of which will be removing trees to meet Federal Aviation Administration design standards. The next phase will rehabilitate 1,200 feet of the airport’s existing access road to preserve access to the airport. The final phase consists of additional construction at the airport. ###
08.21.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced today that the University of Louisiana at Monroe is receiving a nearly $275,000 federal grant to buy new weather satellite equipment. The National Science Foundation (NSF) awarded the Major Research Instrumentation award to ULM so that the university can by a compact, portable Doppler Wind Lidar system. This equipment uses lasers to study atmospheric characteristics such as wind, turbulence and aerosols. It will allow ULM to better research storms and air quality to improve public safety and human health. “Severe weather can develop seemingly without warning. ULM is studying ways we can detect these storms faster and more accurately, and I am pleased that these federal funds will be used to help ULM with its mission of making Louisiana a safer place,” said Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. Dr. Abraham has been a strong supporter of ULM’s atmospheric science program. In 2016, he worked with the university and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to help the university get an operational license for its Doppler weather radar. ULM investigators on the grant include principal investigator Todd Murphy, Kenneth Leppert, Joydeep Bhattacharjee, and Michael Chenoweth. “We are essentially building out a mobile atmospheric profiling laboratory. The NSF grant will allow us to take our instrumentation to where the active weather is actually happening, instead of just remaining static and hoping the weather moves over you,” Murphy said. “There are only a handful of such mobile profiling labs across the United States, however, there is a great need in our field to build more of these labs to support new and improved knowledge of atmospheric processes.” With the new grant, the ULM research team will acquire a Halo Photonics Stream Line XR, which is a pulsed Doppler Wind Lidar with an eye-safe laser, high pulse rate, low use energy, and coherent heterodyne detection, according to the grant abstract provided by the NSF. The research team will use the Lidar along with existing instruments such as a microwave radiometer, rawinsonde system, and surface instrumentation so that it can be used both in mobile field study settings or at a fixed location on campus. The research team will study convective initiation and onset of severe weather, lake and sea breeze circulations and coastal processes, precipitation and cloud physics, and aerosol science and air pollution. ### Media Contact: Cole Avery Communications Director cole.avery@mail.house.gov O: 202.225.8490 C: 318.243.9704
08.20.2018	WASHINGTON - Iraq has agreed to purchase 15,000 metric tons of rice from the United States in a new deal that will benefit American rice producers.Iraq recently concluded a 30,000 metric ton rice tender. The United States will provide half of that rice while Uruguay will provide the other half. Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto and Louisiana's only representative on the House Agriculture Committee, advocated for American rice on the very first day the tender was opened. He authored a letter to Douglas Silliman, the US ambassador to Iraq, and urged him to work with Iraqi officials to see that America had an opportunity to sell its rice to that country."This is a tremendous win for American rice producers. Anytime we can sell our commodities in large transactions like these, it elevates the entire industry. Louisiana is one of the top rice-producing states in the nation, and our growers will almost certainly benefit from this deal," Dr. Abraham said.Louisiana is one of the top three rice-producing states in the country, along with California and Arkansas. Louisiana rice producers grew 2.7 billion pounds of rice across 390,000 acres for a total production value of $372.7 million in 2017, according to the LSU AgCenter. Acadiana and Northeast Louisiana account for most of the rice production in the state."Congressman Abraham and his staff have worked diligently with the Iraqi Embassy for the past several weeks on a potential sale of US rice to Iraq, and I know without the wonderful working relationship that Dr. Abraham has with various foreign trade leaders, this business was extremely unlikely to reach US rice," said Scott Franklin of the Northeast Louisiana Rice Growers Association. "Iraq is a tremendous market for rice, particularly for premium quality rice. The fact that we won this business at the first Iraqi tender offer of the 2018 crop season is very promising way to kick off the South Louisiana milling season with some much-needed business." The recent deal is the latest in a string of successes for American rice producers. Last November, Iraq purchased 90,000 metric tons of rice from the United States, a huge deal that Dr. Abraham also lobbied hard to strike. This is the third rice sale to Iraq in the last calendar year. ### Media Contact: Cole Avery Communications Director cole.avery@mail.house.gov O: 202.225.8490 C: 318.243.9704
08.09.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today announced nearly $400,000 in grant funding from the US Department of Agriculture for education and workforce development projects across Northeast and Central Louisiana. The USDA rural development grants will fund three projects that will benefit residents in 14 different parishes, 11 of which are in Louisiana’s 5thCongressional District. “Thanks to tax reform and our efforts in Congress to remove barriers to job creation, our economy is booming and hiring is on the rise. These grants will help further stimulate workforce growth, job training and small business development in rural Louisiana, and I appreciate Sec. Sonny Perdue and the USDA for awarding these funds,” Dr. Abraham said. The Madison Parish Port will receive a $200,000 grant to help finance a rail spur adjacent to an existing rail line that services the port. The completion of this project will increase rail transportation at the industrial park. The project is expected to add 26 new jobs as the new infrastructure investment will attract new businesses and allow existing businesses to expand. “Congressman Abraham has been very helpful to the port. He’s been accessible and effective at working with all the ports in his district,” said Terry Murphy, the port’s executive director. “This will allow one our largest employers, Complex Chemical, to expand by getting more raw materials in and shipping finished products out. It will create additional employment.” The NOVA Workforce Institute of NELA will receive a $93,322 grant to help finance training and technical assistance for business development services in Northeast Louisiana and to help meet labor demands for new and emerging small businesses. The grant is expected to assist 11 small businesses and create 60 new jobs across East Carroll, West Carroll, Madison, Morehouse and Richland Parishes."We look forward to assisting the business and industry workforce needs of the Northeast Louisiana Delta Region. NOVA's Career Readiness (Essential Skills) will be a key component as we equip individuals with the skills necessary to meet these workforce needs, thereby providing opportunities for financial self-sufficiency," said NOVA Executive Director Paul West. "We appreciate Congressman Abraham's support of NOVA and these efforts, and we would like to thank Dr. Carrie Castille and the USDA Rural Development for this great opportunity to partner." The Central Louisiana Economic Development Alliance (CLEDA) in Alexandria will receive a $90,000 grant to help finance training and technical assistance for business development services in Central Louisiana. The grant is expected to help four small businesses by providing education, training and mentoring for entrepreneurs and small businesses. Residents in Avoyelles, Catahoula, Concordia, Grant, LaSalle, Rapides, Winn, Allen, Natchitoches, and Vernon Parishes will benefit from this grant."This rural business development grant gives Central Louisiana makers an opportunity to connect with one another and build a vibrant foundation for a prosperous region," said Jim Cotton, president and CEO of the CLEDA. ###
07.31.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D, R-Alto, is an original cosponsor on a bill to sanction Turkey unless its government releases Pastor Andrew Brunson and other American citizens. HR 6633, the Turkey International Financial Institutions Act, was introduced last week by Congressman Mark Walker, R-NC. The bill directs U.S. representatives at international financial institutions such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank, International Finance Corporation and European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), to oppose loans to Turkey, pending the release of U.S. citizens and consular staff. The bill is in response to Turkey’s wrongful imprisonment of North Carolina pastor Andrew Brunson, who has served in Turkey for 23 years as a missionary. He has been held captive by the Turkish government for nearly two years where he has reportedly been subjected to deplorable conditions and denied legal counsel.Turkey is also suspected of human rights abuses and politically motivated arrests and detention of thousands, including members of parliament and employees of the U.S. Mission to Turkey. “Too many Christian missionaries face persecution world-wide for practicing their faith, and the U.S. must defend them when we can. It’s time for President Erdogan to release Pastor Brunson and any Americans he’s holding and allow them to come home, or his nation should face the consequences. Turkey was the largest borrower of the EBRD, and these sanctions will hit them where they hurt. These economic sanctions can be easily avoided if Turkey simply does the right thing and let these people come home,” Dr. Abraham said. Brunson, the pastor of Izmir Diriliş (Resurrection) Church in Izmir, Turkey, was detained on Oct. 7, 2016 on charges of "support of a terrorist organization" and "political or military espionage." Brunson was transferred on July 25 from jail to house arrest while awaiting the next hearing on his case in October. The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom reports that Brunson is being held on secret evidence, kept in deplorable, over-crowded prison conditions, and denied legal representation. Dr. Abraham has long been an advocate for Brunson. Shortly after his arrest in 2016, Dr. Abraham authored a letter to then-Sec. of State John Kerry asking for the State Department to ensure Brunson was treated fairly and humanely. President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence have both signaled support for sanctions against Turkey if its government continues to hold Brunson.“The United States will impose large sanctions on Turkey for their long time detainment of Pastor Andrew Brunson, a great Christian, family man and wonderful human being. He is suffering greatly. This innocent man of faith should be released immediately!” President Trump tweeted on July 26. HR 6633 is the House companion to legislation by Sens. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., and Bob Menendez, D-NJ, that passed the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on July 26. In addition to Walker and Dr. Abraham, other origninal cosponsors include: Robert Aderholdt (R-Ala.), Jodey Arrington (R-Texas), Dave Brat (R-Va.), Ted Budd (R-N.C.), Warren Davidson (R-Ohio), Chuck Fleischmann (R-Tenn.), Bob Gibbs (R-Ohio), Vicky Hartzler (R-Mo.), Jody Hice (R-Ga.), Richard Hudson (R-N.C.), Randy Hultgren (R-Ill.), Mike Johnson (R-La.), Steve King (R-Iowa), Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), Ralph Norman (R-S.C.), Robert Pittenger (R-N.C.), John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), Randy Weber (R-Texas), and Ted Yoho (R-Fla.). The full text of the legislation can be read here. ###
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, voted today for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) conference committee report, the final step before the defense spending bill can go to the President. It passed the House with overwhelming bipartisan support on a 359-54 vote.The bill includes many wins for Louisiana military bases and families, including a pay raise for troops and funding for upgrades at Barksdale Air Force Base and the Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base in Belle Chasse.It includes a 2.6 percent pay raise for troops, their largest in nine years and the second in the last two years. It also includes language that Dr. Abraham wrote directing the National Guard to provide a report on their behavioral health programs in an effort to reduce suicide rates."Louisiana's military bases play critical roles in the national defense strategy of the United States. I'm proud we could secure tens of millions of dollars to enhance these bases and support them and our troops as they work to keep our country safe," said Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Armed Services Committee.Dr. Abraham wrote language into the bill that provides $12.25 million for a new entrance and gate complex at Barksdale Air Force Base, a necessary infrastructure upgrade that must happen before the base can move forward with a planned $500 million weapons storage facility. The new facility, which is scheduled to begin construction in FY21, will allow Barksdale to house nuclear weapons that are currently stored at a base in North Dakota. Moving them to the Global Strike Command headquarters in Louisiana will improve response times in crisis situations.The NDAA also includes $295 million to update the B-52 bombers housed at Barksdale with new engines, radars, communication technology, weapons bays and GPS interfaces. This will extend the useful life of the long-range heavy bombers into the 2050s.The NDAA includes $39 million for the construction of new alert facilities at the Naval station in Belle Chasse. The base houses the Air National Guard's 159th Fighter Wing, which serves as a defense and responds to threats in the Gulf Coast region.Dr. Abraham led the Louisiana Congressional delegation in a letter calling for the Barksdale gate and Belle Chasse construction funding to be included in the final version of the NDAA. It can be viewed here.The Senate is expected to vote on the conference committee report within the next two weeks. President Trump is expected to sign the bill. ###
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, has been named a member of the conference committee that will craft the final version of the Farm Bill. Under our system of government, differences between two versions of the same bill – one passed by the House and the other passed by the Senate – must be ironed out during a conference committee. The Farm Bill the conference committee is considering will set agriculture policy for the next five years. “This is an honor and a responsibility that I do not take lightly. Agriculture is vitally important to the economy of the nation and Louisiana. We must get this bill right for all people who call rural America home. I’m confident that we will emerge from this process with a great Farm Bill that provides strong support for our farmers, ranchers and foresters,” said Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Agriculture Committee who actively farms in Richland Parish. Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway, R-Texas, said, “Today, we move one step closer to delivering a strong, new farm bill to the president’s desk on time as he has called on Congress to do. America's farmers and ranchers and rural America are struggling right now and they deserve the certainty of a strong farm bill to see them through to better times. The House has pulled together a solid team of conferees – including Rep. Abraham. I’m looking forward to working with Ralph, who has been a strong voice for agriculture through this process, and the rest of our House and Senate colleagues to reach a final product that helps millions of low-income Americans climb the economic ladder, while standing by our nation’s hard-working farm and ranch families.” A full list of Republican House members who will serve on the committee can be found here. The Farm Bill sets agriculture policy for the next five years. The House passed its version of the Farm Bill on June 21. The Senate passed its version on June 28. Current Farm Bill policy expires at the end of September. ###
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced today the Economic Development Agency will award a $400,000 grant aimed at creating jobs, developing entrepreneurs and growing small businesses in Central Louisiana.The grant was awarded to the Central Louisiana Economic Development Alliance (CLEDA) to develop the Center for Innovation and Prosperity. It is expected to create 250 jobs and cultivate $500,000 in private investment. The center will offer day-to-day job and entrepreneur skills development, advance growth of small business and innovation in globally competitive environments, and benefit from public and private partnerships. It will be located in downtown Alexandria."Centers like these are great places to help small businesses get started and grow so they can hire more people. I appreciate the EDA's investment in Central Louisiana, and I can't wait to see all the good things that this center will produce," Dr. Abraham said. ###
07.17.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced today that a water system in Madison Parish will receive about $4.2 million in funds from the US Department of Agriculture to help it complete needed upgrades. The Walnut Bayou Water Association will receive a $3.488 million loan (40 years at 3.125 percent) and a $702,600 grant from the USDA’s Water and Waste Disposal Loans and Grants program. The funds will be used to build a booster station, install two 225,500-gallon storage tanks, and upgrade water distribution lines to provide water to residents in Madison Parish. Some money will also be used to construct an office building to meet accessibility standards. This money will supplement other funds the system previously received for this project. “Water systems across rural America, and certainly in rural Louisiana, are in desperate need of upgrades. I appreciate the USDA for awarding these badly needed funds to Madison Parish so that the folks who use the system will know they have the high-quality water system that they deserve,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, has introduced a bill aimed at stopping the spread of Chronic Wasting Disease (CWD), which has devastating effects on deer herds. CWD is spreading in wild, free-ranging deer, caribou, elk and moose herds (Cervids) and in captive cervid herds across the United States. It has been found in 25 states, including in Mississippi, Arkansas and Texas. It has not been found in Louisiana, according to the state Department of Wildlife and Fisheries. CWD is 100 percent fatal. There is no cure and no reliable live animal test to detect the disease and stop it before it spreads to other animals. The only known measure for reducing the spread of CWD is the complete depopulation of herds that test positive for the disease. It is unknown whether the disease can spread to non-cervid wildlife, livestock or humans. Dr. Abraham, a former veterinarian, has introduced a bill that requires the Secretary of Agriculture to partner with the National Research Council of the National Academies of Science to study and identify the ways CWD is transmitted between wild, captive and farmed cervids. This will provide a credible and scientifically-based foundation of understanding of the disease that can help end its spread. “CWD could have devastating effects on Louisiana deer populations and, possibly, other mammals. The best hope we have for controlling CWD begins with understanding how it spreads. We don’t have that right now. Since so little information exists on this topic, my bill would instruct some of the brightest scientists in the country to study and learn more about CWD so that we can stop it,” Dr. Abraham said. The bill, HR 6272, has four original cosponsors: U.S. Reps. Glen Thompson, R-Pa.; Ryan Costello, R-Pa.; Tom Marino, R-Pa.; and Paul Gosar, R-Ariz. It has been referred to the House Agriculture Committee, of which Dr. Abraham is a member. ###
07.09.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced that the Lake Providence Port will receive $800,000 for dredging, which will keep it open for commerce and provide flood control benefits.“The port at Lake Providence is a very important stop for waterway commerce. Tons of agriculture products are processed there, shipped down river and out to a global market place. Those things can’t happen if ships can’t move through a blocked port, and that’s why these dredging funds are so critical,” Dr. Abraham said.The dredging funds are part of $1.4 billion in new long-term funding for Louisiana waterway projects with the highlight being $343 million for the Comite River Diversion Project, which will provide flood protection for areas near Baton Rouge that flooded in August 2016. The J. Bennett Johnston Waterway along the Red River will also benefit from this allocation. The funds were appropriated by the passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018. Dr. Abraham voted in favor of this bill. These funds are administered by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. ###
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D, R-Alto, today voted in favor of a House resolution demanding that the Department of Justice (DOJ) comply with requests from Congress to turn over documents relating to possible abuses of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) by DOJ personnel. The Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence has investigated potential FISA abuses by the DOJ since March 2017. On Oct. 24, the House Committees on the Judiciary and Oversight and Government Reform began a joint investigation into decisions made by DOJ in 2016 and 2017 during its investigation of the emails of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. During these investigations, DOJ has delayed and failed to fully comply with requests for information and congressional subpoenas. The resolution, H. Res. 970, demands that DOJ fully comply with the requests, including subpoenas, no later than July 6. “It’s past time that the Department of Justice respects the laws of this land and Congress’ Constitutional oversight authority. This has been going on for far too long, and the American people deserve answers. It’s time for the DOJ to pony up these documents and comply with these subpoenas,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today voted against an immigration bill that ultimately failed by a 121-300 vote.Abraham issued the following statement in regards to his vote:"My constituents have made it very clear to me that they do not want amnesty for illegal immigrants, and my vote today against the immigration bill reflected my commitment to them that I will never support amnesty. While the bill included some good things, it went too far in granting amnesty for about 2 million people who came into this country illegally," Dr. Abraham said.Last week, Dr. Abraham voted in favor of the Goodlatte-McCaul immigration reform bill, but it did not garner enough votes for passage. Dr. Abraham is a cosponsor of that bill."I believe the House should focus on winning over enough votes to pass the original Goodlatte-McCaul bill that accomplished everything that we as conservatives want: building a border wall, cracking down on sanctuary cities, ending the visa lottery system, and stopping chain migration," Dr. Abraham said. ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, is calling on Congress to censure Maxine Waters, D-Calif., for urging her supporters to confront and harass members of the Trump administration.Dr. Abraham is an original cosponsor of H. Res. 966, which would formally censure Waters for her comments. The resolution was introduced Tuesday evening by Congressman Ralph Norman, R-SC.“Maxine Waters comments calling for the harassment of Trump officials is not only uncivilized, it is dangerous. We have seen numerous instances around the country of unhinged liberals lashing out at conservatives because they cannot get over the fact that Donald Trump is the president,” Dr. Abraham said. “Evidently, Waters is the new radical face of the left. The left will take her words as a call to use intimidation and violence against any who oppose their extreme agenda, knowing that their party leaders have their backs. We cannot allow that behavior to continue, and the House should formally condemn her actions.” H. Res. 966 has five other original cosponsors including Congressmen Bob Gibbs, R-Ohio; Andy Biggs, R-Ariz.; Jeff Duncan, R-SC; Glenn Thompson, R-Pa.; and Todd Rokita, R-Ind. The full text of the resolution can be found here. ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, released the following statement regarding the House’s passage of the 2018 Farm Bill. Dr. Abraham is Louisiana’s only member of the Congressional delegation to serve on an agriculture committee. He voted in favor of the bill because it strengthens the farm safety net system, supports Louisiana dairy farmers, and protects crop insurance that helps farmers recover from natural disasters. “This is a great day for America’s farmers. No bill means more for agriculture policy than the Farm Bill, and its passage will allow our farmers to plan for the long-term success of their businesses and rural America. This bill works better for the farmer and better for the American people, and I’m glad it has passed this important hurdle,” Dr. Abraham said. The bill must still be considered by the Senate. Included in the bill are work and educational requirements for able-bodied adults to remain eligible for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). An able-bodied adult aged 18-59 would be required to either work or participate in a job training program for 20 hours per week to maintain eligibility. Job training is guaranteed in the bill. No child, caretaker of a young child, elderly person, or mentally or physically disabled person will experience any changes in the SNAP program and will maintain eligibility. Any savings realized by removing adults who choose not to meet the work requirement will be reinvested in the SNAP program to ensure that vulnerable populations have the resources available to meet their nutritional needs. “Work and educational requirements will help able-bodied adults who might have fallen on hard times to re-enter the workforce. These smart, common-sense changes to the SNAP program will result in more people working and fewer adults on food stamps. It’s a policy that’s supported by more than 80 percent of the American people, and I’m glad we kept it in this bill,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, has cosponsored legislation to expand Interstate 14 from Texas through Central Louisiana and into Mississippi.HR 6111, the I-14 Expansion and Improvement Act of 2018, was introduced by U.S. Reps. Brian Babin, R-Texas, Dr. Abraham and other members of the Louisiana, Texas and Mississippi delegations last week. The bill would bring existing roads into the Congressionally designated I-14 corridor and connect communities from Midland, Texas to Laurel, Mississippi. The expansion would provide bases like Fort Polk and Camp Beauregard with quicker and easier access to the deployment port in Beaumont, Texas, and interstate travel in general, which is consistent with President Trump’s call improve readiness and efficiency within the military. An expanded I-14 would grant communities across Central Louisiana direct access to an interstate, which will lead to more economic development and jobs. “Expanding I-14 will create numerous opportunities for Central Louisiana to grow. Interstate access means commerce, development and jobs. It means Fort Polk can deploy troops faster and more efficiently. I’m proud to be an original cosponsor of this bill, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to make it a reality,” Dr. Abraham said. The bill would bring portions of LA 8, LA 28 and US 84 into the I-14 corridor. Other state and federal highways near Goodfellow Air Force Base near San Angelo, Texas, and north of the Beaumont would also be added into the I-14 corridor. Community leaders in Central Louisiana celebrated Dr. Abraham’s bill.“The central Louisiana business community deeply appreciates Congressman Ralph Abraham for his vision and leadership on Interstate 14, the Gulf Coast Strategic Highway,” said Deborah Randolph, president of the Central Louisiana Regional Chamber of Commerce. “The future I-14 will enhance national security, foster economic development and provide greater hurricane evacuation capacity. Our region, particularly, Fort Polk, England Airpark, AEX, and the Central LA Regional Port will be well positioned for the future as a result of I-14.”Fort Polk Progress President Mike Reese said, “We appreciate the support of Congressman Abraham and Congressman [Mike] Johnson in co-sponsoring the bill presented today to identify the route of the future I-14 corridor. As we work to support Fort Polk, this designation will further support the long-term viability of this premier installation as it relates to deployment capability. Once complete, this corridor will connect forts to ports across the southern United States.” "The England Authority is greatly appreciative and thankful of Congressman Abraham and Congressman Johnson for co-sponsoring a bill that would expand the future I-14 corridor through Central Louisiana. Interstate 14 will pave the way for a future economic development corridor and assist in enhancing the growth and capacity of Fort Polk and England Airpark," said Scott Gammel, interim director of the England Airpark. Others cosponsoring the bill include U.S. Reps. Mike Conaway, R-Texas; John Carter, R-Texas; Kevin Brady, R-Texas; Mike Johnson, R-La.; and Greg Harper, R-Miss. To read the bill, click here. To view a map of the proposed I-14 corridor, click here. ###
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture has awarded nearly $100,000 in combined rural development grants to help Bastrop and Oak Grove purchase new police cars."Safer communities become more prosperous communities, and these grants will help the Bastrop and Oak Grove police departments accomplish their missions of serving their communities. I appreciate Sec. Perdue and the USDA for awarding these funds, and I look forward to continuing to work with them and our local stakeholders to identify other ways we can invest in rural Louisiana," Dr. Abraham said.The Town of Oak Grove will receive a $50,000 grant to two police vehicles and equipment to replace older cars that have reached the end of their useful lives. The total cost of the purchase is $70,000, and the town will cover the $20,000 not included in the grant."Police protection is vital to any successful community. Having high-quality, reliable patrol cars are essential for the police department to function professionally and respond in a timely fashion to our citizens needs," said Oak Grove Mayor Adam Holland. "We thank Congressman Abraham, the Louisiana delegation and the staff at the USDA for helping make this improvement to our force a reality."The City of Bastrop will receive a $42,600 grant to help buy three new police vehicles. The total cost of the purchase is $81,430. The remaining $38,830 not covered by the USDA grant will be covered in combined funding supplied by the city and the Louisiana Government Assistance Program (LGAP). "These three new vehicles will provide a powerful visual reminder of the police presence on our roads and in our communities. It's hoped when people see these cars it will start conversations and raise confidence that we, the City of Bastrop, are committed to public safety above all other city government functions. We could not update our aging fleet without the funding assistance of the USDA Rural Development and the Local Government Assistance Program (LGAP), and the support of our 5thDistrict United States Congressman, Dr. Abraham," said Bastrop Mayor Henry Cotton. He added, "Summer months are toughest on our aging and extremely high-mileage vehicles. Twelve-hour shifts with the engine and air conditioner running, it’s tough on the cars and it’s even tougher on our police officers. These new vehicles will offer a higher level of comfort as well as serve as a morale booster within the department and within the community at large." ###
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., this week voted for two bills that contain increased funding and other wins for waterway systems throughout Louisiana’s 5th Congressional District. HR 8, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), passed Wednesday. HR 5895, the Energy and Water Development, Legislative Branch and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, passed Friday. HR 5895 is commonly referred to as the “minibus.” “Waterways are critical to Louisiana’s economy, including my district where we have more than 1,000 miles of navigable waterways. Providing the resources to keep these waterways open for business so that commerce continues to flow is always among my top priorities, and I’m proud to report that our district will benefit from these bills the House passed this week,” Dr. Abraham said. HR 5895 provided increased construction, operation and maintenance funding for the U.S. Corps of Engineers, which is tasked with maintaining navigable inland waterways. Dr. Abraham worked with the Trump Administration and House appropriators to include $1.315 million for dredging at the Lake Providence Port for FY19.“The Lake Providence Port is one of the largest inland waterway ports in terms of annual tonnage. We need to keep the river dredged and the port open for navigation so that grain and other commodities can reach the global market. Also, the increased funding for the Corps will help ensure funds are available for navigation projects along the Ouachita-Black Rivers, the J. Bennett Johnston Waterway and the Madison Parish Port,”Dr. Abraham said. Combined funding for the minibus totaled $145.4 billion in discretionary spending, including $921 million in Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funding. WRDA authorizes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to study and construct new waterways projects that will help improve water navigation and commerce, flood control, and costal and environmental restoration. It passed with overwhelming bipartisan support on a 408-2 vote. Dr. Abraham worked to include language in WRDA to benefit waterways in Louisiana’s 5th Congressional District. The biggest wins include: A study on deepening the J. Bennett Johnston Waterway (Red River) navigation channel from 9 ft. to 12 ft. A deeper navigation channel will allow more tonnage to be loaded onto barges, increasing efficiency and reducing costs of shipping. A study on adding the lower portion of the Little River to the Ouachita and Black Rivers Navigation Project. The Little River is a tributary of the Ouachita and Black River systems and feeds into the it at a terminal near Jonesville, a critical fuel distribution center for 15 parishes and counties in Louisiana and Mississippi. Including the Little River in the Ouachita/Black will allow the Army Corps of Engineers to dredge the lower 14,000 ft and ensure that fuel distribution to local businesses and farms is not disrupted. NOTE: Studies are the first steps required by the federal government to move forward with dredging and deepening channels. ###
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, joined Congresswoman Vicky Hartzler, R-Mo., U.S. Sen. Joni Ernst, R-Iowa, and other members of Congress in calling for an investigation into Planned Parenthood’s failure to report the suspected sexual abuse of minors in their care. A recent study by Live Action compiled court cases, state health department reports and testimonials from former Planned Parenthood employees that highlight multiple instances where Planned Parenthood failed to report suspected sexual abuse of minors in their care.Planned Parenthood is the largest recipient of Title X family planning funds – about $60 million annually. However, federal law requires Title X recipients to report suspected child sexual abuse, rape and incest. Dr. Abraham, Hartzler, Ernst and 53 other members of Congress sent a letter to U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Sec. Alex Azar on Thursday requesting that HHS investigate the reporting failures to determine whether Planned Parenthood is compliant with the law. “Despite the evidence that reporting problems seem to be a pervasive part of the organization’s culture, Planned Parenthood facilities continue to receive Title X funding,” the members wrote. “The report’s findings suggest that abusers feel comfortable taking their victims to Planned Parenthood. We are therefore requesting an investigation into Title X recipients, particularly Planned Parenthood, to determine how widespread this failure is and if there are other instances where Planned Parenthood failed in its duty to report suspected child abuse to local authorities and HHS.” The study's key findings of Planned Parenthood reporting failures include: In Washington in 2014, George Savanah repeatedly raped and impregnated his daughter, and took her to Planned Parenthood to have each pregnancy terminated while she was 14, 16 and 17 years old. In Colorado in 2012, Timothy David Smith forced his stepdaughter to have an abortion after he impregnated her when she was 13 years old. Planned Parenthood not only performed the abortion but also sent her home with her abuser. In Ohio in 2004, Denise Fairbanks sustained repeated sexual abuse by her father for years. At 16, her father impregnated her and took her to Planned Parenthood for an abortion. Despite notifying the staff of her abuse, Planned Parenthood ignored her pleas for help, refused to report the incident to authorities, and sent her home with her father, who continued to abuse her. Read the letter to Sec. Azar here.Read the Live Action study here. ###
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to recognize the career of CenturyLink CEO Glen Post, who is retiring after leading the company for 26 years."CenturyLink now operates in 60 countries and sees revenues into the billions of dollars, yet it remains headquartered in Monroe not far from where Glen grew up. Maintaining the headquarters in North Louisiana is testament to Glen’s commitment to his home state that he loves," Dr. Abraham said. "I want to thank Glen Post for his dedication to our region and his role in helping us grow. His career shows how far you can go with hard work, integrity and commitment, and it is proof that you can achieve great things no matter where you come from."Dr. Abraham's speech can be viewed here.Dr. Abraham's remarks as prepared for delivery are as follows:Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the incredible career of CenturyLink CEO, Glen Post. Glen is retiring today after 42 years with the company. He spent 26 of those years as the CEO, a feat recognized recently by Fortune Magazine as Glen is one of the longest-serving CEOs in the nation. CenturyLink has seen incredible growth under Glen’s leadership, expanding from 3,000 employees to more than 65,000. It is now the third largest communication service provider in the United States – a cornerstone of his legacy. It’s quite a story for a small, rural, family-owned telephone startup founded in the 1930s by Clark Williams. The company’s original principles - fairness, honesty, integrity, commitment to excellence, faith, positive attitude, respect, and perseverance – have remained the guiding goals under Glen’s leadership. Like his company, Glen got his start in North Louisiana. He earned both his bachelor’s degree and master’s degree from Louisiana Tech University in Ruston. He received the Louisiana Tech College of Business Distinguished Alumni award in 1991, the Louisiana Tech University Tower Medallion Award in 1997 and the DeGree Enterprises Lifetime Achievement Award in Business in 2003. In addition to his career achievements, he has provided invaluable advice to the U.S. government as a member of the President’s National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee. He also chaired the Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council in 2012 and 2013. As a native of Farmerville, Glen is a North Louisiana duck hunting, country boy at heart. CenturyLink now operates in 60 countries and sees revenues into the billions of dollars, yet it remains headquartered in Monroe not far from where Glen grew up. Maintaining the headquarters in North Louisiana is testament to Glen’s commitment to his home state that he loves. By growing CenturyLink locally, Glen has provided incredible opportunities for Monroe and Louisiana. Having such a large company in our backyard recruits talent to our region, yields higher wages, and attracts other companies that provide complimentary services within the communications industry, which in turn produce more jobs. We can build on the success of CenturyLink. Coupled with innovative cyber initiatives at Louisiana Tech and Barksdale Air Force Base in Bossier City, Louisiana’s Interstate 20 corridor can help lead our nation into the future as we continue to develop cutting edge technologies. I want to thank Glen Post for his dedication to our region and his role in helping us grow. His career shows how far you can go with hard work, integrity and commitment, and it is proof that you can achieve great things no matter where you come from. Today, I am proud to acknowledge the change that Glen Post and CenturyLink have brought to North Louisiana, and I wish Glen a very happy and relaxing retirement. It is well-deserved. With that, Mr. Speaker, I yield back. ###
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced today that the National Science Foundation (NSF) is awarding a $2.2 million grant to Grambling State University aimed at producing more undergraduates pursuing degrees in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). The goal of the project is to implement a holistic approach to STEM education that will yield higher retention and graduation rates of STEM undergraduates, particularly in the fields of math, physics and data analytics. “STEM jobs are in high demand, and we should be working with our higher education institutions to see that Louisiana students are the ones filling them. I appreciate the National Science Foundation for awarding this grant to Grambling, and I look forward to seeing the positive impact this funding will have on GSU’s students and our region,” said Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee. GSU President Rick Gallot added, “We appreciate the investment of these research dollars from the National Science Foundation that will have a direct impact on our ability to support education in the STEM fields. I certainly appreciate the hard work of Dr. Connie Walton and the team for pursuing this grant opportunity, and I look forward to seeing the great work that will flow from it. We certainly appreciate the support of our congressional delegation; without their support, none of this would be possible.” The grant will support 45 students annually as researchers, peer tutors or academic coaches. The project objectives are to implement a big data training program to support data analytics education; restructure the math and physics curriculum; and enhance the soft skills of STEM students, such as resume writing and interview preparation. “We are excited about this national science foundation award. This is the third cycle of funding that Grambling State University has received from this NSF program to enhance stem education," said Dr. Connie Walton, principle investigator and Chemistry professor. "This funding supports Grambling State University's ability to continue to make an impact on the STEM workforce at the state and national levels by producing highly-prepared STEM graduates. This project will expand the training STEM graduates receive in Big Data Analysis. Big Data Science will be infused into the curriculum via research and new content in courses. "Additionally, innovative strategies will be implemented to improve the retention and graduation of STEM students. Career Services will have a special role in this project related to enhancing the soft skills of STEM students.” The grant is being awarded as part of the NSF’s program to support Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs). ###
06.05.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to honor the memory of Bishop T. F. Tenney.Bishop Tenney, 84, died last week after dedicating more than 65 years of his life to the ministry. His first preaching assignment was in Monroe, and he retired to Tioga after leading the Louisiana United Pentecostal Church for 27 years."I am proud that Bishop Tenney called Louisiana and the 5thCongressional District home, though we know that he is now in his true home with the Father. He was a true man of God who touched the lives of countless people, both at home and around the globe," Dr. Abraham said. "Bishop Tenney will be greatly missed, and Dianne and I will keep his family in our prayers."Dr. Abraham's speech can be viewed here.Dr. Abraham's remarks as prepared for delivery are as follows:Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the life of the Reverend TF Tenney, who died last week after dedicating more than 65 years of his life to the ministry through the United Pentecostal Church. Bishop Tenney began preaching at the young age of 16. He and his wife, Thetus, were elected to the pastorate when they were just 19 and 18 years old, respectively, to lead a newly formed church in Monroe. It was in Monroe where Bishop Tenny cultivated his leadership skills that would serve him throughout his career as he would go on to lead ministries directed toward youth, foreign missions and the greater Pentecostal church as a whole throughout Louisiana. Bishop Tenney will be remembered as a man who took new ideas and turned them into action. That enthusiasm made him a perfect fit for youth ministry, and he served for six years as the Youth President of the Louisiana District United Pentecostal Church and nine years as the International Youth President. In 1970, Bishop Tenney relocated to the UPC headquarters in Missouri to serve as the UPC’s Foreign Missions Director, a position that allowed him to share his belief in Christ with the rest of the world. Bishop Tenney returned home to Louisiana to pastor a church in DeRidder. Later, he was elected as the Louisiana District Director of the United Pentecostal Church where he oversaw about 300 churches and 800 other ministers. He served in that post for 27 years before retiring to become Bishop Emeritus of the Louisiana District. I am proud that Bishop Tenney called Louisiana and the 5thCongressional District home, though we know that he is now in his true home with the Father. He was a true man of God who touched the lives of countless people, both at home and around the globe. He published a dozen books, created thousands of YouTube videos and has a Twitter following of more than 44,000 people – all signs of the incredible legacy of Christian devotion he left behind. Bishop Tenney will be greatly missed, and Dianne and I will keep his family in our prayers. Thank you Mr. Speaker. I yield back. ###
06.05.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded about $6.8 million in grants for five projects across Louisiana's 5th Congressional District.All the funds are federal grants awarded through HHS and will be used for administrative expenses."It's a win anytime we can bring federal dollars back home where they can be reinvested to help meet the health care and educational needs of our local communities. I appreciate Sec. Alex Azar for awarding these funds that will help make Louisiana a better place," Dr. Abraham said.The grant awardees and amounts are as follows: $1.4 million for the Head Start program in Jonesboro in Jackson Parish. Head Start provides early childhood education, nutrition and parental guidance for low-income individuals. $1.3 million for the Catahoula Parish Hospital District No. 2. $1.6 million for the Hospital Service District 1-A in Richland Parish (Delhi). $1.2 million for the Morehouse Community Medical Center in Bastrop. $1.3 million for the Rapides Primary Health Center in Alexandria. ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today celebrated the House passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that also includes millions of dollars for projects at Barksdale Air Force Base and the Belle Chasse Naval Air Station. The NDAA authorizes $708.1 billion in defense spending for the next fiscal year. Funding prioritizes a 2.6 percent pay raise for our troops (their second raise in two years), readiness improvements, and the modernization of our nuclear arsenal. "Earlier this year, we began the process of rebuilding our military, which has been so neglected over the last several years that we are facing significant readiness issues. This NDAA continues Congress and President Trumps' commitment to our men and women in uniform that we will give them the tools they need to succeed in their mission of keeping our nation safe,"said Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. The bill also includes $12.25 million for Barksdale Air Force Base for the construction of a gate to the planned weapons storage facility, a $500 million project that's slated to begin construction next year. The facility will allow Barksdale to store nuclear weapons so that Global Strike Command, which is headquartered at the base, can respond faster to threats. The NDAA also authorizes $39 million for the Naval Air Station in Belle Chasse to support ongoing enhancements so that the base's F-15 fighter jets can better intercept threats to the mainland. "I am proud that Louisiana plays such a critical role to our national defense strategy, and I will always fight to make sure our bases get the resources they need to thrive,"Dr. Abraham said. Other highlights of the NDAA include: Supports increase in topline funding to support troops and readiness recovery consistent with President Trump's commitment to rebuild the military. Increases the sizes of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard. Reforms Pentagon bureaucracy. Invests in missile defense and nuclear deterrent. Makes key investments in other critical military capabilities to confront aggression and address threats around the world. Authorizes funding for co-development and co-production of missile and weapons systems with Israel. Advances innovative technologies to help us fight and win wars. ###
05.21.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, applauds the Trump Administration for proposing a rule change that will help prevent any federal tax dollars from supporting abortions. President Trump’s administration announced last week that the Department of Health and Human Services will seek to change a rule regarding Title X family planning funding. The new rule would bar a clinic from receiving these funds if family planning services and abortions are offered under the same roof. Title X funds account for about $260 million. The largest single recipient is Planned Parenthood, which receives between $50-$60 million per year. No funding would be cut if the rule change is implemented, and savings from non-compliant facilities would be reinvested in other clinics, such as rural and community health centers. Dr. Abraham is staunchly pro-life and joined 153 members of the US House of Representatives in writing to HHS Sec. Alex Azar in April requesting the rule change. “Places like Planned Parenthood have no business receiving any taxpayer money to help them perform abortions. This rule change will ensure that family planning funding is actually going toward family planning services, not propping up abortion facilities,” Dr. Abraham said.Click here to read the letter. ###
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, issued the following statement in response today's vote on the Farm Bill. The House failed to pass the bill."Today a small group of Republicans joined Democrats to block the best chance we had to institute work requirements for food stamps so that people can lift themselves out of poverty and enter the workforce. I know that Democrats have vowed to block bills like this that President Trump supports, but Republicans should be working together instead of holding each other hostage over unrelated issues. This was a good Farm Bill that implemented work requirements for SNAP and provided the policies our farmers rely on for planning so that they can keep feeding this country. Those who voted "no" turned their backs on President Trump and the American farmer. They need to get on board so we can pass this bill that is critical to the success of American agriculture," Dr. Abraham said.It is unclear at this point when the Farm Bill might be brought up for reconsideration. ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, issued the following statement in response to President Donald Trump's decision to withdraw from the Iran Deal and reimpose sanctions in an effort to stop the hostile nation's pursuit of nuclear weapons."President Trump made a wise and calculated decision to reimpose sanctions on Iran. The Iran Deal was not a deterrent to a nuclear weapon; it was a pathway to a nuclear weapon. The President has always put the security of the United States and our allies first and foremost above politics. This is another example of solid, positive leadership," Dr. Abraham said. ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto and chairman of the Science, Space and Technology Subcommittee on Oversight, chaired a hearing Tuesday to examine ways in which blockchain technology can be used to prevent dangerous and counterfeit goods from being shipped into the United States. The hearing, titled Leveraging Blockchain Technology to Improve Supply Chain Management and Combat Counterfeit Goods, featured witnesses from the Department of Homeland Security’s cyber security division, UPS, Nuby Law and Maersk. “We no longer live in a world where we get everything we need from a friend who owns the corner store. Americans are shopping online more and more, and we need examine ways to protect our consumers from unknowingly purchasing counterfeit and dangerous products from faceless, unaccountable companies in China. Today’s hearing allowed for a great discussion on how we can use emerging blockchain technology to better track goods from their production to home delivery,” Dr. Abraham said. Dr. Abraham’s opening comments can be found here and below the links. Dr. Abraham’s first round of questions can be found here. Dr. Abraham’s second round of questions can be found here. The entire hearing can be found here.Dr. Abraham's opening comments as prepared for delivery are as follows: Today’s hearing will highlight potential applications of blockchain technology in shipping, logistics and customs, emphasizing supply chain management. A focus today will be how this technology can be leveraged to provide greater visibility into the supply chain and how the technology can be used to combat the distribution of counterfeit products. We will hear from government and private-sector experts about blockchain’s potential to improve the security of our systems and how it can ensure customers and the companies alike, that the products and services being used are verified. The Science Committee continues to engage in oversight of emerging forms and applications of technology, just like the discussion that will occur on blockchain today. We recognize that these technologies can benefit both the public and private sectors, and seek to understand what can be done to ensure that this technology is appropriately leveraged in an efficient and productive manner. Through ensuring reliability, increasing productivity, and securing systems and data, the application of blockchain technology is an area in which there is much to learn. While the applications for blockchain technology are continuously increasing, this hearing is an opportunity to learn more about its specific use in supply chain management. Today’s witnesses can provide valuable insight into how blockchain can enhance security and be leveraged outside of the private sector to improve government efficiency. We must also recognize the barriers faced by the private sector in leveraging blockchain technology in order to fully realize its potential benefits. By hearing from individuals today that are taking part in ongoing and proactive efforts within the private sector to utilize blockchain technology in different areas of their business models, we can gain a better understanding of what, if anything, industry needs from the government. I want to thank Mr. White for being here to represent Maersk, and Mr. Rubio representing UPS. These companies are presently engaged in important case studies using this technology. We look forward to learning about those efforts. Additionally, Mr. Chiaviello is here today to detail some of the counterfeiting and business issues companies like Luv n’ Care are experiencing. Baby care products are some of the most important on the market. We must be able to verify the authenticity of these goods. There is a potential role emerging for technologies like blockchain to address these global supply chain safety issues. The committee will continue to prioritize issues like verification and overall cybersecurity. We hope venues like today’s hearing will help provide a better understanding of the issues our private industries are facing and how they are utilizing emerging technologies. This knowledge can better inform the committee on how the application of blockchain technology could potentially bolster private companies’ and the federal government’s cybersecurity weaknesses. Dr. Maughan, we appreciate you being here today to provide more insight into the role the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has played in utilizing this emerging technology. DHS Science and Technology Directorate is in a unique position to provide valuable insight and serves a useful role in exploring a broader understanding and application of the technology in areas directly related to shipping, logistics and customs. Additionally, through the many projects and ventures it supports, DHS has the ability to effectively identify the potential for blockchain technology and address how the federal government could benefit. These potential solutions could help secure data and enhance our national security. I look forward to the insight our witnesses will provide. This dialogue will help us resolve important questions and better understand the next steps that must be taken to ensure the integrity, resilience and security of our systems and industries that could—and do—benefit from the application of this technology. ###
04.19.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressmen Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, and Kenny Marchant, R-Texas, this week introduced legislation to stop international competitors, such as China, from taking advantage of inequity within the international postage rate system. The United Nations’ Universal Postal Union (UPU) sets “terminal dues” and “inbound letter post prices” to determine how much countries will pay to send and receive mail internationally. The UPU uses a tiered system to establish rates, and currently lists China – the second largest economy in the world – as a Tier III while categorizing the United States as a Tier I. The result of this inequity has been losses of $134.5 million on international letter post in FY16, a sharp increase over the previous year’s $97.9 million loss, according to the Postal Regulatory Commission’s Annual Compliance Determination Report. About 63 percent of all US inbound mail originates from Asia. Abraham and Marchant’s bill, HR 5524, would allow the Secretary of State to enter into agreements that require the Postal Service to prohibit preferential rates or fees for inbound international mail. It calls upon the Postal Regulatory Commission to establish postal rates that ensure parity between domestic and international shippers. “The American taxpayers are subsidizing Chinese business competition, and this must end. I’m looking forward to working with Rep. Marchant to pass this bill and bring more equity to our shipping rates and put American businesses on a more even playing field,” Dr. Abraham said. Rep. Marchant added, “The United States Postal Service (USPS) is subsidizing inbound mail from foreign countries and sticking American shippers with the bill. To the detriment of small businesses in my district and their customers, it is often cheaper to ship a package from China to anywhere in the United States than to mail a package from one North Texas city to another.” Sen. Bill Cassidy, R-La., has a similar bill in the Senate called the ENDs Act. “The current system costs American jobs at the expense of American taxpayers,” said Dr. Cassidy. “American taxpayers should not be subsidizing Chinese companies mailing items to the U.S., competing with our businesses.” ###
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, issued the following statement on the House Agriculture Committee’s passage of the 2018 Farm Bill. The Farm Bill sets agriculture policy for the next five years and is critical to the nation’s food and commodities producers. Dr. Abraham represents one of the largest row crop districts in the nation, and he voted in favor of moving the bill to the full House. “The Farm Bill is the single most important piece of legislation for our nation’s food and commodities producers because it sets all agriculture policy for five years, bringing the certainty and stability that they need to succeed. I’m proud to have worked on this bill for much of the last year and look forward to seeing it pass the full House because a thriving agriculture sector is essential for the economic wellbeing of my district and the country. “However, I am very disappointed that my Democratic colleagues tried at every turn to defeat this crucial bill by spreading misinformation about the new SNAP work requirements. Doing so brought a level of partisanship previously unseen within our committee. Despite their claims, no child, caretaker of a young child, senior citizen or disabled person will lose SNAP benefits. Work-capable adults will be required to do some work or train for a job, training that’s guaranteed to them with this bill. No one will ever break the cycle of poverty by relying on the government for a handout, but this bill gives folks an incentive to enter the workforce. This Farm Bill offers them an opportunity," Dr. Abraham said. ###
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, praised the new work requirements for able-bodied adult SNAP beneficiaries that are outlined in the 2018 Farm Bill, which was introduced today (April 12). The new Farm Bill will close loopholes and eliminate outdated eligibility requirements that create disincentives to work in the current SNAP program, sometimes referred to as food stamps. New work requirements will be streamlined and simplified and paired with meaningful investments in workforce training. The new system will require 20 hours per week of participation in – or a combination of – work, a work program and/or SNAP employment and training for work-capable adults ages 18-59. Anyone receiving SNAP and subject to the work requirement is guaranteed a spot in a SNAP employment training program (SNAP E&T). “SNAP provides an important safety net for many Americans, but I want it to be an on-ramp to success, not a lifestyle for work-capable adults. The new Farm Bill makes reasonable and streamlined changes to eligibility requirements that will result in more adults who are ready for the workforce. These changes will help people break out of the cycle of poverty and climb the economic ladder,” said Dr. Abraham, Louisiana’s only representative on the House Agriculture Committee. Exemptions to the work requirements will be made for caretakers of children under age six, pregnant women, and those who are mentally or physically disabled. SNAP eligibility will not change for children, seniors or the disabled. Those who are working and receiving SNAP will still be allowed to continue their path. The new Farm Bill will also establish a national database of SNAP beneficiaries, which will allow the federal government to know precisely how many people receive benefits and will reduce the number of people fraudulently receiving benefits in multiple states. States must meet the minimum services requirement and provide SNAP E&T services to all non-exempt SNAP participants subject to the work requirement. The state is subject to warnings, suspensions and disallowance of administrative funds for failing to meet the requirements. A state’s inability to offer a spot in SNAP E&T does not compromise an individual’s eligibility. Mark up for the Farm Bill is scheduled in the House Agriculture Committee is scheduled for Wednesday morning. To read the full text of the Farm Bill, click here. To read a section by section of the Farm Bill, click here. ###
04.06.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, wrote to US Department of Agriculture Sec. Sonny Perdue today urging that the USDA take all steps possible to protect farmers during the current trade negotiations between the United States and China. The United States has taken a number of actions aimed at reducing the trade deficit between our nation and China while also holding China accountable for its unfair market influence and disregard for American intellectual property. The Chinese responded with tariffs that could have negative consequences on American agriculture."Our farmers are among our nation's greatest assets, and that is why China has unfairly targeted them with tariffs. I agree with President Trump's desire to hold China accountable for its deceitful and manipulative trade practice, and I encourage his administration to focus on achievable trade goals while doing everything within its power to ensure that our farmers will not be forced to bear the burden of retaliatory trade actions," said Dr. Abraham, Louisiana's only member to represent the state on the Agriculture Committee. To read Dr. Abraham's letter to Sec. Perdue, click here. ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, issued the following statement in regards to his vote today against the omnibus spending bill: "This 2,200 page omnibus dropped less than a day before we voted on it, and no one could possibly have read it all in that amount of time. I do know enough to see that it breaks budget compromise we struck last month by tacking on billions in extra spending on pet projects, rather than focusing on the money our military and border security need. Dropping a $1.3 trillion spending bill - one that breaks a deal we struck just last month - hours before it needs to pass is an irresponsible way to govern, and that’s why I voted against it," Dr. Abraham said. ###
03.05.2018	WASHINGTON - Louisiana cotton farmers now have access to the Cotton Ginning Cost Share (CGCS) program thanks to a policy change by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), a change that Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, has long advocated for. USDA Sec. Sonny Perdue announced the program over the weekend. Cotton producers may receive a cost share payment based on the producer’s 2016 cotton acres reported to the Farm Service Agency, which is administering the program. The sign-up period for the program runs from March 12 to May 11. Dr. Abraham wrote to Perdue in January to advocate for the cost share program in an effort to assist Louisiana’s cotton producers, who have faced economic uncertainty due to low prices and global oversupply as well as damages suffered from weather events. “This program offers meaningful, timely and targeted assistance to cotton growers to help with their anticipated ginning costs and to facilitate marketing,” Dr. Abraham wrote. “While the Cotton Ginning Cost Share program makes payments to cotton producers for cotton ginning costs, the benefits of the program are felt by the broader marketing chain associated with cotton and cottonseed, including cotton gins, cooperatives, marketers and cottonseed crushers and the rural communities that depend on them.” Sec. Perdue said in a statement, “I hope this will be a needed help as the rural cotton-growing communities stretching from the Southeastern U.S. to the San Joaquin Valley of California prepare to plant. This infusion gives them one last opportunity for assistance until their Farm Bill safety net becomes effective.” The CGCS program is the latest major policy changed implemented this year that aims to assist the cotton industry. The bipartisan budget agreement, which Dr. Abraham supported, contained “cotton fix” language to allow cotton producers access to more effective crop insurance programs. Prior to the passage of the budget agreement, cotton farmers had to use the STAX program for their crop insurance, though, many producers would have preferred the ARC and PLC crop insurance programs that other row crop producers use. The budget agreement gave cotton producers access to those programs. ###
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, introduced a bill Wednesday to provide rural communities with access to more than $2 billion in grant funding for infrastructure improvements. The Revitalize Rural America Act creates a $2.1 billion grant program administered by the Secretary of Transportation to fund rural infrastructure projects such as improving and expanding federal-aid highways, tunnels and bridges; expanding broadband internet access; water and wastewater projects; navigation projects; and electrical grid projects in rural areas. States, local governments and other public and private entities would be eligible to apply for the grants, and awards would go directly to the winning entity, rather than funneled through state governments for distribution. “Our country has an infrastructure problem, and too often rural America gets left out of funding opportunities. My bill will provide rural Americans with direct access to billions of dollars that they can use to address critical needs in their communities, like fixing water systems, building bridges and expanding broadband internet,” Dr. Abraham said. The grant program will be funded by redirecting money earmarked for beautification and recreational programs in the FAST Act, the five-year transportation funding bill passed in 2015, and reducing funding for the Capital Investment Grant, a program that builds streetcars and trams mostly in large urban areas in California, New York and Florida. “No American should see brown water coming out of their faucets while the federal government is building gardens and bike trails in cities. My bill redirects federal funds currently going to urban wish-list projects and sends them back to local communities where rural Americans can make the investments their towns need to grow and succeed,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
02.14.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto and chairman of the House Science, Space and Technology Oversight Subcommittee, held a hearing Wednesday to examine issues surrounding the use of blockchain technology. Though most commonly associated with the cryptocurrency Bitcoin, blockchain technology has proven to have broad potential to help businesses improve efficiency, generate savings and enhance security. For example, a grocery store chain can use it to track produce throughout its journey from a farm to a customer's table. Dr. Abraham, who chaired his first Oversight Subcommittee today, focused his questioning on how blockchain users would ensure that food security would be maintained and enhanced if the system was implemented. "Blockchain technology has a lot of potential to streamline systems, making them more efficient and cost effective. Today's hearing was an important step to make sure we remain on the forefront of this emerging technology so that we can better assess threats and prevent security breaches, particularly when it comes to food security. I thank the witnesses for testifying today and look forward to continuing to examine this issue," Dr. Abraham said. Witnesses included Frank Yiannas, vice president of food security for Walmart; Chris Jaikaran, a cybersecurity analyst with the Congressional Research Service; Charles Romine, director of a research lab within the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST); and Gennaro "Jerry" Cuomo, an IBM fellow. To watch Dr. Abraham's opening statement, click here. To read it, click here. To see Dr. Abraham's questions regarding food security, click here. To watch the full hearing, click here. ###
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, issued the following statement in regards to his vote in support of the bipartisan budget agreement. The budget agreement provides for increased funding for the military to help it rebuild after years of neglect and negative consequences as the result of budget caps (details below). The budget agreement provides for $700 billion for FY18 and $716 billion for FY19 in total defense spending. Dr. Abraham is a member of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) and the only member of the Louisiana delegation who serves on a committee directly overseeing the military. "The federal government’s greatest responsibility is to provide for the defense of this nation, but years of budget caps have depleted our military and stretched them too thin. Our military position around the world is diminishing as a direct result of Congress using our troops as pawns in political games. I voted for the bipartisan budget compromise because it begins the process of rebuilding our military by investing in desperately needed repairs, new equipment, and more training and recruitment of troops. "Military investments will have direct impacts on Louisiana’s military bases in Barksdale and Fort Polk, which play critical roles in our national security strategy. The budget agreement also provides funding for our veterans, the Corps’ flood mitigation efforts and disaster victims, including provisions that will benefit Louisiana. "I understand and share the concerns about the debt. I would have written the bill differently, but our military needed long-term funding. Debt has consequences, but so does failing to provide our troops with the resources they need to defend us from our enemies while we sleep safely in our beds at night. I could never ask our men and women in uniform to fight for me knowing that I had voted against them," Dr. Abraham said. HASC Chairman Mac Thornberry added, "Ralph Abraham is a staunch supporter of our men and women in uniform. That’s clear from the passion he brings to our work together on the Armed Services Committee. We understand that this budget deal isn’t perfect, but it is necessary to provide the long-term funding our military needs to plan, rebuild and respond to threats to our national security."The budget begins to address these military readiness problems: The size of the Army has been reduced by half over the last eight years, resulting in 120,000 fewer soldiers and only five of 58 brigade combat teams listed as "ready to fight tonight." The budget addresses those deficiencies by directing nearly $22 billion toward new equipment, equipment upgrades and repairs, recruitment, and training. The Air Force is the smallest its ever been and suffers from a shortage of 2,000 pilots. Half of the Navy's aircraft cannot fly due to maintenance issues. 80 percent of Marine Corps aviation unites lack minimum number of ready basic aircraft. The budget directs $46.4 billion toward repairs and upgrades to aircraft, replacing old and broken aircraft, and training for more airmen and mechanics. Sailors work 100-plus hours per week and struggle to balance training requirements and current operations. This contributed to two deadly ship crashes last summer that resulted in the deaths of 17 sailors. The budget directs $40.9 billion toward repairing ships, adding new ships, and recruitment and training of sailors. The budget includes wins for disaster relief and flood mitigation: Waives the duplication of benefits rule for Louisiana flood victims. Provides $23.5 billion for the FEMA Disaster Relief Fund. Directs $17.2 billion for Corps construction, operation and maintenance, and Mississippi River funds that provide flood mitigation measures. Provides $600 million for Economic Development Assistance funds for flood mitigation, disaster relief and infrastructure for 2017 federal disaster areas. ###
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, released the following statement in regards to an impending vote this afternoon to fund Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs, or Community Health Centers). The House is expected to take up a Continuing Resolution (CR) today to fund the government through March 23. The CR includes a two-year funding extension for Community Health Centers, and it provides $659.2 billion in full-year funding for the military, which includes a 2.4 percent pay raise for troops. This will be the second time the House has attempted to pass funding for Community Health Centers. The House passed HR 3922, the Championing Healthy Kids Act, on Nov. 3. The bill included a two-year extension for Community Health Centers. Dr. Abraham supported this bill. House Republicans overwhelmingly supported HR 3922 with 227 Republicans voting in favor; however, 174 Democrats voted against the bill and failed to join Republicans in their efforts to fund these health centers that provide important medical services to lower-income Americans. Senate Democrats filibustered and prevented the bill from passing in the other chamber. “As a physician, I understand that Community Health Centers are critical safety nets that help all Americans - regardless of income - access quality medical care, and that is why I find it frustrating that Democrats have voted against funding for these centers,” Dr. Abraham said. “I welcome Gov. Edwards support for this funding and call on him to speak some sense to his party. We learned just last month that the Democrats are willing to shut down the government, prevent funding for poor, sick children, and block pay raises for our troops in his party’s quest to grant amnesty for illegal immigrants. It is my hope that they will stop holding hostage funding for these centers and the military and vote with Republicans on this spending bill.” The vote is expected around 5:15 p.m. ET today. ###
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, voted Tuesday afternoon for a long-term funding bill that seeks to rebuild and reinvigorate our nation's military. The bill provides $659.2 billion in full-year FY18 funding for the Department of Defense. That includes $584 billion in base funding and $75.1 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations. The additional resources will bolster troop numbers, provide a 2.4 percent raise for military personnel, enhance health care delivery, develop cutting-edge technology, and purchase new equipment. This is the third time the House has voted to provide long-term funding for the military, but neither of the prior bills advanced in the Senate due to filibusters by Senate Democrats."Our military is the smallest it's been in decades. Readiness has become a very real issue, and we must be able to quickly and lethally respond to all threats we face. The House has voted twice before on this bill only to see it blocked by Democratic filibusters in the Senate. I urge Senate Democrats to stop using our troops and national security as pawns in their political games to get amnesty for illegal immigrants. Pass this bill to give our military the resources it needs to rebuild and keep us safe,"said Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. ###
01.23.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, has been named the Chairman of the Science, Space and Technology Subcommittee on Oversight. The Oversight Subcommittee has jurisdiction to investigate any matter over which the full committee has jurisdiction. This includes energy research, development, non-military laboratories, and space research and development, among others. The Oversight Subcommittee has previously investigated activities such as Russian activists’ social media postings attempting to influence the U.S. energy market; data breaches of Equifax and the FDIC; the effects of the actions of the Attorney Generals of New York and Massachusetts on the energy industry; and cybersecurity risks. “It’s always an honor when peers select you to a position of authority, and I take that responsibility seriously. This is a subcommittee where we can not only highlight contentious areas of our nation’s problems, but we can also explore how to fix them. I will use a strong, but fair, gavel to ensure the oversight process is carried out to the people’s benefit,” Dr. Abraham said. Science, Space and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith, R-Texas, added, “Rep. Ralph Abraham will provide strong leadership of the Oversight Subcommittee as we work to strengthen America’s cybersecurity capabilities and ensure accountability to taxpayers. Rep. Abraham is a medical doctor, a veterinarian, a veteran and a business owner. His broad experience will serve the Subcommittee well. He will be a great chairman." “I want to congratulate my good friend Dr. Abraham on his new role as chairman of the Science, Space, & Technology Oversight Subcommittee. This subcommittee, on which I also serve, performs important investigative functions on environmental and energy issues,” said U.S. Rep. Clay Higgins from Louisiana’s 3rd Congressional District. “I look forward to working with Dr. Abraham on behalf of Louisiana and the Americans that we both serve.” ###
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, issued the following statement in response to the end of the government shutdown."Thanks to immense pressure from the American public and President Trump, Democrats in the Senate have finally agreed with Republicans to fund the government. Their shutdown accomplished nothing - it kept funding from sick children, risked pay checks for our troops and failed to resolve any immigration issue. Washington can come up with some crazy ways to waste time and money, but this pointless shutdown that Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi orchestrated probably takes the cake," Dr. Abraham said. The passage of the continuing resolution keeps the government funded through Feb. 8, includes provisions to pay public employees who were furloughed during the shutdown, and provides a six-year extension to the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). ###
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Friday that the US Department of Agriculture has awarded grants in the amount of about $1 million to enhance delivery of medical services through telemedicine in 15 rural Louisiana parishes. The grants were awarded through the USDA’s Distance Learning and Telemedicine Program. The money will primarily be used to connect patients with behavioral health and specialty care providers at remote sites using interactive videoconferencing. The parishes served by the grants have disproportionate percentages of vulnerable populations, including children, the elderly and minorities. They also have documented health care professional shortages and high percentages of uninsured residents.“Telemedicine is another tool that modern technology has added to the health care equation. Patients in rural areas can’t always make it to a specialist. Telemedicine allows us to bring the doctor to them to make sure they get the treatment they need. I appreciate Sec. Sonny Perdue and the USDA for awarding these grants to help Louisiana’s vulnerable patients,” Dr. Abraham said. The Franklin Parish Hospital Service District will receive $111,794 to purchase telemedicine equipment. Primary Care Providers will receive $298,100 to fund a fixed site telemedicine project in four of the most rural and poor parishes in Louisiana. They include Tensas, Tangipahoa, Livingston, West Baton Rouge parishes. The Winn Community Health Center will receive $277,672 to help fund the North Central Louisiana Telemedicine Program located at the health center in Winnfield. The program will connect to nine school-based health clinics and two community health centers in Winn, Grant and Bienville parishes. Lafayette General Health Systems will receive $311,356 to help fund an expansion of the South Louisiana Telehealth Network with hubs in Lafayette, Breaux Bridge, Crowley and Kaplan. They will connect to 30 end-user sites located across St. Landry, Acadia, Vermilion, Evangeline, St. Martin, St. Mary, and Iberia parishes. ###
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, spoke on the floor of the House on Friday to honor the memory of West Feliciana firefighter Russell Achord, who died this week in the line of duty. To view the speech on YouTube, click here. Dr. Abraham's remarks as prepared for delivery are as follows:Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and ultimate sacrifice of West Feliciana Deputy Fire Chief Russell Achord, who died Wednesday while responding to a car accident. Chief Achord served for 24 years and earned Officer of the Year and Valor in the Line of Duty recognitions during that time. He also helped the community by implementing programs to teach high school students emergency care and improving the Fire District’s standard of care. It is because of the sacrifices of first responders like Chief Achord that we enjoy the lives we’re able to lead. Our first responders put their lives on the line every day to keep our communities safe, and for that we can never say thank you enough. Louisiana and West Feliciana Parish are better because of Chief Achord, and I ask that you keep his family and his fire house in your prayers as they grieve. Thank you Mr. Speaker. I yield back. ###
01.17.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, urged members of both parties to pass a six-year authorization of the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), the program that provides medical insurance for sick, impoverished children and expecting mothers, at a press conference on Wednesday. CHIP reauthorization is included in the proposed continuing resolution that would avert a government shutdown. However, Democrats are expected to vote "no" in order to gain leverage in their attempts to achieve an amnesty deal for recipients of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), illegal immigrants who the Obama administration allowed to stay in the United States. The vote is expected Thursday."As a doctor in rural Louisiana, I have seen how this program helps poor children, and we need to get this done. The Democrats are playing political games with CHIP over an unrelated immigration debate, which tells me that the Left cares more about illegal immigrants than they do about sick, impoverished American children. That is unconscionable," Dr. Abraham said. Funding for CHIP in Louisiana is expected to expire in March. Louisiana has roughly 120,000 CHIP recipients, according to a report by the Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals. Thursday's vote will be the third time that Republicans in the House have attempted to reauthorize CHIP despite continued Democrat opposition. On Nov. 3, the House passed the Championing Healthy Kids Act, which extended CHIP for five years. Of Republicans, 227 supported the bill while 171 Democrats voted against it. The bill failed to move in the Senate after Democrats blocked it from being considered. On Dec. 21, the House passed a continuing resolution to fund the government that provided a three-month extension of CHIP. To view the press conference, click here. ###
01.12.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, issued the following response to President Trump's alleged vulgar statement: "I wasn’t at the meeting, so I take the President at his word when he says he didn’t use the vulgar language that’s been reported. Speaking as someone who has been to many impoverished nations - including Haiti where I performed countless medical procedures in the wake of the earthquake - I can say that the people are wonderful, but many times their governments are corrupt. These officials take advantage of our generosity while the people we’re trying to help continue to suffer as a result. The President is right in that we should take a different approach to the way the US offers assistance because right now we’re just subsidizing corruption. "It seems to me the only people claiming the President used that language are the Democrats, who seem more willing to fight for blanket amnesty for illegal immigrants than they are for American border security. Almost on cue there’s a controversy in the media to distract from what Republicans want to accomplish - securing our border, ending chain migration and the lottery system, and providing a reasonable pathway for DACA recipients to earn their citizenship the right way. Meanwhile, the Democrats refuse to make any concessions in these talks and would shut the government down and risk critical funding for our military unless they get amnesty for illegal immigrants. That’s an irresponsible and dangerous way to govern. Republicans can’t let the tail wag the dog here; we must stand firm on this issue." ###
12.15.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Friday that the Tensas Basin Levee District will receive about $2.4 million in federal disaster funds to make levee repairs. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will pay $2,385,107 to assist with repairs on eight levees along Bayou Bartholomew in Morehouse Parish that were damaged during flooding that occurred in March 2016. The total cost of the project is about $3.1 million. “Louisianans are still working hard to fully recover from the floods in 2016, and I will continue doing everything I can to get the resources we need to do that,” Dr. Abraham said. “I appreciate FEMA for awarding these funds as these levees are critical to preventing future floods.” The March flood resulted in a disaster declaration for 36 parishes, including 19 parishes in Louisiana’s 5th Congressional District. Dr. Abraham has been fighting for disaster relief since that event, and he continues to champion that cause. This week, he joined other members of Louisiana’s Congressional delegation in calling for disaster tax relief for victims of the March and August floods. The individual levees that will receive repairs from this grant are the Horse Bayou Levee, Naff Levee, Huff Levee, Claude Mann Levee, Harrell Brake Levee, Moore Place Levee, Seven Pines Levee, and Rawlinson Levee. “I appreciate the assistance from Congressman Abraham and FEMA in securing these funds for these much-needed repairs. We hope to accomplish them in the next year and in a timely manner before the next flood event,” said John Stringer, executive director of the Tensas Basin Levee District. ###
12.07.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced today that Louisiana Tech University in Ruston will receive a grant for more than $1.3 million to enhance its cybersecurity programs. The $1,312.488 grant was awarded by the National Science Foundation. The money will be used to support Tech’s proposed CyberCorps(R): Scholarship for Service (SFS) program to prepare highly-qualified cybersecurity professionals for entry into the government workforce. The program proposes to support 36 SFS@LaTech Scholars to complete either a bachelor’s degree in either Cyber Engineering or Computer Science with Cybersecurity concentration. “Louisiana Tech is truly a leader in training the next generation of professionals who will be tasked with protecting our nation from cybersecurity threats. It is an incredibly important mission, and I am proud that this Louisiana institution is on the cutting edge of this field,” said Dr. Abraham, who represents Ruston. “As the first university in the country to establish a Bachelor of Science in Cyber Engineering degree program, I know that Tech is deserving of these funds, and I appreciate the National Science Foundation for awarding this grant.” Dr. Abraham serves on the House Science, Space and Technology Committee. He has authored legislation in Congress aimed at strengthening the cybersecurity of federal agencies. “The need for qualified cybersecurity professionals is great in our country, and Louisiana Tech University is committed to helping meet that need,” said Tech President Les Guice. “Our students will be ready to enter the workforce and make an immediate positive impact through the CyberCorps® Scholarship for Service program (SFS@LaTech). In addition, we hope to diversify this segment of the workforce through our plans to target 40 percent of the scholarships for women and underrepresented groups.” Hisham Hegab, a lead researcher for the grant, added, “In the first year of this grant, we anticipate funding study for seven undergraduate students who will prepare for careers in the growing field of cyber security. These students will have the opportunity to participate in internships and research that will help them fill the need for professionals who are committed to becoming exceptional government servants in this field.” ###
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today sent a letter to Gov. Edwards and LSU Board of Supervisors Chairman Stephen Perry urging them to add protections for Shreveport’s medical school in any contracts approved for a new hospital management company. LSU and Oschner Health System are considering partnering so that Oschner would manage LSU Health Science Center Shreveport and University Health Conway in Monroe. Dr. Abraham is requesting that the new contract include language that specifically says a medical school will always remain in North Louisiana. Dr. Abraham wrote, “I understand that the state and LSU have sought a resolution to the often-tenuous relationship with its current manager, BRF, and I appreciate that Oschner has a reputation of delivering high quality and affordable health care to patients throughout South Louisiana. Certainly, bringing stability to the management of the hospitals will provide much needed peace of mind to the patients who utilize those facilities. “But part of providing that peace of mind should include assurances that any new manager commits to keeping the medical school and teaching hospitals in North Louisiana. I believe that the state and a new management company should take this opportunity to reaffirm this commitment to North Louisiana.” Dr. Abraham graduated from the Shreveport medical school in 1994 and interned at Conway. To view the letter to Gov. Edwards, click here. To view the letter to Chairman Perry, click here. ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, voted to reform the tax code to give working class families a tax cut and create a more competitive tax environment for American businesses. The Tax Cut and Jobs Act passed the House on Thursday. Dr. Abraham's statement is as follows:"Middle class families are finally getting the tax break they deserve. This bill is going to put more money in the pockets of hard-working Americans, create new jobs and lead to more things that bear some of my favorite words: Made in America. Passing this tax reform bill today will lead to a more prosperous America for all, and I'm proud to have supported it," Dr. Abraham said.Tax Reform Items of Note: This bill is expected to create 975,000 new jobs and generate economic growth sufficient to increase federal tax receipts by $1 trillion. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce estimates that Louisiana will see an additional 13,293 jobs as a result of tax reform. Middle class families in Louisiana are predicted to see a raise in after-tax income of $1,857, according to the Chamber. Child tax credits will raise from $1,000 to $1,600 per child. This will affect about 51,000 taxpayers in the 5th Congressional District. About 90 percent of filers will be able to file their taxes on a postcard after simplifying the tax code and doubling the standard deduction to about $24,000. This will affect about 56,000 taxpayers in the 5th District. Eliminates the alternative minimum tax, which will affect about 3,7000 taxpayers in the 5th District. Maintains deductions for charitable contributions and protections for popular retirement savings options, like 401(k)s. ###
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, voted against the reauthorization of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). The measure passed the House on Tuesday. His statement is as follows: "The bottom line is that too many Louisiana residents are being told to pay flood insurance rates that just aren’t affordable. This bill pays for the program on the backs of those who have played by the rules without making strong enough reforms to increase participation and mitigate flood risk. Meanwhile, FEMA just announced an expensive rate hike. I agree that we need a long-term reauthorization of the NFIP that is fair and equitable, but this doesn’t go far enough for the people of Louisiana," Dr. Abraham said. ###
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, voted in favor of agreeing to the conference committee report for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which sets approved spending levels for the military and national defense. The measure passed the House on Tuesday. The legislation provides for combined spending on national defense of nearly $700 billion and is consistent with President Trump’s request that Congress provide the military with resources that will allow it to modernize and improve readiness capabilities. Additionally, the NDAA provides for a 2.4 percent pay raise for troops, the largest pay raise for our men and women in uniform in the past eight years. It also increases troop levels across the Army, Marines, Navy and Air Force, welcomed news for Louisiana’s military bases that have faced potential troop drawdowns in the recent past. The NDAA permanently preserves special survivor indemnity allowance payments for surviving military spouses. “This is an NDAA that sets the foundation for rebuilding our military and giving our men and women in uniform the tools they need to accomplish their missions and keep America safe,” said Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “This is a strong bill that will protect troop levels at Fort Polk and Barksdale, give military service members a much-deserved pay raise and provide financial stability for surviving spouses.”Numbers of Note: Authorizes $626 billion in base spending, $66 billion for the Overseas Contingency Operations warfighting account, and $8 billion for other defense activities – all of which account for a $74.2 billion increase over the current funding level. Includes $15 billion for missile defense programs. These programs are used by American forces who fight alongside our allies in Israel, South Korea and Europe to deter threats from places such as Iran, North Korea and Russia. Provides for $109 million for modernizing the B-52 bombers, which are headquartered at Barksdale Air Force Base. Bars Base realignment and Closure (BRAC), which has jeopardized troop levels at Fort Polk’s Joint Readiness Training Center in recent years. Supports our allies on the front lines by providing $1.3 billion to Iraqi and Kurdish forces fighting against ISIS, $4.9 billion for Afghan security forces, and $350 million for Ukraine. Keeps Guantanamo Bay open and bars the transfer of terrorists to US soil. ###
11.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Monday that five parishes within the 5th Congressional District have received natural disaster designations from the US Department of Agriculture, meaning that farmers are eligible for assistance from the Farm Service Agency (FSA). USDA Sec. Sonny Perdue granted a primary disaster declaration for Grant and Rapides parishes. Avoyelles, Winn and La Salle parishes were designated as contiguous disaster areas. Damages in these parishes occurred during Hurricane Harvey and the accompanying weather system. These declarations make farmers eligible to be considered for certain assistance from the FSA, provided eligibility requirements are met. This assistance includes FSA emergency loans. Farmers have eight months from this disaster declaration to apply for emergency loans. Each loan is considered on its own merit, and farmers are encouraged to contact their local FSA offices for more information. “Many farmers live crop-to-crop; a single disaster can ruin a farmer financially. I appreciate Sec. Perdue for this declaration so that Louisiana’s farmers have access to the funds they need to make it through this disaster,” Dr. Abraham said. Cameron and Natchitoches parishes also received primary disaster declarations. Allen, Bienville, Calcasieu, De Soto, Evangeline, Jefferson Davis, Red River, Sabine, Vermilion and Vernon parishes also received contiguous disaster declarations. ###
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, voted Friday to reauthorize funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Community Health Centers (CHC). HR 3922, the Championing Health Kids Act, passed the House on Friday morning. It extends funding for CHIP for five years and CHCs for two years.On CHIP reauthorization:"Protecting our most vulnerable class of young people should not even be up for debate. The children have no say in the management of their health. As Congress, we're tasked with making sure they are protected as much as they can be," Dr. Abraham said.On CHC funding:"Community health centers provide a valuable tool in delivering health care and act as an important safety net for people in rural ares. As a physician, I want to ensure that everyone has access to good, quality medical care, and CHCs help provide that access," Dr. Abraham said. The bill heads to the Senate for consideration. ###
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON - The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services announced Wednesday that it would not finalize a rule that would have jeopardized delivery of home health services nationwide. The decision comes after Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-La., and Congresswoman Terri Sewell, D-Ala., led a bipartisan letter of 174 members of Congress asking that the Department of Health and Human Services not finalize the new rule, which would have slashed home health funding by a projected $950 million in 2019 alone."Home health is so critical to the overall equation of the best ways to deliver health care for the elderly, people with disabilities and other home-bound patients, particularly those who live in rural areas. It keeps patients out of hospitals and allows them to be with their families when they need them most," Dr. Abraham said. "Home health providers simply could not continue to operate under the dramatic changes to reimbursement rates contained in the proposed rule, and I thank the administration for preventing the rule from taking effect." To read the CMS decision, click here. To read more about Dr. Abraham's efforts against the rule change, click here. To read Dr. Abraham's letter to HHS, click here.
10.27.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-La., and Congresswoman Terri Sewell, D-Ala., led a bipartisan letter of 174 members of Congress requesting that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) not finalize a policy change that could have devastating effects to the delivery of home health services. Under the proposed rule, the current home health reimbursement model for Medicare reimbursements would be replaced by a new policy called the 2019 Home Health Groupings Model (HHGM). That policy change will result in a $950 million cut to home health providers in 2019 alone. The drastic shift in these Medicare reimbursements due to the HHGM would follow nearly a decade of policy changes that have slashed reimbursements to home health providers. Between 2009 and 2018, home health providers will have seen a nearly 42 percent cumulative rate reduction for Medicare home health services. Millions of seniors, people with disabilities and people with limited mobility rely on home health services. Continued slashes to home health provider reimbursement rates, including the implementation of the new HHGM, will result in fewer home health providers, which will limit choices in health care and force more people away from homes and into hospitals. “Home health is a critical health care option for people throughout the United States, particularly those living in rural areas like I represent," Dr. Abraham said. "The proposed CMS policy change could have severe consequences in delivering home health services, which will result in more hospitalizations and more families being separated when sick loved ones need support the most. I thank Congresswoman Sewell and the other members who signed our letter for joining together to ask for a delay to this rule change so that we can ensure patients continue to have access to home health services.” The members of Congress state in their letter that they agree with HHS’ goal of aligning home health reimbursements with patients’ clinical needs. However, they ask that HHS prevent the rule from becoming permanent an instead work with stakeholders, including home health agencies, providers and patient groups, to develop and implement reforms. “Home health providers are a lifeline for constituents in my district, including seniors, disabled individuals, and those with limited mobility. These services are critical in saving long-term hospital costs, keeping families together, and promoting dignity and independence for our seniors,” said Rep. Sewell. “Today’s letter vocalized the concerns of a bipartisan group of Members of Congress who believe that CMS’ proposed policy has the potential to seriously harm the delivery of home health services at a time when we need to be strengthening our home health resources for an aging population. Given more time, I am confident that lawmakers, stakeholders, and CMS can work together to find a payment approach that protects patient access to care and caregiver resources.” Other Louisiana members signing the letter include Majority Whip Steve Scalise and U.S. Reps. Garret Graves, Mike Johnson and Clay Higgins. To view the letter, click here. ###
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, joined 18 other members of Congress in calling on the House and Senate Judiciary Committees hold hearings to examine Special Counsel Robert Mueller and his team’s potential conflicts of interest and political bias. “This team has sweeping authority and an open-ended mission, yet they are allowed to operate largely in secret, selected by and ultimately accountable to only one person: Mr. Mueller himself,” the members wrote in a letter dated Oct. 13. “With numerous reports emerging almost every day on possible conflicts of interest and allegations of political bias, it would be in the interest of both the public and the Special Counsel team to speak to the American people through their elected representatives in Congress.” Dr. Abraham said, “Almost daily another red flag is raised over this team’s ability to remain impartial during this investigation. If they have nothing to hide, let them come forward to a hearing and be accountable to the American people.” Other members of Congress signing the letter include Brian Babin, Jody Hice, Bob Gibbs, Doug LaMalfa, Ralph Norman, Bill Flores, Bill Posey, Randy Weber, Kay Granger, Trent Franks, Andy Harris, Alex Mooney, Steve King, Duncan Hunter, Scott DesJarlais, Joe Wilson, Neal Dunn, and Dave Brat. To view the letter, click here. ###
10.16.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, will present the Distinguished Service Cross to the family of Chaplain Lt. Joseph Verbis Lafleur in a ceremony in Opelousas tomorrow (Tuesday) morning.Father Lafleur earned the Distinguished Service Cross, second only to the Medal of Honor, for his countless acts of bravery following the sinking of unit's steamship and his years imprisoned in Japanese POW camps.Father Lafleur's heroism has been recognized with a monument in Arlington National Cemetery, a shrine in the St. Landry Catholic Church, and a monument in front of the St. Landry Catholic Church. Hundreds of people from the Opelousas community and surrounding areas are expected to attend the medal presentation ceremony.Last year, Dr. Abraham led the House effort to pass legislation to award Father Lafleur with the Distinguished Service Cross. Sen. Bill Cassidy offered the companion bill in the Senate. More on those efforts can be found here.WHO: Congressman Ralph Abraham, MD; Father James Brady, pastor of the St. Landry Catholic ChurchWHAT: Presentation of Father Lafleur's Distinguished Service Cross. More on the medal can be found here.WHEN: 9 a.m. Central Time, Tuesday, Oct. 17WHERE: St. Landry Catholic Church, 1020 N. Main St., Opelousas
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., voted in support of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, a bill that bans abortions after 20 weeks. The bill passed the House on Tuesday. Dr. Abraham cosponsored the bill earlier this year. He is a staunch supporter of the Pro-Life movement. Dr. Abraham delivered a speech on the House floor prior to the vote that urged his fellow members to support the bill. The speech can be viewed here. “As a doctor, I believe in defending life at all stages. I've heard a child's heart beat at six weeks old. Babies can feel pain at 20 weeks; to abort them is a cruel practice that must end. The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act is a big step in the right direction toward respecting the dignity of all life, especially those babies who cannot even defend themselves,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
09.25.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., issued the following statement in regards to his vote against HR 3823, Disaster Tax Relief and Airport and Airway Extension Act of 2017. The bill was defeated after failing to reach a two-thirds vote required for passage. On changes to the National Flood Insurance Program and tax relief for disaster victims: “This bill included provisions that undermine the fiscal integrity of the National Flood Insurance Program and put at risk a program that so many Louisianians rely upon. This bill also selectively chose which disaster victims get tax relief; Louisiana’s flood victims were not among them. I supported disaster relief packages for our floods and for victims of this summers’ hurricanes, but the bill before us tonight failed to provide the same tax relief for Louisiana that others would get, and, therefore, I could not support it. Floods don’t pick winners and losers; neither should Congress,” Dr. Abraham said. On six-month extension of the Federal Aviation Administration: “Washington politicians should recognize that we cannot not play games with our national air space and do the responsible thing, which is passing a long-term FAA reauthorization bill. I remain committed to passing an FAA reauthorization that lasts for at least one year and that does not privatize the air traffic control system,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
09.25.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., on Monday delivered a speech on the House floor recognizing six Winnfield Senior High School football players who served as pallbearers for a WWII veteran.Thomas Edward Hunter, 93, died on Sept. 12. Because he had no close family, he had no pallbearers for his funeral.After learning of the situation, Winnfield players Matthew Harrell, Brett Jurek, Justin Lawson, T.J. Homan, Christian Evans and Lee Estay volunteered to serve as Hunter's pallbearers.The speech can be viewed on YouTube here.Dr. Abraham's remarks as prepared for delivery can be found below:Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share with you an inspiring story about a community rallying to honor one of our nation’s heroes. On Sept. 12, Thomas Edward Hunter passed away at the age of 93. He was a World War II veteran who reportedly served at Normandy and fought with our troops to liberate Europe from the Nazis. Unfortunately, Mr. Hunter spent his final years mostly alone in a nursing home, and died without much close family. He outlived all his siblings, and never married or had children. As a result, he had no one to serve as his pallbearers. Word of Mr. Hunter’s passing reached the folks at Winnfield Senior High School, which is in a small community in rural North-Central Louisiana that I have the privilege to represent. After hearing about Mr. Hunter, six Winnfield football players – Matthew Harrell, Brett Jurek, Justin Lawson, T.J. Homan, Christian Evans and Lee Estay – stepped up to serve as pallbearers. Additionally, the folks at Southern Funeral Home arranged for military honors at Mr. Hunter’s funeral service, complete with a flag and a playing of Taps. I am so inspired by the actions of Matthew, Brett, Justin, TJ, Christian and Lee, as well as others in the community who gave Mr. Hunter the hero’s send-off he deserved. They didn’t know this man, but they knew that every veteran deserves to die with dignity and be honored for the sacrifices he made in defense of this nation. Mr. Speaker, I think the actions of these young men speak volumes about what’s truly important: Country, community, family, God. Our flag and the nation it stands for is special because of veterans like Thomas Hunter who answered the call to serve. Thousands have given their lives for that flag and this nation, and they deserve our respect for their sacrifices. These young men in Winnfield get that, and I think others in this country will learn from their example. Thank you. I yield back.
09.22.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., issued the following statement in response to a proposed six-month extension of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)."I will read the bill that’s been proposed and determine whether it is the best path forward at this time. However, I still maintain that we ultimately need a long-term FAA authorization that does not place control of our nation’s skies in the hands of a corporate board," Dr. Abraham said. ###
09.20.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., recently led a letter from members of the Louisiana Congressional delegation to command at the Barksdale Air Force Base requesting that base leadership reconsider their decision to end the popular annual air show and instead hold it only on alternating years. Sens. Bill Cassidy and John Kennedy and Congressman Mike Johnson joined Dr. Abraham in signing the letter. “Since it was first held in 1932, the Barksdale Air Force Base Air Show has played a significant role in developing public support and enthusiasm for aviation, helping to inspire a new generation of pilots and building support and enthusiasm for the U.S. Air Force and its programs. Allowing the public to see and experience U.S. Air Force operations up close instills a sense of great pride and patriotism that can only come from seeing U.S. Air Force aircraft in action,” the members wrote. The air show attracts more than 150,000 visitors to the Shreveport-Bossier area, resulting in millions in tourism dollars that contribute to the local economy. “We’re very fortunate to have Barksdale in Louisiana, and we greatly appreciate the work that Gen. Rand and his command do at the base. We’re hopeful that we can work with the base to resolve this issue so that the state and Shreveport-Bossier area can continue to benefit from the air show,” said Dr. Abraham, who serves on the House Armed Services Committee and volunteers as a pilot with the Air Force’s Civil Air Patrol. To view the letter, click here. ###
09.19.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today urged the Senate to pass Sen. Bill Cassidy's health care plan. "When Senate leadership threw in the towel and gave up on repealing Obamacare, Louisiana’s senior senator Bill Cassidy kept pushing, and I applaud his efforts to remove Washington from my exam room. His plan repeals nearly $1 trillion in taxes, which paves the way for true tax reform. It gives money back to the states to construct health care plans that work for their patients, scrapping the one-size-fits-all Obamacare mandate. It defunds Planned Parenthood. Passing this bill would allow the House to possibly strengthen it even further. "Let’s be clear: This is our last opportunity to end Obamacare as we know it. While Democrats are debating whether to keep the failed status quo or adopt a socialist single-payer government takeover of health care, Bill Cassidy and I are doing what we can to provide patients with choices in their health care. Sen. Cassidy’s plan takes a great leap forward from what we’ve got now, and I hope the Senate adopts his plan," Dr. Abraham said. Dr. Abraham has practiced family medicine in rural Louisiana for more than 20 years. He has seen how ineffective Obamacare is and has voted repeatedly to repeal it. ###
09.18.2017	Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, will hold a listening session in Rayville to gather information from Louisiana’s agriculture industry leaders to assist in crafting the 2018 Farm Bill. Dr. Abraham is Louisiana’s only member serving on the House Agriculture Committee, and he still actively farms land near his home in Richland Parish. Louisiana Commissioner of Agriculture Mike Strain and Louisiana Farm Bureau Federation President Ronnie Anderson have been invited to speak. Representatives from the LSU Ag Center and the Farm Services Agency, as well as Louisiana farmers from the rice, cotton, corn, soybean, sugar and dairy industries, have also been invited to participate. The listening session will also include components on crop insurance, finance, conservation and nutrition. “The current Farm Bill has worked well for the most part, but it isn’t perfect. I wanted to gather the top agriculture experts from throughout Louisiana to hear what they say is working and what needs improving so that we in Congress can draft the best Farm Bill possible for our farmers,”Dr. Abraham said. The listening session will begin at 8:30 a.m. Central Time on Friday, Sept. 29. It will be held at Rayville High School. Members of the public may attend the listening session and they will have the opportunity to submit written comments after the listening session. The Farm Bill is the primary legislation that sets the agriculture and food policy for the United States. Congress reauthorizes the Farm Bill every five years. The bill will need reauthorization next year. ###
09.12.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Tuesday that three airports across Louisiana's 5th Congressional District will receive about $19.8 million in grant funding awarded by the Federal Aviation Administration. The England Economic and Industrial Development District in Alexandria stands to receive the bulk of the funding. The airport will receive a total of $17,867,492 from four grants. The money comes as part of the airport's involvement in the Airport Improvement Program's Military Airport Program, a designation that Dr. Abraham helped the airport achieve so that it could help facilitate missions associated with the Joint Readiness Training Center at Fort Polk."Alexandria and its airport provide important services that directly contribute to the mission of the Fort Polk Joint Readiness Training Center. Showing continued investments in public infrastructure that support Alexandria and Fort Polk will show the military our community's commitment to the success of Fort Polk, which will help make sure we continue to have a thriving base in the region," said Dr. Abraham, a veteran and pilot who serves on the House Armed Services Committee. The grants will go toward adding additional runway space to facilitate travel for large military aircraft, constructing new service roads, repaving and enhancing existing runways, installing wildlife perimeter fencing, and implementing noise mitigation measures. The projects will create jobs, benefit the traveling public and increase the competitiveness of the airport."The England Authority would like to thank the Louisiana delegation - and especially Congressman Ralph Abraham - for his support in improving AEX and creating jobs in Central Louisiana," said Charlie Weems, chairman of the authority. In addition to the funding for Alexandria, airports in Monroe and Vidalia also received grant funding from the FAA. The Concordia Parish Airport Authority in Vidalia will receive a grant for $1,009,458 to fund construction to rehabilitate 3,701 feet of runway to maintain the structural integrity of the pavement. The project will also include reconstruction of 1,300 feet of existing taxiway pavement that has reached the end of its useful life. The Monroe Regional Airport will receive $916,735 to design 1,300 feet of runway extension, which could allow the airport to facilitate landings and take-offs of larger, more advanced aircraft. ###
09.12.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today praised the efforts of the staff and volunteers at the Alexandria Mega Shelter for their response following Hurricane Harvey. The speech can be viewed on YouTube here. The prepared remarks are as follows:“Mr. Speaker, I rise today to highlight the incredible work performed by those running the Alexandria Mega Shelter in my district during the Hurricane Harvey evacuation. In Louisiana, we know too well how devastating hurricanes and flooding can be. When our neighbors in Texas needed help, Louisiana answered the call. At it’s peak, the Alexandria Mega Shelter housed 1,800 people displaced by Hurricane Harvey. I visited with some of the victims and the workers, and I wanted to share with you some of the amazing work that went on there. The shelter provided a roof and bed for people whose homes flooded, but as a doctor, I was most impressed with the medical response I saw at the shelter. On short notice, local health care providers banded together to set up a clinic to meet the health needs of displaced people, including dialysis patients who could not miss treatments. The clinic allowed most patients to be treated in-house, making their stay at the shelter easier that it might have been otherwise. Additionally, the shelter was able to send about 1,800 pounds of donated medications to patients in Beaumont where people were struggling in the aftermath of the storm to get the medicines they needed. Local pilots donated their time and resources to fly these badly-needed medicines from Alexandria to Beaumont where they could be used to help people. I want to specifically mention the efforts of the Louisiana National Guard, the Louisiana State Police, including Superintendent Kevin Reeves and his troopers, Rapides Parish Sheriff William Earl Hilton and his deputies, and Azar Kayal and his staff at the Louisiana Department of Public Safety for their role in assisting the people at the shelter. I also want to mention Dr. Spencer Tucker, Dr. Emily Spith Grezzafi, Laura Pickett, Melinda Sanders, Nici English, Dr. David Holcombe and all those with the Louisiana Department of Health, emergency responders and local pharmacies who helped meet the medical needs of the people displaced at the shelter. Recovery from Harvey will be difficult, and now our prayers are also with our friends in Florida who are dealing with Irma. As tragic as these storms can be, they also tend to bring out the best in Americans, who always answer the call to serve and help those who are suffering. Thank you to all those at the Alexandria Mega Shelter who welcomed these displaced people in their time of need and, hopefully, made their ordeal little bit better. Thank you Mr. Speaker. I yield back." ###
08.15.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, today praised the Trump administration for its decision to repeal the Obama-era Federal Flood Risk Management Standard (FFRMS), a complex set of regulations that would result in more expensive building costs in Louisiana. “Louisiana flood victims are already struggling to rebuild to the current standards, and adding this new layer of problems to our state’s residents and business owners will only create more confusion and add higher costs. Plus, I remain concerned that eventually this regulation would be used as a factor to raise flood insurance rates. President Trump made the correct decision to repeal this onerous regulation that was written to make a political statement on climate change rather than for practicality and concern for average citizens who live and work in flood zones,” Dr. Abraham said. Dr. Abraham has opposed implementation of the FFRMS for more than two years because the rule would have increased the cost of living and working in Louisiana. In June, he wrote a letter to the administration opposing the rule, and 41 other Representatives and Senators signed along with him. He also authored and passed legislation during the previous Congress to prevent the rule from taking effect. The FFRMS scraps the 100-year base flood standard commonly used to determine flood risk and replaces it with new determinations that take into account future flooding from climate change. The new determinations would have expanded the amount of area subject to a floodplain and imposed stricter building standards on projects that receive any sort of federal assistance, resulting in higher costs of new transportation, housing, mitigation and flood protection projects, and it could have unforeseen consequences on flood insurance and other federal programs. Additionally, the rule requires that some 30 federal agencies must adopt a new standard for base flood elevation based on the “best available climate science,” an ambiguous term that is impossible to quantify and will result in numerous agencies requiring different building standards, which adds confusion and costs to the rebuilding process. Rather than institute new burdensome regulations to be absorbed by homeowners and business owners, Dr. Abraham believes more federal funding should be redirected to infrastructure enhancements and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers so that residents of Louisiana know they are protected from flood waters. “Those of us who represent Louisiana in Congress fight everyday for additional Corps funding and for infrastructure projects like the Comite River diversion that we know will keep flood water out of people’s homes. This is where the focus of flood prevention should be,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, voted in favor of the spending bill passed by the House on Thursday that takes the first steps toward fulfilling President Trump’s promise of building a wall along our nation’s southern border. “The American people demanded that we build the wall, and today Congress took the first steps to make President Trump’s commitment a reality,” Dr. Abraham said. “We must do all that’s necessary to protect our southern border from terrorist threats and stem the flow of illegal immigrants into our country.” The spending bill contains about $1.6 billion in wall financing, which includes: $784 million for new border bollard fencing in the Rio Grande Valley in Texas. $498 million for new bollard levee wall in the Rio Grande Valley in Texas. $251 million for secondary fencing in San Diego, Calif. $38 million for planning for border wall construction. The spending bill, called a “minibus,” combines the appropriations bills for Energy and Water, Defense, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and the Legislative branch. Other appropriations bills will be heard later in the year. In addition to the border wall funding, the minibus contains several funding wins for Louisiana. The bill provides $10.5 million for the Ouachita and Black Rivers Navigation Project, an increase of more than $2 million from last year. It also includes $12.3 million for the J. Bennett Johnston Waterway along the Red River, which is more than $3.5 million over last year. These navigation projects are critical for moving agricultural commodities, energy, timber and aggregates. These waterways support thousands of jobs and provide for millions of dollars in economic benefits to Louisiana. “The Ouachita and Black Rivers Navigation Project and the J. Bennett Johnston Waterway are critical to the economic health of my district. I’m proud to have secured these funds that will directly benefit the people of Louisiana,” Dr. Abraham said. Additionally, the bill provides for $658.1 billion for the Department of Defense, as authorized by the National Defense Authorization Act. A provision in the bill will prevent a new round of base realignment and closure, meaning that troop levels at Fort Polk will be maintained. “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I go to work each day to make sure our men and women in uniform have the resources they need to be successful in keeping our nation safe. I’m pleased at this increase in defense spending and glad that Louisiana’s military bases will benefit from it,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
07.17.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, continued his efforts on Monday to prevent the privatization of the air traffic control system by speaking against the idea in a speech on the House floor. The speech comes just days after Dr. Abraham and Congressmen Steve Russell, R-Okla.; Tom Cole, R-Okla.; Ron Estes, R-Kan.; and Walter Jones, R-NC; sent a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan and Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy that detailed the many reasons why ATC privatization is a bad idea for regulating skies. Dr. Abraham, who is a pilot, and Russell have been leading efforts in the House to prevent ATC privatization language from being included in the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill. Their efforts are having success as consideration of the FAA reauthorization bill has been delayed after it was initially scheduled for this week. “Our airspace is a public resource and a great national treasure. Control over it should not be handed over to a private board with no oversight from Congress and, therefore, no obligation to represent the best interests of the citizens of the United States,” Dr. Abraham said during his speech. “Modernization should continue to be our goal, and Congress can get there without jeopardizing control and safety of our national airspace.” Dr. Abraham contends that privatizing ATC would risk our national security. Privatization would remove Congress and the President’s oversight authority and place control of our nation’s skies with a private corporation made up of special interests. “We have the safest airspace in the world, but privatizing the air traffic controllers will put the safety of our skies at risk,” Dr. Abraham said. “Replacing Congressional oversight with a private corporation would threaten the United States’ ability to maintain the integrity of our airspace, would put at risk the thousands of missions the military conducts in our skies each day, and would give private contractors access to classified data - all of which undermines our national security.” Additionally, ATC privatization would be harmful to rural areas like Louisiana’s 5th Congressional District. A private board driven by profits would prioritize air traffic services in places where it can raise revenue, which would lead to a reduction in service for rural areas with smaller populations. Instituting a private user fee model - as ATC privatization would do - would reduce revenues to the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, which is critical for upgrades and maintenance at small and medium-sized airports. “Reliable air traffic services and airport infrastructure are essential for rural areas to attract business for economic growth and for all Americans to have access to safe and efficient travel. This plan is bad for rural America,” Dr. Abraham said. To view Dr. Abraham's floor speech, click here. To view the letter to Speaker Ryan and Leader McCarthy, click here. To view more resources from Congressman Russell, click here. ###
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, on Friday voted in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act, which passed on a bipartisan 344-81 vote. The bill takes great steps toward rebuilding our military and includes many wins for Louisiana’s bases. Dr. Abraham is Louisiana’s only member on the House Armed Services Committee and has worked tirelessly to ensure that Louisiana’s military bases in Bossier City, Fort Polk and Belle Chasse were prioritized during the process of crafting the defense spending bill. The NDAA provides $631.5 billion for our national defense, an increase of $28.5 billion for essential readiness recovery above President Trump’s budget request. “President Trump and Congress recognize that our military readiness has suffered due to the effects of sequestration over the last several years. This NDAA takes steps to correct that and provides our troops with the resources they need to be successful in their mission to keep our nation safe. If we’re going to ask our men and women in uniform to put their lives on the line for us, then we need to make sure they have every resource they need to succeed in their mission of keeping us safe,” Dr. Abraham said. Specific wins for Louisiana’s military bases include: Barksdale Air Force Base: The NDAA begins the process of re-engining the B-52 bombers, which are headquartered at the base. Re-engining would extend their life into the 2050s, improve range and fuel efficiency, and lower maintenance costs. The NDAA supports the Air Force Global Strike Commands’ strategy to enhance science, technology, innovation and collaboration through outreach to academic institutions and researchers. It also supports the creation of an institute for nuclear deterrence operation and nuclear command, control and communications. Fort Polk: The NDAA fully funds a 2.4 percent pay raise for our troops that will benefit the more than 10,000 troops and their families who are stationed at the base. The NDAA authorizes increases in the sizes of most branches of the military, including a 10,000 troop increase for active duty Army, 4,000 troop increase for the National Guard, and 3,000 troop increase for the Army Reserve. Many of these additional troops will have the opportunity train at the Joint Readiness Training Center at Fort Polk. The NDAA prevents another round of base realignment and closures that put Fort Polk at risk in the past. Belle Chasse: The NDAA supports the recapitalization of Navy Reserve tactical aviation squadron at Belle Chasse, which directs the Air Force to examine the lifespan of planes currently at use at the base to clear the way for newer planes in the future. The NDAA supports the continued use of the F-15C fighter plane. ###
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Friday nearly $3.5 million in federal grant money for three projects across the 5th Congressional District. The West Monroe Industrial Park will receive a $988,402 grant through the Economic Development Administration. The grant will fund the construction of a storm water and drainage system to alleviate flooding issues that affect the park and the 47 companies that use it. The total cost of the project is $1,291,490. “The West Monroe Industrial Park is an important area for local businesses, but unfortunately they’ve had to deal with reoccurring flood issues. This project will keep water out of the businesses already there, and hopefully new businesses will open knowing that they will be safe from flooding. I commend the EDA for awarding this grant to West Monroe and look forward to seeing the project completed,” Dr. Abraham said. The City of West Monroe will oversee the project. The Hospital Service District 1-A in Delhi in Richland Parish will receive $1,343,557 and the Rapides Primary Health Care Center in Alexandria will receive $1,147,168 through the Department of Health and Human Services. The grants will help the health centers provide health services to their patients. “Our local hospitals are not only critical to the physical health of our citizens, but they are also powerful economic drivers in the towns they serve. I appreciate HHS for awarding these grants and bringing federal dollars back to Louisiana so these hospitals can better serve our people,” Dr. Abraham said.
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Wednesday that four airports across in the 5th Congressional District will receive a combined $482,000 in federal grant money for facility enhancements. “It is always encouraging when we can bring our federal tax dollars home to Louisiana and invest them in our local communities. Our local airports are so important to the economic health of rural communities, and I’m glad to see that so many of my district’s airports will benefit from these grants,” Dr. Abraham said. The West Carroll Parish Airport Authority will receive $315,000 to construct three 2,000 square feet hangars that will assist the airport to be as self-sustaining as possible by generating revenue. The John H. Hooks Jr. Memorial Airport in Rayville will receive $90,000 to update the airport master plan narrative report and the airport layout plan to address key issues, objectives and goals regarding the airport’s future development and long-term viability. The Winnsboro Municipal Airport will receive $40,000 to remove tree obstructions in the Runway 18 approach and transitional surfaces. It will also fund the design phase to rehabilitate 1,000 feet of the airport’s existing access road to preserve access to the airport. The Jonesville Airport will receive $37,000 to fund the design phase for pavement rehabilitation of 6,825 square yards of the northeast apron to maintain the structural integrity of the pavement. All grants were awarded by the Federal Aviation Administration. ###
07.10.2017	MONROE - Good Hope Middle School student Tanner Bentz will be Louisiana’s flag bearer at the 2017 State Games of America. The State Games of America is an Olympic-style event held every odd year that features competition among medal winners from individual state games. Bentz, 12, earned the opportunity to compete at the national event this year in Grand Rapids, Mich., after winning a gold medal in 5k Cross Country at the State Games of Louisiana at the University of Louisiana - Monroe last fall. Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, who is an avid long-distance runner himself, served a character witness and wrote a letter of support for Bentz’s bid to be the state’s flag bearer at the national opening ceremonies. In the letter, Dr. Abraham praised Bentz for his diligence, commitment and perseverance to his training routine and efforts to achieve his goals. “It takes involvement from our youth today to push forward and be positive examples for teammates and members of other teams,” Dr. Abraham wrote. “The opportunity for Tanner to compete will help build his character, and he’ll experience what it takes to be a team player and an encouragement to his fellow competitors.” Bentz will run at 5 p.m. Central Time on Thursday, Aug. 3. The Opening Ceremonies will be at 6:30 p.m. Central Time on Friday, Aug. 4, at the Van Andel Arena in Grand Rapids. He has been training for the race in Kiroli Park. “Our state flag says Union, Justice, Confidence and I think the mother pelican feeding her babies represents generosity,” Bentz wrote. “I will represent Louisiana well and will keep union, justice, confidence and generosity on my mind and in my heart while I am in Michigan.” Bentz also runs on Good Hope Middle School’s cross country team where he has been successful, winning four races and placing in two others. ###
07.07.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Friday that the federal Economic Development Administration (EDA) has awarded the City of Monroe with a grant that’s anticipated to stimulate $20 million in economic development. EDA will fund $1.5 million of a project to expand Venable Lane from U.S. 165 to the new access road linking CenturyLink Village and the IBM building. The project will account for 174 jobs, including 80 new jobs, and an expected $20 million impact on local economic development, according to grantee estimates. The total cost of the project is $2,368,492. “Interstate 20 is quickly becoming a new cyber corridor in the United States, with CenturyLink and IBM leading the way. This project will result in more economic growth with new commercial and industrial development in Northeast Louisiana. But best of all - we can expect more high-paying jobs to come to Monroe. I commend EDA for awarding this grant and for the local stakeholders who worked with us to make it a reality,” Dr. Abraham said. EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based on the application’s merit, eligibility and availability of funds. ###
07.06.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Thursday that three medical centers in the Fifth Congressional District will benefit from nearly $5.1 million in combined grants awarded by the Department of Health and Human Services. Morehouse Community Medical Centers, Inc., in Bastrop has received $1,025,840. Primary Health Services Center in Monroe has received $2,318,475. Winn Community Health Center in Winnfield has received $1,713,013. The grants will help the medical centers provide health services to patients who use their facilities. “Our rural medical centers provide a vital service to our communities. People who live in rural areas need to know they can rely on access to quality medical care near their homes. I’m glad to see these federal dollars returning home to Louisiana so that they can directly benefit the people who rely on these centers for their health care,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
07.05.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Wednesday that the Marksville Municipal Airport has received a grant in the amount of nearly $1.7 million for runway repairs. The grant, awarded by the Federal Aviation Administration in the amount of $1,678,722, has been awarded to the Avoyelles Parish Airport Authority. The project will fund the construction to mill and overlay 3,800 feet of runway. “Our municipal and regional airports play a vital role in the economic health of our local communities. I’m glad to see these federal dollars heading to Marksville so that its runway can continue to be sound for years to come,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, joined three of his House colleagues in introducing legislation Wednesday that would prevent the federal government from redefining the definitions of “sex” and “gender” without Congressional approval. The bill, HR 2796: The Civil Rights Uniformity Act of 2017, comes in response to the Obama administration’s attempts in September of last year to unilaterally change the long-held legal definitions of sex and gender without Congressional approval. The most glaring example came when the White House threatened to withhold federal funds from local school districts unless the school system allowed its students to use bathrooms and locker rooms that corresponded to the student’s gender identification, not the student’s biological sex. HR 2796 would clarify that “sex” as it appears in federal law corresponds to one’s biological sex, not one’s gender identification, and only Congress would have the authority to change that definition or include gender identity as a protected class. “The Obama Administration blatantly tried to hijack Congress’ role of writing law when it contorted the definition of sex and gender to advance its liberal agenda. We can’t allow that to happen again. Passing the Civil Rights Uniformity Act will remove all ambiguity from the law across the federal government and protect the long-held understanding of what sex and gender are,” Dr. Abraham said. Reps. Pete Olson, R-Texas; Brian Babin, R-Texas; and Vicky Hartzler, R-Mo.; joined Dr. Abraham as original cosponsors of the legislation. Olson said, “The Obama Administration strongly overreached by unilaterally redefining the definition of ‘sex’ with respect to the Civil Rights Act outside of the lawmaking process. We must reject the notion of false power stolen from Congress by a White House seeking to impose social policy on America. The Founding Fathers never intended unelected bureaucrats in federal agencies to make sweeping changes to the definition of gender. While we have a new president in office, we must restore the voice of the people given to them by our Constitution and put an end to this dangerous precedent of removing Congress’ power to make laws.” Babin said, “The Obama Administration used brute force and coercion to compel states and localities to accept its redefinition of sex to include ‘gender identity.’ Though the Trump Administration has rolled back most of these overreaching executive orders, the Civil Rights Uniformity Act would ensure that any redefinition of sex by the U.S. government would have to originate from Congress and be passed into law, preventing future executive overreach. This bill preserves the power of Congress and restores the voice of the people to make sure that ‘gender identity’ is not conflated with biological sex without explicit approval by the people’s representatives in Congress.” Hartzler said, “The fact is, the Obama Administration reinterpreted the law and circumvented the will of the people. Congress writes the laws, not the President. The Civil Rights Uniformity Act returns control of decisions on civil rights to Congress where it belongs.” ###
06.06.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., and LSU Health Science Center - Shreveport Chancellor Dr. G. E. Ghali pitched a plan to Department of Veteran Affairs Sec. David Shulkin on Tuesday on ways LSU can partner with Overton Brooks to improve veterans’ access to health care. Under the plan, LSU’s medical students, residents and fellows would work with the VA and the veterans who use it to address shortages in neurology, orthopedics and internal medicine. Dr. Abraham and Dr. Ghali believe that such an arrangement would benefit veterans across North Louisiana who rely on Overton Brooks for health care, and it would benefit the students learning at LSU. “We know there are continuing issues at the Shreveport veterans hospital that must be solved. This is one way we can use existing resources available to us to further enhance the quality of care our nation’s heroes deserve,” said Dr. Abraham, a veteran and a graduate of LSU HSC Shreveport. “I appreciate Sec. Shulkin for his interest in this proposal, and I thank Dr. Ghali for his willingness to work with the federal government to benefit our veterans.” Sec. Shulkin reached out in March to a number of medical school chancellors across the country, including LSU, asking for input on how to form stronger partnerships between the VA and academic institutions. Tuesday’s meeting provided an opportunity for Drs. Abraham and Ghali to address the barriers that are keeping academic partnerships from forming and how to work through those issues. “We just want the opportunity to make this work. We have a lot of interest from people who want to work at the VA but also tie into the academic side. This should be interchangeable,” Dr. Ghali said. The plan would rely on Choice funds to be used to reimburse providers at academic affiliates to come to the VA facility to provide care. Contract exceptions and “fast track” agreements have worked in the past, and Drs. Abraham and Ghali believe Shreveport is an ideal setting to use this method again. “This is a partnership that can happen, and I will continue to work toward making it a reality. It’s a win-win for our veterans and for LSU,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Thursday that five students from Louisiana's 5th Congressional District have accepted appointments to military service academies. The following candidate accepted an offer of appointment to attend the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo. He will join the Class of 2021 on June 29: Daniel Walter Lindsey: Lindsey is from Ruston. He graduated from Ruston High School on May 16 and is the son of Gail and Erskine Lindsey. The following candidates accepted an offer of appointment to attend the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. They will join the Class of 2021 on July 3: Jonathan Steven Crawford: Crawford is from Deville. He graduated from Buckeye High School on May 15 and is the son of Kathleen and Steven Crawford. Tara Hope Locantro: Locantro is from Sterlington. She graduated from Sterlington High School in May and is the daughter of Rhonda Morace. The following candidates accepted an offer of appointment to attend the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md. They will join the Class of 2021 on June 29: Ethan Shaw Wheeler: Wheeler is from Monroe. He graduated from Sterlington High School on May 8 and is the son of Katy and Doug Wheeler. Carlos Eduardo Gallardo: Gallardo is from Franklinton and is the son of Rosa and Darrel McCain. He graduated from Franklinton High School in 2011 and served active duty with the U.S. Navy stationed out of Norfolk, Va. prior to his admittance to the Naval Academy. Those interested in applying to a service academy for the Class of 2022 should apply directly through the academy’s admissions office. For more information about the congressional nomination process or to apply for a nomination, contact Jessica Sunderhaus in Dr. Abraham’s Central Louisiana District Office in Alexandria. She can be reached at 318-445-0818 or Jessica.Sunderhaus@mail.house.gov. ###
05.05.2017	There's a lot of misinformation out there about the American Health Care Act. Remember, the same people lying about the AHCA are the same ones who lied about how Obamacare would let you keep your doctor, let you keep your insurance, drive down costs, lower premiums, and expand choices. None of those things happen, and neither will the lies they're spreading now. I've put together some videos where I discuss some of the biggest myths out there and what's actually happening. I hope you take some time to watch them all as they become available.Myth No. 1: People with Pre-Existing Conditions Will Lose Their CoverageMyth No. 2: Medicaid Patients Will Lose Their CoverageMyth No. 3: Congress Got a Special ExemptionMyth No. 4: AHCA Does Nothing to Control CostsMyth No. 5: Millions Will Lose Their Coverage
05.03.2017	Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., released the following statement regarding his vote against the government spending bill, known as the omnibus. The bill passed and provides funding for federal government agencies through September. “Washington cannot keep kicking the can down the road; we have to get our fiscal house in order. With control of the White House and both chambers of Congress, I believe conservatives have a tremendous opportunity to not only significantly rein in deficit spending, but also redirect money from bad programs to good ones. I’m not convinced the omnibus achieved those goals, and I hope Congress will work over the next several months to produce the type of responsible spending bill the American people demanded in the last election,” Dr. Abraham said. Problems with the omnibus: While the omnibus preserves the Hyde Amendment, there is no legislative guarantee that federal funds will stop going to abortion provider Planned Parenthood. Federal funds allow Planned Parenthood to pay for support operations while it uses its own resources to facilitate and perform abortions. The omnibus fails to fund the military at the levels requested by President Trump and military leaders. Rather than continue wasteful spending, Congress should have directed more money to ensure that our military has all of the resources its leaders say they need. The omnibus does not provide funding for the border wall, a principle goal of the Trump administration and a needed deterrent to prevent illegal immigration and the flow of drugs. The omnibus falls well short of any requested disaster aid. Additionally, there are no guarantees that a majority of the provided funds earmarked for disasters will go to Louisiana, nor are there any guarantees that the funds Louisiana does receive will go toward directly assisting middle-income flood victims, nor are there any guarantees that victims of the March 2016 flood will receive any support. The omnibus does not reduce the deficit, which means the United States will continue to add to the nearly $20 trillion national debt, an irresponsible amount of debt to heap upon future generations of Americans who did not create this problem. The omnibus bails out Puerto Rico and perpetuates the territory’s continued inability to take responsibility for fiscal problems it has created.
03.29.2017	America is at a crossroads with our health care system. We’ve got three choices: 1) keep Obamacare, 2) repeal Obamacare without a replacement plan, or 3) repeal and replace it together. I’ve spoken at length about the need to repeal Obamacare. It’s the central issue I campaigned on when I first ran for Congress. As a rural doctor, I’ve watched my patients be priced out of access to health care because they can’t afford the premium hikes (nearly 32 percent on average this year in Louisiana) and their outrageous deductibles. They’ve seen their choice of insurers dwindle to almost no choice at all as 68 percent of counties in the United States have two providers or fewer. Meanwhile taxpayers have seen $1 trillion in new taxes, most of which hit lower and middle income families the hardest. Keeping Obamacare is simply not a viable option. Option 2 - Fully repealing Obamacare only, without replacing the current broken system, is a position that some constituents have called, emailed, and spoken to me about. Others have suggested that Congress should first repeal Obamacare immediately and then let Congress work on implementing a replacement down the road. I share their passion to rid our nation of the terrible policy that is Obamacare, but I must caution that a repeal without replacement presents a number of challenges that could cause disastrous problems throughout the nation. First, Obamacare is not a single entity that can be swapped out like a new spark plug to keep the health care system’s engine running. More accurately, it is a concept that describes 8,000 pages of laws and regulations that deal with everything from numerous types of taxes, employer regulations, the handling of Medicaid, the establishment of insurance exchanges, and reimbursement rates for doctors and hospitals. A complete reset of all those different aspects of the system could cause dramatic instability in our financial markets. It could throw funding mechanisms for hospitals and medical clinics into chaos, resulting in closures and risking access to health care for all of our families. But it would also have a very real effect on patients. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that repeal without replace would result in 18 million people losing insurance overnight, and that number will grow to 32 million within 10 years. Premiums are expected to double within 10 years, so a central goal of repealing Obamacare would not be accomplished. Everyone who lost insurance when their employers dropped coverage due to Obamacare’s expenses would then lose coverage again if their exchange plan was eliminated overnight. It would also mean millions of people with preexisting conditions would not only lose current coverage, but they’d no longer have affordable access to the health care at all. I cannot in good conscience support a plan that does not provide an alternative process for a cancer patient who now has access to treatment. Medicare costs could also increase, and Medicare patients would see the reopening of the dreaded doughnut hole. The effects of repeal without a replacement mechanism are bad enough, but there’s also the political reality that it could never get done in the current divided Congress. While I disagree with the Senate’s bizarre and antiquated filibuster rules that require 60 votes to move a bill, it is nevertheless a reality of the world we live in. A straight forward repeal with no replacement would never get the necessary votes in the Senate because Republicans only control 52 seats, and Democrats are desperate to save President Obama’s legacy legislation. I joined a majority of House Republicans and President Trump last week in supporting the American Health Care Act. President Trump believed this bill was a critical step toward keeping our Republican promise of repealing and replacing Obamacare, but unfortunately this approach was unsuccessful due to some Republicans joining with Nancy Pelosi and the Democrats to block what President Trump and I believe was the smartest approach to repealing Obamacare. The only way around the filibuster is to use a process call reconciliation. It can only be done with items concerning the budget and it can only be done once a year – when the budget is being written and this was the path we tried to take most recently with the AHCA. Using reconciliation would have allowed us to leverage the Republican majorities the American people gave us in the House and Senate so that we can put a bill on President Trump’s desk. Had the AHCA passed, it would have repealed the un-American mandate requiring every person to buy insurance or pay the IRS a penalty. It would have removed billions in Obamacare taxes that are hurting our small businesses and stifling economic growth. It would have allowed us to defund the abortion provider Planned Parenthood. It would have allowed us to make the largest deregulation and structural reforms in history to Medicaid, giving states more flexibility in delivering affordable healthcare more efficiently while allowing states to decide things like whether those receiving Medicaid should be required to work and drug tested. And it would have paved the way for comprehensive tax reform, one of President Trump’s top goals. We couldn’t pass everything we wanted with the reconciliation process - such as selling insurance over state lines and providing for more transparency in drug and medical pricing - because the Senate would have ruled the bill out of order. But non-budget related reforms such as this could have been implemented administratively through President Trump’s administration. All of this would unilaterally scale back regulations if Congress provided the flexibility to do so by passing the AHCA. Additional reforms would still be needed, which admittedly might be challenging to pass without the reconciliation process. Again, the strange rules of the Senate are frustrating, but they are also a reality we have to live with as we try to govern. Though the AHCA was not a perfect bill, it provided for the structures and path I believe we needed to repeal Obamacare and reform the health care system. Those of us in Congress must be willing to tackle difficult problems like this because we were sent to Washington to govern. We cannot let the perfect get in the way of the good. Obamacare is collapsing, and doing nothing is a march toward nationalized health care. Despite these setbacks, I remain optimistic that my colleagues will put partisan politics aside and do what is right. I will never give up, as the status-quo is simply unacceptable.
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON - President Donald Trump on Tuesday (Feb. 28) signed a bill to repeal a rule from the Obama administration that stripped Second Amendment rights from certain disabled Social Security beneficiaries. The initial bill to repeal the rule was led in the House by U.S. Reps. Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-La., and Sam Johnson, R-Texas, and led in the Senate by Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa. The law ends a regulation implemented in the midnight hours of the Obama administration that required the Social Security Administration to submit to the FBI the names of all beneficiaries who are assigned a representative payee to manage their financial affairs due to a mental disability. Their names would then be put in the National Instant Criminal Background Check system, which would effectively eliminate their Second Amendment right to buy and possess firearms without due process. "This rule was a clear violation of the Second Amendment rights of disabled Americans. The government should not be allowed to arbitrarily strip people of their Constitutional rights without due process, and that's exactly what this regulation did. I thank President Trump for signing my bill into law and repealing this regulation that was a direct threat to the Constitution and the principles we hold dear," Dr. Abraham said. Dr. Abraham and Rep. Johnson each introduced separate pieces of legislation during the 114th Congress in attempts to block the rule when it first surfaced. The two teamed up in the 115th Congress to take a second swipe at the rule, this time proving successful. Disabled rights groups, mental illness advocacy groups, civil liberties groups, and gun owner rights groups all roundly opposed the rule. "The current public dialogue is replete with inaccurate stereotyping of people with mental disabilities as violent and dangerous, and there is a real concern that the kind of policy change encompassed by this rule will reinforce those unfounded assumptions,"wrote Helena Berger, president and CEO of the American Association of People with Disabilities. "The new rule reinforces unfounded perceptions associating mental illness and other mental disabilities with violence. Scientific studies that have assessed risk factors for violence contain no evidence linking difficulties with managing benefits with increased risks for violence," wrote Mary Giliberti, chief executive officer for the National Alliance on Mental Illness. Leaders of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) wrote, "...regulation of firearms and individual gun ownership or use must be consistent with civil liberties principles, such as due process, equal protection, freedom from unlawful searches, and privacy. All individuals have the right to be judged on the basis of their individual capabilities, not the characteristics and capabilities that are sometimes attributed (often mistakenly) to any group or class to which they belong. A disability should not constitute grounds for the automatic per se denial of any right or privilege, including gun ownership." “Reporting law-abiding, non-dangerous individuals to NICS and forcing them, as a condition of removal, to prove they are not a threat to society is inconsistent wit the (Gun Control Act), the Second Amendment and basic due process,” wrote Chris Cox of the National Rifle Association. ###
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., released the following statement in response to President Trump's joint address to Congress: "President Trump delivered a bold, inspirational vision for what America can be. I will work with our President to rebuild our military, create jobs, grow our economy, secure our borders and implement a health care system that puts patients first. Congress will be very busy this year to make those goals a reality, and I wouldn't have it any other way," Dr. Abraham said. ###
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, on Monday introduced the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, Assessment and Auditing Act of 2017 (HR 1224). The bill is in response to a series of damaging cyber-attacks on federal agencies, such as the Office of Personnel Management, the Internal Revenue Service and the Federal Deposit Insurance Commission. H.R. 1224 takes steps to prompt federal agencies to follow National Institute for Standards and Technology’s (NIST) widely accepted cybersecurity protocols and technical standards, directs NIST to establish outcome-based metrics for testing the effectiveness of federal agencies’ cybersecurity, and requires NIST to report to Congress the results of an initial assessment and subsequent, regular audits of cybersecurity measures at the federal agencies most at risk of cyber-attacks. It advances that mission by providing guidance that federal agencies may use to incorporate NIST’s cybersecurity framework, and establishes a federal working group and public-private working group to help the public and private sector use the framework more effectively. "Current practices to protect our federal cybersecurity systems are insufficient. This bill will help the federal government implement a consistent, user-friendly framework that each agency can tailor to meet its own unique cybersecurity needs, and it provides the NIST the authority it needs to help ensure our federal agencies' cybersecurity systems are up to standard," said Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology (SST). SST Chairman Lamar Smith, R-Texas, said, "This legislation is vital to ensuring our citizens’ information is secure, and I thank Congressman Abraham for his leadership on federal cybersecurity. The aftermath of several recent data breaches, including those at OPM, IRS and FDIC, showed that our federal government is a top target for cyber-attacks. Because the government collects personally identifiable information on all Americans, it is of the utmost importance that our cybersecurity framework is as secure as possible. “This commonsense legislation capitalizes on NIST’s unique position as a global leader in cybersecurity knowledge and readiness and takes a long stride in protecting U.S. cybersecurity capabilities. I look forward to working with our colleagues to getting this bill swiftly passed and sent to the president’s desk.” Earlier this month, the SST Research and Technology Subcommittee, of which Dr. Abraham is the vice chairman, held a hearing titled "Strengthening U.S. Cybersecurity Capabilities." During the last Congress, the SST held several hearings related to oversight and policy aspects of federal cybersecurity issues, including the examination of data breaches at the OPM, the IRS and the FDIC.
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, issued the following statement in response to National Security Adviser Michael Flynn's resignation:"The incident with Gen. Flynn is unfortunate. However, we cannot be deterred in our journey to national security and economic stability. There will be other bumps and potholes. There will be detractors and naysayers. But, as always, we will persevere and win. The Trump/Pence team is resolute in its focus and determined in its resolve. As President John Quincy Adams once said, 'Patience and perseverance have a magical effect before which difficulties disappear and obstacles vanish.'" ###
02.06.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced on Monday his subcommittee assignments for the House Armed Services Committee, positions that are of special importance to Louisiana’s military bases including Fort Polk and Barksdale Air Force Base. He will serve on the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, the Seapower and Projection Forces Subcommittee, and the Military Personnel Subcommittee. “These subcommittee assignments will allow me to work directly on issues that matter most to Louisiana’s military bases and the men and women who are stationed there. Not only do our military bases play an important role in defending our nation, they are also huge economic drivers for the state. I’m looking forward to making sure Louisiana has a seat at the table when it comes to military policy,” Dr. Abraham said. The Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee makes sure our nation is protected against terrorist attacks and unconventional threats. It oversees counter-terrorism programs, U.S. Special Operations Forces, Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, force protection, intelligence support and counter proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Policy crafted by this subcommittee is particularly important for Folk Polk as special operations forces use its Joint Reserve Training Center. The Seapower and Projection Forces Subcommittee oversees programs related to the Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force programs. This subcommittee is committed to reversing the decline in the Air Force’s Global Mobility and Bomber forces, which will have an impact on the Air Force Global Strike Command headquartered at Barksdale. Global Strike Command oversees the United States’ long-range strike bombers, including the B-52 bombers housed at Barksdale. The Military Personnel Subcommittee is responsible for military personnel policy, military health care, military education and POW/MIA issues. ###
02.02.2017	WASHINGTON - A bill authored by Congressmen Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-La., and Sam Johnson, R-Texas, to defend the Second Amendment rights of Social Security beneficiaries passed the U.S. House of Representatives today, Feb. 2. The bill, H.J. Res. 40, provided for the Congressional disapproval of a regulation issued in the midnight hours of the Obama administration that would strip thousands of Social Security beneficiaries of their Second Amendment rights. The regulation required that the Social Security Administration automatically report any beneficiary who receives assistance managing their finances due to a mental disability to the FBI to be entered into the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). Entry into that system would mean those beneficiaries forfeited their rights to possess and purchase firearms. Dr. Abraham and Rep. Johnson’s bill used the Congressional Review Act to rescind the regulation. “This rule allows for bureaucrats to strip disabled people of their Second Amendment rights without due process. The Constitution applies to all Americans, including disabled Americans, and I’m proud to see my colleagues stand up for them by passing this bill today,” Dr. Abraham said. The regulation has been widely criticized by gun owners’ rights groups, disabled Americans’ rights groups, and civil liberties groups. “The current public dialogue is replete with inaccurate stereotyping of people with mental disabilities as violent and dangerous, and there is a real concern that the kind of policy change encompassed by this rule will reinforce those unfounded assumptions,” wrote Helena R. Berger, President and CEO of the American Association of People with Disabilities. “Reporting law-abiding, non-dangerous individuals to NICS and forcing them, as a condition of removal, to provide they are not a threat to society is inconsistent with the (Gun Control Act), the Second Amendment and basic due process,” wrote Chris W. Cox of the National Rifle Association. “We oppose this rule because it advances and reinforces the harmful stereotype that people with mental disabilities, a vast and diverse group of citizens, are violent. There is no data to support a connection between the need for a representative payee to manage one’s Social Security disability benefits and a propensity toward gun violence,” wrote the Faiz Shakir, director of the Washington Legislative Office of the American Civil Liberties Union. The resolution must now pass the Senate. It requires only a majority vote to pass. A companion bill has been introduced by Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa.
01.29.2017	I’ve spent more than 20 years practicing medicine in the delta of Northeast Louisiana. After looking into the face of poverty, I believe that every American should have access to quality health care regardless of how much money they’ve got in the bank. That’s why I’m frustrated with politicians who point to the Affordable Care Act and its accompanying Medicaid expansion as the solution to treating the needy. They thump their chests in victory, but all they’ve done is enroll these patients into a second-rate program with limited access to physicians, an almost-empty stable of specialists, and a formulary so restrictive that it is an insult to my patients. Elected leaders must have the courage to demand better for the people we serve, not cling to failed institutions out of a lack of ingenuity or for political expedience. By repealing and replacing Obamacare, we have the opportunity to finally give all American citizens the health care they deserve. My biggest problem with Medicaid is the same problem I have with other ACA plans: The system puts Washington between doctors and patients. Patients trust their doctors with their lives, but our treatment plans for Medicaid patients are shackled by bureaucrats who demand the cheapest medicines, not the most effective. About 70 percent of plans sold on Obamacare exchanges in 2014 consisted of narrow network. Studies show Obamacare networks offer access to 42 percent fewer specialists, like oncologists and cardiologists, and 32 percent fewer primary care physicians compared to commercial plans. Medicaid patients’ access is no better. Some doctors take Medicaid patients in bulk to adjust for low reimbursement rates, lessening the quality of the doctor-patient interaction. Other doctors flatly refuse to see them because it isn’t profitable, and some see them anyway knowing they’ll take a loss. Limited access to physicians and specialists causes patients to go to the emergency room for non-emergent care or be admitted to the hospital for routine medical exams; expensive trips that result in taxpayers holding a bigger bill and patients being exposed to a more unhealthy environment. Obamacare defenders want to preserve this failed program, but we can do better. Pay the doctors and specialists who see these patients more fairly and expand access by deepening the provider pool. Patients would have their choice of doctors, and taxpayers would pay for fewer non-emergency ER visits and hospital admissions. Block granting current Medicaid funds would give state governments the flexibility to construct disbursement programs that work best for the people of that state while controlling taxpayer costs by encouraging states to reduce fraud and waste. The Government Accountability Office estimates that taxpayers lose $50.6 billion each year from improper Medicaid payments. A recent report by the Louisiana Legislative Auditor’s Office found the state Department of Health and Hospitals spent $1 million on Medicaid patients who no longer live in the state, and possibly misspent an additional $1.5 million. Block grants would force states to be more vigilant with taxpayer dollars by keeping better tabs on the number of Medicaid enrollees, something the state admits needs improvements. Every person who benefits from America’s health care system should feel invested. Small, minimum copayments ensure that all participants play an active role in supporting the system we all depend on. Finally, let’s get government out of the exam room. Let doctors and patients, including those on Medicaid, make their health care decisions together. When a bureaucrat decides patients’ tests and medicines, that patient often suffers without the care the doctor preferred to prescribe. This results in wasted doctors visits, wasted prescription payments, wasted time and increased costs. Every American deserves quality medical care. To provide that, we have to recognize that the ACA is a failure and that there is nothing compassionate about continuing to cram people into this failed system. We have an opportunity to do better for those who live in poverty, and that opportunity begins with Obamacare repeal.
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, voted in favor of the FY17 Budget Resolution, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives 227 - 198 Friday afternoon. The Budget Resolution provides important provisions for the budget reconciliation process, a legislative tool Congress will use to repeal Obamacare. “Too many American families have faced skyrocketing premiums and deductibles while seeing their quality and access to care decline due to Obamacare. They have demanded relief from this destructive law, yet liberals in Congress are desperately trying to keep it. Reconciliation is the best tool conservatives have to avoid liberal filibusters in the Senate and send Obamacare’s repeal to President Trump,” Dr. Abraham said. While technically the budget resolution sets spending for the remaining eight months of the fiscal year, its primary function is to repeal Obamacare. After Obamacare is history, Republicans will begin writing a new budget for the 2018 fiscal year with goals of aggressively targeting government waste, eliminating deficit spending and addressing our nation’s long-term debt. “The American people are ready for relief from Obamacare’s costs, taxes and mandates, and Republicans will deliver for them,” Dr. Abraham said. "There will be a smooth transition to a new system, and families will finally get the quality care they deserve." ###
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, joined U.S. Rep. Ron DeSantis, R-Fla., in leading a letter to President-Elect Donald Trump asking that the United States move its embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. More than 100 members of Congress signed the letter, which was mailed to Trump on Wednesday. Trump stated during his campaign that he, too, supports putting the American Embassy in Jerusalem."Israel is one of the United States' closest allies and stands alone in the Middle East for its commitment to democratic ideals. Moving the embassy will strengthen the unique alliance between Israel and the United States and send a clear message to the world that we support Israel in recognizing Jerusalem as its eternal capital," wrote the members. The letter comes less than a week after the U.S. House of Representatives passed a resolution that condemned the United Nations for its recent anti-Israel actions. Dr. Abraham was an original cosponsor of that resolution. Dr. Abraham has visited Israel twice since taking office and has become one of the country's strongest allies in Washington. He most recently met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in November where the two discussed the threats Israel faced from radical Islamic terrorists and how America and Israel can improve relations that have been strained over the past eight years by the Obama administration. "Israel and her citizens live under the daily threat of attack from Hamas and the Muslim Brotherhood. Nothing would send a stronger message of 'America stands with Israel' than to move our embassy to Jerusalem. Israel is the strongest democracy in the entire region, and as the global leaders of democracy, America must stand shoulder to shoulder with our Israeli allies," Dr. Abraham said. Read the letter here. ###
01.10.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, has been promoted to serve on the coveted House Armed Services Committee (HASC) during the 115th Congress. The HASC assignment will allow Dr. Abraham to play a key role in setting military policy for the United States and place him in prime position to protect Louisiana's military installations, including Barksdale Air Force Base in Bossier City, Fort Polk near Leesville, the Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base in New Orleans and Belle Chasse, and other Louisiana military-related priorities. The HASC assignment was a highly-sought position among members of the House of Representatives. Thirty-three Congressmen applied to fill just eight open positions. "It is a great honor to be appointed to the HASC. Our military is the strength and backbone of our wonderful country. America will always owe an unpayable debt to our men and women in uniform, both past and present," Dr. Abraham said. "This assignment allows me to be personally and directly involved in the fight against terrorism and for freedom. I will also continue to be an unbending advocate for our great veterans and their families." Dr. Abraham was a First Lieutenant with the 20th SFG Airborne Division of the Army National Guard from 1986-1989. Additionally, he is a fixed-wing and helicopter pilot who currently flies reconnaissance missions for the Coast Guard Auxiliary, and he is a mission pilot for the Air Force's Civil Air Patrol Green Flag Program.HASC Chairman Mac Thornberry, R-Texas, said, "I'm very glad to welcome Dr. Abraham to the HASC. He’s shown himself to be a tireless advocate for our military service members and our veterans. We will work together to strengthen our Armed Forces and make sure America is always in the best position to succeed against any threat we might face." "Congressman Abraham has a long standing track record of supporting the military. Over the years, his tireless efforts have certainly helped the Louisiana National Guard maintain a ready posture and enabled us to better serve the citizens of Louisiana," said Maj. Gen. Glenn Curtis, Adjutant General for the Louisiana National Guard. "It comes as no surprise to me that a man of his talents and vision should find a place on the House Armed Services Committee. I look forward to working with him in this new capacity and am certain that he will continue down a path of success for our state and nation."Fort Polk Progress Chairman Mike Reese said, "Congressman Abraham has vast experience in military operations and has demonstrated incredible support for our joint readiness center here at Fort Polk. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, he will better be able to communicate his intimate knowledge of our community and our base's future potential to the Army's civilian and military leaders so that they fully understand the military value of this great base in Louisiana. We look forward to working with Congressman Abraham in this new capacity." Additional committee assignments for the 115th Congress are expected later this week. ###
11.02.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, has been named the Richland Parish Chamber of Commerce’s Member of the Year. Dr. Abraham, a native and current resident of Richland Parish, is a member of the chamber. He owns a farm in Alto and has previously opened a veterinary clinic in Rayville and medical clinic in Mangham. Chamber Chairman Scott Franklin presented Dr. Abraham with the award at the Chamber’s first-ever banquet held at the Rayville Civic Center on Tuesday night. “I’m very honored to be recognized as the Member of the Year right here at home in Richland Parish,” Dr. Abraham said. “The Chamber and I share the same goals: to see more jobs and economic development come to Northeast Louisiana. It’s a mission I’ll continue for as long as I am fortunate enough to serve the people of Louisiana’s 5th Congressional District.” Franklin said he and other chamber members “really didn’t have a decision to make” when it came to picking Dr. Abraham for the Member of the Year due to his accomplishments over the past year. He highlighted Dr. Abraham’s work during the March floods, his advocacy for agriculture disaster relief, his leadership in trying to open agriculture trade with Cuba, and his efforts to keep the Rayville hospital open as accomplishments that merited the award. “The thing I admire most about Dr. Abraham is that he could be doing anything else in the world, but right now he chooses to hold a thankless job for the benefit of Richland Parish and all of Northeast Louisiana,” Franklin said. “All that he’s done over the course of a year is what most politicians would call a career.” Dr. Abraham is serving in his first term in Congress, his first publicly held office. He is a member of the House Agriculture Committee, the House Veterans Affairs Committee and the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. The Richland Chamber of Commerce was established a little over a year ago. Tuesday’s banquet marked the first in what the Chamber hopes will become an annual event. Franklin said the Chamber’s goal in the short term is to highlight small businesses and help them expand. The Chamber’s long-term goal is to attract an advanced manufacturing plant capable of supporting 2,000 jobs. Franklin said the parish’s access to interstate and intrastate highways, its proximity to the Mississippi River, relative closeness to hubs like Dallas and Atlanta, high water table, and quality of the land make it an ideal place for a manufacturing plant to grow and ship its products. ###
11.01.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, on Tuesday led the Louisiana Congressional delegation in a letter to President Obama supporting Gov. John Bel Edwards’ appeal of FEMA’s decision not to grant a cost-share adjustment for the March flood. Under current parameters, FEMA will cover 75 percent of the damage caused by the March flood, leaving the remaining 25 percent to be covered by the state and local governments. Dr. Abraham, the delegation and Gov. Edwards previously requested that FEMA cover 90 percent of the damages given both the scope of the March flood and the drain on state and local resources that resulted from the August flood. FEMA denied that request, but the Governor appealed that decision earlier this week. Dr. Abraham and the delegation’s letter supports that appeal. A 90-10 cost-share adjustment has already been granted for victims of the August flood. “It’s certainly a good step that FEMA has rightfully granted a cost-share adjustment for the victims of the August flood, but March victims cannot be forgotten during this recovery process,” Dr. Abraham said. “We’re still assessing damage, and people are still hurting. They need the support of their federal government.” Joining Dr. Abraham on the letter were Sens. David Vitter and Bill Cassidy and Reps. Steve Scalise, Garret Graves, Cedric Richmond, John Fleming and Charles Boustany. Dr. Abraham has also authored a bill that would grant the cost-share reduction. About 40,000 people across 36 parishes faced flood damages as the result of the March flood. Affected parishes include Allen, Ascension, Avoyelles, Beauregard, Bienville, Bossier, Caddo, Calcasieu, Caldwell, Catahoula, Claiborne, De Soto, East Carroll, Franklin, Grant, Jackson, La Salle, Lincoln, Livingston, Madison, Morehouse, Natchitoches, Ouachita, Rapides, Red River, Richland, Sabine, St. Helena, St. Tammany, Tangipahoa, Union, Vernon, Washington, Webster, West Carroll and Winn. ###
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, voted Wednesday to bring home half a billion dollars designated for disaster relief aid, the bulk of which will go to Louisiana to help residents recover from the devastating floods that struck the state in March and August. The flood relief was included in the continuing resolution, which passed the House in a late-night vote Wednesday. The half a billion dollars in disaster relief aid is the first step in helping Louisiana rebuild. The Louisiana delegation will work to get more money, as well as a 90-10 cost-share split for March flood victims, included in the year-end omnibus spending bill, which will be heard after the November elections."The continuing resolution I voted for tonight contains half a billion dollars for disaster relief that our people need. No, the CR wasn’t perfect, but Louisiana needs assistance now, and delivering that assistance is our delegation’s top priority. This is a good first step, but we have more work to do to fully recover from the March and August floods. I appreciate Sen. Cassidy’s work on the Senate Appropriations Committee in getting this initial downpayment, and I know he will continue his efforts to get the rest of the money we need into the year-end omnibus," Dr. Abraham said. ###
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, has secured additional funding for 22 rural hospitals throughout Louisiana after he and other members of the Louisiana delegation successfully convinced the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to revisit a ruling that affected these hospitals’ Medicaid reimbursement amounts. CMS approves Disproportionate Share Hospital funds to Louisiana’s small rural hospitals (fewer than 60 beds) as required by the Medicaid State Plan Amendment (SPA). These payments are based upon estimates of these hospitals’ future anticipated Uncompensated Care Costs. Should audits prove that a hospital has been overpaid through this system, those hospitals must pay back any excess money. However, CMS initially ruled that the recouped overpayments could not be used to better compensate hospitals that had been underpaid. Dr. Abraham wrote a letter to CMS in September requesting that the agency revisit its decision and redistribute the overpaid funds to 22 rural hospitals that had been underpaid. Joining him on the letter were Sens. David Vitter and Bill Cassidy and Reps. Charles Boustany and John Fleming. Dr. Abraham received word this week that CMS would in fact honor his and the delegation’s request, and the rural hospitals will receive more money. “As a family doctor with a rural practice, I know firsthand how important Louisiana’s rural hospitals are for the health of those of us who live out in the country. Unfortunately, too many of these hospitals have to fight for every dollar they can get just so they can continue their mission of helping these underserved areas. I appreciate CMS for agreeing these hospitals deserve more money. Rural Louisianians deserve access to high quality medical care, and I will always fight for them,” Dr. Abraham said. Rural Hospital Coalition Executive Director Charles Castille said, “On behalf of the Louisiana Rural Hospital Coalition, I want to thank Rep. Abraham for his assistance in getting CMS to reconsider their decision to not allow redistribution of these funds. This redistribution will be of significant benefit to our struggling rural hospitals in Louisiana." The precise amounts of how much each hospital will receive has yet to be determined, however, because each affected hospital was underpaid they will receive some amount of money. Hospitals in Louisiana’s 5th District, which Dr. Abraham represents, that will receive money include: Winn Parish Medical Center, Winnfield Morehouse General Hospital, Bastrop East Carroll Parish Hospital, Lake Providence West Feliciana Parish Hospital, St. Francisville Riverland Medical Center, Ferriday Madison Parish Hospital, Tallulah Hood Memorial Hospital, Amite Richardson Medical Center, Rayville Citizens Medical Center, Columbia Richland Parish Hospital, Delhi Jackson Parish Hospital, Jonesboro Other hospitals that will receive money include: DeSoto Regional Health System, Mansfield Bienville Medical Center, Arcadia Assumption Community Hospital, Napoleonville Dequincy Memorial Hospital, Dequincy Sabine Medical Center, Many St. Martin Hospital, Breaux Bridge Reeves Memorial Medical Center, Bernice Franklin Foundation Hospital, Franklin St. James Parish Hospital, Lutcher Acadia-St. Landry Hospital, Church Point Prevost Memorial Hospital, Donaldsonville ###
09.20.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, introduced legislation on Monday, Sept. 19, to address the recent cybersecurity breaches of personal data of millions of Americans. Dr. Abraham’s HR 6066, the “Cybersecurity Responsibility and Accountability Act,” sets a number of directives for federal agencies to strengthen their cybersecurity protocols, and the bill brings a new level of accountability for agency heads that fail to implement the security measures necessary to prevent against cyber attacks. The bill comes after numerous Congressional hearings uncovered that breaches occurred after federal government agency heads at agencies such as the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) failed to implement adequate procedures to protect data. Those three breaches alone resulted in compromised personal data of more than 20 million Americans. “As a country, we must do a better job protecting Americans and their personal information from cyber attacks. This bill not only implements important reforms to strengthen our cybersecurity, but it also increases accountability so that we can hold agency heads responsible when they fail to correct security vulnerabilities identified by inspectors,” Dr. Abraham said. The major provisions in the bill include: Specifies the role of the National Institutes of Standards and Technology (NIST) Director to develop and update cybersecurity standards and guidelines to fulfill the additional objectives and requirements of the Cybersecurity Responsibility and Accountability Act of 2016; Requires the NIST Director to conduct cybersecurity research to identify and address prevalent information security challenges, concerns, and knowledge gaps identified by agencies; Directs NIST, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the Department of Homeland Security to develop the job description and responsibilities for an agency Chief Information Security Officer within 6 months of this Act’s enactment; Requires each agency to provide mandatory annual information security training and certification designed specifically for the agency head, which is to be developed and updated by NIST; Requires the annual agency report to OMB to include written certification by the agency head that NIST information security standards are being met by the agency; Requires each agency head to develop plans in consultation with GAO and separately with the agency IG to implement all of the GAO’s and respective agency IG’s recommendations regarding information security controls relevant to the agency; Requires an independent IG evaluation of each major cybersecurity incident experienced by the agency; and If the IG’s evaluation of the major cybersecurity incident determines that the incident occurred because the agency head failed to comply sufficiently with the information security requirements, recommendations, or standards provided by NIST, the IG, or GAO, the OMB Director shall take enforcement action. The action that the OMB Director may take includes recommending to the President the removal or demotion of the agency head, or ensuring the agency head does not receive any cash or pay awards or bonuses for a period of 1 year. ###
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s announcement that the federal government would cover 90 percent of the public costs as a result of the August floods in southern Louisiana. All of the 5th District’s southern parishes – St. Landry, West Feliciana, East Feliciana, St. Helena, Tangipahoa and Washington parishes – were included in the President’s Aug. 14 disaster declaration. “The cost-share reduction for the August flood was a good first step, however, I’m working with FEMA to determine why it did not grant a cost-share reduction for the more than 40,000 people flooded in March. The March flood affected mostly rural parishes whose already-limited resources have been stretched even thinner by historic flooding. We might not have gotten a presidential visit or a spotlight by the national media, but we still got 20-plus inches of rain that flooded our homes, churches, farms, businesses and schools, too. The administration should grant a cost-share reduction for the victims of the March flood. It is the right thing to do,” Dr. Abraham said. The March flood affected about 40,000 people across 36 parishes. These parishes include Allen, Ascension, Beauregard, Bienville, Bossier, Caddo, Calcasieu, Caldwell, Catahoula, Claiborne, De Soto, East Carroll, Franklin, Grant, Jackson, La Salle, Lincoln, Livingston, Madison, Morehouse, Natchitoches, Ouachita, Rapides, Red River, Richland, Sabine, St. Helena, St. Tammany, Tangipahoa, Union, Vernon, Washington, Webster, West Carroll and Winn. Last month, Dr. Abraham led the entire Louisiana delegation in asking that FEMA grant the cost-share adjustment for both March and August flood events. The parishes that will benefit by this cost-share reduction include East Baton Rouge, Livingston, St. Helena, Tangipahoa, Acadia, Ascension, Avoyelles, East Feliciana, Evangeline, Iberia, Iberville, Jefferson Davis, Lafayette, Pointe Coupee, St. Landry, St. Martin, St. Tammany, Vermillion, Washington and West Feliciana. ###
08.27.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D, R-Alto, and the Louisiana Congressional delegation on Friday wrote to Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) administrator Craig Fugate asking for a cost-share reduction for state and local entities in Louisiana that are rebuilding after two floods in 2016. Joining Dr. Abraham on the letter were Louisiana Sens. David Vitter and Bill Cassidy and Reps. Steve Scalise, John Fleming, M.D., Charles Boustany, M.D., Cedric Richmond and Garret Graves. Under the law, FEMA splits disaster response and recovery costs with state and local entities at a 75 percent to 25 percent cost-share ratio, with FEMA carrying 75 percent of the financial burden. The delegation’s letter requests that ratio be adjusted to a 90-10 cost-share split, which will lesson the financial burden on state and local entities trying to rebuild. The letter specifically requests that FEMA consider both the flooding from March that affected northern, central and southern Louisiana and the current flood in southern Louisiana when making its cost-share reduction determination. “No corner of our state has been spared from flooding this year. The Louisiana Congressional delegation is united in our belief that recovery must be approached holistically as the entire state of Louisiana. We got through the floods together, and Louisiana will be a stronger state if we rebuild together, too,” Dr. Abraham said. Combining both floods, the entire Fourth Congressional District and 22 of 24 parishes in the Fifth Congressional District have been declared federal disaster areas. In total, 49 of Louisiana’s 64 parishes have been declared federal disaster areas at some point this year. Each of the six congressional districts has had at least one parish flood this year. Some parishes have been affected by both flood events. Sen. Cassidy said, “Louisiana has suffered tremendously this year, experiencing two federal disasters within just six months. More than half of our state has been somehow affected. That’s why Rep. Abraham and I are asking FEMA to consider both of these disasters as one and to recommend a cost-share adjustment to the President.” Sen. Vitter said, “Louisiana faces a very long, tough recovery process, and we're encouraging FEMA to consider all that we've been through.” Rep. Richmond said, “The combination of the March and August flooding events has stretched state and local government’s budget to the breaking point. Any federal response should look at the total effect of these disasters. Adjusting the federal cost share would be positive step towards providing the state and the people of Louisiana the resources they desperately need and deserve.” Dr. Fleming said, “For the second time this year Louisiana has been hit hard by a massive flood. I’ve seen the devastation up close – both from the flood in March and this historic recent flooding. Given the magnitude of the damage, FEMA should reduce their cost share to help Louisianians get back on their feet again.” Dr. Boustany said, “The recent flooding in South Louisiana has been historic. Coupled with relief efforts from the March flooding earlier this year, the state’s resources have been stretched dangerously thin. The road to recovery for Louisiana will be long and costly, and we will need all the assistance we can get. I urge the consideration of these devastating disasters together in order to provide timely relief for the thousands of flood victims throughout our state who desperately need it.”
08.26.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D, R-Alto, announced Friday that the Department of Transportation has awarded the Alexandria International Airport (AEX) at England Airpark nearly $17 million in federal grant funds. The total amount of $16,975,000 represents grant funding for three separate projects. A $10 million grant will fund noise mitigation measures at residences adjacent to the Alexandria International Airport to meet requirements outlined in the latest Airport Noise Compatibility Plan. A $4.95 million grant will fund construction of an emergency access road to improve emergency personnel’s ability to respond to emergency and evacuation activities at the airport. A $2.025 million grant will fund reconstruction of 63,500 square yards of apron pavement that has reached the end of its useful life. The airport received the funds for the access road and the apron pavement project as part of the airport’s inclusion in the Military Airport Program. “These federal funds represent a significant investment in the Alexandria International Airport, investments that will help the airport continue to be one of the most important pieces of infrastructure in the region,” Dr. Abraham said. England Authority Chairman Mike Johnson said, “The England Authority would like thank Congressman Abraham and the Louisiana Congressional Delegation for its support of AEX. These funds will make possible improvements that will last decades; create jobs; enhance air travel; improve disaster response and support national security. We are honored and humbled by this investment in Central Louisiana.” ###
08.24.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Wednesday that the Monroe Regional Airport will receive more than $1.8 million in grant funding from the Department of Transportation. The total grant amount is worth $1,822,753. The money will fund drainage improvements at the airport that are necessary to adequately handle storm water runoff. “Unfortunately, we’ve seen flooding throughout Louisiana this year, including in Monroe. We need to make all the investments we can toward improving our flood mitigation abilities so that when heavy rains come again, we are better able to move water and keep vital pieces of infrastructure, like the airport, open for business. I appreciate the DOT’s grant award and Mayor Jamie Mayo’s administration for its continued efforts toward improving the airport,” Dr. Abraham said. Mayor Mayo said, “We are thankful for the hard work and support of Congressman Abraham and our entire federal delegation to help secure over $1.8 million in U.S. DOT funding for our airport. The drainage improvements these funds will allow us to make is the latest long-term enhancement project that will make our new terminal sustainable for many years to come." Airport director Ron Phillips added, “These drainage improvements are very important for passenger safety and our ability to operate during and after heavy rain events. We are pleased to receive the $1.8 million dollars in grant funding from the Department of Transportation for the Airport Drainage Project. We would like to thank Congressman Abraham for his assistance in securing these funds for the Monroe Regional Airport.” ###
08.22.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Monday that Louisiana Tech University has received a $6 million grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF). The grant will focus on understanding the initiation of epileptic brain seizures and longer-term impacts of brain function, such as memory. The project will use minimally invasive implantable sensors to monitor brain activity before, during and after seizure events. The study will result in new jobs, new equipment and new courses of study for undergraduate and graduate students. Leonidas Iasemidis will serve as the lead investigator, and co-investigators Mark DeCoster, Teresa Murray, Jerzy Szaflarski and L. John Greenfield will join him. Dr. Abraham toured the research facility this spring. He also wrote a letter to the NSF in support of the grant application. “This is a tremendous win for Louisiana Tech’s students, faculty and staff. As a doctor, I have worked with many patients who suffer from epilepsy. I’m proud to have supported this grant application because it represents not only an investment in Tech, but also an investment in the futures of all of those who suffer from these seizures,” Dr. Abraham said. The project is projected to begin in September and run through the end of August 2020. ###
07.25.2016	WASHINGTON – Disabled veterans are eligible to receive an increase in their benefits next year thanks to a bill by Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, that became law over the weekend. President Obama signed Dr. Abraham’s HR 5588, the Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2016, on Friday, July 22. The new law directs the Department of Veterans Affairs to increase, as of Dec. 1, the rates of veterans’ disability compensation, additional compensation for dependents, the clothing allowance for certain disabled veterans, and dependency and indemnity compensation for surviving spouses. The amount of the increase will be equivalent to the increase provided under Title II of the Social Security Act. The precise amount of the adjustment will not be known until the end of the calendar year. “I’m proud to have led the bipartisan effort in Congress to provide for our American heroes. This COLA adjustment will help bring increased financial security to our veterans and their families. Our veterans served our country, and now we have to make sure they receive the benefits they deserve for their sacrifice,” Dr. Abraham said. Veterans issues have been among Dr. Abraham’s top legislative priorities since he was elected to Congress in 2014 in his first publicly elected office. As a freshman, he chaired the VA Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, and he also serves on the Subcommittee on Health. Dr. Abraham has also passed legislation in the House – HR 677, the American Heroes COLA Act – that will make veterans’ COLA adjustments automatic each year. The Senate has yet to act on the legislation. Dr. Abraham has been an avid supporter of the Veterans’ Choice Program, which allows veterans in rural areas to use doctors and local medical care clinics for health care instead of waiting potentially months for an appointment at a VA facility. Dr. Abraham cosponsored HR 1994, the VA Accountability Act, that passed the House in June 2015. The bill seeks to bring accountability to the VA by giving the department more flexibility to fire, demote or otherwise penalize VA employees who have failed our veterans, such as those responsible in the wait-time scandal that resulted in veteran deaths and disability claims scandals where employees were hiding and shredding claims documents. The Senate has also yet to act on that legislation. “The VA has failed to provide our veterans with the care they deserve. The House has acted - with my support - to reform the department that, frankly, must be held more accountable to the veterans it’s supposed to be serving. I will continue to fight to make the changes we need in the VA for as long as I am fortunate enough to serve in Congress,” Dr. Abraham said. Dr. Abraham has also introduced or cosponsored the following legislation pertaining to veterans: HR 2214, the Disabled Veterans’ Access to Medical Exams Improvement Act; HR 5620, the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act; HR 5149 to assist with reimbursement for emergency ambulance services used by veterans; and HR 352, the Veterans Access to Hearing Health Act. Dr. Abraham is a veteran of the U.S. Army Reserves and National Guard. He currently volunteers as a pilot for the Coast Guard Auxiliary and the Air Force’s Green Flag division. ###
07.15.2016	WASHINGTON – A bill by Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, to provide veterans with a cost of living adjustment awaits only the President’s signature before it becomes law. The House of Representatives passed Dr. Abraham’s HR 5588, the Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2016, on Monday, July 11. The bill is required before veterans can become eligible for a cost of living increase. The Senate followed suit and passed the bill on Wednesday, July 13. The President is expected to sign it. “Providing a cost of living adjustment for veterans is an important step to ensure their financial stability. Our veterans took care of our nation, and now we need to take care of them,” said Dr. Abraham, the chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs. “I appreciate the broad bipartisan support this legislation found in both the House and the Senate, and I look forward to the President’s signature so we can make this bill the law.” HR 5588 directs the Department of Veterans Affairs to increase, as of Dec. 1, the rates of veterans’ disability compensation, additional compensation for dependents, the clothing allowance for certain disabled veterans, and dependency and indemnity compensation for surviving spouses. The amount of the increase will be equivalent to the increase provided under Title II of the Social Security Act. The precise amount of the adjustment will not be known until the end of the calendar year. Veterans depend on Congress to act each year to provide them with benefits adjustments. Last year, Dr. Abraham’s bill to provide veterans with a COLA passed the House but never made it out of committee in the Senate. However, Dr. Abraham is pushing to make veterans’ COLA adjustments automatic, thereby removing the need for Congress to act each year. His bill HR 677, the American Heroes COLA Act, would grant veterans a benefit adjustment each year Social Security recipients receive an adjustment. HR 677 passed the House on Feb. 9, but the Senate has not acted on it. “It is certainly encouraging that both houses in Congress have passed my COLA bill this year, but we need to go further, especially considering the Senate failed to act last year. Veterans deserve the peace of mind that comes with knowing a COLA will come annually, rather than hoping Congress can break its gridlock to provide for them,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Wednesday that two important projects led by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are underway in Louisiana’s 5th Congressional District. On Monday, the Corps began repairs on five non-functional tainter gates at the Lindy C. Boggs Lock & Dam No. 1 on the Red River in Avoyelles Parish. Congress provided the Corps with $5.898 billion for fiscal year 2016, which is $500 million more than Congress allocated to the Corps the previous year. At Dr. Abraham’s urging, the Corps directed some of this additional money toward the J. Bennett Johnston Waterway to bring the total budget for this repair project and dredging projects to $14.782 million for this fiscal year. The repairs are expected to take 60 days, according to the Corps. “The Lindy Boggs Lock and Dam provides essential flood control measures not only for Avoyelles Parish but also for communities up and down the Red River. I fought hard for the funds to fix these gates because the people who live near the river must be better protected in times of flooding. I appreciate the Corps for undertaking these repairs. I know there are a lot of people in Central Louisiana who will be glad to see these gates fixed,” Dr. Abraham said. On Tuesday, the Corps sent a dredge to the Lake Providence Harbor to remove accumulated sediment that could prevent waterway traffic as water levels fall later in the year. During high water events, a small chute northeast of the harbor carries increased flow from the Mississippi River and deposits sediment in the main harbor channel. As the water level decreases, the resulting sediment causes shoaling, which is a hindrance to navigation and forces port operators to light-load barges. This year’s extended period of high water along the Mississippi has caused severe shoaling that has restricted barge drafts to nine feet or less, which would have created a problem during the late-summer harvest when traffic at the harbor is at its highest. Dr. Abraham contacted the Corps to request the dredging to ensure that the there is no disruption to waterway commerce, especially during the harvest season. The Corps has agreed to dredge the accumulated sediment, and it will also conduct dredging in the area on a larger scale in mid to late August. “Maintaining open waterways is critical to the economic well being of our port communities and for our farmers who rely on these ports to move their commodities to market. I thank the Corps for agreeing to dredge around the port so that we can prevent any disruption in commerce,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
07.11.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Monday that the U.S. House of Representatives passed his legislation to block an executive order from the Obama Administration that could drive up the costs of building in Louisiana communities. On Thursday, July 7, the House passed HR 5485, the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act. Included in the base language of the bill is Dr. Abraham’s effort to defund President Obama’s Executive Order 13690, which establishes a Federal Flood Risk Management Standard (FFRMS. The FFRMS scraps the 100-year base flood commonly used to determine flood risk and replaces it with new determinations that take into account future flooding from climate change. The new determinations will expand the amount of area subject to a floodplain and impose stricter building standards on projects that receive any sort of federal assistance. This will drive up the costs of new transportation, housing, mitigation and flood protection projects, and it could have unforeseen consequences on flood insurance and other federal programs. The executive order was issued without any public engagement on the need for a new standard, without any documentation on the scientific justification for the new standard, and without any consideration of the long-term costs. Dr. Abraham’s legislation in HR 5485 would prohibit the administration from implementing the FFRMS until it can provide Congress and the American people with details on how it will affect federal programs and an analysis of the economic costs and benefits. Dr. Abraham’s legislation also ensures that the FFRMS will have no effect on the flood insurance rates or on programs carried out by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. “The FFRMS is yet another example of this administration circumventing the public and imposing new, unjustified regulations in the name of combating climate change. This order is bad for Louisiana and all those who wish to build and invest in our state. I applaud my colleagues who helped pass this important legislation so that we can prevent hard-working Americans from bearing the costly impact of this standard on their homes and communities,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, is leading the effort in the U.S. House of Representatives to bring long overdue recognition for the heroism of Lt. Joseph Verbis Lafleur, an Army chaplain who sacrificed his life in World War II. He has introduced a bill that would award Lafleur with the Distinguished Service Cross. In December 1941, the Japanese attacked Lafleur’s steamship. Lafleur remained onboard to minister and aid evacuating soldiers. He was the last person to leave the ship and was eventually captured by enemy soldiers. While imprisoned in the Japanese POW camp, Lafleur continued to minister to other prisoners, and he endured multiple beatings from guards as a result. Though he suffered from malaria and failing health due to field labor, he denied himself medicine so that others could take it and volunteered for the grueling Lasang work detail to spare others that pain. Lafleur died in 1944 while aboard a Hell ship bound for Japan after a torpedo struck the ship. His family, who lives in Dr. Abraham’s district in Opelousas, has been seeking to recognize Lafleur for his service to our nation. Dr. Abraham, joined by other members of the Louisiana congressional delegation, introduced a bill this week to help pave the way for Lafleur to be awarded with the Distinguished Service Cross, a recognition second only to the Medal of Honor. “Chaplain Lafleur is more than deserving of the Distinguished Service Cross for his incredible acts of heroism and self-sacrifice in the face of tremendous adversity. His faith in God and country is an inspiration to us all. His service to our nation can never be fully repaid, but I am thankful that I get to play a small role in highlighting to the nation what this great Louisianian did for it and his fellow soldiers,” said Dr. Abraham, who serves on the House Veterans Affairs Committee. Lafleur’s family has been trying for years to get him the recognition he deserves. The Army reviewed the case and determined he is eligible for the Distinguished Service Cross. Due to the amount of time that has passed, legislation is required to move the process forward. Dr. Abraham’s bill provides the authorization needed for the Secretary of the Army to award Lafleur with his medal. Reps. Charles Boustany, R-Lafayette, John Fleming, R-Minden, and Garret Graves, R-Baton Rouge, cosponsored Dr. Abraham’s House legislation. Sen. Bill Cassidy, R-La., has introduced a companion bill in the Senate.“Lieutenant Reverend Joseph Verbis LaFleur is a hero. He brought faith and comfort to those who needed it most. He ultimately sacrificed his life to save others,” said Dr. Cassidy. “It is my honor to announce that he will be awarded the Distinguished Service Cross.” Dr. Boustany said, “I am proud to support legislation that recognizes the valiant effort and unwavering bravery of American soldiers. If there ever was an individual worth receiving such an honor, it is First Lieutenant Joseph Verbis Lafleur. As a prisoner of war on a Japanese ship, Lafleur deprived himself of his basic needs to tend to the physical and spiritual needs of his fellow soldiers. It is because of his sacrifice and the sacrifice of others like him that we can experience the freedoms we have today.” Dr. Fleming said, “Even as we celebrated our nation’s independence this week, we cannot lose sight of the men and women who have, are right now, and will in the future, honorably, courageously, and valiantly serve in our nation’s armed forces. Chaplain Lafleur, a true unsung WWII hero, selflessly provided physical and spiritual nourishment for his comrades in captivity. Chaplains are an integral part of our military fabric, facilitating the free exercise of religion within the military, and providing timely care, compassion, and comfort to our servicemen and women.” Rep. Graves said, “Chaplain Lafleur’s passion to fill the needs of the people and circumstances surrounding him influenced his every decision – as a priest in Abbeville and Opelousas to a First Lieutenant serving in the Pacific – and continues to inspire us today. His willingness to put others before himself endured to the end – choosing to help his men instead of himself escape the sinking ship that ultimately took his life. He embodied the spirit of the Distinguished Service Cross, and I’m proud to support the effort to authorize this award in recognition.”
07.05.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, released the following statement in regards to FBI Director James Comey’s announcement today about former Sec. of State Hillary Clinton’s receipt and distribution of top secret and classified information on her private email server. "Based on what I heard from the FBI director, Sec. Hillary Clinton absolutely deserves to be prosecuted for how negligent she and her office were in handling our nation’s most sensitive information, but much to my extreme disappointment, it seems the government is failing our country once again because of politics. The FBI director stated that seven email chains directly involving Sec. Clinton were “Top Secret.” More than 100 emails were classified. And the worst - he admits that it is possible that foreign enemies obtained that information. From Attorney General Loretta Lynch’s secret meeting with former President Clinton to the announcement today, it’s really no wonder that Sec. Clinton believes the rules don’t apply to her, and it’s no wonder that the American people are losing faith in their government,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Wednesday that seven students from Louisiana’s 5th Congressional District have received appointments or invitations to attend a military service academy or preparatory school. As a member of Congress, Dr. Abraham has the privilege of nominating a limited number of candidates from his district to service academies. These students compete against the most qualified young men and women in the country to earn appointments to these prestigious academies. “I’m proud of all of these students both for their successes so far in their academic careers and for their willingness to serve our nation. These young leaders are shining examples of the best and brightest the 5th District can offer, and I congratulate them on their appointments,” Dr. Abraham said. The following candidates accepted an offer of appointment to attend the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo. They will join the Class of 2020 on June 30: Abigail Diane Aldecoa: Aldecoa graduated from Pineville High School in May. She is the daughter of Terri and Edward Aldecoa. Mary Rachel Carson: Carson and her family are permanent residents of Hodge. She graduated from Kubasaki High School in Japan where her family is currently on military deployment. She is the daughter of Cynthia and Col. Ronnie Carson, Jr., who is in the U.S. Marine Corps. Michael Ronnie Delatte: Delatte is from St. Francisville. He graduated from Catholic High School and is the son of Jamie Mabile and Ronnie Delatte. Heath William Hilton: Hilton is from Alexandria. He graduated from Holy Savior Menard Central High School and is the son of Patricia and David Hilton. Joffre Tremaine Hunter: Hunter is from Monroe. He graduated from Richwood High School and is the son of Jackie and Euckle Hunter, Jr. The following candidates accepted an invitation to attend an academy preparatory school: Carlos Eduardu Gallardo: Gallardo will attend the U.S. Navel Academy Preparatory School in Annapolis, Md., beginning July 19. He is from Franklinton and is the son of Rosa and Darrel McCain. Gallardo graduated from Franklinton High School in 2011 and is currently serving on active duty with the U.S. Navy and stationed in Norfolk, Va. Stacey Tremayne Hawkins II: Hawkins will attend the U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School in Colorado Springs, Colo., beginning July 20. He and his family are permanent residents of Bastrop. He is the son of Natalie and Gen. Stacey Hawkins. He graduated from Mascoutah High School in Illinois where his father is a Gen. in the U.S. Air Force and serving at Scott Air Force Base. Those interested in applying to a service academy for the Class of 2021 should apply directly through the academy’s admissions office. For more information or to request an appointment, contact Jessica Sunderhaus in Dr. Abraham’s Central Louisiana District Office in Alexandria. She can be reached at 318.445.0818 or Jessica.Sunderhaus@mail.house.gov. Interested parties can also find more information about the academy nominating process by visiting Dr. Abraham’s website at https://www.Abraham.house.gov. ###
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, introduced legislation on Monday, May 23, that seeks to halt the Obama administration’s executive overreach regarding the transgender bathroom directive handed down to public schools. Earlier this month, President Obama issued a directive stating that any public school that failed to allow students to use bathrooms and locker rooms that corresponded to their “gender identity” would be found in violation of Title IX. He warned that such a violation could result in the loss of federal funds. However, Title IX has been widely interpreted to refer to biological sex since it became enacted in 1972. It was originally passed to rectify inequality among the sexes, particularly in regards to athletic opportunities and after school programs. The bill Dr. Abraham introduced Monday, HR 5307, amends Title IX by simply clarifying that “the term ‘sex’ means with respect to an individual the biological sex of such individual.” “For 40 years, society and law have interpreted Title IX to refer to a person’s biological sex. Now the President and liberal activists are distorting that meaning to circumvent Congress to enact their radical social agenda. My bill removes any ambiguity in the law to ensure that Title IX's true intent is respected. Transgender bathroom policy decisions should be made on the local and state levels, not by an over-reaching Executive Branch that twists the law to suit its own purposes,” Dr. Abraham said. The definition of “sex” found in Dr. Abraham’s bill follows the same guidelines used by other arms of the federal government, such as the Census Bureau, which uses biological sex to carry out its constitutional duty to count and catalogue American citizens. The definition is also consistent with the widely accepted medical definitions used by the American Psychological Association. “The American people are sick and tired of their voices in Congress being ignored by a president who tries to rule like a dictator. Laws are made in Congress, not the White House. The President has no authority to ignore Congress and impose sweeping societal changes that fly in the face of the law, and he certainly has no authority to withhold congressionally appropriated funds to schools that fail to comply with his agenda. Congress should swiftly pass my bill to show the people that their Congress will not stand for an Executive Branch that ignores our Constitution,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, issued the following statement in response the President Obama’s order mandating that all public schools allow people to use any bathroom they choose regardless of their biological gender. “President Obama’s decree that all public schools allow people to use any bathroom they choose is yet another example of why Washington should not be dictating policy on the local school level. His threat to withhold federal funding from schools that do not comply is nothing short of extortion. Liberal politicians and bureaucrats should not infringe on our values to appease less than 1 percent of the population. Frankly, I don’t want my granddaughters going to the same bathroom with a grown man, and I have a huge problem with Obama telling them that they have to just deal with it,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
04.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, continued advocating to the President and the United States Department of Agriculture for additional flood relief and assistance in the wake of historic flooding in Louisiana. Dr. Abraham wrote to President Obama asking for additional flood relief resources for the city of Monroe, which experienced more than two feet of rain that led to the displacement of thousands of people from flooded homes. His letter doubles down on the sentiments expressed by city leaders last week that additional resources from the federal government will be needed to help the city fully recover. “As the process of recovery continues, I ask that you and your administration remain committed to seeing Louisiana through this difficult time. A strong federal commitment to supplement the work being done on the state and local levels is critical to ensure that the survivors of this catastrophic event can rebuild their livelihoods so that Louisiana can continue to grow,” Dr. Abraham wrote. Dr. Abraham also wrote to Brandon Willis, administrator of the USDA Risk Management Agency, which oversees crop insurance. He requested that the agency adjust its planting deadlines to help farmers who have lost their crops due to the flood. The current schedule requires farmers to continue to plant and replant corn up until the April 20 final planting date. After that, there is a two-week late planting period where a farmer can plant corn if he or she wants, but the farmer will face steadily diminishing crop insurance benefits. A farmer can also wait out that two-week period, and on May 5 can plant a secondary crop, usually soybeans, without facing a crop insurance benefit penalty. Unfortunately, many fields are either still flooded or just too wet to plant, which will make meeting that final planting date deadline difficult. With the historic flooding we’ve experienced, our farmers are going to need every break they can get. If they are required to wait a full two weeks to plant a secondary crop, our farmers will unnecessarily lose yield, which means fewer crops and less earning potential. Dr. Abraham requested that the USDA allow secondary crop planting to begin one week earlier to help farmers meet their growing potential without having to sacrifice crop insurance benefits. “Our farmers should be given every opportunity to maximize their yields. Recovering from the flood will be hard enough that we ought not tie them down with punitive rules and regulations,” Dr. Abraham said. Read the letter to President Obama regarding Monroe here. Read the letter to the USDA regarding support for farmers here. ###
03.15.2016	MONROE – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Tuesday that President Obama has declared an 16 additional parishes federal disaster areas due to recent flooding, according to FEMA. Gov. John Bel Edwards requested Tuesday morning that Beauregard, Bienville, Caddo, Caldwell, DeSoto, LaSalle, Livingston, Madison, Natchitoches, St. Tammany, Tangipahoa, Union, Vernon, Washington, West Carroll and Winn parishes be added to the list of parishes considered federal disaster areas. The President granted that request later on Tuesday. Bossier, Claiborne, Grant, Morehouse, Ouachita, Richland and Webster parishes were declared federal disaster areas on Sunday. “This historic flood has left thousands of Louisianians hurting and in need of federal assistance. After personally visiting all corners of my district – from Northeast, Central and Southeast Louisiana – I can say that the damage is widespread. I appreciate Gov. Edwards and President Obama for including more parishes into the federal disaster zone. That declaration is necessary so that we can move forward and rebuild together,” Dr. Abraham said. The emergency declaration can be amended further to include more parishes. It is critical that parishes left off the most recent list report their damages to their local governments so that local officials can complete their damage assessments. Once local damage assessments are completed, that information can be forwarded to the Governor’s Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness, which can then ask for another amended declaration that expands the scope of the disaster zone. Dr. Abraham will continue to assist local governments in obtaining federal disaster declarations, and he will continue to help facilitate requests for assistance as he has done throughout the flood event. A resource sheet for applying for federal aid can be located online at Abraham.House.gov. Individuals in the parishes that have already received a federal disaster declaration can register with FEMA by applying online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-3362. Those who have a speech disability or hearing loss should call 1-800-462-7585 directly. Those who use 711 or Video Relay Service can call 1-800-621-3362. ###
03.13.2016	MONROE – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Sunday, March 13, that President Obama has declared a federal state of emergency for seven Louisiana parishes affected by recent flooding. Gov. John Bel Edwards requested Sunday that Ouachita, Morehouse, Richland, Grant, Bossier, Claiborne and Webster parishes be declared federal emergencies. The President granted that request Sunday. The federal emergency declaration means that individuals, businesses and other entities will be eligible for federal emergency funds to aid in the flood recovery. “This historic flood has displaced thousands of people and destroyed property throughout my district in Northeast, Central and Southeast Louisiana. They will need federal assistance to help recovery from this disaster. I appreciate Gov. Edwards and President Obama for requesting and granting federal assistance so that we can begin rebuilding and moving forward,” Dr. Abraham said. The emergency declaration can be amended to include other parishes after parishes complete damage assessments. Those who live in parishes not listed in the initial declaration should continue to report their damages to their local governments, and local officials should compile that information and forward it to the Governor’s Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness. Dr. Abraham will continue to assist local governments in obtaining federal disaster declarations, and he will continue to help facilitate requests for assistance as he has done throughout the flood event. “I have personally visited each region visited of my district affected by the storm. The devastation is widespread. I’m confident that once other parishes report their damage assessments, they will be included in amended disaster declaration requests,” Dr. Abraham said. Individuals in the seven parishes that have already received a federal disaster declaration can register with FEMA by applying online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-3362. Those who have a speech disability or hearing loss should call 1-800-462-7585 directly. Those who use 711 or Video Relay Service can call 1-800-621-3362. Additional Resources: FEMA Public Assistance Fact Sheet, FEMA Public Assistance Approval Process Fact Sheet ###
02.18.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Thursday that the National Science Foundation has awarded Louisiana Tech University a grant worth more than half a million dollars. The $518,155 grant will go toward boosting Tech’s engineering program. The grant is part of a program that seeks to enhance the way students learn engineering in an effort to educate, retain and train more engineers. “Louisiana Tech is already a premier university for studying engineering. President Les Guice and his faculty do a tremendous job of educating the next generation of STEM graduates. This grant will help them further their mission of meeting and filling these high-demand jobs,” said Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. Dr. Guice praised the work of professor Marisa Orr for her work in the engineering program and her efforts in securing the grant. “The impacts Dr. Orr’s work in helping students to make good academic decisions, which will affect both their college and professional careers, will be felt for beyond Louisiana Tech and long after the students graduate. I am grateful for the support of the NSF and the leadership of Congressman Ralph Abraham in fostering research and innovation at Louisiana Tech and all institutions of higher education in our state,” Dr. Guice said. ###
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON – A bill authored by Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto and chairman of the Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, unanimously passed the full House of Representatives on Tuesday, Feb. 9. Dr. Abraham’s “American Heroes COLA Act” would provide an automatic cost of living adjust for veterans each year such an adjustment is applicable. This is a change from the current law, which requires an act of Congress each year to make a COLA adjustment. The “American Heroes COLA Act” requires that whenever there is a cost of living increase in the benefit amounts payable under the Social Security Act, the secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs shall increase by the same percentage the amounts payable as veterans’ disability compensation, compensation for dependents, clothing allowance for certain disabled adult children, and dependency and indemnity compensation for surviving spouses and children. “The American Heroes COLA Act is a bill that’s been a long time coming. Our veterans have earned - and deserve - the right not to be dependent on the whims of Congress to see that their basic needs are met. I appreciate the efforts of Rep. Dina Titus and our fellow VA Committee members in passing this important bipartisan legislation that will benefit our nation’s heroes,” Dr. Abraham said. Titus, the ranking member of the subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, said, “Unlike with Social Security COLA increases, Congress must act each year to provide veterans with the COLA increases they need and deserve. Our nation’s heroes should receive these increases automatically each year, in a timely fashion, removed from the political vagaries of Capitol Hill. By permanently adjusting benefits to include cost of living increases, we are providing critical peace of mind to those who have bravely served this country. I’m proud to have worked with Rep. Abraham on legislation that will protect the financial security of disabled veterans and their families.” "Our veterans put their lives on the line to protect our freedoms and have earned the benefits they were promissed. This is a simple way to improve the delivery of those benefits by fixing a process that unnecessarily holds our heroes hostage to a dysfunctional Congress. I commend Congressman Abraham for offering a meaningful solution, and I proudly support its passage to help bring peace of mind to many veterans and their families," said Rep. Garret Graves, R-Baton Rouge. "Our veterans have earned high-quality care and benefits through their service to our country. While a dollar buys less every day, the benefits of our disabled veterans have stayed the same. That's just not right. I thank Dr. Abraham for authoring this important legislation, and I look forward to working with him to improve care for our veterans across the United States," said Rep. Charles Boustany, R-Lafayette. "The Veterans Administration currently has many claims pending for various types of benefits, and this bill will help address that backlog, as well as reform claims processing procedures. We owe a great debt to our nation's veterans and their spouses, dependents and survivors and I'm glad to support Rep. Abraham's legislation to ensure they receive the care they deserve," said Rep. John Fleming, R-Minden. The bill will now head to the Senate where it will likely be assigned to the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs. ###
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, introduced legislation Thursday, Feb. 4, to advance sensible tax reform in an effort to stimulate agribusiness. Dr. Abraham’s bill, the Fairness for Agricultural Machinery and Equipment (FAME) Act, will fix the tax code to shorten the depreciation schedule for farm equipment from seven years to five years. The change will bring the code more in line with the equipment’s useful economic life. A shorter depreciation schedule means that farmers can deduct the costs of new investments in farm equipment from their taxable income over a shorter period of time. This will allow farmers to recover the cost of equipment sooner and, therefore, encourage farmers to make investments to grow their business and spur growth in farm equipment manufacturing. “The FAME Act is common sense legislation that will put farmers on equal footing with other businesses that typically have a five-year depreciation schedule for their durable equipment. This is a good bill that will strengthen agribusiness and encourage economic growth,” said Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Agriculture Committee. Dr. Abraham introduced the bipartisan FAME Act along with eight other members of Congress from across the country. They include Reps. Rick Crawford, R-Ark.; Jeff Denham, R-Calif., Ron Kind, D-Wis.; Sanford Bishop, D-Ga.; Frank Lucas, R-Okla.; Brad Ashford, D-Neb.; Mike Pompeo, R-Kan.; and Rod Blum, R-Iowa. ###
01.27.2016	ALEXANDRIA – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced the following satellite office hours for Avoyelles, Catahoula, Concordia, Grant, LaSalle and Winn parishes. Constituents are encouraged to visit with the staff during these office hours if they need help with any federal agency. Staff members are also available during business hours at the Central Louisiana District Office in Alexandria, which can be reached at 318.445.0818. Avoyelles Parish: Avoyelles Parish Police Jury meeting room, 312 N. Main St., Marksville, from 9:30 – 11:30 a.m. on the first Wednesday of every month, beginning March 1. Catahoula Parish: Catahoula Parish Police Jury meeting room, 301 Bushley St., No. 104, Harrisonburg, from 1 – 4 p.m. on the third Tuesday of every month, beginning Feb. 16. Concordia Parish: Concordia Parish Courthouse Police Jury conference room, 4001 Carter St., Vidalia, from 9 a.m. – noon on the third Tuesday of every month, beginning Feb. 16. Grant Parish: Grant Parish Police Jury meeting room, 200 Main St., Colfax, from 9 a.m. – noon on the second Tuesday of every month, beginning Feb. 9. LaSalle Parish: LaSalle Parish Police Jury meeting room, 1050 Courthouse Dr., No. 13, Jena, from 1 – 3 p.m. on the first Wednesday of every month, beginning March 1. Winn Parish: Winn Parish Police Jury meeting room 112, 119 W. Main Street, No. 102, Winnfield, from 1 – 4 p.m. on the second Tuesday of every month, beginning Feb. 9. More information on satellite office hours and services provided through Dr. Abraham’s office can be found online at Abraham.house.gov. ###
01.27.2016	MONROE – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced the following satellite office hours for Caldwell, East Carroll, Franklin, Jackson, Lincoln, Madison, Morehouse, Richland, Tensas and West Carroll parishes. Constituents are encouraged to visit with the staff during these office hours if they need help with any federal agency. Staff members are also available during business hours at the Northeast Louisiana District Office in Monroe, which can be reached at 318.322.3500. Caldwell Parish: Caldwell Parish Courthouse Annex conference room in Columbia from 9 – 11:30 a.m. on the third Tuesday of every month, beginning Feb. 16. East Carroll Parish: East Carroll Parish Sheriff’s Office meeting room, 301 First St., Lake Providence, from 9 -11:30 a.m. on the second Tuesday of every month, beginning March 8. Franklin Parish: Franklin Parish Courthouse Police Jury conference room, 6560 Main St., Winnsboro, from 2 – 4:30 p.m. on the third Tuesday of every month, beginning Feb. 16. Jackson Parish: Jackson Parish Sheriff’s Office annex meeting room in Jonesboro from 2 – 4:30 p.m. on the first Tuesday of every month, beginning Feb. 2. Lincoln Parish: Lincoln Parish Courthouse ground floor conference room, 100 W. Texas St., Ruston, from 9 – 11:30 a.m. on the first Tuesday of every month, beginning Feb. 2. Madison Parish: Madison Parish Courthouse Police Jury room, 100 N. Cedar St., Tallulah, from 2 – 4:30 p.m. on the fourth Tuesday of every month, beginning March 22. Morehouse Parish: Morehouse Parish Courthouse Police Jury room, 100 East Madison, Bastrop, from 9 – 11:30 a.m. on the second Monday of every month, beginning Feb. 8. Richland Parish: Richland Parish Courthouse Police Jury meeting room, 708 Julia. St., Rayville, from 2 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. on the second Monday of every month, beginning Feb. 8. Tensas Parish: Tensas Parish Courthouse Police jury room, 12 Hancock St., St. Joseph, from 9 – 11:30 a.m. on the fourth Tuesday of every month, beginning Feb. 23. West Carroll Parish: West Carroll Parish Courthouse Police Jury room, 1074 South Briggs St., Oak Grove, from 2 – 4:30 p.m. on the second Tuesday of every month, beginning Feb. 9. More information on satellite office hours and services provided through Dr. Abraham’s office can be found online at Abraham.house.gov. ###
01.19.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, opposes the Department of Veteran Affairs’ choice to head up health care operations in Louisiana and Mississippi due to the appointee’s involvement in the ongoing scandal regarding VA wait times. VA Sec. Bob McDonald has appointed Skye McDougall to head the South Central Veterans Administration Health Care Network (VISN 16). Medical centers in Alexandria, Shreveport and New Orleans are included in her network. Dr. Abraham, who serves on the House Veterans Affairs Committee and is the chairman of the Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs subcommittee, wrote McDonald on Friday, Jan. 15, to oppose McDougall’s appointment. In February 2015, McDougall testified before Congress that wait times at her previous post in Los Angeles were only four days for new patients. Investigative reports revealed that McDougall’s testimony was false and that average wait times were actually more than 40 days. “It is imperative that VISN 16 be managed by a director whose hands are clean of this scandal and who understands that acknowledging existing faults and holding those accountable are the first real steps to fixing a broken system,” Dr. Abraham wrote in the letter. The VA originally planned to appoint McDougall to a position in Phoenix where at least 40 veterans are reported to have died while waiting care. After Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., objected, the VA searched for a new post for McDougall where she eventually landed at VISN 16, which oversees Shreveport’s Overton Brooks medical center where 37 veterans are reported to have died while waiting for care. It has been common practice for the VA to shuffle employees involved in the wait time scandal rather than holding those employees accountable. “Louisiana should not be a dumping ground for the VA’s unwanted employees,” Dr. Abraham said. “This case shows yet another example of the VA working to protect high-level bureaucrats instead of serving our veterans. It is imperative we make the VA Accountability Act law so that we can root out these entrenched bureaucrats and get our nation’s heroes the care they deserve.” ###
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, voted against the $1.1 trillion omnibus spending bill passed by the House on Friday, Dec. 18. The omnibus passed the House with a 316 - 113 vote. The Senate was expected to take up the bill Friday night. “This omnibus bill does nothing to curtail Washington’s out-of-control spending. If anything, it adds to the problem. We’re going to saddle our grandchildren with unmanageable debt if we don’t get serious about this problem. It’s an irresponsible way to govern,” Dr. Abraham said. Not only did the omnibus bust spending caps by nearly $58 billion, but it also failed to address a number of conservative priorities. The omnibus maintains funding levels for the abortion provider Planned Parenthood, takes no steps to halt the influx of Syrian refugees, and fails to repeal the Environmental Protection Agency’s most burdensome regulations, including the Waters of the US rule. “The message I hear repeatedly throughout my district is that Congress must leverage the power of the purse to combat President Obama’s destructive policies. We missed an opportunity to do that with this omnibus, and Congress must do better a better job in the future,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
11.30.2015	Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, participated in a Congressional oversight visit to Afghanistan and Kuwait during the week of Thanksgiving. He joined five other members of Congress in meetings with U.S. military commanders, American troops and Afghan President Mohammad Ashraf Ghani. “Easily the highlight of my trip was eating Thanksgiving Day meals with men and women from Louisiana who are fighting for us,” Dr. Abraham said, “but what I was most struck by is how enthusiastic and optimistic our troops are about their mission in fighting Islamic extremism and establishing a stable government in Afghanistan.” During the meeting with Ghani, Dr. Abraham learned how Ghani’s administration has brought stability to the government and has taken aggressive roles in both combat missions and rooting out corruption. “President Ghani’s forces have taken over conducting combat missions against the Taliban, al Qaeda and ISIS. He and a committee sit down each week and he personally goes through government contracts to root out corruption. I believe he is the right man at the right time to lead that country,” Dr. Abraham said. Gen. John Campbell, commander of the U.S. forces in Afghanistan, briefed Dr. Abraham and others on the trip about the role of the U.S. military in Afghanistan. American troops have taken on a more advisory role and offer air support to Ghani’s defense forces. Campbell said there are signs that enemy combatants are fractured, and the United State’s strategy is working. While progress is being made in Afghanistan, both Ghani and Campbell agree that the United States should continue its involvement in the country for the time being. Dr. Abraham supports that position. “These guys are on the ground every day, so I trust their assessment of the situation,” Dr. Abraham said. “We do see a path to an exit, but we aren’t there yet. It would be a mistake to leave prematurely because it would undo years of work and sacrifices, including the loss of American lives. We have to finish the mission and fight them over there so that we aren’t fighting them here.” Military personnel also echoed Dr. Abraham’s belief that ISIS can be defeated with an increased American air presence and the freedom to pursue the enemy where they exist. “ISIS exists because President Obama failed to listen to his military advisers and pulled out our troops too early. I’m glad he’s listening in Afghanistan and will leave a US presence in the country, but he should also listen when his military says that now is the time to eliminate ISIS for good. If we increase our air strikes, we’d provide the support that our allies in the region need to send in ground troops. ISIS can be beaten, but we need stronger leadership from the President to finish the job,” Dr. Abraham said. Other members on the trip included Reps. Mike Coffman, R-Colo.; Phil Roe, R-Tenn.; Beto O’Rourke, D-Texas; Mark Takano, D-Calif.; and Ann Kuster, D-NH. ###
11.16.2015	For a couple years now we’ve watched as the terrorists of the Islamic State perform acts of violence against innocent people, from beheading Christians to setting prisoners of war on fire to selling women into the sex slave trade. On Nov. 13, ISIS spread its barbaric attacks to Europe in an attempt to strike fear into those nations like the United States and France who believe in what they hate the most: freedom. The Western world cannot sit idly by while these Islamic extremists strike at our very way of life. The victims in Paris were civilians. They were simply living their lives much in the same way we do – cheering at sporting events, singing along at concerts and eating at restaurants. The sad truth is that if ISIS can strike Paris, they can hit us at home. That’s a tragedy we don’t have to face. It is preventable, but it’s going to take a renewed focus from our President and bold leadership. Unfortunately, nothing the President has done in the wake of the attacks would suggest he’s willing to do what it takes to keep us safe. Just hours before the Paris attacks, he told us the lie that ISIS had been “contained.” As France responds with air strikes, President Obama told reporters Monday that he had no intention of changing his plan in handling Syria and ISIS. We should be standing with our Western allies in defense of our common belief that democracy is worth defending. We should establish no-fly zones in Syria and enforce them. We should leverage our air superiority and bomb ISIS into submission so that we can give our Middle Eastern allies the cover they’ve requested to engage in ground operations. A coalition of nations is ready to eradicate ISIS, but the President refuses to allow the United States to lead them in this effort. Some may worry that an escalation in the region could result in ground troops or a clash with Russia, which has run roughshod over our interests in Syria and Ukraine because of this administration’s lack of moral courage to stand by our word. ISIS has been allowed to blossom because they believe the United States is weak. Each red line the President has drawn has been crossed, and each time it’s crossed, he responds with nothing. I say if any nation or enemy violates our allies’ air restrictions, we swat them down like flies to remind the world of the power that we are. Not only has the President taken no meaningful steps toward destroying ISIS, he’s done nothing to address the concerns thousands of people have in the country – me being among them – about the “refugees” he’s allowing into our country. We know one of the terrorists who attacked France snuck in as a refugee. Who’s to say that can’t happen here? What steps are we taking to prevent that from happening? Where are they going to be housed, and who is keeping track of them once they’re here? I asked the President these very basic questions in a letter back in September. He has yet to respond. For that reason, I’m against allowing a single refugee into this country. If the administration can’t prove that they pose no danger to Americans, they shouldn’t be here. That’s why I cosponsored the “Resettlement Accountability National Security Act,” a bill that halts any refugees from entering the country until Congress passes a joint resolution that would allow them to be here. This would give us more oversight of the process and maybe then we’d get some answers that the President has withheld. ISIS is a very real threat, not a “JV team” as President Obama has suggested. It’s time for him to get serious about this problem and begin acting like a Commander in Chief. If he can’t do that, then he needs to resign. ###
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto; Rep. Cedric Richmond, D-New Orleans; and Rep. Bobby Rush, D-Ill.; introduced a bill Thursday, Nov. 5, that seeks to prevent deaths of high school football players. The bipartisan High School Football Safety Study Act would direct the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to work with the Secretary of Education and the President’s Council on Fitness, Sports and Nutrition to study the causes of deaths in high school football and deliver recommendations about how to prevent future tragedies. “My district felt the terrible effects of one of these tragedies just this year,” Dr. Abraham said. “This bill will seek the root causes of such incidents so that we can better protect our children while preserving the game we love. Saving the lives of our children is a worthy cause to pursue, and I commend Rep. Richmond and Rep. Rush for their leadership on this issue.” Both Dr. Abraham and Rep. Rush represent districts that experienced a high school football fatality this year. Franklin Parish High School player Tyrell Cameron, 16, died Sept. 4 following an injury during a game. Andre Smith, a 17-year-old from Bogan High School in Chicago, also died from an in-game injury on Oct. 22. Since July 1, 11 high school football players have died nationally from causes directly or indirectly related to football. According to the National Center for Catastrophic Sports Injury Research at the University of North Carolina, 1,207 high school football players have died from causes related to football. The bill would require that the CDC seek input from parents, coaches, athletic trainers and healthcare professionals, and asks the CDC to analyze how technology and data analytics can be used to prevent serious injuries and deaths in the future. The bill would NOT impose any new regulations. It only directs existing federal agencies to study the issue and offer recommendations for solutions. “Our children are our greatest national treasure, and protecting them is paramount in our work in Congress,” said Richmond. “It is our responsibility to ensure that we leave no stone unturned to make the game as safe as possible for young people and prevent these tragedies from happening in the future. Moving forward, I hope this legislation will start that process and begin a national conversation about how to better protect youth in football.” “No child should suffer a deadly accident or injury while participating in high school sports,” said Rush. “This legislation is important because it will help us protect America’s children and keep them safe. There have been far too many reports of high school deaths related to sports and it is time we address this issue head on and so I urge my colleagues to support this bill.” ###
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, joined an overwhelming majority of Republicans in electing Rep. Paul Ryan, R-Wis., as the next Speaker of the House. Dr. Abraham joined 235 other Republicans in voting for Ryan, who garnered the support of all major Republican caucuses in Congress, including the very conservative House Freedom Caucus. Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., finished in second place with 184 votes. Rep. Daniel Webster, R-Fla., finished a very distant third place after getting only nine votes. “Paul Ryan and I share a vision for America where working people are able to provide for their families if the government would stop burdening them with taxes, regulations and wasteful spending. Speaker Ryan is a proven leader who can unite our party and help us realize our shared priorities of strengthening the middle class, providing opportunities and growing our economy. I congratulate him on his election and look forward to working with him in the days to come,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, on Tuesday called the announced budget deal “an assault on rural America” because of provisions within the bill that would gut the Federal Crop Insurance program. Dr. Abraham, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, joined a bipartisan coalition of agriculture leaders in Congress in authoring a letter demanding changes to the bill that would restore the cuts to crop insurance. The bill could be voted on as early as Wednesday. “This budget deal is an assault on rural America and the farmers who produce the food we all need to survive. Crop insurance provides important protections to our farmers during difficult years, such as this year where we experienced both flooding and droughts. Congress cannot allow this invaluable program to be gutted during a back-room deal. I will work alongside my agriculture colleagues on both sides of the aisle to defend rural Americans from this terrible policy decision,” Dr. Abraham said. “Not even two years have passed since we made a commitment with the passage of a bipartisan 5-year farm bill that included $23 billion in savings. The current Bipartisan Budget Agreement of 2015 breaks that promise,” the members wrote. The continued, “Nobody consulted the Agriculture Committees of Congress when this provision was included n the bill, the details of which were not posted until the early morning hours of Tuesday, October 27. Instead, a reckless provision of devastating consequences was quite literally inserted in a back room in the middle of the night.” The members have vowed to not only oppose the bill but to actively lobby other members in voting against the bill to guarantee its defeat if the provisions are not removed. Along with Dr. Abraham, others who signed the letter include House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway, R-Texas; House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson, D-Minn.; Rep. Eric A. “Rick” Crawford, R-Ark.; Rep. Frank D. Lucas, R-Okla.; Rep. Jason Smith, R-Mo.; Rep. Kevin Cramer, R-N.D.; Rep. Scott DesJarlais, R-Tenn.; Rep. Stephen Fincher, R-Tenn.; Rep. Rod Blum, R-Iowa; Rep. Filemon Vela, D-Texas; Rep. Tim Huelskamp, R-Kan.; Rep. Trent Kelly, R-Miss.; Rep. Tom Emmer, R-Minn.; Rep. Doug LaMalfa, R-Calif.; Rep. Blake Farenthold, R-Texas; Rep. Ryan Zinke, R-Mont.; Rep. Ted Poe, R-Texas; Rep. Austin Scott, R-Ga.; Rep. Adrian Smith, R-Neb.; Rep. Randy Neugebauer, R-Texas; Rep. John R. Moolenaar, R-Mich.; Rep. Adam Kinzinger, R-Ill.; Rep. Tom Rooney, R-Fla.; Rep. Dan Newhouse, R-Wash.; Rep. Rick Allen, R-Ga.; Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa; Rep. Roger Williams, R-Texas; Rep. Randy Weber, R-Texas. The full text of the letter reads: It has come to our attention that the “Bipartisan Budget Agreement of 2015” contains a provision that violates our pledge not to reopen the 2014 Farm Bill and would inflict serious injury on America’s farmers and ranchers at a time when net farm income is projected to be down by 53 percent over the past two years. Section 201 of the bill is widely expected to end Federal Crop Insurance, which is critical to produces and lenders alike. Specifically, the provision proposes to reduce rates of return to crop insurance companies from a gross of about 14.5 percent down to a gross of 8.9 percent. However, this does not tell the real story. Since 2011 actual returns to companies have averaged about 5 percent, and factoring in costs, the average returns are much closer to zero. The reduction contained in Section 201 would kill private sector delivery, which is responsible for the success of Federal Crop Insurance. Not even two years have passed since we made a commitment with the passage of a bipartisan 5-year farm bill that included $23 billion in savings. The current Bipartisan Budget Agreement of 2015 breaks that promise. Nobody consulted the Agriculture Committees of Congress when this provision was included in the bill, the details of which were not posted until the early morning hours of Tuesday, October 27. Instead, a reckless provision of devastating consequences was quite literally inserted in a back room in the middle of the night. This provision must be removed from the bill. If it is not stripped from the bill, we will have no choice but to work to defeat this measure. ###
10.16.2015	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto and chairman of the Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, issued the following statement about the resignation of Allison Hickey, the undersecretary of benefits at the Department of Veterans Affairs. “I commend Allison Hickey for her military service, but her resignation leaves room for what will hopefully be some fresh air in a department that has turned a blind eye to far too many problems in the VA,” Dr. Abraham said. As the head of the Veterans Benefits Administration, Hickey’s department was the subject of a report by the Office of the Inspector General that revealed veterans’ data manipulation and systemic abuse of the VA employee relocation program. Before the report was released, Dr. Abraham conducted an oversight visit to the Philadelphia VA Regional Benefits Office in June where he met with Hickey and other employees. Those meetings revealed the serious problems that still exist between employees, top managers at the VA, and the veterans they are supposed to be working for. “We saw stark differences in how the leadership and management viewed the workplace versus how the employees viewed the workplace. We have yet to see the improvements we were promised. I have continually said we need a VA structure that works for the veteran, not the government bureaucrat, and I will continue to push for real reform in the VA system,” Dr. Abraham said. See the OIG report here. ###
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, praised the ruling from the federal Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati today that placed on hold President Obama’s controversial Waters of the US rule (WOTUS). The rule, crafted by the Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, would redefine the scope of the waters protected by the Clean Water Act and likely mean more regulations for non-navigable waterways, such as ditches on a farm. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, Dr. Abraham has met with countless farmers from throughout Louisiana’s 5th District, and nearly all of them have expressed concerns over the WOTUS rule. “The WOTUS rule is a prime example of the EPA’s vast overreach and over regulation from the Obama administration. Today’s ruling is a huge win for farmers and landowners. I have always said that the farmer is the best conservationist and steward of his or her land. As this matter continues to be litigated, I will keep up my fight in Washington to undo this terrible rule,” Dr. Abraham said. Dr. Abraham has been a frequent critic of both the EPA and the WOTUS rule. In August, he signed a letter calling for an Inspector General’s investigation of the EPA amid evidence the agency sought to corrupt the public comment portion of the rule-drafting process. Dr. Abraham also cosponsored the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act (HR 1732) that would require the EPA withdraw the proposed rule and write a new one using stakeholder input. The bill passed the House in May. ###
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Sens. David Vitter, R-La., and Bill Cassidy, M.D. R-La., and Reps. Ralph Abraham, M.D. R-Alto, Charles Boustany, Jr., M.D., R-Lafayette, Rep. Cedric Richmond, D-La., and Garret Graves, R-La., offered their support to the National Guard by supplying written testimony to the National Commission on the Future of the Army in Washington on Wednesday. “We write today to express our support for the 450,000 dedicated troops in the National Guard of the United States, whose selfless service and sacrifice provide a critical service to our country. The Louisiana delegation has been actively involved in ensuring that the funding needs for the National Guard and Army are proportionately met, including drafting language during the Armed Services Committee negotiations which led to the ultimate establishment of this Commission on the Future of the Army,” wrote the members. The Louisiana delegation has consistently advocated for adequate funding levels to ensure the National Guard can continue their job, especially in a time of uncertainty “The cost effectiveness and efficiency of the National Guard is unmatched,” Dr. Abraham said. “The support of National Guard troops is essential in Louisiana, the country, and the world. They provide a vital operational readiness, and I will continue to fight for the Guard in Congress to ensure their needs are met.” “I’ve fought for years to ensure that our military – especially those based in Louisiana – have the support and funds needed to continue protecting Louisiana citizens and preserving our national security. Louisiana’s guardsmen have demonstrated how invaluable they are to Louisianians during Hurricanes Katrina and Rita,” Sen. Vitter said. “In order to maintain the Guard’s effectiveness, we cannot afford to undercut the bedrock of its the force structure. In fact, the Guard should be expanding, not decreasing their roles.” “I will forever be grateful and humbled by the sacrifices our military members and their families have made to protect our liberties both at home and abroad. In a time of uncertain budgets, we have to ensure our current and future Active, Reserve, and National Guard forces remain as trained, ready, and as lethal as possible,” Rep. Boustany said. “The combined Air and Army National Guard components are essential to our long-term national security strategy,” Rep. Graves said. “Our citizen soldiers complement our full-time service members in a way that is both cost-effective and operationally efficient – giving us a competitive advantage in today’s military climate. It’s imperative we avoid reductions to National Guard end strength and force structure, which could compromise the Guard’s ability to perform at the high level it does today.” The National Commission on the Future of the Army (NCAF) was commissioned by the 2015 NDAA. Members of NCAF attended a special meeting in Washington organized by the House National Guard and Reserve Components Caucus to hear the views of congress regarding operational capacity and readiness of Army structure. ###
10.07.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, is supporting fellow Louisianan and current Majority Whip Steve Scalise for Majority Leader. “I give my wholehearted support to Steve Scalise in his bid to become the next Majority Leader. As Whip, Steve has always been there for me during my freshman term to answer my questions and help guide me on the votes we’ve taken. He has proven that he can advance conservative policies that will get our country back on track. Steve is the right person at the right time to lead our party, and I hope others will join me in supporting Steve Scalise as the next Majority Leader,” Dr. Abraham said. House Republicans are expected to select nominees for Speaker, Majority Leader and Majority Whip during meetings Thursday. ###
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, voted against a funding bill passed by the House on Wednesday because it preserved funding for Planned Parenthood. The House approved the funding bill, called a continuing resolution, by a vote of 277-151. Dr. Abraham advocated for a continuing resolution that stripped funding for Planned Parenthood, an organization that performs abortions and is the subject of a number of videos that appear to show that the organization harvests and sells body parts of aborted babies. “I will listen to anyone and compromise when appropriate, but I will never compromise my principles. I could not in good conscience vote for a CR that provides funding for Planned Parenthood. I believe Congress missed an opportunity to leverage the power of the purse to protect life. Fighting to defend the unborn is a battle I’m always willing to wage, and I will continue to look for opportunities to hold Planned Parenthood accountable for its barbaric abortion practices,” Dr. Abraham said. Dr. Abraham did support a resolution that passed the House on Wednesday that would end funding for Planned Parenthood, however, it is unlikely the Senate will adopt a similar resolution. Both chambers would have to pass the resolution for it to become part of the funding bill that the President will receive and consider signing into law. ­­As a practicing physician of a rural family clinic in Richland Parish, Dr. Abraham has been defending life since before being elected to Congress. Since taking office, Dr. Abraham has demonstrated his commitment to pro-life issues. He has cosponsored a number of bills that would defend life, including: The Defund Planned Parenthood Act (HR 3134), which strips federal funding from Planned Parenthood. The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act (HR 3504), which levies fines and prison time for doctors who fail to render assistance to children born alive during abortions. The Pro-LIFE Act (HR 3429), which prohibits profiting from the sale of fetal tissue. The Life at Conception Act (HR 816), which states the Constitution guarantees a right to life for Americans at all stages of development beginning at conception. The Pain-Capable Child Protection Act (HR 36), which bans abortions after 20 weeks; and The No Taxpayer Funded Abortion Act (HR 7), which prohibits federal funds from being used by insurance companies to pay for abortions. ###
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, voted Friday to defund Planned Parenthood, an organization that provides abortion services in clinics across the nation. Dr. Abraham is an original cosponsor of the Defund Planned Parenthood Act, which passed 241-187-1. His sponsorship of the bill came during the wake of shocking videos that show high-ranking Planned Parenthood officials discussing the harvesting and sale of body parts of aborted fetuses. Planned Parenthood receives about $500 million in taxpayer money. The Defund Planned Parenthood Act shifts that money from Planned Parenthood to other women’s health care providers that do not perform abortions. “As a family doctor, I’ve spent my career protecting life. The Planned Parenthood videos show the depths of the heinous practices that take place within that organization. It doesn’t deserve one penny of taxpayer money. My vote today protects the life of unborn children while ensuring women still have access to the medical care they need,” Dr. Abraham said. The House also passed – with Dr. Abraham’s support – the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. The act will make health care providers subject to prison sentences and fines if they refuse to provide medical care to a baby who is born alive during an abortion. It’s another bill rooted in the Planned Parenthood videos that show the organization encourages its provides to perform abortions in such a way that they can harvest more tissue and maximize their profits resulting from the sale of that tissue. “I can’t even fathom not helping a baby after he or she is born. Any doctor who refuses to care for a child should be in jail,” Dr. Abraham said. The House’s actions Friday did not shut down the federal government; it simply shifted funding from Planned Parenthood to other providers who do not perform abortions. Dr. Abraham’s votes Friday demonstrate his continued commitment to protecting the lives of unborn babies. In May, he voted for Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which bans abortions after 20 weeks. He cosponsored the No Taxpayer Funds for Abortion Act, which prevents federal funds from being used by insurance companies to pay for abortions. He also cosponsored the Life at Conception Act, a bill that declares that the right to life guaranteed by the Constitution is vested in all stages of life, including the moment of conception. ###
09.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Wednesday, Sept. 16, that a number of Louisiana parishes have been declared natural disaster areas by the United Sates Department of Agriculture due to drought. The drought declaration makes farmers in those parishes eligible for assistance, including low-interest emergency loans, from the Farm Service Agency (FSA). “This summer’s hot, dry weather will likely have an impact on crop production. I applaud the USDA for making these important designations that will help farmers offset any losses they might have incurred due to the drought,” Dr. Abraham said. Ten parishes received designations as primary natural disaster areas due to draught, including the 5th District parishes of Caldwell, Jackson, Lincoln, Morehouse, Ouachita and Richland. Other parishes receiving this designation include Bienville, Claiborne, Union and Webster. The U.S. Drought Monitor determined that those parishes suffered from a severe, extreme or exceptional drought conditions for at eight or more consecutive weeks during the growing season. Additionally, 10 parishes received designations as contiguous disaster areas and will also be eligible for FSA assistance. These include the 5th District parishes of Catahoula, East Carroll, Franklin, La Salle, Madison, West Carroll and Winn. Other parishes receiving this designation include Bossier, Natchitoches and Red River. Farmers have eight months to apply for emergency loans. The FSA considers each emergency application on its own merits. The USDA encourages farmers to contact their local FSA offices for more information. More information and online applications for disaster relief programs can be found online at https://www.fsa.usda.gov/programs-and-services/disaster-assistance-program/index. Dr. Abraham is a member of the House Agriculture Committee. ###
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, voted against a resolution Friday that would have approved of the Iran nuclear deal. The House rejected President Obama’s controversial agreement with the Iranian government with 269 members voting against approval, 162 voting for approval and one voting present. Dr. Abraham has been an outspoken critic of the Iran deal because he believes it threatens national security and the security of Israel and America’s allies in the Middle East. “This dangerous deal puts Iran on a pathway to obtaining a nuclear weapon in 10 years. Iran’s supreme leader has called for Israel to be destroyed while his supporters chanted ‘Death to America.’ This deal puts our national security at risk, and I believe it must be stopped,” Dr. Abraham said. In addition to the vote against the Iran deal, Dr. Abraham joined a majority of the House in passing legislation that would prevent the President from lifting sanctions on Iran. As part of the President’s agreement, more than $100 billion in sanction relief would flow into Iran if the deal were accepted. “Iran is the largest state sponsor of terror in the world. Its government is working to acquire more sophisticated weapons and intercontinental ballistic missiles that will be used to further the cause of Islamic extremism around the world. No American should die because the American government funded terrorism, but that’s exactly what the result will be if we lift sanctions,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
08.03.2015	MONROE – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, spoke to at-risk youth about the importance of hard work, education and leadership at Jack Hayes Elementary School in Monroe on Monday, Aug. 3. The students Dr. Abraham addressed are part of the Deputies Making a Change (DMAC), an enrichment program sponsored by the Ouachita Parish Sheriff’s Office to identify and help at-risk youth ages nine to 13. The program has been active for four years after being revived by Sheriff Jay Russell. This year, 23 students from different school throughout the parish are participating in the program. “I enjoyed the opportunity to speak to these students this morning about the importance of becoming good citizens for our community and for their futures. The DMAC is a terrific program, and I applaud Sheriff Russell and his hardworking deputies, who work hard every day to make a difference in the lives of these students,” Dr. Abraham said. The DMAC is a yearlong program that begins in June. Deputies meet with the students in the mornings during the summer and in the afternoon during the school year. They work with the students to address discipline issues, provide mentors and improve their academic skills. Students also travel to educational sites across the state and hear from prominent speakers and positive role models, like Dr. Abraham. “Dr. Abraham boldly spoke to the students about some challenges he had in school and the corrections he made to become a better student,” said Sgt. Eric McElroy of the Sheriff’s Office. “Dr. Abraham strongly encouraged the students to stay in school and maintain the goals that are set. The staff really appreciated the time he took from his day and the passionate testimony that was given to the children. Dr. Abraham is a true representation of what hard work and dedication can produce: Success!” For more information on this program, contact the Ouachita Parish Sheriff’s Office. ###
07.30.2015	By Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto As details about the Iranian nuclear deal emerge, it is clear to me that Congress must prevent the deal from becoming policy. I was highly skeptical about the President’s ability to negotiate a deal with Iran. Sadly, I was right. The President has strengthened one of our greatest enemies while allowing it to continue enhancing its nuclear capabilities. The President traded the United States’ and Israel’s security for the sake of his legacy with this deal. Make no mistake: this deal is a colossal mistake, and it’s a failure based on the President’s own benchmarks. This deal hinges mostly on one shaky premise: trust in the Iranian government, the largest state sponsor of terror in the world. Right out of the gate, that trust should have been questioned. Under Secretary of State Wendy Sherman said in February 2014 said the U.S. would insist that Iran come clean about its past efforts to weaponize its nuclear program. By the end of the negotiations, Sec. of State John Kerry told the Associated Press that “a full accounting of Iran’s possible past atomic weapons research is not necessarily critical” for him to make a deal. Strike one. Kerry at first said any deal would require Iran to dismantle its nuclear program. He told the American people in November 2013 that the nonproliferation treaty clearly stated that “there is no right to enrich. [The U.S.] does not recognize a right to enrich.” By 2015, Kerry had changed his mind and struck a deal that allows Iran the ability to enrich its own uranium. Strike two. At the beginning of negotiations, the Iranian deal was meant to bring stability to the Middle East. Sherman said in February 2014 that the need to shut down Iran’s ballistic missiles was “something that has to be addressed as part of a comprehensive agreement.” Instead, the President, Kerry and Sherman lifted the embargo on the import and export of conventional arms and ballistic missiles to and from Iran. They also lifted sanctions that will result in Iran making an additional $150 billion. Iranians will use this money and to fund and arm terrorist groups like Hezbollah, which routinely launches rockets against Israel. Strike three. Really, none of those concessions should surprise me. There’s no red line the President has drawn that our enemies haven’t been allowed to cross. As if all of those negotiating failures weren’t bad enough, the administration has also confirmed U.S. inspectors won’t be on the teams inspecting Iran’s nuclear facilities. After looking at the facts, it is no wonder Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called this deal an “historic mistake.” I wholeheartedly agree with Prime Minister Netanyahu. Every time I think about this deal, I’m baffled that the United States would turn its back on one of our strongest allies to cozy up to one of our most ardent enemies. Sanctions were working. Sanctions brought the Iranians to the table in the first place. Rather than negotiate from a position of strength, Kerry and the President placated a dangerous enemy. Obviously, Iran could have felt more serious consequences from sanctions because they found enough money to fund terrorism around the world. With this deal, they now have even more money and weapons to further that cause, all the while enriching their nuclear program to a point that puts a weapon within their grasp. I’ll do everything in my power to oppose this deal, and I know many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will join me. But we have an uphill battle as the Senate needs a two thirds vote to override a Presidential veto. The national security of our country should be a bipartisan issue. People need to look at the facts of this deal, rather than split into their respective corners. Even by the administration’s standards, this deal is a failure, and Democrats should join Republicans in voting it down. ###
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, helped pass the VA Accountability Act of 2015 on Wednesday, July 29. Dr. Abraham was an original cosponsor of the legislation authored by House Committee on Veterans Affairs chairman Rep. Jeff Miller, R-Fla. “In my role as the chairman of the Veterans Affairs subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, I spend most days working to reform the dysfunctional Department of Veterans Affairs. I’ve led hearings where we’ve heard about manipulated wait times, the broken appeals system and billions in wasted money. A recurring theme from the VA has been that it’s too hard to fire the people who are responsible for these problems. “The VA Accountability Act gives the department the power it says it needs to hold employees accountable. Too many in that department have forgotten that they work for the veteran, not the other way around. This bill can bring the reform the VA desperately needs so that we can finally bring some positive changes and get our American heroes the care they deserve,” Dr. Abraham said. More information about the bill can be found here. Dr. Abraham spoke in favor of the VA Accountability Act on the House floor. You can view his remarks here. Or, read his remarks below in italics: Mr. Speaker, Thank you, Mr. chairman, for bringing up this bill which will be life-saving for some of our nation's heroes. I rise in support of the VA Accountability Act of 2015. I'm a proud original co-sponsor of the bill. I believe this legislation is vital in rooting out the pervasive bureaucracy that plagues the federal government that is a direct result of the broken system. We have seen instances where a VA employee took a patient to a crack house to get a fix. It took an entire year for that employee to be fired. An entire year. As a direct result of this broken system, we have seen senior employees caught participating in retaliation against whistleblowers, only to remain on the job. As a direct result of this broken system, we have seen employees who are caught manipulating veterans’ disability claims. You know what happened to employees? They were promoted. They received bonuses. This is unacceptable on so many levels and it's time for it to stop. We have to make the VA work for the veterans. The current law protects those who have forgotten they work for the veteran, not the other way around. Even the Veterans Affairs Department's own deputy secretary, Sloan Gibson, as you heard before, recently admitted that it's too hard to fire someone at the VA. There's no excuse for those who fail to do their job and then get promoted. None. HR 1994 is a giant step forward in ensure that good employees are protected, ensuring that whistleblowers are protected, and most importantly, that our nation's heroes are protected. I urge my colleagues to stand up for the veterans who have to stand up for us by supporting VA Accountability Act of 2015. ###
07.28.2015	WASHINGTON – A bill authored by Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, giving veterans a boost in their benefits passed the House on Tuesday, July 28. The bill, the Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act, provides a cost of living adjustment for veterans so that their benefits can maintain their value despite the rising costs of inflation. “I’m proud to have authored and passed this important piece of legislation. A broad, bipartisan coalition supported my bill as Congress recognized the need to support our veterans. Our American heroes took care of us, and now we need to take care of them,” said Dr. Abraham. COLA increases will be tied to increases in Social Security. Social Security will use the Consumer Price Index for the third quarter to determine how much benefits will increase. Should the bill become law, veterans will see their increased benefits in December. The bill was the first authored by Dr. Abraham, a freshman, to pass the House. It now goes to the Senate for consideration. As the chairman of the Veterans Affairs subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, veterans’ issues are among Dr. Abraham’s top priorities in Washington. “We have a lot of work to do to reform the Department of Veterans Affairs. I’m working with my colleagues on the VA Committee every day to bring true change to department so that we can get the veterans the care they need. With so much volatility in the VA, I’m glad the House passed my bill that will bring some more financial stability to our heroes,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
07.22.2015	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Wednesday that the U.S. Department of Agriculture has designated a number of parishes as primary natural disaster areas and contiguous natural disaster areas due to damage caused by heavy rains, heavy winds and flooding earlier this year. The designation makes farm operators in those affected parishes eligible to be considered for certain assistance from the Farm Service Agency. This assistance includes FSA emergency loans, low-interest loans that will help farmers off-set the costs incurred from storm and flood damage. “I applaud the USDA for making this important designation so that our farmers can begin the task of rebuilding and repairing their property. This spring’s storms and flooding affected farmers from throughout the state, and I’m glad the declaration is broad enough that people from across my district and the state can benefit,” Dr. Abraham said. Twelve parishes were designated primary natural disaster areas, including the 5th District parishes of Avoyelles, East Feliciana, Franklin, Grant and Rapides. Other parishes with this designation included Bossier, Caddo, Iberville, Natchitoches, Pointe Coupee, Red River and West Baton Rouge. A number of parishes were designated contiguous disaster parishes, including the 5th District parishes of Caldwell, Catahoula, Concordia, La Salle, Madison, Richland, St. Helena, St. Landry, Tensas, West Feliciana and Winn. Other parishes designated as continuous disaster parishes include Allen, Ascension, Assumption, Bienville, De Soto, East Baton Rouge, Evangeline, Iberia, Sabine, St. Martin, Vernon and Webster. Farmers in eligible parishes have eight months from the date of the disaster declaration (July 22) to apply for emergency loans. FSA considers each emergency loan application on its own merits, taking into account the extent of production losses on the farm and the security and repayment ability of the operator. More information can be provided by local FSA offices. More information and online applications can be found using this link: https://www.fsa.usda.gov/programs-and-services/disaster-assistance-program/index. Dr. Abraham is a member of the House Agriculture Committee. ###
07.21.2015	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, introduced a bill Tuesday, July 21, to protect the Second Amendment by preventing the President from taking guns away from Social Security beneficiaries. President Obama has instructed the Social Security Administration to report the names of beneficiaries who are unable to manage their own affairs to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. Dr. Abraham’s bill would prevent those names from being reported unless a Federal court has declared that individual mentally incompetent. Social Security has never before taken part in the background check system in the way the President is proposing. If the President’s proposal isn’t blocked by legislation, about 4.2 million adults receiving monthly benefits could be at risk of losing their Second Amendment rights. “President Obama will stop at nothing to take guns away from anyone he can. My bill would reinstitute the rule of law and prevent bureaucrats in Washington from deciding who can and cannot exercise their fundamental right to keep and bear arms. In this nation, everyone is entitled to due process, and that includes those on Social Security,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
06.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, has been appointed to serve on a third committee, a sign that leaders in the capital recognize the contributions he can make to our nation. Dr. Abraham will now serve on the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. Dr. Abraham’s new position will allow him to have input and oversight over all energy research, development and demonstration. He will oversee the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the National Weather Service, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the National Science Foundation. Dr. Abraham will sit on the subcommittee on Research and Technology, which oversees grant money for research and development. It is his hope that the position will allow him to steer funding toward the district’s Interstate 20 corridor, which is experiencing a technological boom. “The types of things our universities are studying and the high-tech jobs that come along with companies like CenturyLink are truly putting the I-20 corridor in the national spotlight. Hopefully this committee assignment will allow me to assist in fostering growth in the region and building on the success that we’ve already seen,” Dr. Abraham said. Word of Dr. Abraham’s new committee assignment drew immediate excitement from university leaders. “The appointment of Congressman Abraham to serve on the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee is great news for northeast Louisiana. He continues to establish himself as a strong advocate for our region,” said Dr. Nick Bruno, president of the University of Louisiana at Monroe. “ULM’s core strengths in the sciences, and outstanding research in the pharmaceutical areas provide the opportunities to build our workforce as commercial, technological, and industrial businesses continue to locate in this region. ULM is prepared to assist Congressman Abraham in his efforts to improve the quality of life for his entire district.” “Creating new high-tech business opportunities and economic impacts along the I-20 corridor is at the core of Louisiana Tech's strategic vision for the future,” said Dr. Les Guice, president of Louisiana Tech University. “We are excited that Congressman Abraham will serve on the House Science, Space and Technology Committee and can provide a strong voice for building these new opportunities in north Louisiana. Collectively, his advocacy and Louisiana Tech's significant research and development contributions will help to build a stronger region and serve the workforce needs of our industry partners.” Dr. Abraham will also serve on the subcommittee on the Environment, which provides accountability to the Environmental Protection Agency. Dr. Abraham has already established himself as an advocate for the people against the EPA’s regulatory overreach by cosponsoring legislation to repeal the Waters of the U.S. rule, which violated the rights of landowners, and by pressuring the EPA to abandon it its plans for a controversial open burn of explosives at Camp Minden. “This committee assignment will put me in a better position to do what I’ve already been doing in Congress: holding the EPA accountable. We must reign in the EPA’s regulatory overreach, and my seat on this committee will put me in direct position to write legislation that will do just that,” Dr. Abraham said. Serving on three committees is considered a sign of leadership in Congress. In addition to this committee assignment, Dr. Abraham also its on House Committee on Veterans Affairs and the House Committee on Agriculture. ###
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON – Business and agriculture leaders throughout Louisiana praised Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, for voting in favor of Trade Promotion Authority on Friday. TPA is a procedural step in which Congress designates the President as the point-person for the United States in international trade negotiations. Congress did not ratify any new trade agreements with the TPA vote. Though TPA has been in existence in some form dating back to President Franklin Roosevelt, the latest version of TPA imposes more restrictions on the President and gives Congress more authority over trade negotiations than ever before. The new version of TPA gives Congress the ability to set negotiating objectives, requires the President to publish summaries throughout negotiations, allows members of Congress to read proposed negotiations, and requires the President to publish proposed final agreements for 60 days so that members of the public can provide their input on the deal before Congress gives it an up or down vote. Without TPA, the President would have complete authority over all negotiations. “I voted for TPA because I wanted Congress to set the standards for our new trade agreements, not President Obama. New trade agreements will open Louisiana’s markets to new territory and strengthen our economy. Had we not granted TPA, the President would have had complete control over the process, and that isn’t a scenario I trust. With the new restrictions, Congress and the American people will have the greatest say in crafting our new trade policies,” Dr. Abraham said. The opportunity for Louisiana to ship its products to new markets received immediate praise from some of the 5th Congressional District’s leading voices on economic development. Louisiana Commissioner of Agriculture Mike Strain had urged members of Congress to support the legislation because trade with Asian and European nations will allow Louisiana farmers to reach more than 1 billion new customers in regions representing 65 percent of the global gross domestic product. “Louisiana and American agriculture and forestry desperately needs the ability to maximize trade negotiations worldwide to get the best possible results for American workers, farmers, and businesses, consistent with Congressional priorities. One of every three acres of American agricultural production are exported, which provides billions of dollars for our economy and balance of trade. Ag leaders are traveling around the world promoting their state’s unique agricultural commodities, but trade barriers remain. Without TPA, our leaders will be unable to negotiate trade agreements in a timely, transparent and accountable manner,” Strain said. More than 270 national business and agriculture organizations have signaled their support for TPA because of the potential for new trade deals that will open new markets and grow the economy. Some of the agriculture organizations supporting TPA include Louisiana Farm Bureau Association, Louisiana Cotton and Grain Association, National Corn Growers Association, National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, American Soybean Association, National Association of Wheat Growers, National Chicken Council, and the National Grain and Feed Association, among others. “Trade Promotion Authority is vital to ensure that the U.S. can access new and existing markets for its agricultural products, as almost all U.S. grown commodities are dependent on exports and trade. An average of over 80 percent of U.S. cotton production, for example, is exported to other countries each year. TPA will allow Louisiana and U.S. farmers to increase exports and compete in a highly competitive, globalized economy, which will allow American farmers, suppliers, distributors and their communities to prosper,” said David Crigler of the Louisiana Cotton and Grain Association. “Other countries are moving forward with bilateral and multi-lateral trade agreements. Without TPA in place, U.S. producers and related businesses will be greatly disadvantaged relative to those in other countries. The hard-working farmers in our country stand ready to continue to efficiently produce high quality food and fiber for global consumption.” Business organizations have also thrown their support behind Dr. Abraham’s vote for TPA, including some of the district’s largest employers such as Weyerhaeuser and International Paper. “This legislation is vital to economic growth and job creation of Northeast Louisiana. Exporting goods and services from Louisiana’s 5th Congressional District has an annual economic impact of almost $1.5 billion per year and is responsible for the creation of over 9,300 jobs,” said Monroe Chamber of Commerce President Sue Nicholson. “Tearing down barriers that have shut out U.S. products in the past will open new opportunities for Northeast Louisiana manufacturers, making them more profitable and allowing them to create more jobs. The creation of more good-paying manufacturing jobs in northeast Louisiana would be good news to the many low-income individuals who live here. The Monroe Chamber strongly supports this legislation, and we thank Congressman Ralph Abraham for his support.” Added Alexandria Chamber of Commerce President Deborah Randolph, “Trade Promotion Authority is a necessary tool to help sell U.S. goods and services to the 95% of the customers living outside of our country. The clear winners of a new trade agreement would be agriculture and large manufacturers, including here in Louisiana. We thank Congressman Ralph Abraham for his courageous support of TPA, which will spur economic growth and job creation in Louisiana.” Dr. Abraham serves on the House Agriculture Committee and is keenly aware that Louisiana is uniquely positioned to benefit from shipping exports to as many markets as our state’s producers can sell to. Louisiana’s rivers and ports make it an ideal state to capitalize on international trade deals. “For three hundred years, the Port of New Orleans has served as a vital gateway for waterborne commerce to the world. Passage of TPA is crucial to the Port of New Orleans and all of Louisiana’s ports to expand international trade with partner countries. More than 27 percent of Louisiana’s exports are destined to Pacific countries, significantly contributing to the doubling of Louisiana exports over the past five years,” said Gary LaGrange, President and CEO, Port of New Orleans. Anyone with questions about TPA can visit our website, Abraham.house.gov, or call our Washington, DC, office at 202.225.8490. ###
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, issued the following statement regarding the Army’s decision to allow Staff Sgt. Thomas Florich to be buried in Arlington National Cemetery. “I am very pleased to hear that the Army will allow Sgt. Thomas Florich to be buried in Arlington. I’ve said from the beginning that he deserves this honor for giving his life in service to our country. My prayer is that his family now can find some solace in their loss knowing that their son will be honored as the hero he is,” Dr. Abraham said. Sgt. Florich was among four Louisiana National Guardsmen and seven Marines who died in a black hawk helicopter crash during a training exercise off the coast of Florida in March. The Army initially denied a request from Sgt. Florich’s family to allow him to be buried in Arlington. After the Army rendered its first decision, Dr. Abraham reached out to other members of the Louisiana delegation to alert them to the situation and discuss what could be done to assist Sgt. Florich’s family. Congressman Garret Graves, R-Baton Rouge, organized a phone call between Army officials and several members of the Louisiana delegation. The Army reversed its decision following the phone call with the Louisiana delegation, which included Dr. Abraham, Rep. Graves, Rep. Charles Boustany, Sen. Bill Cassidy, Sen. David Vitter and a representative from Rep. Cedric Richmond’s office. ###
05.27.2015	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, has successfully intervened on behalf of the Richardson Medical Center in Rayville with the federal government to keep the hospital from closing. Hospital administrators received notice earlier this month that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services would no longer reimburse the hospital for its Medicare and Medicaid patients. The news meant the hospital would have to close as it would have been unable to afford to stay open. The hospital had enough cash to remain open for less than a month. Dr. Abraham immediately contacted CMS on behalf of the hospital after he became aware of the situation. Dr. Abraham requested an immediate review of the hospital’s case, and CMS agreed to continue sending federal funds to the medical center as a result of that request. “I’m very pleased that the Richardson Medical Center will remain open and continue its mission of helping the people of Rayville and the surrounding area,” Dr. Abraham said. “The hospital provides a vital service to so many of the region’s poor and elderly citizens. We simply could not allow them to go without access to medical care.” Hospital CEO/Administrator James W. Barrett, Jr., said he was grateful for Dr. Abraham’s help in ensuring that the hospital would remain open. “Congressman Abraham stood up for us and got this situation resolved quickly. He did exactly what we needed him to do. The people of Richland Parish are indebted to him,” Barrett said. Dr. Abraham spent more than 20 years practicing medicine at a clinic in nearby Mangham. He said that experience has shown him how vital it is that people in rural areas have access to quality medical care. “This rural hospital is in one of the poorest areas of the country and serves thousands of elderly and disadvantaged patients who have little access to other sources of medical care,” Dr. Abraham said. “We simply could not allow that many poor and elderly patients who use the center to bear the consequences of an incorrect CMS decision. Letting that hospital close was simply not an option that I would accept." ###
05.21.2015	A group of young farmers and ranchers from various places throughout Louisiana visited my office in March to make sure I knew the issues they face daily as they set about running their farms and ranches. Some talked about crop insurance. Others voiced their support for opening up new markets on which they can sell their commodities. But the one issue that had everyone anxious was overreach from the Environmental Protection Agency, or more specifically, the Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS) proposed rule. These young farmers are not alone in their concern. In fact, nearly every agricultural or waterway organization I meet with all but begs Congress to repeal the WOTUS rule because of the burdensome regulations it imposes on not only water usage, but also land usage. Farmers, I have good news: Congress has heard you. On May 13, the House of Representatives passed the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act to withdraw the proposed WOTUS rule. As the only member of the Louisiana delegation on the House Agriculture Committee, I was proud to cosponsor and vote for this legislation and once again serve as a strong voice for our state’s farmers. WOTUS is about control. The EPA wants to regulate a puddle because that puddle water might run into a ditch, that then it might run into a stream, that then might run into river. Such strict control over a farmer’s land and water is crippling to the proper flow of business and it infringes upon landowners’ rights. I side with farmers they are the best conservationists on the planet. Farmers make their living off of the land, so they’d never do anything to harm it. Besides, it’s utterly ridiculous to think the federal government knows a tract of land better than the farmer who works it every day. WOTUS became like so many other policies that are indicative of this administration: It’s a top-down, “we know better than you, do as we say” mentality. The bill the House passed changes that. This bill withdraws the WOTUS rule. It requires the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers to develop a new rule to define navigable waters of the U.S. This should prevent over regulation of water and curb abuse of the program. This bill takes real steps toward curtailing the overreach of the EPA. Under this act, the EPA must act in accordance with the limits set by Congress and the Supreme Court to ensure that the rights of landowners are not violated. Perhaps most importantly, this bill requires that the new rule be constructed with consultation from local officials, stakeholders and other interested parties. Those who will be most affected by any new rules will have the largest hand in crafting any new policy, and the EPA will have to publish a public report to prove it is working with locals throughout the process. The House’s action on this bill is encouraging, but we’re only a part of the way through the process. I’ll continue to monitor this legislation as it makes its way through the Senate. Hopefully, my colleagues in the other chamber will also recognize how important this legislation is to farmers and landowners and how it protects them from federal overreach. The Regulatory Integrity Protection Act is a win for Louisiana’s farmers. With that under our belts, we can look toward other policy to help Louisiana’s farmers, such as expanding markets, promoting trade policies that are favorable to the United States and protecting farmers from foreign market manipulations. As the representative of one of the largest row crop districts in the nation, it is my honor to go to bat every day for farmers in the 5th District. Know that I will tackle these agricultural issues as aggressively as I worked to remove the proposed WOTUS rule. ###
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, passed an amendment to the energy and water development appropriations bill around midnight Friday that defunds the President’s executive order that changed the Federal Flood Risk Management Standard. If allowed to take effect, the result of the President’s executive order could be higher insurance costs for as many as 40 percent of Americans living in affected flood plains, higher building costs and an increased difficulty in building levees due to unreasonable new standards. Dr. Abraham authored the amendment to defund the executive order. He led the charge on the House floor to protect the public from increases in their insurance rates by passing his amendment. Other Louisiana representatives joining Dr. Abraham in speaking for the amendment included House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, Rep. Charles Boustany and Rep. Garret Graves. “The Administration crafted this policy in secret without input on its merits from local officials and stakeholders, those who will have to live with this policy. The Office of Management and Budget predicts that this standard will significantly increase the cost of living and doing business in all areas that are at any risk of flooding. “This is just another case of the President imposing his climate change politics on hard-working Americans. This new standard will have a real, devastating impact on communities throughout the country,” Dr. Abraham said during his floor speech. Dr. Abraham has been a leader in Washington in fighting the President’s executive order. In March, Dr. Abraham wrote a letter to the Appropriations Committee asking to defund the executive order. “The Democrats tipped their hand during the debate last night. Their representative argued this new standard would keep people from living in or near flood plains. Why? Because it will be too expensive for them. The President’s standard is just plain bad for Louisiana,” Dr. Abraham said. The Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016, passed as amended in the House. The funding guidelines outlined in the bill will take effect in Fiscal Year 2016. It provides $35.4 billion in funding for the annual operations for national defense nuclear weapons activities, the Army Corps of Engineers, various programs under the Department of Energy, and other related agencies. The bill provides $1.2 billion over last year’s appropriated amount, which represents Congress’ promise to the American people to spend more on improving our infrastructure. For video on debate on Abraham Amendment, click here for the first minute and click here for the second minute. ###
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, joined House Veterans’ Affairs Committee (HVAC) chairman Congressman Jeff Miller as an original co-sponsor on legislation that will make major strides in reforming the Department of Veterans Affairs. Miller planned to introduce the VA Accountability Act on Thursday, April 23. The bill would give the VA more flexibility to fire problem employees who are contributing to the systemic problems inherent in the department. As the chairman of the HVAC subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, Dr. Abraham is one of the leading voices in Washington calling for reforms in the VA so that America’s heroes can get the medical care and benefits they’re entitled to. Dr. Abraham said he was proud to be an original co-sponsor of Miller’s legislation because it’s a bill that can finally bring true reform to the VA. “It seems like every hearing we hold sheds new light on how the VA is shuffling employees around instead of terminating those who are causing the problems. This bill will give the VA the ability to hold problem employees accountable. It’s well past time we root out corruption and incompetency so we can get our heroes the care they deserve. Chairman Miller has been a tireless advocate for our veterans, and I look forward to working with him as we reform this department,” Dr. Abraham said. The VA Accountability Act will allow the VA secretary to terminate employees based on performance and misconduct, protect whistleblowers from retribution, extend probation periods to 18 months and require the Government Accountability Office to conduct a study on the VA’s use of time and resources dedicated to labor unions. The legislation comes a day after HVAC examined the findings of a non-partisan Inspector General’s report that found: Falsified wait times and wait time manipulation. No officials fired for systemic mismanagement and violations. A fear of retaliation among employees for acting as whistleblowers. The VA spent almost $300,000 of taxpayer money to relocate a senior VA official from Washington, D.C. to Philadelphia. “Wait time manipulation is unacceptable and these VA officials need to be held accountable, not protected,” said Dr. Abraham. “After last year’s VA scandal in Phoenix, the American people made it clear to the VA that something needed to change. It is outrageous that today we still have not seen that change.” To read the text of the VA Accountability Act, click here. To read the Inspector General’s Report, click here. ###
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced the office schedule for his Southeast Louisiana field director, Malone Williams, on Thursday, April 16. The schedule is in effect now. It will be posted on Dr. Abraham’s website, abraham.house.gov. Abraham hired Williams so that a full-time staff member would be based in the southern parishes in the 5th Congressional District. With the field director, the people of St. Landry, West Feliciana, East Feliciana, St. Helena, Tangipahoa and Washington parishes will now have direct access to a Congressional staffer in or near their home parishes at least one day per week, every week. “The people who I’ve spoken with from St. Landry and the Florida Parishes tell me they feel disconnected from the rest of my district. That was unacceptable to me, so I put a field director in place so that we can better meet the needs of the people from those areas. This will bring a level of service to those parishes that they’ve never had before, and hopefully, they’ll feel more at home in the 5th District,” Dr. Abraham said. Williams will be able to process casework for claims relating to Veterans Affairs, Social Security and other federal agencies. He will also serve as a liaison to local representatives and governments. Williams is an ideal staff member to assist the people of St. Landry and the Florida Parishes. He’s a native of Tangipahoa Parish and resides in Kentwood. He holds a degree in Agriculture from Southeastern Louisiana University. Office Schedule Monday: St. Landry Parish Opelousas City Hall, 105 North Main St., Opelousas, La., 70571 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Tuesday: Washington Parish Sheriff Randy Seal Sub Station, 302 Masonic Dr., Bogalusa, La., 70427 9 a.m. to noon Franklinton City Hall, 301 11th Ave., Franklinton, La., 70438 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. Wednesday: West Feliciana Parish, East Feliciana Parish West Feliciana Parish Courthouse, 4789 Prosperity St., St. Francisville, La., 70775 9 a.m. to noon East Feliciana Parish Police Jury Office, 12064 Marston St., Clinton, La. 70722 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. Thursday: Tangipahoa Parish, St. Helena Parish Tangipahoa Parish Government Office, 206 East Mulberry St., Amite, La., 70422 9 a.m. to noon Sixth Ward VFD, 3924 Louisiana 38, Kentwood, La., 70444 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. Friday: Tangipahoa Parish Kentwood City Hall, 308 Avenue G, Kentwood, La., 70444 9 a.m. to noon Field Director Contact Information Phone: 985.516.5858 Email: malone.williams@mail.house.gov Website: abraham.house.gov
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, voted this week to save Medicare from going bankrupt, a move that will protect seniors’ access to health care. If allowed to follow its current path, Medicare would become insolvent by 2030, which would threaten a vital program that so many of our nation’s seniors rely on. The House’s bill makes structural changes to the program so that it can continue to protect seniors while preserving the program for generations to come. The Medicare enhancements passed with bipartisan support in the House followed many of the recommendations put forth by the Doctors Caucus of which Dr. Abraham is a member. “As a doctor, I have spent most of my life treating seniors who rely on Medicare. We had to find a solution to provide stability to a program that is vital to so many people while making sure it will be around for years to come. After taking care of seniors throughout my career, my vote today continues to protect them and the system they depend on,” Dr. Abraham said. Some of the highlights of the legislation passed in the House on Thursday include: Permanently fixes the physician payment schedule, which will ensure that seniors have access to doctors and health care. Includes mechanisms to control premium costs to make the program more affordable. Extends the Children’s Health Insurance Plan (CHIP) so that 8 million children and pregnant women continue to have access to the program. Provides funding for Community Health Centers (CHC). In addition to the legislation passed Thursday, Dr. Abraham also joined the majority of Republicans in passing a budget that would end Washington’s reckless spending by saving money, ending deficit spending, addresses the long-term debt, and balances within eight years. Included in that budget were additional measures that also strengthen the Medicare program by giving seniors more options to find the insurance plans that work best for them. The budget included measures will allow every senior in the program the ability to remain in their current plan, but it also provides seniors with the ability to enroll in private insurance plans that will be backed through federal premium support. The budget also protects eligibility for seniors currently enrolled in Medicare and those who are approaching eligibility age. “Let me be crystal clear: No one is losing their Medicare. Every senior who likes his or her current Medicare plan can stay on that plan. If you’re a senior who likes your plan, keep it. If you want to explore other options, we now give that to you. This plan has been thoroughly vetted by me and other members of the Doctor’s Caucus, and we believe this is a good path to providing health care options to our patients,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, applauded the decision by the Department of Veterans Affairs to amend the 40-mile rule in the Veterans Choice Program, but he says more work needs to be done to ensure America’s heroes have better access to the care they need. The Veterans Choice Program was announced in 2014 to increase veterans’ access to healthcare by allowing them to visit certain community health care facilities if they live more than 40 miles from a VA facility. It provides veterans with an alternative to waiting unreasonable lengths of time for an appointment at a VA facility. The VA announced it will now calculate eligibility for the Veterans Choice Program by using driving distance from a veteran’s residence to the nearest VA facility. Previously, the VA determined eligibility for the program by using a straight line distance from the veteran’s home to the facility, otherwise known as “as the crow flies.” “The change to this program will directly benefit veterans in rural areas because it will expand the number of health care facilities where they can receive treatment. Today’s announcement is a good first step in making sure the Veterans Choice Program is working for those who need it most. No veteran should be forced to drive hundreds of miles just to see a doctor,” Dr. Abraham said. The Veterans Choice Program was authorized by the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 as Congress sought to correct some of the dysfunction inherent in the VA. The change in the program’s 40-mile rule is expected to double the number of veterans who are eligible for the program. As a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, Dr. Abraham has continually pushed for common sense solutions to make the Veterans Choice Program work for veterans, not the VA. He has repeatedly questioned VA officials about the program to find ways to improve it, and he has called for expanding the program to give veterans more health care options. “While I am encouraged by the announced changes to the Veterans Choice Program, it doesn’t go as far as it needs to go. We must ensure those in the VA system have access to adequate care facilities that can provide the specific services the veteran may need. Further expanding the facility options for the veteran can go a long way in making sure our heroes get the care they need,” Dr. Abraham said. ###
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, announced Thursday that more than $7.1 million in federal loan money had been guaranteed for the Alexandria-based business Southern Textile Services, LLC. The guaranteed business and industry loan was approved by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. “I’m always excited to see when government actually works for the people. This loan will help Southern Textile enhance their business and, in turn, the Alexandria economy,” Dr. Abraham said. Southern Textile Services was formed in 2006 to provide healthcare textiles to hospitals, nursing homes and other healthcare facilities. It is accredited by the Healthcare Accreditation Council and services Louisiana and Mississippi. The funds will be used to refinance debt, purchase equipment, renovate buildings and pay capital and fees associated with closing the loan. Dr. Abraham sits on the House Agriculture Committee. He’s also a member of the Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management and the Subcommittee on Nutrition. ###
03.17.2015	WASHINGTON - In a speech on the House floor Tuesday, Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, honored the memory of four Louisiana National Guardsmen and seven Marines who died in a Black Hawk helicopter crash earlier this month. Two of those who died, Chief Warrant Officers George Griffin and George Strother, were from Dr. Abraham's district. "We will never forget them. We honor them. Our prayers are with their families," Dr. Abraham said. The speech can be viewed by visiting Dr. Abraham's YouTube site. ###
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON – The Republican Party has made Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, its featured member of the week. The member spotlight can be viewed at GOP.gov. The distinction is another example of how the freshman congressman is already making waves in Washington. In just his first month on the job, Dr. Abraham has already: Introduced legislation to help America’s veterans. Landed a subcommittee chairmanship and held a hearing on veterans disability appeals. Presided over the House of Representatives. Cast votes on key issues such as repealing ObamaCare, building the Keystone XL pipeline, creating opportunities for job growth and protecting the unborn. Dr. Abraham said he has been impressed by the “can do” attitude many of his colleagues have as they work together to solve to the problems facing our nation. “I’m proud the party chose to make me its featured member. I take it as a sign that they see I’m here to represent the people of the 5th District as someone interested in finding viable solutions, not reciting talking points. Congress has gotten off to a fast start, and we plan to keep that momentum going,” Dr. Abraham said. What they’re saying: LA Politics: Freshmen Congressmen Make Fast Moves Abraham already turned a few heads by grilling federal officials last week about why it takes an average of 960 days for a veteran to get a ruling from the Board of Veterans Appeals. His first bill has also been filed, on veterans affairs. It’s a clear sign that Abraham, in a very short period of time, has already found a policy niche. Franklin Sun: Abraham hits ground running The Republican-controlled House has already passed notable legislation such as a bill paving the way for the Keystone XL pipeline, the Hire More Heroes Act to promote the hiring of more veterans without incurring ObamaCare penalties on employers as well as the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. “We've done a lot of things already, and there's a lot more things moving,” Abraham said. “In my opinion, they're all moving in the right direction.” KTVE | KARD: Congressman Ralph Abraham nabs Veterans Affairs subcommittee chairmanship “Whether providing much-needed oversight to the Department of Veterans Affairs or championing legislation designed to improve the care and benefits America’s returning heroes have earned, our subcommittees and their chairmen fulfill vital roles,” said Chairman (Jeff) Miller. “This Congress, we are fortunate to have a talented roster of both new and returning chairmen. I am confident they will help our committee continue to set the standard for congressional oversight while working to improve the lives of veterans and increase accountability and efficiency at VA.” The News-Star: Abraham’s subcommittee oversees Farm Bill Agriculture Committee Chairman Michael Conaway, R-Texas, said Abraham brings impressive credentials to the Committee on Agriculture. “He understands agriculture production in Louisiana and will make sure the committee is creating an environment in which producers in the 5th District can thrive,” Conaway said. Congressman Ralph Abraham can be reached on Twitter @RepAbraham and on Facebook.
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, released the following statement in regards to the President’s $4 trillion proposed budget: "It’s fitting the President released his plan on Groundhog Day. Much like the movie where Bill Murray lives the same day over and over, the President is reintroducing another tired talking point: yet another proposal to expand government and raise taxes, both of which will hurt our economy. “Not only is the President propping up his budget with higher taxes that Americans don’t want, he’s also failed to offer a balanced proposal, and he’s totally ignored our long-term debt. “There are certainly areas where we need to invest, such as infrastructure and the Corps of Engineers to protect Louisiana from flooding. And finding ways to put more money into the pockets of hard-working middle income families isn’t a new idea for Republicans; it’s one of our bedrock principles. “We need to find this money by making government programs, like SNAP, run more efficiently by reducing waste and fraud. We should not be expanding government and paying for it with higher taxes. “Collectively, we must find a long-term solution to our financial problems, but clearly more work needs to be done before I could vote for this budget." Congressman Ralph Abraham can be reached on Twitter @RepAbraham and on Facebook.
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative Ralph Abraham was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Ralph Abraham was elected to serve as representative of Louisiana’s 5th Congressional District. Representative Ralph Abraham was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
